October 23, 2020||Surat||33 bank employees tested positive for Covid-19 in a week in Surat||SURAT: Six employees of ICICI Bank's Sahara Darwaja branch in Surat were tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)'s team conducted rapid antigen testing of Bank employees. According to SMC officials, they have been testing bank employees across the city for Covid-19 for the past one week. "In last one week, total 33 bank employees have tested positive for Covid-19 which include 20 employees of People's Bank located in Parsi Sheri in central zone and seven from Bank of Baroda's Salabatpura branch. We have asked bank employees to take necessary precautions and ensure that customers also follow Covid-19 guidelines as well,'' said an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/33-bank-employees-tested-positive-for-covid-19-in-a-week-in-surat/articleshow/78816844.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Alappuzha reports 837 new Covid-19 cases||ALAPPUZHA: The district on Thursday registered 837 new Covid-19 positive cases. At the same time, 436 people undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. At present, 7,459 people are undergoing treatment for the infection in the district. The district also confirmed one Covid-19-related death. Out of the total cases reported on Thursday, 809 patients contracted the disease through local infection. The district till date registered 27,055 Covid-19 cases. Till date 19,521 people have recovered and 75 people have succumbed to the infection. Alappuzha district collector A Alexander has declared all wards in Punnapra South grama panchayat, Ward-19 in Chengannur and Ward-28 in Kayamkulam municipality as containment zones. The collector also declared parts of Ward-4 in Punnapra North, Ward-4 in Ala, Ward 5, 17, 22, 11 in Thanneermukkom, Ward-7 in Champakulam, Ward-8 in Punnapra North grama panchayat as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-alappuzha-reports-837-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78816973.cms||Sajimon P S
October 23, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 223 new Covid cases, five deaths||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Thursday reported 223 new cases of Covid-19 and five deaths, taking the state's coronavirus tally to 19,844 and toll to 279. The state now has 2,623 active Covid patients. The day also saw recovery 231 positive patients. Fresh coronavirus cases reported in the state include 18 from Bilaspur district, 13 from Chamba district, 18 from Hamirpur district, eight from Kangra district, one from Kinnaur district, 38 from Kullu district, eight from Lahaul-Spiti district, 38 from Mandi district, 44 from Shimla district, 13 from from Sirmaur district, 16 from Solan district and eight from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-223-new-covid-cases-five-deaths/articleshow/78817113.cms||Anand Bodh
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Limited orders and no grand celebrations: Ravan makers in the city miss the festive buzz||This is probably the first time in many years that effigy makers in Tatarpur are not feeling the rush of festive season on Dussehra. Ravan makers in Tatarpur, who are popular for selling effigies across the country, are still awaiting their regular customers this year. With no grand celebrations planned, many of them did not even make any effigies this year. Unlike every year, the effigy makers in Tatarpur have very little work in hand this time. With scaled down festivities, most of them have not even received a single order for a Ravan effigy“I have been making these effigies for more than two decades now. But there are no orders this year. I made some effigies only with the hope that there will be some buyers closer to Dussehra,” shares Mahender, one of the effigy makers. Watch Ravan makers in the city miss the festive vibe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/limited-orders-and-no-grand-celebrations-ravan-makers-in-the-city-miss-the-festive-buzz/articleshow/78809998.cms||Riya Sharma
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Social distancing, smaller crowds & fewer performers: NCR Ramlilas adapt to COVID||Each year, during Navaratra, Ramlila committees across NCR stage performances on a scale that is almost always grander than the previous year. This year, however, the COVID-19 pandemic has forced most to scale down their plans. While most committees are not even organising the shows, the few who are, are doing them on a smaller scale with restrictions in place. The central government’s guidelines for Unlock 5 released in September-end allow religious and social gatherings with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces and 50% of the total capacity of the ground in open spaces. The guidelines state that use of masks is mandatory and there is to be strict observance of social distancing as well as provisions for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser. The Ramlilas that have begun staging shows have made arrangements to adhere to these guidelines. Innovations in the new normalIn Delhi’s Shastri Park, the Ramlila organised by the Vishnu Avtar Ramlila Committee, has adapted itself to the new normal of COVID times. Committee Chairman Harish Chaudhary told TOI how they have incorporated innovations to spread awareness about the coronavirus. Right after the birth of Ram, the newborn was tested symbolically for COVID-19. “When the test came out negative, celebrations were enacted to show joy and relief,” he told TOI. No processions, shorter effigies and reduced seating this yearThe two committees that are staging Ramlila in Gurgaon this year are the oldest in the city – the Shri Durga Ramleela Committee in Jacobpura and Shri Ramleela Committee in New Colony (popularly known as the Geeta Bhawan Ramlila). Raj Kumar Saini, the spokesperson of Jacobpura’s Ramlila, tells us, “We have cancelled the four processions we take out every year and used the funds meant for that to ensure the event is being held as per government guidelines. There is a sanitiser spray machine and thermal scanner at the entry gate and complimentary masks for visitors. Artistes wear face shields when interacting with chief guests.” Actors during the show; (inset) Temperature checks at the entranceAt Geeta Bhawan, the organisers have reduced their seating by 75%. Surinder Khullar, President of the Shri Ramleela Committee, says, “We’ve tied up with NGOs for sanitisation of the premises and they have been thoroughly cleaning the place.” They are also reducing the size of their Ravan, Meghnad and Kumbhakarn effigies from 60 feet to 40 feet this year, and the lack of donors and hence, funds, is a major reason. (L-R) One of the scenes at the Ramlila; For the audience members, masks are a mustTwo other Ramlilas of Gurgaon – Prem Mandir and Bhim Nagar – will hold token staging on two days, Navami and Dussehra, but only for puja and without crowds. 'Shri Ram is an annual event hosted by Shri Ram Bharatiya Kala Kendra (top); The audeince following social distancing (below)Sanitised costumes, personal makeup artists and no senior artistesAnother change in many Ramlilas this year is the absence of artistes older than 65 and younger than 10. Over the years, several veteran artistes have played roles like Ravan and Kumbhakarn while younger kids have been used to fill the numbers for the vanara and asura armies. They are both absent this year, due to the pandemic. The armies will have fewer performers. Raj Kumar Saini adds, “We also have twice as many makeup artists so that the performers don’t have to share makeup kits. The costumes they wear are being disinfected and sanitised before and after use.” – With inputs from TNNWatch Ramlila with PPE kits and sanitised dhanush in Shastri Park||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/social-distancing-smaller-crowds-fewer-performers-ncr-ramlilas-adapt-to-covid/articleshow/78809103.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
October 23, 2020||India||Covid: Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka too say they’ll give free vaccine doses||NEW DELHI: A Covid vaccine might still be some time away, but it’s already raining promises of free vaccination across states. Hours after BJP’s election manifesto for Bihar offered free coronavirus vaccination to all if the NDA retained office, at least two states — Tamil Nadu and Karnataka — vowed to vaccinate every citizen for free while a third — Madhya Pradesh — reserved its commitment for the poor. Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami was first off the blocks, promising free vaccination for all as and when a mass-produced vaccine was made available. DMK president M K Stalin promptly accused the CM of "trying to show off", saying it was the responsibility of any government to safeguard people during a pandemic by making available critical vaccines free of cost. "EPS did not have the heart to offer a dole of Rs 5,000 to the common people who lost their livelihood (during the lockdown)" he said. With bypolls to 28 MP seats just 11 days away, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan jumped onto the bandwagon late on Thursday and announced it would be free for the poor. "BJP has said a very good thing in Bihar. And I am saying the same thing here. Let the corona vaccine come, every poor person in MP will be administered the vaccine for free," he said at a poll rally in Gwalior. Around 9.30pm, he took to Twitter to reiterate the promise, inviting criticism from Congress. In Karnataka, the vaccine would be free for everyone if and when commercially available, health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said. State health and family welfare minister K Sudhakar said the state was working with experts on a plan of action for distribution of the vaccine, including determining which vulnerable groups must be covered first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-madhya-pradesh-tamil-nadu-karnataka-too-say-theyll-give-free-vaccine-doses/articleshow/78818670.cms||---
October 23, 2020||India||LAC stand-off: India rejects China’s demand, but talks on||NEW DELHI: As India and China maintain stable but confrontational positions in eastern Ladakh, the external affairs ministry on Thursday said that “the immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas”. The two sides are reportedly engaged in high-level talks to resolve the stand-off. According to sources, China has been asking for a de-escalation of armoured and artillery units before disengagement. That is unacceptable to the Indian side because China has a much easier route to re-arm its troops, unlike India. “India and China continue to have discussions through both diplomatic and military channels to peacefully resolve the issues along the LAC in India-China border areas. This is in keeping with the agreement reached between the two foreign ministers during their meeting in Moscow on September 10,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. Srivastava also referred to the last round of diplomatic parleys between India and China on September 30 and the seventh round of military talks on October 12. “The two sides have reiterated their desire to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible,” he added. Watch LAC row: India rejects China’s demand, but talks on||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-stand-off-india-rejects-chinas-demand-but-talks-on/articleshow/78818902.cms||---
October 23, 2020||India||Pakistan still a haven for terror, India says on FATF decision eve||NEW DELHI: With the ongoing plenary of terror watchdog FATF likely to decide on Friday if Pakistan should remain in its grey list, India reiterated that Islamabad continued to provide safe haven to terrorist entities and individuals. The government also said Pakistan had not yet taken any action against several terror entities and individuals, including those proscribed by UNSC like Masood Azhar, Dawood Ibrahim and Zakir-ur-Rahman Lakhvi. All indications are that Pakistan will remain in the grey list for not fulfilling all its commitments to check terror financing and money laundering. Read AlsoPakistan's fate at FATF hangs in the balanceISLAMABAD: As the global watch dog for money laundering and terror financing, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), gears up to conduct its virtual plenary meeting from October 21 to 23 in Paris, Pakistan is keeping its fingers crossed with hopes of being taken off the grey list. Zahid HafeezAs the MEA said in its statement, it’s understood that Pakistan has addressed only 21 action items so far out of the 27-point FATF Action Plan. “Six important action items are yet to be addressed,” said spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, adding it was well known that Pakistan’s a haven for terrorists. All six remaining points are said to be related to terror financing. The issue of Pakistan’s compliance is being looked at the virtual FATF plenary meeting that will get over on October 23. As the official said, Parisbased FATF makes public announcements of its decisions according to its rules and procedures after its Plenary meeting. “FATF has well laid out standards and procedures for putting a country in its Black List and Grey List. After a country is put on a List, an action plan is given to it and the country concerned is expected to fully complete the action plan within the stipulated time. Those found wanting in implementing their obligations are held accountable and subjected to appropriate action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-still-a-haven-for-terror-india-says-on-fatf-decision-eve/articleshow/78818932.cms||---
October 23, 2020||India||People who never tested positive turning up with post-Covid issues||MUMBAI: A senior citizen suffering from breathlessness, exertion and dry cough visited a Navi Mumbai hospital. The 60-year-old had never tested positive for Covid, but a lung function test showed restriction consistent with Covid features. A high-resolution CT scan revealed mild residual Covid lesions caused by the immune response in fighting the virus and some fuzziness in the lungs. The doctors ruled out other illnesses by conducting more investigations. The patient revealed that he had travelled to pilgrim towns, including Varanasi, prior to the lockdown in February-March and that he had mild fever for a few days. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesOn the basis of his history and his condition, they concluded that it was a case of post-Covid. He was treated with steroids and inhaler. While this was a stray case in June, doctors are now reporting more instances of patients who have never tested positive landing in hospitals with post-Covid symptoms. They report a history of fever or cough, which subsides in a day or two and which they may have ignored. But with symptoms resurfacing, many are being subjected to the RTPCR test where results come negative. But the same patients then test positive in the antibody test, indicating a history of Covid. Doctors claim many may’ve neglected signs of Covid earlier as mild symptoms subside in a day or two. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverageDr Jayalakshmi T K, a consultant pulmonologist with Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai, has seen about 30 such patients who have never tested positive but come with breathlessness and unexplained lung ailments. “We ask for their history. Then they reveal they might have had fever two or three months ago. The RT-PCR would be negative, but a CT scan shows typical Covid-like features and it is fairly confirmatory. A high CO-RADS score is suggestive of Covid and in some cases, the antibody tests too come positive although that need not necessarily mean that the symptoms are because of Covid,” she said. Watch People who never tested positive turning up with post-Covid issues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/people-who-never-tested-positive-turning-up-with-post-covid-issues/articleshow/78818954.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
October 23, 2020||India||Mars losing its atmosphere to outer space at faster rate: Isro’s MOM study||NEW DELHI: A study of data and images sent by Isro’s Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) and Nasa’s Mars orbiter Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution (Maven) has found that “Mars is losing its atmosphere to outer space at a faster rate”. In fact, other terrestrial planets in the solar system are also constantly losing their atmospheres to outer space. The rate at which this loss happens is determined mainly by the size of a planet and temperature of its upper atmosphere”. As Mars being a relatively smaller planet compared to Earth, it is losing atmosphere fast. Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Wednesday posted on its website these findings of scientists who had studied data and images sent by MOM and Maven about a global dust storm that enveloped the Red planet in June-July 2018. Such a global storm is one of the dynamical meteorological phenomena on Mars. Isro had placed the Rs 450-crore MOM in the Martian orbit on September 24, 2014, after its launch on November 5, 2013. Though MOM was scheduled to last only for six months as per the space agency’s plan, it is still alive and sending images from time to time nearly seven years after its launch and since then has made several key findings about the Red planet. An Isro statement said, “In the first week of June 2018, a global dust storm, also called a “planet-encircling dust event”, started growing on Mars and it had grown to its mature phase by the first week of July. Such a storm significantly heated and expanded the Martian upper atmosphere. The heating and expansion of the global dust storm led to a part of Mars atmosphere quickly reaching the exobase altitude (which lies at 220 km). Any hot gases above the exobase altitude are more likely to move to further higher altitudes and subsequently escape to outer space. Hence, from the results of the present study it can be inferred that the 2018 global dust storm resulted in enhanced escape of the Martian atmosphere.” MOM observed the evening side of Mars by diving down to altitude as low as 155 km. The Mars Exospheric Neutral Composition Analyser (MENCA) instrument, a mass spectrometer onboard the Isro orbiter, measured the neutral densities of the Mars’ thermosphere (which lies between 100 and 200 km). By analysing these measurements, scientists at the National Atmospheric Research Laboratory, Gadanki, Andhra Pradesh, found that Mars upper atmosphere was undergoing warming and expansion. As the dust storm slowly engulfed Mars over a month period, scientists found that the neutral densities in the Mars thermosphere increased significantly. Such an increase was also confirmed by Nasa’s Maven mission, which was simultaneously measuring the Martian thermosphere on the morning side, the statement said. Both the Isro and Nasa spacecraft observed a significant increase in neutral densities in the Martian upper thermosphere (150–220 km) associated with the development of a global dust storm in the lower atmosphere. The study, whose scientific results have recently been published in the Journal of Geophysical Research-Planets, shows the scientific potential of Isro’s MOM and the advantages of multi-spacecraft measurements in exploring planetary atmosphere. Watch Isro’s MOM study finds Mars to be losing its atmosphere||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mars-losing-its-atmosphere-to-outer-space-at-faster-rate-isros-mom-study/articleshow/78819003.cms||Surendra Singh
October 23, 2020||India||Centre warns Twitter on Leh map mess-up||NEW DELHI: In a rebuke to global micro-blogging site Twitter, the government has warned the American company over its location setting that showed Leh in China. India said that any “disrespect” of the country’s sovereignty and integrity is “totally unacceptable”. In a strongly worded letter dispatched on Wednesday, IT and electronics secretary Ajay Sawhney asked Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to respect the country’s sensitivities, this being the second run-in that government has had with the company in the recent past after it had sought an explanation in September after an account linked to PM Narendra Modi’s personal website was crashed into. “...any attempt by Twitter to disrespect sovereignty and integrity of India, which is also reflected by maps, is totally unacceptable and also unlawful,” Sawhney is believed to have written in the letter. The incident had seen Twitter face flak from social media users after its geotagging feature displayed “Jammu & Kashmir, People’s Republic of China” in a live broadcast from Leh’s Hall of Fame, a war memorial. This triggered angry responses from netizens who demanded that stringent action be initiated against the micro-blogging platform. Twitter, earlier this week, called it a technical issue, which has been resolved. Sawhney warned Twitter that any attempt to undermine the sovereignty and integrity of the country will not just bring disrepute to the micro-blogging site but also raises questions about its neutrality and fairness as an intermediary. Conveying strong disapproval of the government over misrepresentation of the map of India, Sawhney in his letter reminded Twitter that Leh is the headquarters of the UT of Ladakh. And that both Ladakh as well as Jammu & Kashmir are integral and inalienable parts of India, governed by the Constitution of India. When contacted, Twitter in an e-mail response said: “Twitter remains committed to working with the government of India. We respect the sensitivities involved and have duly acknowledged the letter.” Watch Govt warns Twitter in a stern letter; conveys strong disapproval over map misrepresentation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-warns-twitter-on-leh-map-mess-up/articleshow/78819013.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||Govt restores most visas for foreigners||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday restored all existing visas — barring electronic, tourist and medical visa — with immediate effect though in the case of medical visas it has been stated that foreigners intending to visit India for medical treatment can now apply afresh for this category. The easing of restrictions will mean foreign nationals will be able to visit India for various purposes such as business, conferences, employment, studies, research and medical treatment. Visas for foreigners visiting India for medical treatment will be issued on fresh applications and they can be accompanied by an attendant as well. In case the validity of resto red categories of visas has expired, fresh ones of the appropriate category can be obtained from Indian missions or posts, said an MHA release. The Centre on Thursday also permitted OCI and PIO card-holders who intend to visit India for purposes other than tourism, to enter by air or water routes. As part of a “graded” relaxation of Covid-induced visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign nationals, the government also permitted OCI and PIO card-holders who intend to visit India for purposes other than tourism. This includes flights operated under Vande Bharat Mission, Air Transport Bubble arrangements or by any non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the civil aviation ministry. All such travellers will, however, be required to strictly adhere to the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare regarding quarantine and other health and Covid-19 matters. Medical visa for treatment in India is much sought after by foreigners, given availability of highly-skilled medical professionals and facilities. It is also a major forex earner for the country. With electronic and tourist visas still not restored, the earlier tendency of some foreigners to bend visa rules and seek medical treatment in India while on a tourist visa will no longer be possible. In view of the situation arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had taken a series of steps to curtail inward and outward movement of international passengers since February 2020. However, the curbs have been eased in a graded manner, as part of ‘unlock’ regime since June. With this move, the badly affected travel sector, including the worst-hit segments of airlines and hotels, could see some revival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-restores-most-visas-for-foreigners/articleshow/78819048.cms||Bharti Jain
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Physiotherapist booked||AHMEDABAD: A doctor who runs an institute in the Anandnagar area of city on Wednesday filed a complaint of cheating and breach of trust against his former colleague, a physiotherapist, alleging that she sold his firm’s trade secrets to for financial gain. In his FIR with Anandnagar police, Dr Het Desai, 41, a resident of Maninagar, stated that he set up an institute and research centre focussed on rehabilitation of pelvic floor muscles in women in 2018. Before that he had set up another institute for women’s wellness. In his FIR he said he recruited a woman physiotherapist, Sunita Patel, in 2016 and made her the CEO of his company, named International Institute of Pelvic Floor Research, Rehab and Education (IIPRE) as she gained his trust. Desai states that Patel had assured him that she would not disclose the company’s strategy and trade secrets. She became the face of Desai’s company at seminars and webinars after being trained by him, he stated. Desai stated that Patel’s behaviour changed suddenly in October 2019 as she began complaining that she was not getting due credit in the company. When Desai asked about her changed behaviour, he learned that Patel was also working for another company, where she had been using his trade secrets. He asked Patel about this but she allegedly threatened to frame him in a police case. In January, Patel resigned from Desai’s’ company and started practising at another firm, allegedly using procedures developed by Desai’s company. She also told some of his clients to approach her and succeeded in luring them away to some extent, Desai stated. Desai finally approached Anandnagar police and filed a complaint against Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-files-fir-against-physiotherapist-colleague/articleshow/78815852.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Furniture worth Rs 15 Lakh purchased from Blind People's Association||AHMEDABAD: The artisans at the Blind People’s Association (BPA) in Vastrapur, majority of whom have one or more disabilities, are known for their craftsmanship. They make furniture including the state governor’s chair to the benches used in several of the city schools. But like every other vocation, the lockdown and subsequent impact of Covid-19 affected the artisans’ workshop – there was not a single piece sold for three months and it was a major hit for the disabled who earned their livelihood. “But we had faith in Amdavadis. We sent out a word through our social media groups, brought out leaflets and posters, urging the citizens to visit us and see the furniture,” said Nandini Rawal, executive director of BPA. “In normal circumstances, it would be an average Rs 1 crore turnover monthly, but we had no sale for over three months. In a matter of 20 days in October, we sold furniture worth Rs 15 lakh.” The citizens purchased dining tables, sofas, study tables and chairs among others. Ajay Garg, an executive with a city-based pharmaceutical company, was among the buyers. “I was recommended the teak wood furniture made by the artisans and we loved it,” he said. The BPA officials said that government organizations are the biggest buyers of the furniture, but as it had stopped completely, they had to appeal to the citizens for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/furniture-worth-rs-15l-purchased-from-bpa/articleshow/78816451.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Vadodara||VMC to spend Rs 56L to fix leakages in BSUP houses||VADODARA: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will have to cough up more than Rs 56lakh due to substandard work done in housing schemes. The civic body will have to redo waterproofing in the roofs of two schemes of housing blocks it constructed in 2012. The civic body’s proposal has sought a nod to spend Rs 33.19lakh on BBCC work at the Jambuva site and Rs 23.46lakh on a similar project in Tarsali. Sources said that the condition of some other schemes is similar and will have to be taken care of at some stage. The houses were constructed as part of the Basic Services for the Urban Poor (BSUP) under Jawaharlal Nehru Urban Renewal Mission. Apart from several other schemes, 928 houses were constructed in Jambuva and 656 in Tarsali in multi-storeyed buildings. The schemes have Indian Patent Stone (IPS) flooring on roofs and the VMC is now looking to provide them with Brickbat Cement Concrete (BBCC) flooring for better waterproofing. While the civic body has brought a proposal for the work before the standing committee stating that the work was old and worn out due to ageing, people have been complaining of dampness and seepage since years now. Within a couple of years of people shifting into their new houses, complaints of seepage as well as other issues related to poor quality of work started surfacing. The VMC itself was concerned over the quality of the houses after lumps fell from such a dwelling in Kishanwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-to-spend-rs-56l-to-fix-leakages-in-bsup-houses/articleshow/78814768.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||‘States must cut liquor tax hiked due to Covid’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com The liquor industry, along with travel and hospitality, has been one of the hardest hit due to the pandemic and the sector is perhaps heaving a sigh of relief now that drinks are allowed to be served in restaurants and hotels. Diageo India MD & CEO Anand Kripalu believes that some recovery is expected during the festive season leading to the winter... How far has your business returned to normal? After 6 weeks of complete business closure, we resumed in May, when alcohol retail vends were allowed to open across the country. Since then, business has started returning, albeit at a rate below pre-Covid. The introduction of home delivery in seven states was a positive, particularly in Odisha and Mumbai, when retail stores were still closed. Restaurants started serving liquor only in early September and bars are still largely closed. On the supply side, our production capacity is at near pre-Covid levels. However, we continue to see localised restrictions and lockdowns impacting our manufacturing operations. When do you expect things to get ‘normal’? We expect some recovery in the September-December period due to the festive season. However, we are also hopeful that the business environment will stabilise over the next few quarters. What further steps are required from the government to help your businesses? We are urging state governments to review the higher taxation imposed during the pandemic, which is hurting consumer demand. It will also impact state excise revenues and add another public health risk due to the higher incidence of illicit alcohol. Our appeal is to tax alcohol in a manner that ensures volumes and tax revenues continue to increase sustainably. Additionally, the level of stranded taxes on alcohol has been enhanced due to the prevailing GST structure. This leads to taxation from both the Centre and the states on the alcohol sector — an anomaly we would urge the government to reconsider. We would also like states to reform the regulatory and excise policies for the beverage alcohol industry by rationalising and simplifying the operating environment, encouraging alternative channels like home delivery and adopting e-governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/states-must-cut-liquor-tax-hiked-due-to-covid/articleshow/78817188.cms||Avik Das
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bids invited for Sabarmati depot, consultancy services||Ahmedabad: The National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) has invited bids for the preparatory works for the construction of Sabarmati Maintenance Depot for bullet trains.The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has invited online bids to seek consultancy services for undertaking feasibility study, detailed master planning, urban designing, and engineering & preparation of detailed project report (DPR) for the integrated re-development of Ahmedabad railway station.The objective of the re-development is to upgrade it in line with requirements over time without diluting historical significance, besides providing state-of-the-art passenger amenities.Ahmedabad railway station has 12 platforms at the station. The station premises also houses two minarets as remnants of Sidi Bashir Mosque that are deemed as a heritage structure. The station handles an average footfall of around 52,843 commuters daily.The redeveloped station will be equipped with amenities such as segregation of arrival and departure, excellent road connectivity with multi-modal transport integration, security and surveillance systems.“Ahmedabad railway station is the biggest in Gujarat. The re-development of the station will redefine its aesthetic appeal while keeping its legacy intact. It will also offer convenience to passengers and enhance their experience. This re-development coupled with the Smart City initiative, will boost tourism and improve real estate prospects in the surrounding region,” said an RLDA official.LARGEST OF THREE DEPOTSThe NHSRCL officials said that the Sabarmati maintenance depot will be the largest depot among the three depots planned for Mumbai Ahmedabad High Speed Rail corridor. Other depots will be at Surat and Thane.The NHSRCL tender includes road works, sewage and drainage works, earth work, construction of reservoirs for storage of rooftop rain water and storm water, underground storage tanks, sheds for parking of the general inspection train and inspection cars for track and other civil works at the site marked for the Sabarmati depot.The Sabarmati depot will cover an area of approximately 84ha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bids-invited-for-sabarmati-depot-consultancy-services/articleshow/78815910.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||Ashok Leland reaches 75% of per-Covid production levels||Chennai: Truck and bus maker Ashok Leyland has ramped up production in factories to reach three-fourth of pre-Covid output. “Demand has started picking up particularly in the intermediate commercial vehicle and tipper category and we are currently at 70%-75% of our pre-Covid production levels already,” said Anuj Kathuria, COO, Ashok Leyland. The company, is looking to take its ICV market share to upwards of 20%. “ICVs are now one-third of the entire CV market up from one-fourth before,” said Kathuria. “Ditto with tippers. Between them these two segments comprise two-thirds of the CV market where some recovery is visible.” To tap into that, the company is ramping up sales and service touchpoints aggressively. “This year we will add at least 350-400 new touchpoints taking our total tally to around 3,500 by the end of the financial year,” said Kathuria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ashok-leland-reaches-75-of-per-covid-production-levels/articleshow/78816056.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||Cognizant buys IoT firm Bright Wolf||Chennai: Cognizant Technology Solutions on Thursday said that it has agreed to acquire Bright Wolf, a privately-held technology services provider specializing in custom Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) solutions for Fortune 1,000 companies for an undisclosed sum. With the close of the acquisition, Cognizant will establish its newest IoT innovation lab in the Raleigh-Durham, N.C., Research Triangle, with the Bright Wolf team as its core, a Cognizant statement said. “Companies are increasingly embracing IIoT, and Bright Wolf’s team of senior IoT architects have delivered the business value others have struggled to achieve. We look forward to this talented team joining Cognizant,” said Malcolm Frank, president, Digital Business, Cognizant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-buys-iot-firm-bright-wolf/articleshow/78816101.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||DHFL’s creditors may seek higher bid from Oaktree||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: US-based Oaktree is the front-runner with a bid of Rs 28,000 crore for housing finance company DHFL, while Piramal Group has offered a much lower price and is largely interested in retail loans. The committee of creditors to DHFL will meet on October 26 to decide on the bids. In terms of Oaktree’s bid, the private equity firm will pay Rs 12,000-crore cash up front and an additional Rs 16,000 crore in bonds bearing a 6.5% interest rate. According to sources, lenders are likely to ask Oaktree to improve the offer given that the bid amount is almost Rs 10,000 crore lower than their expectations. Adani Group has also submitted a bid, but it was limited only to real estate projects. Hong Kong-based SC Lowy is the fourth bidder. According to a banking source, Oaktree’s bid amounts to a mere 30% of the company’s dues. But lenders point out that the discount is less steep, keeping in mind that a forensic audit has not been able to trace the whereabouts of Rs 20,000 crore of loans. Additionally, a report by Grant Thornton had said that the company used software to create 2.6 lakh fictitious home loan accounts, which resulted in the administrator filing a case against the promoters for fraud of Rs 12,000 crore. A banker said that the lenders were expecting to recover at least 40% of their exposure, based on the worst-case scenario that half the book turns out to be bad. Besides having a retail portfolio of Rs 25,000 crore, the administrator R Subramaniakumar, former CEO and MD of Indian Overseas Bank, had succeeded in a cash recovery of Rs 9,000 crore, which is currently on the books of the bank. The retail home loan books are considered to be the most sound, despite the pandemic as in India the minimum loan-to-value ratio ensures that the security is intact even if home prices were to fall marginally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dhfls-creditors-may-seek-higher-bid-from-oaktree/articleshow/78817387.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 23, 2020||Business||QR code must accept all UPI apps, says RBI||TNN Mumbai: The RBI has banned payments system operators from launching proprietary QR codes that do not accept funds from all UPI apps. Platforms using proprietary QR codes will need to shift to interoperable ones by March 31, 2022. The central bank’s directive is to improve the digital payment infrastructure in the country. Given that smartphones have become ubiquitous, paying via QR codes is expected to become the mainstay of e-payments in the country. The RBI has taken a different path from China where QR codes first became popular but as part of a closed-loop payment system introduced by Alipay and WeChat. In India, there are three types of QR codes — Bharat QR, UPI QR and proprietary QR. Currently, both Bharat QR and UPI QR code are interoperable, which means that any app can read their QR code stickers at a store. The RBI’s move will have implications for transit systems, which have their own closed-loop payment cards, planning to shift from cards to QR codes. The RBI directive follows the recommendation of the Deepak Pathak committee to review the current system of QR Codes in India and suggest measures for moving towards interoperable ones. For merchants, one downside of Bharat QR is that the onboarding process is more complex and it allows customers to use credit cards, which may turn out to be more expensive for the merchant vis-a-vis UPI. The advantage of a closed-loop payment system is that the transaction is extremely simple as the issuing and receiving payment company is the same and the message does not have to hop across multiple databases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/qr-code-must-accept-all-upi-apps-says-rbi/articleshow/78817264.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||Patna: Old-timers miss music Puja extravaganza||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has taken the sheen off the Durga Puja festivities this year. Old-timers recall that Durga Puja in Patna was synonymous with classical and light music till 1970s. In fact, musical soirées were an inseparable part of the Puja celebrations in the town every year. Connoisseurs of classical music say they used to wait for Durga Puja to listen to the maestros for three consecutive nights from Saptami. The grandeur of classical programmes, however, started waning after late 1970s. Several music lovers have a lingering memory as ‘jaane kahan gaye who din’. The Puja festivity and musical programmes took a hit in the 1975 due to floods in Patna. Durga Puja was the only occasion when diehard music lovers in thousands listened delightfully to their favourite artists performing on the stage. Patnaites said ‘such programmes were held at the Hardinge Park, Miller School, Gandhi Maidan, Patna Collegiate School, Langartoli, Golghar, Machhhuatoli and Station Road where celebrated artists used to regale the people through their performances in Patna. Octogenarians Basu Da and Niloo Chakraborty said famous table player Alla Rakha, sitar maestro Ravi Shankar, shehnai wizard Bismillah Khan, noted singers Kishori Amonkar, Shamshad Begum and Praveen Sultana, violinist V G Jog and a galaxy of other celebrities used to add colour to the Durga Puja festival in Patna. Noted danseuse Sitara Devi was always the centre of attraction. Her fans were so much fascinated with her dance that they sat from dusk to dawn. Ghazal singers Anup Jalota and Pankaj Udhas also evoked applause from the audience during puja festival. Patna was the only city where Bollywood stars performed on the stage during Durga Puja. Mahendra Kapoor, Sulakshana Pandit, Manna Dey and several others regularly performed during the Puja festival. Patna was so famous for the classical music during Puja that music lovers from Kolkata and Varanasi visited here to enjoy classical music and dance. “Patnaites will perhaps never witness such a rare combination of music and dance during Puja now,” an old-timer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/old-timers-miss-music-puja-extravaganza/articleshow/78816940.cms||Kumod Verma
October 23, 2020||Patna||BJP old warhorse trying to wrest seat from Congress||AURANGABAD: Though there is a direct fight between BJP and Congress, but BSP is trying to make it a triangular contest in Aurangabad assembly constituency. BJP candidate Ramadhar Singh is trying to avenge his defeat in 2015 at the hands of Congress’s Anand Shankar Singh, who has the challenge to retain it this time. Ramadhar is an old warhorse in Aurangabad politics. He was first elected as an MLA from Aurangabad in 1995 and then in 2005 and 2010 elections. He was also made minister of cooperative department in the Nitish Kumar government. Congress is banking on the Mahagathbandhan and anti-NDA votes. BSP has fielded former RJD leader Anil Kumar Yadav, who hopes his caste voters and party supporters will vote for him. Local resident Law Kumar Singh said the strength of the two major alliances is almost equal in Aurangabad and results will show whose vote bank remained intact. Political observers said elections in Aurangabad segment are often fought on personalities and caste equations. North Koyal canal project is a common issue raised during every election. Construction of this canal was started in early 1970s but has not been completed yet. Ramadhar and Anand promise to get it completed this time. Once this canal is constructed, it will provide irrigation waters to in millions of hectares of land in Aurangabad district. Apart from the canal, there is a problem of roads as well. Businessmen Ranjay Kumar Singh said: “The condition of NH-2, the main road in this area, is bad. The work on converting it to six-lane is also pending. The pace of development in Deo’s area is relatively slow.” Ramadhar claimed that development took place in the area during his tenure. He accused his opponents of being involved in sand mining. “The pace of development slowed down in the last 5 years. Our priority is to accelerate the pace of development,” he said. Anand, however, said rapid development works were done in the last 5 years. “Development has happened in every field and people have full faith in me. My aim is to provide better basic and irrigation facilities to every area,” he said. BSP candidate said NDA as well as Mahagathbandhan have treated the people of the area like bonded labourers. “In such a situation, I am a new option for the people, who have made up their mind to vote against the two major alliances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-old-warhorse-trying-to-wrest-seat-from-cong/articleshow/78815479.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||7 more deaths take Covid toll to 1,026 in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state went up to 2,09,296 on Thursday with 1,058 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Also, the virus claimed lives of seven more people in the last 24 hours. With this, Covid toll in the state has risen to 1,026. According to state health department sources, Patna and Saran districts recorded two deaths each and Gopalganj, Bhojpur and Supaul one death each on Thursday. There are 11,077 active Covid cases in the state, according to the state health department bulletin. Altogether 985 patients have so far been discharged from different hospitals after they recuperated from the virus. The number of cured people in the state has increased to 1,97,193. As many as 1,45,162 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours, taking the number of total tests in the state since March to 96,76,330. The state’s recovery rate has remained unchanged at 94.22%. The AIIMS-P registered four deaths and the victims included a 42-year-old woman from Lohiya Nagar and a 68-year-old man from Samanpura. The other two were from Hilsa village in Nalanda and Shastri Nagar in Purnia. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 15 patients were admitted to the hospital on Thursday from various Patna localities like Rajiv Nagar, Patliputra, Rajendra Nagar and also from other districts, such as Begusarai, Munger, Siwan and Vaishali. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 66 new cases on Thusrday, Bhagalpur 45 and Gaya and Madhubani 42 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-more-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-1026/articleshow/78815393.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 23, 2020||Mysuru||Techie brings SPB songs alive through Dasara dolls||Bengaluru: Depicting evergreen film songs and their themes/scenes through dolls may be challenging. But a software engineer from Bengaluru has managed to do so. She’s used her Dasara doll display to pay a rich tribute to her favourite singer, the late SP Balasubrahmanyam. Seethalakshmi Rao, a resident of Classic Orchards on Bannerghatta Road, is known for her theme-based doll displays. This year, she chose two unique concepts. She picked 22 famous Kannada songs of 1970s and 1980s sung by SPB, who passed away recently, for the first theme, Tribute to SPB-Guess the songs. The other theme is based on the August 5 Ram Mandir bhoomi puja. She herself created most of the clay dolls, including that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 22 songs include Kannada Honnudi Deviyanu, Nodamma Hudugi Kelamma Sariyagi, Banna Nanna Olavina Banna, Kelade Nimageega, Belliya Raja Baro, Havina Dwesha Hanneradu Varusha, Akashadinda Dharegilda Rambhe, Teraneri Ambaradage and Nammuru Mysuru Nimmuru Yavuru among others. “It was difficult to depict romantic songs through clay dolls. In fact, I was not able to pick a couple of popular romantic songs sung by SPB,” she said, adding: “Another gombe (doll) theme was the bhoomi puja at Ayodhya.” “For 20 years, I have been putting together theme-based doll displays for Dasara. Last year, I chose Kannada proverbs. My mother Leelavati Gururaj encouraged me to take up SPB songs as the theme this time,” said Seethalakshmi. “The biggest challenge was choosing props and figurines. I didn’t have any dolls resembling any of the heroes or heroines to depict the scenes and make it easy to guess them. I made a few dolls using clay and bought only some online,” she said, adding that she’s continuing the tradition passed on from her parents and grandparents. Seethalakshmi, who worked as a software engineer for over 15 years, is now working with Karnataka History Academy and Dream Path Foundation. Box: 102-yr history of Bengaluru Dasara According to historian Suresh Moona, Bengaluru Dasara is 102 years old. “Mysuru Dasara is famous everywhere. But Bengaluru Dasara also has an interesting history,” he said. “Bengaluru Dasara started in 1918 at Munireddy Palya in the Cantonment area after Mysore Lancers won the Battle of Haifa. The centenary of Bengaluru Dasara was celebrated two years ago,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/techie-brings-spb-songs-alive-through-dasara-dolls/articleshow/78814540.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||Teams to check Covid violation during Durga Puja||Prayagraj: The Colonelganj Barwari Committee has roped in a team of 20 volunteers, including civil defence personnel, to help check violation of Covid protocol during Durga Puja festivities. Though the committee is celebrating 168 years of its establishment, festivities have been muted this year to check the spread of the pandemic. In strict adherence to safety protocol, the pandal would be sanitized thrice a day. Committee general secretary Puja Alok Roy said it would be mandatory for devotees to wear masks in the pandal. “Separate entry and exit gates have been set up in view of Covid-19 and circles have also been marked to maintain social distancing. A devotee would be allowed to stay for only five minutes in the pandal,” he added. In line with government guidelines, there would be no distribution of prasad and bhog. The pandal would be open for devotees from 9am to 9pm. Covid protocol boards have also been installed on the campus. “A team of volunteers would have a strict watch on devotees entering the pandal,” he said, adding that, “This time, the height of Durga idol is around four-and-a-half-feet only.” Armed with thermal scanners and sanitizers, volunteers have been deputed at the entry gate and society would also provide masks to devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/teams-to-check-covid-violation-during-durga-puja/articleshow/78815099.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||I-T raid at Congress office in Patna, Rahul Gandhi’s helicopter denied nod for landing||PATNA: In a double whammy for Congress, its state headquarters in Patna was raided by the income-tax department while former party chief Rahul Gandhi, who was scheduled to address three rallies in Bihar on Friday, was denied permission by the authorities to land his chopper in Purnea, the venue of his third rally. Rahul will now address two rallies, one each at Hisua in Nawada district and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur on Friday. He will be with the Mahagathbandhan CM face and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at Hisua. The third rally in Purnia district had to be cancelled owing to denial of permission to land the chopper there, citing construction issues. “The Airport Authority of India has cited some construction issues, but in reality, this is politically motivated,” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, adding Rahul will address two to three rallies in the second and third phase. Asked about the I-T raid at their office and money seized from a vehicle, Mishra said, “It could be anyone’s vehicle standing outside the campus. We have got the notice and our lawyer is handling it. We have been given time till October 26 to reply and we will do that.” As per media reports, around Rs eight lakh was seized from a vehicle outside Sadaqat Ashram, where the Congress state headquarters is located, after which I-T officials raided the office. Congress state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil lashed out at NDA and called it a political vendetta. Gohil said the money seized was from outside the campus. He further said a huge amount of gold was seized from BJP’s Raxaul candidate’s brother. “Why was BJP office not raided?” said Gohil. Sources said after the money was seized, IT officials raided the Congress office and questioned a few workers. This raid continued for nearly an hour. However, JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan denied any politics behind the denial of permission to land a chopper or raid at the Congress office. “Congress during its era used to keep judiciary, legislature and executive in their pockets and they are thinking others are like them. This is their excuse as they know they are going to lose this election,” said Ranjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-t-raid-at-congress-office-rahuls-helicopter-denied-nod-for-landing/articleshow/78820753.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 23, 2020||Business||Bajaj Auto posts a 19% fall in its Q2 net||PUNE: Bajaj Auto posted a 19% fall in its year-on-year net profit at Rs 1,138 crore even as it continued on its revival road, after the worst first quarter in years. The company sold over a million vehicles in the quarter ended September, over twice of what it sold in the quarter ended June. During July-September, Bajaj sold nearly 3.5 units of Pulsar, which was the highest ever in a three-month period for the motorcycle brand that was introduced two decades ago. Bajaj Auto said its turnover during the quarter was Rs 7,442 crore. The maker of motorcycles and three-wheelers has had a start-stop functioning of its key factory in Aurangabad due to the pandemic. In the two-wheeler segment, the fall was only 2% including domestic sales and exports, while the overall fall was 10%. “Domestic two-wheelers registered a strong turnaround in the first half of the quarter driven by pent up demand...Domestic commercial vehicle volumes continue to remain muted and is dependant on return of adequate short-distance mobility demand,” the company added. The company said that its cash position however improved to Rs 16,240 crore from Rs 14,232 crore as on June 30, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-auto-posts-a-19-fall-in-its-q2-net/articleshow/78818463.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||Investors double down on direct-to-consumer brands||Madhav.Chanchani@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Top investors like Sequoia Capital India, Verlinvest and Elevation Capital are doubling down on their bets on direct-to-consumer (D2C) brands. These are products that are first launched through e-commerce channels, leveraging social media and technology, and later their distribution is built offline as they scale. The rising investor interest in the space comes as D2C brands across sectors like fashion, beauty & personal care, food & beverages and electronics are expected to become a $100-billion business in India by 2025, according to a recent report by Avendus Capital. Elevation Capital, which was till recently known as SAIF Partners, is in talks to back cosmetics brand Sugar with a cheque of $10-15 million. Additionally, it is also finalising a $14-million investment in Country Delight, a milk products brand, said three sources briefed on the matter. At the same time, Sequoia is increasing its stake in two of its companies — home products maker Wakefit, and skincare brand Mamaearth, added the sources. It is in talks to lead a round of $30-40 million in Wakefit, which started with mattresses and now has products across home furniture category, after first backing it in late 2018. Wakefit’s valuation is expected to jump over 10 times in two years to over $300 million, said a source briefed on the discussions. Mamaearth, which counts actor Shilpa Shetty as a shareholder and brand ambassador, is talking with angel investors and employees to buy their shares in a transaction pegged at $20 million. Sequoia had invested in the company in January at a $100-million valuation. But the value being discussed for the new round is about $270 million, the sources said mentioned earlier. Verlinvest, the holding company of owners of global beverages giant Anheuser-Busch InBev, is also in talks to pick up shares in Mamaearth, said another source familiar with the discussions. What is driving investor interest is that these brands have continued to scale up despite the lockdown. For instance, Mamaearth was at a Rs 100-crore annualised revenue run rate (ARR) in January, which now stands at over Rs 360 crore, said two sources familiar with the details. “We closed the year FY20 at around Rs 200 crore and have taken up a target of Rs 450-500 crore for FY21. Our monthly revenue run rate is 100% more than pre-Covid numbers as customers realise the benefits of e-commerce beyond discounts,” said Wakefit founder Chaitanya Ramalingegowda in reply to TOI’s queries. He confirmed that the five-year-old startup is raising capital, but declined to comment on the investor or valuation. Sugar Cosmetic’s co-founder & CEO Vineeta Singh confirmed that the startup is raising a $20-million series-C round, but declined to comment on specific details. The startup announced $2-million debt-funding from Stride Ventures as part of the new round on Wednesday. Queries sent to Country Delight and Elevation Capital did not elicit a response till the time of going to the press, while Mamaearth and Sequoia Capital declined to comment. D2C brands have been able to scale up faster. For instance, while Revlon and Lotus Herbals took 20 and 19 years, respectively, to scale to Rs 100 crore in revenues, players like Mamaearth and Sugar have reached the number in 3 and 4 years, respectively, according to the report from Avendus. “D2C brands are characterised by their agile DNA, innovative marketing, efficient operational processes and effective use of technology. With access to customer data, D2C brands leverage consumption insights, work on a feedback-led model and rapidly develop products to ensure that the evolving customer needs are addressed,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/investors-double-down-on-direct-to-consumer-brands/articleshow/78817340.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||Equitas SFB IPO salis through, listing on Nov 2||Chennai: The Rs 518 crore initial public offer of Equitas Small Finance Bank (SFB) was subscribed at 1.94 times on its final day of bidding. The shares set aside for qualified institutional investors were subscribed 3.9 times, and that of high networth individuals HNIs and non-institutional investors 0.2 times and retail investors 2.1 times. Employees share was subscribed 1.8 times and the small finance banks’ shareholders saw 0.4 times. At the close, the IPO had received bids for 20,00,13,750 shares compared with the issue size of 22,57,94,250 shares, according to data available with the NSE. The offer size excludes an anchor book of Rs 140 crore which the company raised on October 19. The IPO comprised a fresh issue of Rs 280 crore and an offer for sale of 7,20,00,000 shares by the parent company Equitas Holdings. The IPO is being sold in the price band of Rs 32-Rs 33 per share and at the upper limit of this price band. Shares of Equitas SFB will be listed by November 2 on both NSE and BSE. The basis of allotment is expected to be finalised by October 27 and shares will be credited in the demat account of successful applicants by October 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/equitas-sfb-ipo-salis-through-listing-on-nov-2/articleshow/78816143.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Business||RBI buys state bonds worth Rs 10k cr in OMO||Mumbai: The RBI on Thursday completed the first ever open market operation (OMO) purchase for state government bonds worth Rs 10,000 crore with two states — Karnataka and Maharashtra — accounting for nearly half the amount. The central bank had, in its October 9 policy meet, decided to go for purchase of state government bonds, also called state development loans (SDLs), mainly to manage the yields of state bonds, which in turn would limit the cost of borrowing for these entities. In Thursday’s OMO, SDLs worth Rs 15,475 crore were offered to the central bank, the RBI data showed. Among bonds of 15 states which the RBI had announced to buy, it bought Karnataka SDLs worth Rs 2,335 crore, while the corresponding amount for Maharashtra was Rs 2,294 crore. During the day, the RBI also announced that it plans to go for an OMO purchase of central government securities worth Rs 20,000 crore on October 29. In the bond market, the benchmark yield on the 10-year gilt closed barely changed from its previous close at 5.91%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-buys-state-bonds-worth-rs-10k-cr-in-omo/articleshow/78818395.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||Just 13% women in Bihar poll arena, long way ahead||PATNA: Women voters form nearly 50% of the electorate in Bihar, yet when it comes to contesting polls, their numbers are barely more than 10%. However, the silver lining is that women cutting across social and caste hierarchies are fighting the assembly election this year. From a London School of Economics graduate to an international medal-winning sportswoman, and from home-makers to activists, women contenders this year reflect the representation of a wide group. There are another set of women candidates, the wives of ‘Bahubalis’ or strongmen, who are either in jail, disbarred or found it politically convenient for their respective wives to contest. Data shared by the Election Commission for the first phase shows there are altogether 1,066 contestants in the fray in the first phase of whom only 144 are women or 13.5% of the contestants in the first phase are women. Bihar has 3.8 crore male voters and 3.5 crore female voters. Data from the 2015 assembly polls shows that a total of 3,177 men and 273 women had fought the election. Out them, 215 men and 28 women won, which means only 11.5% of the women candidates could make it to Vidhan Sabha in 2015. Social activist Sister Sudha Varghese says there needs to be more awareness among women regarding their participation in elections as a contender and not merely as a voter. “Keeping in mind their self-respect and faith in whichever party they want, women should fight the election. No one will give them chance, they will have to grab it.” As far as political parties are concerned, JD (U), which is fighting on 115 seats, has given 22 tickets to women (19%) and its alliance partner BJP has given 13 tickets to women, out of the 110 they are contesting, which is 11.8%. Percentage-wise, RJD has given nearly the same proportion of tickets to women as BJP —17 out of the total 114 contestants. In the case of Congress, which is fighting on 70 seats, there are six women. So the NDA has 27 women contenders while Mahagatbandha has 24 women candidates. LJP’s spokesperson Shravan Agarwal said their party has given tickets to 28 women, out of the total 134 seats on which they are contesting. Interestingly, the Pushpam Priya Choudhary-led Plurals party, which is fighting for the first time in the election, has given the maximum representation to women —28.7%. Even though the number of woman contenders is less, they come from various sections, giving wide options to people. For instance, Plurals founder Pushpam has studied in LSE, London while Shreyasi Sinha has won medals in shooting. Former parliamentarian Usha Vidyarthi is also fighting in this assembly election on LJP’s ticket. Rebel BJP leader Sushma Sahu, who was a councillor and a former member of the National Commission for Women, is also in the fray. Ejya Yadav, an RJD contender has made a mark as a teacher, while JD (U)’s Anjum Ara and Congress’s Amita Bhushan are well known social workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/just-13-women-in-poll-arena-long-way-ahead/articleshow/78817431.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 23, 2020||Patna||Deputy CM, Shahnawaz and Rudy test Covid positive in Bihar||PATNA: A day after Election Commission asked political parties to maintain crowd discipline in adherence to Covid guidelines and on eve of PM Narendra Modi’s public meetings for the assembly elections in the state, deputy CM and senior BJP functionary Sushil Kumar Modi tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. He shared information regarding the same on his Twitter handle, stating that he has mild symptoms. The deputy CM is undergoing treatment at AIIMS-Patna. Earlier, BJP’s national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain and Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy had also tested positive for Covid on Wednesday. Rudy as well as Shahnawaz were included on the second list of star campaigners of the saffron party and both had addressed several public meetings in the last few days. A close aide of Rudy said the latter had tested positive for Covid in New Delhi on Wednesday. Shahnawz also made a public announcement of contracting the virus. “I had come in contact with few people who tested positive for Covid-19. I got myself tested today and my report has come positive. Request all who came in contact with me in last few days to kindly get yourself tested (sic),” Shahnawaz tweeted. The deputy CM, who was addressing two to four election events every day and conducting road shows attended by tens of hundreds of people, had not been campaigning for the last three days. Political observers said most parties were initially doing electioneering and addressing workers and supporters through digital means, but physical rallies and road shows started after October 10 in gross violation of Covid safety norms issued by the Union health ministry as well as the EC. As per the guidelines recently issued by the Election commission, there is an upper limit of 200 people or 50% of seating capacity in closed-door political events, while district administration concerned have been authorised to allow open grounds and political gatherings according to the guidelines of the EC and Centre. Bihar’s additional chief electoral officer Baiju Nath Singh said, “The guidelines issued by the EC have already been sent to the DMs. We have not yet received any complaint regarding violation of the guidelines. If we do get any complaint, the same will be brought to the notice of DMs concerned.” Disaster management authorities have also expressed concern over such events. Vice-chairman of Bihar State Disaster Management Authority (BSDMA) Vyasji said, “EC should ensure that the Covid safety guidelines are strictly followed and no meeting is allowed in violation of such norms. BSDMA is working round-the-clock to spread awareness about prevention of the spread of the virus. Public health expert T Sundaram said such events are posing serious risk of spread of the virus. “Elections can also not be postponed, but people and political parties need to be more careful about the Covid preventive steps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/deputy-cm-shahnawaz-and-rudy-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78815365.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||Durga idols unveiled at many temples in Patna||PATNA: The Durga Puja festivities reached its peak with the beginning of Mahasaptami on Thursday evening. Idols of Goddess Durga were unveiled at several temples in the city. Some temples, however, will unveil the idols on Friday. ‘Aahwahan’ puja was performed at many temples and homes on Thursday. Only small idols have been placed in the temples without pandals owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, a limited number of devotees are allowed to enter the temple at a time to avoid mass gathering. People from Bengali community had started the Puja with ‘kalash’ installation on Wednesday. The ritual began with Bodhan Puja at several places in the city, including Bangali Akhara, the Kalibari temple at Yarpur and Basant Bihar Colony on Boring Road. Saumya Deep Chakravarti, a tabla player, said the celebrations at Bangali Akhara are well-known in Patna, especially for programmes like ‘dhunuchi dance’ and ‘sindoor khela’. “Every year, cultural programmes are arranged and we are called to play musical instruments. However, no cultural programme is being held this time due to Covid. Joint secretary of Bangali Akhara Joydeb Banerjee said, “This year, we have placed a 5-foot idol of Goddess Durga. Devotees every year offer sari and few other items to the Goddess. We return all such items after it is accepted by the Goddess. But this year, we have requested the devotees not to bring the offerings due to the pandemic.” While devotees are busy in performing the rituals, they are also aware of the Covid threat. “This Durga Puja is quite different. Pandals and fairs are missing on roads,” said Soumya Singh, a resident of Boring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/durga-idols-unveiled-at-many-temples-in-city/articleshow/78815427.cms||---
October 23, 2020||---||All 7 Rohtas seats to see tough fight||PATNA: Altogether seven assembly constituencies in Rohtas district are set to witness a keen contest in the assembly polls scheduled to be held in the first phase on October 28. The blanket ban on mining on Kaimur hills in the district is likely to impact prospects of the ruling NDA in the election. In all, there are 116 contestants in the fray in the seven constituencies. While JD(U) is contesting five seats, BJP has fielded its candidates on two seats. On the other hand, RJD has fielded four candidates, Congress is fighting on three and one seat has gone to CPI-ML (Liberation). Sasaram: The Sasaram assembly constituency is set to witness a triangular contest. There are 20 contestants in the fray. Sitting MLA Ashok Kumar, who had earlier won twice on RJD ticket, is fighting on JD(U) symbol this time. He is pitted against Rajesh Gupta of RJD. BJP rebel and former MLA Ram Naresh Chaurasia is contesting on LJP ticket, making the fight triangular. Karakat: There are 13 candidates in the fray in Karakat. Rajeshwar Raj of BJP is locked in a tight contest with CPI-ML (Liberation)’s Arun Kumar and Malti Singh of RLSP. In 2010, Rajeshwar Raj won on a JD(U) ticket after defeating Arun Kumar of CPI-ML (Liberation). Later he switched over to BJP. In 2015, Rajeshwar Raj, however, lost to Sanjay Kumar Singh of RJD. The sitting RJD MLA, Sanjay, has been denied ticket as the seat went to CPI-ML (Liberation). Dehri: There are 14 candidates in the fray in Dehri. Sitting BJP MLA Satya Narain Singh is pitted against Fateh Bahadur Singh of RJD. In 2015, RJD’s Md Illiyas Hussain had emerged victorious. The seat fell vacant after Hussain was convicted in a bitumen scam case. In the 2019 by-election, Satya Narain defeated Rinku Soni of BJP. The sitting MLA is facing a stiff challenge from his rival Fateh Bahadur, who is trying his luck for the first time on a RJD ticket. Nokha: Altogether 15 contestants are in the fray in Nokha assembly constituency. JD(U) has fielded Nagendra Chandrawanshi, who is pitted against RJD MLA and former minister Anita Devi. Anita was tourism minister for 18 months during the Grand Alliance government. LJP has fielded Dr Krishna Kabir to make the contest triangular. Chenari: There are 19 candidates in the fray in Chenari. RLSP sitting MLA Lalan Paswan switched sides and joined JD(U), which allotted party symbol to Paswan. In 2009, Paswan had abandoned JD(U) and contested the parliamentary polls on RJD ticket. However, he later joined JD(U). He is pitted against Murari Prasad of Congress. LJP has fielded Chandra Shekhar Paswan from Chenari. Kargahar: Altogether 20 contestants are in the fray in Kargahar, which came into existence after delimitation in 2010. Sitting JD(U) MLA Vashishth Singh is locked in a direct contest with Santosh Mishra of Congress. However, LJP’s Rakesh Kumar Singh alias Gabru Singh is trying to make the contest triangular. BSP candidate Uday Pratap Singh is leaving no stone unturned to make it a multi-corner contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/all-7-rohtas-seats-to-see-tough-fight/articleshow/78815440.cms||Ramashankar
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Sombre rituals mark beginning of Ma Durga’s arrival||LUCKNOW: Amid reverberations of conch shells and sounds of dhak, goddess Durga along with her children — Ganesha, Lakshmi, Saraswati and Kartikeya — was welcomed at different pandals in the city on ‘shubho shoshti’ or shashti — the sixth day of Navaratra — marking the beginning of Durga Puja on Thursday. The otherwise colourful and vibrant celebrations wore a sombre look in most pandals due to Covid-19 pandemic this year. After the idol of the goddess was placed, the rituals of bodhan (consecration) and ‘pran pratishtha’ were performed. The unveiling of the face is the most important ritual of the day. Instead of crowds of families swaying to the beats of ‘dhak’ and people brushing past each other to catch a glimpse of the goddess, social distancing and crowd management were given priority at every pandal this time. At the 106-year-old Bengali Club, no devotee was allowed without a mask. Barricading prevented devotees from coming near the idol. Many devotees made a beeline in the evening to see the unveiling. “Though only 50 visitors were allowed to enter at a time, people patiently waited for their turn and ensured that all get adequate time to receive blessings of the deity,” said Bengali Club president Arun Kumar Banerjee. People missed the ‘Anandi Mela’ which is held every year at the venue. Celebrating Durga Puja for 78 years, Latouche Road Durga Puja Sangsad Samiti has created a sanitization tunnel and token system for visitors. For the elderly and those who couldn’t attend the puja, the samiti live-streamed the rituals on Facebook. Priya Mukherjee, a visitor, said, “My mother-in-law and 12-year-old son are attending the puja via Facebook. This year, pandal hopping has become virtual since most committees have gone digital.” Devotees at Shashwat Durga Puja in Vikasnagar were enthralled by the rural setting theme organised by the club. In its 48th year, Trans-Gomti Durga Puja and Dussehra Committee allowed only committee members to attend rituals. Ramkrishna Math observed the day with traditional rituals. “Nostalgia strikes when the festival arrives but we had never thought that we would be attending pujo this way and stepping out wearing mask,” said Anandita Das. a devotee at Alambagh Durga Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sombre-rituals-mark-beginning-of-ma-durgas-arrival/articleshow/78818650.cms||Aditi Singh
October 23, 2020||Business||Startups push Google for options to its billing||BENGALURU: Indian startups and large internet firms are pressing Google to offer alternatives to its billing system and keep the market ‘open’, according to multiple people aware of recent discussions with the search engine giant. These talks include those at the app developer conference held for India by Google on Wednesday. The development follows the continuous resistance from local startups protesting Google’s billing policy for in-app purchases in India, which could result in a commission of 30% going to the tech titan. While app developers participated in the conference, Google’s US team has been reaching out to founding or leadership teams of various startups. These included PhonePe and Razorpay, which have raised concerns with Google. Sources said the US-based tech major is scheduling multiple developer conferences in the coming weeks with the next one scheduled in November. “There are two lines of conversation. On a policy level, it’s with founders directly, while their developers are also being reached to address concerns and doubts over the implementation of the policy,” one of the people mentioned earlier said. Essentially, Indian firms are pushing Google to keep all billing options open than to limit it to only its model for in-app transactions. “Google has been open to the concerns, so far. Clearly, many feel having multiple billing options is better than reducing the 30% fee. Today, it’s for certain segments, but what if they are extended to others also?” one of the entrepreneurs, to whom Google had reached out, said. The sources said that Google has told these startups they would need more time to address the concerns as it can’t change the billing policy for India alone, even though it delayed the implementation by six months to April 2022 here following the backlash. “It will take time since it’s part of global policy. If they do it for India, what about other countries? Google is trying to figure that out,” another source aware of the current discussions said. In its chat with Google’s US team, the PhonePe leadership is understood to have raised concerns on taking down apps “arbitrarily” from the app store on certain issues without adequate discussions, affecting platforms with millions of monthly active users. “We spoke to Google last week and shared our concerns. We were not invited to any webinar though,” a PhonePe spokesperson said. A Paytm spokesperson also confirmed it hadn’t got any invitation to attend a webinar from Google. All this comes even as the US Justice Department filed an antitrust case against Google earlier this week. “As conveyed earlier, we are kicking off policy workshops with developers across India to enable greater access to our teams, and to also get a deeper understanding of the unique needs of developers in India. These efforts are in line with our objectives to work together with the ecosystem, and grow together,” a Google India spokesperson said, without offering specific comments to TOI’s queries. “Our team attended the webinar. We raised the issues known to Google, but there is no assurance given so far that these issues will be addressed in a satisfying manner,” the founder of another startup added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-push-google-for-options-to-its-billing/articleshow/78818409.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Boutique owner buys air tickets, cheated of Rs 1.3 lakh||MUMBAI: D B Marg police recently arrested a BTech graduate and a person who did his Masters in Computer Application in a cyber fraud case. They operated a fake call centre in Noida and cheated the owner of a fashion boutique of Rs 1.3 lakh, promising to book Hong Kong tickets for her family. Pallav Verma (32) is from Noida and his employee, Vivek Pundir (35), from New Delhi. In April 2019, a case was filed after the 35-year-old woman said she wanted to travel to Bangkok with six family members. She submitted her information on a travel website for booking tickets and got a call from a person claiming he was from the travel firm. He told her to transfer Rs5,000, which she did, to book tickets on Thai Airways. The caller mailed her seven tickets booked in her name. She contacted the airlines and was told the tickets were genuine. “The caller again called and told her to transfer Rs 1.3 lakh as total cost of tickets. She transferred the remaining money too,” said sub-inspector Pradip Patil. The complainant contacted the airline few days before departure to confirm the tickets, when she was told the balance was not paid so her ticket was cancelled. When she complained to police, DCP Rajiv Jain formed a team comprising senior inspector Suryakant Bangar, officers Rajaram Bidkar, Pandurang Sanas, Rakesh Shinde and staff. They Laxman Verma (35), a school drop-out in February, who said he was working at a call centre operated by Verma. The next month, the lockdown behan and investigations resumed last month. A police team picked up Verma and Pundir from their residences. “Verma had at one point of time had 50 computers and more than 100 employees. Pundir created the fake website, where the complainant filled in details,” said an officer. Police unearthed the involvement of accused in another case registered in March. “In the March case, they had cheated Abhishek Gadkar (25), claiming he won a lottery of more than Rs 3 lakh for ‘continuous online shopping’. They told him to pay GST, a processing fee, other charges and a refundable amount. Gadkar paid nearly Rs 3 lakh,” said an officer. Oshiwara police have taken custody of the two accused in a similar ticket-booking case of Rs 18,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/duo-take-boutique-owner-for-a-ride-arrested/articleshow/78817440.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||More Kolkata cops on pandal duty, less on roads||KOLKATA: After the Calcutta High Court directive, police on Thursday temporarily prevented organizers of Behala Natun Dal puja from letting in visitors, the second time in two days. Cops also started moving more personnel from roads and crossings to keep watch on crowd movement at pandals. In Behala, the police action came after people crowded the 140m-long, eight-foot-wide lane leading to the pandal around 10pm Wednesday and around 7pm on Thursday. “We asked the organizers to comply with a few things first — open up a side of the pandal and increase the exit passage. They failed to comply and we had to ask them to make the necessary changes for the second time,” said DCP (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas. TimesViewWe should not do anything during Durga Puja that can lead to a Covid spike after the festival. Staying away from old-normal festive revelry is all-important this year.Sandipan Bandyopadhayay, one of the chief organizers of the puja, acknowledged that this was the first time in its 55-year history that cops took such a step. He added the club has begun complying with the rules. “A few inspections were going on for puja prizes, which led to a slight delay in implementation of changes prescribed by cops. We were ready for guests by sasthi evening, but cops wanted a bigger exit when they visited again. We complied,” said Bandyopadhyay. Police then started withdrawing forces from some crossings and Metro stations and deploying them at pandals. Lalbazar said they have tried to ensure there is a cop at every pandal. “Every police division has been allotted extra personnel,” said an officer. The police have also decided to keep 25-50 personnel at major pujas. “After a lull of 48 hours, sasthi saw youngsters flocking to pandal and veering past barricades. At Chetla Agrani and Kumartuli Park, we had to ask people to keep moving instead of crowding at the barriers. We expect these numbers to grow from Saptami. Women and children, too, turned up in larger numbers. We will need a sizable force manning the pandals to keep vigil on security. A section of this force will come from the markets where cops hope the pressure will ease from Friday,” an officer said. Crowding at barricades become a major challenge for cops. Across the city, pandal-hoppers refused to budge from the guard rails. “Most were busy clicking selfies, oblivious to the people waiting behind,” said a cop at Kashi Bose Lane. However, cops are not changing any of the traffic regulations and officers have started regulating autos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-cops-on-pandal-duty-less-on-roads/articleshow/78815926.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||30 artists from UP to make idols based on Ramayana for Diwali in Ayodhya||Prayagraj: Diwali in Ayodhya this year is going to be a grand affair as trained sculptors have been selected from several parts of the state to make idols of Lord Ram and carve out different episodes of the epic, Ramayana. Among the 30 selected artists, three are from the Sangam city, whose artwork will be put on display at Ayodhya on the occasion of Diwali. The artists have been selected by the Rajya Lalit Kala Academy, and 15 of are making their artwork at the camp of the academy (offline mode) and 15 others from their respective work places (online mode). The three sculptors selected from Prayagraj include Shanee Keshari, Nagina Ram and Dheeraj Kumar. While Shanee and Dheeraj are alumni of the department of Fine Arts of Allahabad University, Nagina is the former student of Banaras Hindu University. All the 30 sculptors are working on different episodes of Ramayana, and will have to hand over their work to the academy by October 23. The academy is providing an incentive of Rs 15,000 to the sculptors and Rs 5,000 for the material that they are using for their artwork. Chunk of the artwork of these artists is around three feet high. Shanee, native to Kauwa village of Karchana, has done his bachelors and masters in Fine Arts from AU (2015). “I am showing the episode where Shabri is offering ber (jujube) to Ram, while Laxman is sitting in close proximity. I have prepared the mould and will use it to make the idol of fibre. After painting and giving it a final shape, I will courier my work to the academy,” said Shanee. Nagina, who also has the experience of working as guest faculty at AU’s Fine Arts department, now works at Allahabad Museum. He is making his artwork on the episode of Ramayana where Laxman is unconscious and Hanuman has brought sanjivini booti to cure him. Dheeraj, who is also a former student of AU, completed his masters from Jamia Milia Islamia University last year, and now works as a freelance artist. “I am showing an emotional episode of Ramayana where Jatayu is injured after attempting to save Sita from the demon king Ravan. My artwork is made of fibre, and is almost complete,” said Dheeraj. It has been an honour for me and all other selected artists to be able to make artwork related to Lord Ram. Other artists working remotely to create idols for the event include Anil Prajapati (using fibre glass) of Nizamabad, Nupur Katiyar (using terracotta) and Shivangi Kanaujia (using terracotta) of Kanpur, Sant Kumar Chauhan (using fibre glass) and Sushil Gupta (using fibre glass) of Gorakhpur, Dhirendra Kumar (using terracotta), Rajesh Kumar (using fibre glass) and Jitendra Prajapari (using fibre glass) of Varanasi, Rajneesh Verma (using fibre glass) of Lakhimpur Kheri, Jai Kishore (using fibre glass) of Bulandshahr and Bhashkar Vishwakarma (using wood) of Mau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/30-artists-from-up-to-make-idols-based-on-ramayana-for-diwali-in-ayodhya/articleshow/78815044.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Business||SBI Card sees spike in default, 9% avail recast, spends dip 10%||Mumbai: In an indication of financial stress among individual borrowers, SBI Cards and Payment Services — State Bank of India’s credit card arm — said its gross non-performing assets (NPAs) rose to 4.3% as on September 30 compared to 2.3% a year ago. The company added that this figure would have been 7.5% had there not been a Supreme Court order that restrained declaring some Covid-related defaults as bad loans. While SBI Card’s stress is manageable, it is indicative of the distress in the self-employed segment of retail borrowers, where most defaults are seen. Around 84% of SBI Card’s customers are salaried, of which 38% work in the public sector and 24% in large corporates. Yet, 9% of its receivables of Rs 24,000 crore are under the RBI’s resolution plan, indicating that these borrowers are facing financial stress. The company’s shares fell about 5% after the Q2 results, which showed that its credit costs (amount set aside for defaults) rose to 14.2% from 5.6% in the previous year. The company’s scrip had been in the green on the back of festival sales. SBI Card posted a net profit of Rs 206 crore for the July-September quarter, down 46% from Rs 381 crore in the year-ago period, after it set aside Rs 862 crore for bad debts as against Rs 485 crore in the first quarter and Rs 385 crore a year earlier. This included an additional provision of Rs 268 crore over and above statutory requirement. The company has made additional provisions of Rs 758 crore since the pandemic. Card spends were expectedly down 10% at Rs 29,590 crore because of the lockdown, closure of malls and air-travel curbs. One reason for the NPA spike in this quarter is that default numbers for the first quarter were suppressed due to the standstill on repayments allowed by the RBI. In the second quarter, defaults rose as the moratorium ended and customers began experiencing stress on repayments. The bad loan numbers could go higher as currently there is a Supreme Court order stating that any account, which was not classified as NPA as of August 31, cannot be declared as an NPA until the next hearing or judgment as the case may be. The increase in the credit costs is on account of loans that have already turned bad as well as because of the additional provisions the company has made for anticipated defaults.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-card-sees-spike-in-default-9-avail-recast-spends-dip-10/articleshow/78818383.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||Biennial council polls: Voter turnout up despite Covid pandemic||Patna: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, large number of voters exercised their franchise in the biennial Bihar legislative council elections for eight graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies on Thursday. Elections to four teachers' constituencies saw turnout of 72.5% voters, 8.5% higher than 2014 MLC elections. In graduates' constituencies, the voter turnout was 48.5%. In Patna’s teachers’ constituency, 55.3% polling was recorded while 44.53% voters exercised their franchise in graduates’ constituency. The polling was held from 8am to 5pm at 261 stations in Patna, Nawada and Nalanda. Maximum 85% voting was recorded in Saran’s teachers’ constituency covering five districts – Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, East Champaran and West Champaran. As per the data provided by the chief electoral office, Bihar, 79.77% and 43.91% polling was recorded in Tirhut’s teachers’ and graduates’ constituencies, respectively, while 58.52% turnout of voters was recorded for graduates’ seat in Kosi constituency. In Darbhanga, the turnout of voters was 47.28% graduates’ constituency and 70.03% in teachers’ constituency. Additional chief electoral officer Baijunath Kumar Singh said the polling percentage in almost all constituencies saw slight increase when compared to the previous elections. “High voter turnout amid Covid pandemic is encouraging. Safety measures were taken at all the polling booths,” he said. Thousands of people came out of their homes to exercise their franchise in Patna. At the polling stations, masked voters stood in queue maintaining six-foot distance. Before being allowed to enter the polling stations, the voters were properly sanitised and their body temperatures checked. In all, fate of 102 candidates – 43 for teachers’ and 59 for graduates’ constituencies – was sealed in ballot boxes. Counting of votes will take place on November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/biennial-council-polls-voter-turnout-up-despite-covid-pandemic/articleshow/78817885.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 23, 2020||Business||Indian Bank Q2 consolidated net profit at Rs 412 crore||Chennai: Indian Bank Q2 consolidated net profit stood at Rs 412 crore, as against net loss of Rs 1,755 crore in the corresponding quarter last year, due to an increase of non-interest income by 29%, at Rs 1,611 crore. Non Interest income is fee, forex income, recovery of bad debts and treasury income. Net interest income rose by 32% in this quarter at Rs 4,144 crore on yearly basis, and grew by 7% on quarterly basis. MD and CEO of the bank, Padmaja Chunduru said “Recovery of bad debts improved to Rs 141 crore in September quarter, from Rs 24 crore in the June quarter, 2020.” As on March 31, 2020, the bank had recovered bad debts of Rs 466 crore. A mere 2% growth at Rs 3,65,896 crore was recorded in new loan advances for the September-ended quarter, as compared to the same quarter a year ago. This poor loan growth was driven primarily by growth in Retail at 2%, Agriculture at 7%, MSME at 5% and supplemented by Overseas advances at 6%. On the other hand, corporate loans portfolios contracted by 2%. And deposits grew by 7% on a year-on-year basis at Rs 5,01,956 crore as on September 30, 2020, and a mere 3% on Q-o-Q basis.Gross non-performing assets (or bad loans) have improved to Rs 36,197 crore in September, 2020, from Rs 39,965 crore in the previous quarter. Net NPA dropped at Rs 10,052 crore in September, 2020, from Rs 12,754 crore in the previous quarter.Lower provisioning was made for bad loans at Rs 2,583 crore in this quarter, as compared to Rs 3,890 crore set aside in the last year. The public sector bank’s total Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) as per Basel III guidelines was healthy at 13.6% in this quarter, as against the regulatory requirement of 10.9%. On a standalone basis, Indian Bank had reported net profit of Rs 359 crore during the second quarter of FY20. Amalgamation of Allahabad Bank into Indian Bank came into effect on April 1, 2020.Shares of Indian Bank closed 2.8% higher at Rs 62 apiece on BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-bank-q2-consolidated-net-profit-at-rs-412-crore/articleshow/78816163.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar, BJP netas slam Tej Pratap at Hasanpur||PATNA: Although CM Nitish Kumar and BJP brass accompanying him addressed five election rallies in the state in Siwan, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur on Thursday, it was their address at Hasanpur that took the cake as the RJD nominee here is former CM Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav. Tej, MLA from Mahua constituency in the neighbouring Vaishali district, changed his seat this time as the JD(U) has fielded Asma, daughter of the former RJD heavyweight Iliyas Hussain, in Mahua. Tej is pitted against two-time JD(U) MLA Raj Kumar Rai. “You all know who Daroga Prasad Rai was. He was the state’s CM. What has been done to his granddaughter? Now, he (Tej) has come to Hasanpur seeking your vote,” the CM said. Tej, had also been in news with regard to his crass statement on former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh who died recently. This also figured in the speech made by the JD(U) general secretary and water resources department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha. Jha also invoked the names from mythology of Sita and linked it with ‘stree shakti’ to corner Tej, besides pointing out that he had described the ban on TikTok by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre as “conspiracy”, since he used this platform. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad ridiculed Tej for his remark against Nitish that the latter had “become tired” and should now quit the post of the CM. “CM Nitish Kumar has been working 18 hours a day for the last 15 years. How can he be called a tired man?” Prasad asked. Earlier, they had addressed rallies at Daraunda in Siwan district, Paru and Minapur in Muzaffarpur district and Vibhutipur in Samastipur in favour of the NDA candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-bjp-netas-slam-tej-pratap-at-hasanpur/articleshow/78817563.cms||Abhay Singh
October 23, 2020||Patna||Biennial council polls: Voter turnout up in Bihar despite pandemic||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, large number of voters exercised their franchise in the biennial Bihar legislative council elections for eight graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies on Thursday. Elections to four teachers' constituencies saw turnout of 72.5% voters, 8.5% higher than 2014 MLC elections. In graduates' constituencies, the voter turnout was 48.5%. In Patna’s teachers’ constituency, 55.3% polling was recorded while 44.53% voters exercised their franchise in graduates’ constituency. The polling was held from 8am to 5pm at 261 stations in Patna, Nawada and Nalanda. Maximum 85% voting was recorded in Saran’s teachers’ constituency covering five districts – Saran, Siwan, Gopalganj, East Champaran and West Champaran. As per the data provided by the chief electoral office, Bihar, 79.77% and 43.91% polling was recorded in Tirhut’s teachers’ and graduates’ constituencies, respectively, while 58.52% turnout of voters was recorded for graduates’ seat in Kosi constituency. In Darbhanga, the turnout of voters was 47.28% graduates’ constituency and 70.03% in teachers’ constituency. Additional chief electoral officer Baijunath Kumar Singh said the polling percentage in almost all constituencies saw slight increase when compared to the previous elections. “High voter turnout amid Covid pandemic is encouraging. Safety measures were taken at all the polling booths,” he said. Thousands of people came out of their homes to exercise their franchise in Patna. At the polling stations, masked voters stood in queue maintaining six-foot distance. Before being allowed to enter the polling stations, the voters were properly sanitised and their body temperatures checked. In all, fate of 102 candidates – 43 for teachers’ and 59 for graduates’ constituencies – was sealed in ballot boxes. Counting of votes will take place on November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/biennial-council-polls-voter-turnout-up-despite-pandemic/articleshow/78818002.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 23, 2020||Goa||Excellent results of plasma therapy and Remdesivir combo, Goa to tell ICMR||PANAJI: The Goa government will intimate the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) about the “excellent results” it has seen in Covid-19 patients who were given the convalescent plasma therapy. Recently, the apex body in the country for formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research, had indicated that therapy may be removed from the national treatment protocol for Covid-19. “We will inform ICMR that our preliminary result of plasma therapy in combination with Remdesivir in Covid patients having diabetes has been very promising. We would like to continue with the treatment regimen,” GMC dean and in-charge of the state’s Covid hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar said. More than 450 patients have been given plasma therapy so far and 90% of them benefited from it, Bandekar said. Among the prominent persons who received the therapy and recovered are Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar and director health services Jose D’Sa. Two months ago, after the Covid mortality count rose, the state government started a drive to promote plasma therapy. Initially, very few donors came forward to donate plasma, but the drive picked up after the state declared incentives for donors, like free medical check-ups and treatment for one year. Bandekar said that they saw little or no results of convalescent plasma therapy among patients who came late for medical help. The therapy has to be administered within the first three days of the patient showing symptoms of the virus for better results, he said. Recently, the GMC also acquired a second apheresis machine — a device that receives blood removed from a donor’s body and separates it into its various components such as plasma and platelets. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared that as per study Remdesivir, the antiviral drug, did not reduce Covid deaths. About 80% of the severely ill Covid patients in GMC were treated with Remdesivir. Until last week there were 1,431 admissions in GMC and 291 deaths. The GMC dean said that the combination of plasma and Remdesivir have shown positive results. Till date, Goa has reported 565 Covid-related deaths with the majority seen having comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/excellent-results-of-plasma-therapy-and-remdesivir-combo-goa-to-tell-icmr/articleshow/78818343.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 23, 2020||---||Kin of B P Mandal, Sharad Yadav in Bihar poll fray||PATNA: In the last three decades since the then V P Singh government implemented one of the many recommendations of the Mandal Commission providing 27% quota to the other backward classes (OBCs), the politics in Madhepura district – known as the ‘Vatican City of Yadavs’ - has seen a lot of changes. Nikhil Mandal, the grandson of B P Mandal who headed the Mandal Commission, and Subhashini Yadav, daughter of Mandal agitation protagonist Sharad Yadav, are contesting the current assembly polls from two different constituencies in Madhepura district, which saw a strong agitation in early 1990s in support of implementation of the commission’s recommendation. Riding on the wave of Mandal agitation, Sharad won the Lok Sabha election for the first time from Madhepura in 1991. He again won the seat in 1996 general election, but lost to RJD boss Lalu Prasad in 1998. Sharad later won two more Lok Sabha elections from Madhepura seat. B P Mandal himself represented Madhepura in the Lok Sabha thrice by winning elections in 1967, 1968 and 1977. Now his grandson Nikhil is contesting the current assembly polls from Madhepura assembly seat for the first time as the JD(U) candidate. Nikhil’s father and senior Mandal’s son Manindra Kumar Mandal represented the Madhepura seat in the assembly from 2005 to 2010 as an JD(U) MLA. Similarly, Sharad’s daughter Subhashini is contesting from Bihariganj seat in Madhepura district on a Congress ticket. She also is contesting assembly polls for the first time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/kin-of-b-p-mandal-sharad-yadav-in-poll-fray/articleshow/78817594.cms||Madan Kumar
October 23, 2020||Patna||Kin of B P Mandal, Sharad Yadav in Bihar poll fray||PATNA: In the last three decades since the then V P Singh government implemented one of the many recommendations of the Mandal Commission providing 27% quota to the other backward classes (OBCs), the politics in Madhepura district – known as the ‘Vatican City of Yadavs’ - has seen a lot of changes. Nikhil Mandal, the grandson of B P Mandal who headed the Mandal Commission, and Subhashini Yadav, daughter of Mandal agitation protagonist Sharad Yadav, are contesting the current assembly polls from two different constituencies in Madhepura district, which saw a strong agitation in early 1990s in support of implementation of the commission’s recommendation. Riding on the wave of Mandal agitation, Sharad won the Lok Sabha election for the first time from Madhepura in 1991. He again won the seat in 1996 general election, but lost to RJD boss Lalu Prasad in 1998. Sharad later won two more Lok Sabha elections from Madhepura seat. B P Mandal himself represented Madhepura in the Lok Sabha thrice by winning elections in 1967, 1968 and 1977. Now his grandson Nikhil is contesting the current assembly polls from Madhepura assembly seat for the first time as the JD(U) candidate. Nikhil’s father and senior Mandal’s son Manindra Kumar Mandal represented the Madhepura seat in the assembly from 2005 to 2010 as an JD(U) MLA. Similarly, Sharad’s daughter Subhashini is contesting from Bihariganj seat in Madhepura district on a Congress ticket. She also is contesting assembly polls for the first time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kin-of-b-p-mandal-sharad-yadav-in-poll-fray/articleshow/78820784.cms||Madan Kumar
October 23, 2020||---||Security tightened for PM’s three rallies in Bihar today||SASARAM/GAYA/BHAGALPUR: Tight security arrangements have been made for PM Narandra Modi’s election rallies at Gaya, Sasaram and Bhagalpur on Friday. It will be perhaps the first physical rally of the PM in the country since the enforcement of Covid-induced lockdown on March 23. A senior official at Sasaram said all candidates of ruling NDA, in whose favour Modi will campaign, will be required to undergo compulsory Covid test before sharing the dais with the PM. At least three star campaigners of Bihar BJP have contracted Covid during electioneering in the past few days. At Sasaram, A K Ambedkar, an ADG-rank officer, has been deputed to monitor the security arrangements for the PM’s rally. Dehri-on-Sone SDPO Sanjay Kumar said the administration has permitted gathering of 17,500 people at the Sasaram rally. BJP’s media-in-charge Raghewandra Kumar said the party had requested the administration to allow gathering of 50,000 people. “The administration agreed for only 17,500 people citing security reasons and size of the field,” he said. At Gaya, SPG commandos, CRPF, SSB and the district armed police (DAP) jawans have taken command of the security arrangements in and around Gandhi Maidan, where the PM will address the public meeting. Entry of common people in Gandhi Maidan was banned from Thursday. Magadh range IG Rakesh Rathi said all necessary security arrangements were in place as per the protocol. At each of the seven gates, watch tower has been made and people will have to undergo security check through door-frame metal detector. Altogether 10,000 chairs have been arranged in the pandal with six-foot distance between the two. At Bhagalpur, the airport ground, venue for the rally, was completely sanitized on Thursday. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar and SSP Ashish Bharti took stock of the security arrangements. Senior officials from the Special Protection Group (SPG), anti- terror squad (ATS) and intelligence wing have also arrived at Bhagalpur. The sprawling pandal for PM’s rally has 7,000 chairs and political leaders sharing the dais with the PM have undergone RT-PCR test for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/security-tightened-for-pms-three-rallies-today/articleshow/78817806.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 23, 2020||Patna||Security tightened for PM’s three rallies in Bihar today||SASARAM/GAYA/BHAGALPUR: Tight security arrangements have been made for PM Narandra Modi’s election rallies at Gaya, Sasaram and Bhagalpur on Friday. It will be perhaps the first physical rally of the PM in the country since the enforcement of Covid-induced lockdown on March 23. A senior official at Sasaram said all candidates of ruling NDA, in whose favour Modi will campaign, will be required to undergo compulsory Covid test before sharing the dais with the PM. At least three star campaigners of Bihar BJP have contracted Covid during electioneering in the past few days. At Sasaram, A K Ambedkar, an ADG-rank officer, has been deputed to monitor the security arrangements for the PM’s rally. Dehri-on-Sone SDPO Sanjay Kumar said the administration has permitted gathering of 17,500 people at the Sasaram rally. BJP’s media-in-charge Raghewandra Kumar said the party had requested the administration to allow gathering of 50,000 people. “The administration agreed for only 17,500 people citing security reasons and size of the field,” he said. At Gaya, SPG commandos, CRPF, SSB and the district armed police (DAP) jawans have taken command of the security arrangements in and around Gandhi Maidan, where the PM will address the public meeting. Entry of common people in Gandhi Maidan was banned from Thursday. Magadh range IG Rakesh Rathi said all necessary security arrangements were in place as per the protocol. At each of the seven gates, watch tower has been made and people will have to undergo security check through door-frame metal detector. Altogether 10,000 chairs have been arranged in the pandal with six-foot distance between the two. At Bhagalpur, the airport ground, venue for the rally, was completely sanitized on Thursday. Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar and SSP Ashish Bharti took stock of the security arrangements. Senior officials from the Special Protection Group (SPG), anti- terror squad (ATS) and intelligence wing have also arrived at Bhagalpur. The sprawling pandal for PM’s rally has 7,000 chairs and political leaders sharing the dais with the PM have undergone RT-PCR test for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/security-tightened-for-pms-three-rallies-today/articleshow/78820765.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 23, 2020||---||With LJP’s entry, Dinara likely to witness triangular contest||PATNA: Battlelines have been drawn for the contestants of Dinara assembly constituency in Rohtas district. While majority of the people there are of the opinion that there will be a direct fight between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, LJP candidate Rajendra Singh’s entry has made the contest triangular. Two-time MLA and minister in Nitish cabinet, Jai Kumar Singh, is pitted against Vijay Kumar Mandal of RJD. The seat went to JD(U) in the seat-sharing formula this time. In 2015 assembly polls, Rajendra Singh had contested on a BJP ticket when JD(U) was part of the RJD-Congress combine. Rajendra had lost the previous election by a margin of 2,691 votes only. A devout RSS cadre, Rajendra, was expelled from BJP for his anti-party activities after he filed nomination papers from LJP symbol. LJP led by Chirag Paswan is no longer an ally of NDA comprising JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. “The upcoming election will be a test for CM Nitish Kumar, who has fielded his cabinet colleague Jai Kumar Singh, for the third time. Jai is facing a tough challenge from his political rivals, especially from LJP’s Rajendra Singh, who not only belongs to his caste but also worked relentlessly for five years after biting the dust,” said a resident of Dinara Bazar Dharmendra Singh, . Former union minister Upenddra Kushwaha-led RLSP has fielded Rajesh Kushwaha from the seat. RLSP entered into an alliance with the BSP and fielded its candidate considering the fact that Dalits have a major chunk of votes in the constituency, which has suddenly hogged the limelight. Rajputs and Yadavs also have considerable presence in the constituency followed by Dalits (Ravidas), Muslims and Brahmins. “It was because of Dalit voters’ polarisation that Sita Sundari Devi of Mayawati-led BSP won the seat in November 2005 election. She had defeated Ramdhani Singh, who had earlier represented in 1990, 1995, 2000 and also in February 2005,” said Bimla Devi, a BSP supporter. JD(U) nominee Jai Kumar Singh is a little worried after rumours spread fast that RSS and BJP workers were helping Rajendra Singh, who had been associated with the saffron party for the last 37 years. He was the organisational secretary of Jharkhand before he contested the 2015 assembly polls from Dinara. “BJP local unit invited me to a meeting, which was also attended by senior leaders of the party. They assured to cooperate with me for being a NDA candidate in the election,” the JD(U) nominee said. Raman Kumar Singh, a resident of Amuwa village, however, said that LJP candidate may play spoilsport for Jai Singh and the latter may not be able to make his hat-trick. Jai had emerged victorious in 2010 and 2015 assembly polls. CHART: Constituency- Dinara District- Rohtas Total voters: 2.98 lakh Male voters: 1.56 lakh Female voters: 1.40 lakh Transgender: 5 Sitting MLA- Jai Kumar Singh (JDU)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/with-ljps-entry-dinara-likely-to-witness-triangular-contest/articleshow/78815463.cms||Ramashankar
October 23, 2020||Patna||With LJP’s entry, Dinara likely to witness triangular contest||PATNA: Battlelines have been drawn for the contestants of Dinara assembly constituency in Rohtas district. While majority of the people there are of the opinion that there will be a direct fight between the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan, LJP candidate Rajendra Singh’s entry has made the contest triangular. Two-time MLA and minister in Nitish cabinet, Jai Kumar Singh, is pitted against Vijay Kumar Mandal of RJD. The seat went to JD(U) in the seat-sharing formula this time. In 2015 assembly polls, Rajendra Singh had contested on a BJP ticket when JD(U) was part of the RJD-Congress combine. Rajendra had lost the previous election by a margin of 2,691 votes only. A devout RSS cadre, Rajendra, was expelled from BJP for his anti-party activities after he filed nomination papers from LJP symbol. LJP led by Chirag Paswan is no longer an ally of NDA comprising JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. “The upcoming election will be a test for CM Nitish Kumar, who has fielded his cabinet colleague Jai Kumar Singh, for the third time. Jai is facing a tough challenge from his political rivals, especially from LJP’s Rajendra Singh, who not only belongs to his caste but also worked relentlessly for five years after biting the dust,” said a resident of Dinara Bazar Dharmendra Singh, . Former union minister Upenddra Kushwaha-led RLSP has fielded Rajesh Kushwaha from the seat. RLSP entered into an alliance with the BSP and fielded its candidate considering the fact that Dalits have a major chunk of votes in the constituency, which has suddenly hogged the limelight. Rajputs and Yadavs also have considerable presence in the constituency followed by Dalits (Ravidas), Muslims and Brahmins. “It was because of Dalit voters’ polarisation that Sita Sundari Devi of Mayawati-led BSP won the seat in November 2005 election. She had defeated Ramdhani Singh, who had earlier represented in 1990, 1995, 2000 and also in February 2005,” said Bimla Devi, a BSP supporter. JD(U) nominee Jai Kumar Singh is a little worried after rumours spread fast that RSS and BJP workers were helping Rajendra Singh, who had been associated with the saffron party for the last 37 years. He was the organisational secretary of Jharkhand before he contested the 2015 assembly polls from Dinara. “BJP local unit invited me to a meeting, which was also attended by senior leaders of the party. They assured to cooperate with me for being a NDA candidate in the election,” the JD(U) nominee said. Raman Kumar Singh, a resident of Amuwa village, however, said that LJP candidate may play spoilsport for Jai Singh and the latter may not be able to make his hat-trick. Jai had emerged victorious in 2010 and 2015 assembly polls. CHART: Constituency- Dinara District- Rohtas Total voters: 2.98 lakh Male voters: 1.56 lakh Female voters: 1.40 lakh Transgender: 5 Sitting MLA- Jai Kumar Singh (JDU)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/with-ljps-entry-dinara-likely-to-witness-triangular-contest/articleshow/78820838.cms||Ramashankar
October 23, 2020||Patna||All 7 Rohtas seats to see tough fight||PATNA: Altogether seven assembly constituencies in Rohtas district are set to witness a keen contest in the assembly polls scheduled to be held in the first phase on October 28. The blanket ban on mining on Kaimur hills in the district is likely to impact prospects of the ruling NDA in the election. In all, there are 116 contestants in the fray in the seven constituencies. While JD(U) is contesting five seats, BJP has fielded its candidates on two seats. On the other hand, RJD has fielded four candidates, Congress is fighting on three and one seat has gone to CPI-ML (Liberation). Sasaram: The Sasaram assembly constituency is set to witness a triangular contest. There are 20 contestants in the fray. Sitting MLA Ashok Kumar, who had earlier won twice on RJD ticket, is fighting on JD(U) symbol this time. He is pitted against Rajesh Gupta of RJD. BJP rebel and former MLA Ram Naresh Chaurasia is contesting on LJP ticket, making the fight triangular. Karakat: There are 13 candidates in the fray in Karakat. Rajeshwar Raj of BJP is locked in a tight contest with CPI-ML (Liberation)’s Arun Kumar and Malti Singh of RLSP. In 2010, Rajeshwar Raj won on a JD(U) ticket after defeating Arun Kumar of CPI-ML (Liberation). Later he switched over to BJP. In 2015, Rajeshwar Raj, however, lost to Sanjay Kumar Singh of RJD. The sitting RJD MLA, Sanjay, has been denied ticket as the seat went to CPI-ML (Liberation). Dehri: There are 14 candidates in the fray in Dehri. Sitting BJP MLA Satya Narain Singh is pitted against Fateh Bahadur Singh of RJD. In 2015, RJD’s Md Illiyas Hussain had emerged victorious. The seat fell vacant after Hussain was convicted in a bitumen scam case. In the 2019 by-election, Satya Narain defeated Rinku Soni of BJP. The sitting MLA is facing a stiff challenge from his rival Fateh Bahadur, who is trying his luck for the first time on a RJD ticket. Nokha: Altogether 15 contestants are in the fray in Nokha assembly constituency. JD(U) has fielded Nagendra Chandrawanshi, who is pitted against RJD MLA and former minister Anita Devi. Anita was tourism minister for 18 months during the Grand Alliance government. LJP has fielded Dr Krishna Kabir to make the contest triangular. Chenari: There are 19 candidates in the fray in Chenari. RLSP sitting MLA Lalan Paswan switched sides and joined JD(U), which allotted party symbol to Paswan. In 2009, Paswan had abandoned JD(U) and contested the parliamentary polls on RJD ticket. However, he later joined JD(U). He is pitted against Murari Prasad of Congress. LJP has fielded Chandra Shekhar Paswan from Chenari. Kargahar: Altogether 20 contestants are in the fray in Kargahar, which came into existence after delimitation in 2010. Sitting JD(U) MLA Vashishth Singh is locked in a direct contest with Santosh Mishra of Congress. However, LJP’s Rakesh Kumar Singh alias Gabru Singh is trying to make the contest triangular. BSP candidate Uday Pratap Singh is leaving no stone unturned to make it a multi-corner contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-7-rohtas-seats-to-see-tough-fight/articleshow/78820812.cms||Ramashankar
October 23, 2020||Business||September quarter sees record 50 million phones getting shipped||CHENNAI: The Covid-induced lockdown and online classes for children encouraged Indians to buy more smartphones, pushing shipments to 50 million units in the July-September quarter this year — the highest ever. In terms of year-on-year growth too, the 8% expansion has made it the second-best quarter ever. Shipments had seen a 14.4% growth in July-September 2019, the strongest in quarterly terms. “That was an all-time record for smartphone shipments in a single quarter in India,” said analysts at Canalys, a firm that tracks phone shipments. Xiaomi remained the market leader, growing 9% to ship 13.1 million units. Samsung regained second place from Vivo, with 10.2 million units, up 7%. Samsung’s aggressive product portfolio and pricing strategy in the low-end paid off. Vivo stood third, growing 19% to ship 8.8 million smartphones, while Realme breathed down its neck with 8.7 million units shipped. Oppo completed the top five, shipping 6.1 million units.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Most of the sales were through online channels. “Smartphone vendors are definitely bullish,” said Canalys analyst Adwait Mardikar. The notable gainer in the quarter was Apple, which unseated OnePlus at the sixth slot. Apple regained momentum with double-digit growth to nearly 0.8 million units. “Apple is finally paying attention to India,” said Canalys Research director Rushabh Doshi. Xiaomi India MD Manu Kumar Jain said, “The demand is driven not just by e-learning and work-from-home environments but also due to the need to stay digitally connected. We resumed our sales across all channels once the lockdown relaxations were implemented and witnessed a lot of pent-up demand in June 2020. There is a significant demand for the less than Rs 12k products driven by new consumer segments emerging during the pandemic.” With little options, Chinese brands continued their march in Indian market. “Ongoing tension between India and China has been a hot topic in the past few months. But we have yet to see a significant impact on purchase decisions of mass market customers,” said the Canalys note. Collectively, Chinese vendors comprised 76% of total smartphone shipments this quarter, up from 74% a year ago. “However, the tensions have caused Chinese smartphone brands to act more conservatively in recent months, reducing their marketing spend, and carefully trying to project the image that they are important contributors to, and stakeholders in, the economic future of India.” Xiaomi’s Jain said, “During the festive season last year, we sold over 12 million units in the market, out of which more than 8 million were smartphones. We are looking forward to a similar or even a better response this year.” The lockdown forced most of working India to stay at home and refrain from big-ticket spending on travel, food and beverages, increasing the overall disposable income. On the other hand, unemployment has risen, impacting the lowest rungs of society most, and affecting the long-term outlook of India’s smartphone market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/september-quarter-sees-record-50m-phones-getting-shipped/articleshow/78816003.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Woman files FIR after husband sends intimate videos to others||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old woman from Sector 3 in Gandhinagar, on Wednesday filed a complaint against her husband at Sector 7 police station, alleging that he had defamed her by sending videos of them to her relatives. The complainant, a deputy mamlatdar, stated that she married with the accused, Sapnaswaroop Kharadi, 33, a resident of Arvalli, in May 2018, after they came in touch though social media. She said her husband works for a private firm whereas she is a government employee, which gave him a complex, and he is harassing her because of it. She said he often demands money from her. When she refused, he threatened her. To take revenge on his wife after she stopped giving him money, Kharadi, who had shot videos of their intimate moments earlier, threatened to malign her. As she did not heed the threat, he allegedly sent the videos, which he had shot on his mobile phone without her knowledge, to her friends and relatives last week. When one of her friends told her about her videos doing the rounds on social media, she asked her husband about it. He told her that he had not only sent the videos to her friends and relatives, but also to others, to malign her. During the police investigation of the case, it also emerged that he had made CDs of their intimate moments and sold them to several people. Sector 7 police registered a complaint against Kharadi and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-fir-after-husband-sends-intimate-videos-to-others/articleshow/78815946.cms||---
October 23, 2020||---||I-T raid at Congress office in Patna, Rahul Gandhi’s helicopter denied nod for landing||PATNA: In a double whammy for Congress, its state headquarters in Patna was raided by the income-tax department while former party chief Rahul Gandhi, who was scheduled to address three rallies in Bihar on Friday, was denied permission by the authorities to land his chopper in Purnea, the venue of his third rally. Rahul will now address two rallies, one each at Hisua in Nawada district and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur on Friday. He will be with the Mahagathbandhan CM face and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at Hisua. The third rally in Purnia district had to be cancelled owing to denial of permission to land the chopper there, citing construction issues. “The Airport Authority of India has cited some construction issues, but in reality, this is politically motivated,” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, adding Rahul will address two to three rallies in the second and third phase. Asked about the I-T raid at their office and money seized from a vehicle, Mishra said, “It could be anyone’s vehicle standing outside the campus. We have got the notice and our lawyer is handling it. We have been given time till October 26 to reply and we will do that.” As per media reports, around Rs eight lakh was seized from a vehicle outside Sadaqat Ashram, where the Congress state headquarters is located, after which I-T officials raided the office. Congress state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil lashed out at NDA and called it a political vendetta. Gohil said the money seized was from outside the campus. He further said a huge amount of gold was seized from BJP’s Raxaul candidate’s brother. “Why was BJP office not raided?” said Gohil. Sources said after the money was seized, IT officials raided the Congress office and questioned a few workers. This raid continued for nearly an hour. However, JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan denied any politics behind the denial of permission to land a chopper or raid at the Congress office. “Congress during its era used to keep judiciary, legislature and executive in their pockets and they are thinking others are like them. This is their excuse as they know they are going to lose this election,” said Ranjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/i-t-raid-at-congress-office-rahuls-helicopter-denied-nod-for-landing/articleshow/78817854.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad:218 liquor bottles dumped in school||AHMEDABAD: Unidentified bootleggers whose numbers also could not be ascertained allegedly dumped 218 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in a municipal school in Saraspur locality on Wednesday. According to an FIR, a school teacher, Tanveeruddin Shaikh (57), a resident of Juhapua, called up police control room and informed that liquor bottles had been dumped near the washroom inside the compound of Saraspur Urdu Shala number-3 on Wednesday afternoon. A team of Shaherkotda police station reached the school and found that 40 IMFL bottles each weighing 750 ml and 178 IMFL bottles each weighing 180 ml worth Rs 49,000 had been dumped at the mentioned site. The police team seized the bottles and began checking the footages of the CCTVs in the school and around the area to know on who could have come into the school to store the liquor bottles. Shaherkotda police booked unknown bootleggers under the charges of Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/218-liquor-bottles-dumped-in-school/articleshow/78815934.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Organizers plan early immersion in year of curbs||KOLKATA: Unlike the last few years when nearly all big pujas immersed their idols on Trayodashi or Chaturdashi, this year, most will do so on Dashami or Ekadashi. While the immersions would anyway be earlier than usual this year, following the cancellation of the carnival on Red Road, organizers have decided to wind things up early since there is a dearth of enthusiasm among pandal-hoppers after the Calcutta High Court order that led to the closure of public access to several big-ticket pujas. “Given the Covid situation and the restrictions to avert a spike in infection, the spirit of Durga Puja is missing this year. Had the guidelines been issued earlier, many organizers would have done the pandals and idols differently so that they could be viewed from a reasonable distance. But now that it is primarily a private affair involving organizers and a few locals, the general consensus is to do the immersion early,” said Bosepukur Sitala Mandir general secretary Kajal Sarkar, who is also president of the Forum for Durgotsav that has around 353 members. Another factor that has led to the decision is expenditure. “Each additional day costs a committee Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 since pujas must be performed till immersion. That means paying more to priests, dhakis and security guards apart from electricity charges. “We would have gone for the immersion on Dashami, but decided to wait till Ekadashi morning to avoid crowds at the ghat,” said Partho Ghosh of Sib Mandir, adding that the feeling among committee members is to conclude the rituals at the earliest. Alerted about the rush on Dashami and Ekadashi, Kolkata Municipal Corporation said it had made necessary arrangements at all major immersion ghats along the Hooghly, including Bajekadamtola (Babughat), Judges Ghat and Nimtolla Ghat, where more than 50% of the city’s idols — nearly 2,000 —are immersed. With idols smaller this time, KMC parks department is also organizing immersion at major ponds, in places like Patuli, Layelka, Ranidighi and Anandapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/organizers-plan-early-immersion-in-year-of-curbs/articleshow/78816045.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||Depression, on Amphan route, to bring rain in Kolkata today||KOLKATA: The city could be lashed by spells of heavy shower on Saptami under the impact of a deep depression that will hit the Bengal-Bangladesh coast on October 23 afternoon, moving along the same route that had been taken by cyclone Amphan. The rain could be accompanied by winds at a speed of 30km/hr-40km/hr with occasional gusts of up to 50km/hr, said the Met office. Along with Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia could receive light to moderate showers while East Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas are likely to receive heavy rain on Friday. A bulletin issued by the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Alipore, said that Wednesday’s “well-marked low pressure area over west-central Bay of Bengal has concentrated into a depression over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and lay centred about 180km south-southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 350km south-southeast of Sagar Islands and 490km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh)”. It is set to intensify further into a deep depression in next 24 hours and move north-northeastwards and cross Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh coasts as a deep depression between Sagar islands and Khepupara by October 23 afternoon. This is the same region that was hit by cyclone Amphan on May 20 and wreaked havoc across south Bengal, including Kolkata. But the impact of Friday’s deep depression is likely to be a much lesser one, said weathermen. “Even though it will hit the same coastal areas, the system will steadily lose strength as it moves over land in a northeast direction towards Bangladesh. Depending on the time of its landfall — which is likely to be Friday afternoon — it could be nearest to Kolkata early in the evening. We expect the showers in the city to intensify around that time and then gradually taper off. But the rain will continue till the first half of Saturday,” said RMC director G K Das. One or two places in Kolkata, Howrah, Nadia and Hoogly could receive 70mm-110mm rain on Friday, it has been predicted. This could lead to waterlogging in some parts of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation area, warned the RMC. KMC has already alerted the executive engineers of all major drainage pumping stations to get ready for a heavy downpour. Leaves of KMC sewerage & drainage department offi-cials and workers have been cancelled. "We are keeping a vigil over functioning of our drainage pumping stations. We need to keep all heavy-duty pumps functional to flush out storm water in case of heavy rain. We will be keeping focus on low-laying areas where there is no underground drainage system. We will be pressing into service portable pumps to flush out storm water from these areas,” said a KMC drainage department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/depression-on-amphan-route-to-bring-rain-today/articleshow/78815904.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: CM’s flying squad raids illegal lubricant oil unit in Karnal||KARNAL: A team of the chief minister’s flying squad in collaboration with the industries department on Thursday raided an illegal lubricant oil manufacturing unit located on Meerut road near Nagla chowk in Karnal. The teams seized several types of oil including, black oil, base oil, shuttering oil, transformer oil, lubricant oil, and fuel oil in large quantity from the factory. Sub-inspector Shishpal Singh of the CM flying squad said they received a tip-off about the unit allegedly being involved in the manufacturing of fake lubricant oil.  Subsequently, a team was constituted which found that manufacturing was being done without any licence or permission. However, Anil Gulati, the owner of the unit, claimed that they have already applied for the licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cms-flying-squad-raids-illegal-lubricant-oil-unit-in-karnal/articleshow/78818036.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||Upkeep of parks, playgrounds statutory obligation of govt: HC||Prayagraj: Expressing concern over the condition of parks, playgrounds and open spaces in the state, the Allahabad high court has observed that their maintenance is a statutory obligation of the government. “The same have to be maintained without any encroachment and without the presence of any unauthorized persons therein and in clean and proper manner. Penal provisions are available in statute and also provisions for enforcement of various duties in respect of parks, playgrounds and open spaces, etc.,” the court added. Disposing of a writ petition filed by Ram Bhajan Singh of Ghaziabad seeking removal of encroachment from a park, a division bench comprising Justice Abhinava Upadhay and Justice Prakash Padia directed that a copy of this judgment be forwarded to the chief secretary of UP, Lucknow so that he may issue necessary directions in this regard across the state to all concerned authorities. The court directed that a compliance report shall be submitted within three months to this court by way of filing an affidavit. Elaborating the constitutional aspect, the court further said, “Under Article 48A of the Constitution, the state is obliged to endeavour, protect and improve the environment of the country. Right to live is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution and it includes the right of enjoyment of pollution free water and air for full enjoyment of life.” Coming down heavily on the development authorities for neglecting this basic duty, the court observed, “The underlying idea behind the constitution of the Development Authorities were to accelerate the pace of development and make the town in the state as attractive as possible. It is unfortunate that they sat tight over the development of the parks and remained absolutely inactive for years.” The present writ petition was filed challenging the action of the state authorities for conversion of public park, situated in front of the house of the petitioner at Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad into public parking area, which according to the petitioner is totally illegal and not permissible under the law. As per the direction of the court, the district magistrate, Ghaziabad, submitted that the status of the park in question has not been changed nor the public park is going to be converted into a parking area. The court passed this order on October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/upkeep-of-parks-playgrounds-statutory-obligation-of-govt-hc/articleshow/78815126.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 23, 2020||Nashik||2 govt hospitals help 2 dists drop Covid-19 hotspot tag||Nashik: The two government medical college hospitals (GMCHs) in north Maharashtra have played a pivotal role in treating and curing Covid-19 patients over the past seven months.The Dhule-based Shree Bhausaheb Hire GMCH and the Jalgaon GMCH have both been treating Covid-19 patients not only from their own districts but also from talukas in neighbouring districts.Officials acknowledged the good work done by these two GMCHs in providing treatment to Covid patients and helping improve the recovery and fatality rates in Dhule and Jalgaon — two districts that were considered Covid hotspot in the May-June period.Pallavi Sable, the dean of Dhule GMCH, and her counterpart at the Jalgaon GMCH Jaiprakash Ramanand told TOI that although the task was challenging, the doctors, nurses and other health workers at the hospitals rose to the occasion.While Sable took charge towards the end of May, Ramanand was appointed dean in mid-June. It is thought that the state government brought in Sable and Ramanand to improve things at the two GMCHs.Initially, when the Covid infection had started spreading, the GMCHs were the only hospitals in these two districts that handled the bulk of the patients. Most private medical facilities were reluctant to treat Covid patients. There were no Covid treatment facilities in the rural areas of the districts.Moreover, unlike other medical college hospitals, these two GMCHs do not have junior doctors to treat Covid patients as there is no postgraduate course in these medical colleges.“When I joined, there were only 15 ICU beds to treat Covid patients. But our GMCH has 100 beds to treat critical patients. Even during the Covid pandemic, we continued to treat non-Covid patients. The senior faculty members from departments like anatomy treated the non-Covid patients. This team-work helped turn around things here,” said Sable.According to her, the Dhule GMCH also handled a large number of samples for tests as the first RT-PCR lab was set up there.The issues for Ramanand were more serious as the perception about the Jalgaon GMCH was extremely poor when he took charge. He was brought in as the dean after the recovery of the body of an elderly Covid patient from a toilet in the hospital ward. There were allegations that Covid patients were not looked after well in the hospital.“The Jalgaon GMCH was set up in 2018 and there was a manpower crunch. But I made it clear to all doctors, nurses and health workers that they have to put in their best efforts. The efforts have paid off,” added Ramanand.Ramanand increased the number of Covid beds from 200 to 356 and the ICU beds from 10 to 81. With the guidance of district administration, he introduced the concept of bed attendants where volunteers were roped in to feed and look after critical Covid patients.Recently, Jalgaon district guardian minister Gulabrao Patil honoured Ramanand for his work in turning around the Jalgaon GMCH for the better and treating Covid-19 patients in a professional manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-govt-hospitals-help-2-dists-drop-covid-19-hotspot-tag/articleshow/78816453.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 23, 2020||Patna||BJP promises free Covid vaccine in Bihar poll manifesto, kicks up row||PATNA: BJP on Thursday sparked a nationwide row with its poll promise of providing “free Covid vaccine for all” in its manifesto released on Thursday by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Patna. The document also promises 19 lakh jobs in an apparent bid to counter the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s poll promise of 10 lakh government jobs. The free vaccine promise is the first of the 11 resolutions in the manifesto. Sitharaman assured that the vaccination drive would cover every person in Bihar after the vaccine, which is being developed, is made available after completing the testing protocols. “We are heading towards the production of vaccines in sufficient quantities. The production will be such that we will be able to give free vaccines to all,” she said. The BJP’s Covid vaccine poll promise drew sharp responses from the opposition, which slammed the BJP for including free vaccination in its poll manifesto when vaccination ought to be free under the epidemic Act and accused the saffron party of playing “vaccine politics”. “Vaccine for coronavirus belongs to the country, and not BJP. The political use of this vaccine shows they have no other option than selling fear of death and diseases,” read a tweet posted by RJD’s official handle. “We have requested the Election Commission to take notice of such promises. BJP is trying to sign a poll deal using the vaccine,” said RJD spokesman Chiitaranjan Gagan. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala also lashed out at the BJP for turning Coronavirus vaccine into a “political gimmick”. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that a vaccine is not possible before a year. BJP in a way is deriding people,” he said. However, JD(U) defended the inclusion of the anti-Covid-19 vaccination in its manifesto. “Health is a state subject. If the NDA government is formed, it will either distribute vaccines among people, whatever the cost, or conduct a mass vaccination drive. I will not be able to say who is doing politics on it, but free vaccination will be for the good of the people,” state JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Earlier, while releasing the manifesto, Sitharaman appealed to the people of Bihar to help NDA form the government with Nitish Kumar as CM to transform Bihar. “I appeal to you all to vote for the NDA, give victory to NDA, and Nitish Kumar will be the state’s CM. Bihar will be transformed into a developed state and become an engine of growth that will also push the country’s growth story further by launching second-generation development activities in the IT sector and promoting fishery and dairy sectors,” Sitharaman said. Sitharaman said the second-generation IT hubs would be created in the state at Rajgir and Patna —IT Park, IT Tower, Software Park and Hardware Manufacturing Park — with a potential to create job opportunities for 5 lakh youths. Sitharaman also praised the manifesto for maintaining that the education in engineering, medical and technical institutions would be provided in Hindi while promoting the micro-financing activities in the state. Among those who accompanied Sitharaman during the release of the manifesto included Union ministers Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Raj Kumar Singh and Nityanand Rai, as well as the party’s brass, including national general secretary Bhupender Yadav, party’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh and road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav. Agriculture minister Prem Kumar, who chaired the manifesto committee, said suggestions from six lakh people were received during the manifesto-preparation exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-promises-free-covid-vaccine-in-bihar-poll-manifesto-kicks-up-row/articleshow/78818066.cms||Abhay Singh
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water drained from cellars floods new areas, ensues spats||HYDERABAD: The rush of residents trying to pump out water from their cellars, led to yet another crisis in many areas: inundation of adjacent colonies and disputes among locals. A quick scan by TOI showed that the water, though being pumped out onto the roads, drained into other localities as the natural natural passages — manholes and water channels (storm water drains and natural water channels) — were already overflowing. The Golf View Apartment in Financial District, was a victim of this . Irked residents here are now planning to raise a complaint with authorities. “Though there’s hardly been any rainfall the last three days, our cellar is inundated because commercial establishments in the vicinity pumped water out on the roads and onto open lands. I am lodging a complaint with municipal authorities against them,” said A Narsimhan, president of the apartment. In Domalguda too water pumped out from a four-storey building has flooded the cellars of other buildings and a slum located around 250 meters away. “This is happening for five days and poor residents in low lying areas are suffering,” said Harish Daga, a civic activist. People using the Banjara Hills main road- stretch connecting Road number 2 to Nagarjuna circle — also made a similar complaint against commercial establishments in the area. “People seen draining out water like this can be penalised. So far, though, we have not received any complaint,” said Dr Ravi Kanth, GHMC assistant medical officer of health, Jubilee Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-drained-from-cellars-floods-new-areas-ensues-spats/articleshow/78818091.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Goa||Delhi man sparks terror scare on Air India flight to Goa||PANAJI/VASCO: A 30-year-old man with a history of mental illness gave passengers aboard Air India’s Delhi-Goa flight a mid-air scare after he began to act strangely and claimed that there were terrorists on the flight. The passenger, identified as Zia Ul Haq, a resident of Jamia Nagar, Okhla, was apprehended by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) after the flight landed at Goa International Airport and was handed over to Goa police. While the flight AI 883 was en route to Goa, around 3.15pm, the man started behaving strangely and creating a commotion on the flight. According to the complaint filed by Air India’s cabin crew, Haq claimed that he was a police officer with the special cell. “There are terrorists in this flight and I am from special cell,” Haq said aboard the flight, a remark that sparked panic aboard the flight. The captain of the flight, Kapil Raina radioed Goa ATC and informed them about the presence of an unruly passenger. The ATC in turn quickly informed the airport security control room requesting security assistance to hand over Haq to local police. “As soon as the flight landed, immediately the quick reaction team (QRT) rushed to the aero bridge and apprehended the passenger. His pat down search was done and it was found clear. There after he was sent to Dabolim airport police station with an escort of CISF QRT as well as Air India security staff,” an Airports Authority of India official said. Initial investigation shows that Haq has a past history of mental illness and was seeking treatment at Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences, New Delhi. Haq was medically examined at the state-run hospital in Goa and has been admitted at the Institute of Psychology and Human Behaviour based on the orders of the magistrate. It is unclear why Haq was travelling to Goa. Air India may pursue further legal action. Airlines can prohibit disruptive and unruly passengers from flying on any of their aircraft by adding them to the national No-Fly list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-man-sparks-terror-scare-on-ai-flight-to-goa/articleshow/78818334.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Skipper vs ‘skippers’ deepens BJP crisis||CHANDIGARH: Factionalism brought the Bharatiya Janata Party open humiliation on Tuesday when its municipal councillors skipped the monthly general house online meeting called by own mayor. But the crisis is deeper. Elected to the house with a thumping majority four years ago, the party has the chairs of mayor, senior deputy mayor, and deputy mayor but no unity despite representing most of the city and having a weak opposition. Two days ago, city BJP chief Arun Sood, a member of the house and an experienced politician, sat twice with his flock on the house-meeting issue and even sent a few members to the mayor, Raj Bala Malik, requesting her for a physical meeting, which she refused. The matter reached party’s organisation secretary Dinesh Kumar. Later, the councillors who wanted physical meeting decided to miss the virtual conference. The local command could neither convince its mayor nor stop the rebellion against her. Not a new thing though, this rift between the senior and junior members is dangerous this time for the party because the MC elections are due next year. Whenever the BJP has come to power in the MC, its internal strife has also come out aggressively. The latest open embarrassment isn’t the only challenges from inside. The opposition—the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)—will look to benefit from this tussle by going public with these things.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/skipper-vs-skippers-deepens-bjp-crisis/articleshow/78818067.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Suzuki’s plant rolls outs its millionth car||AHMEDABAD: The passenger vehicle manufacturing plant of Suzuki Motor Gujarat Private Limited (SMG) at Hansalpur in Gujarat rolled out its millionth car on Wednesday, according to a statement released by the company. A subsidiary of Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC), SMG employs at least 1,800 persons at the plant. The facility, 97km from Ahmedabad, started production in February 2017 and clocked 1 million units on Wednesday, in about 45 months. It manufactures cars for Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL), catering to the domestic and export markets, the SMC statement says. SMG started with production of its Baleno model in February 2017, when it began manufacturing. In January 2018, it began manufacturing the Maruti Suzuki Swift. The company began production for exports in March 2018. SMC invested Rs 12,680 crore in establishing and upgrading the plant in Gujarat – one of the biggest investments by an automobile giant in the state. In January 2019, SMG’s second plant and powertrain plant began operations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suzukis-plant-rolls-outs-its-millionth-car/articleshow/78816471.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Mobile clinic to help stem rising cases of animal abuse||Nagpur: It’s been over a month since Lali was found in Dharampeth, her eyes gouged out and bleeding profusely. The brutal incident of September 8 shook animal activists and lovers not just in the city but across the country. On the same night, the female dog was picked up by volunteers of Rise for Tails, and underwent a surgery, which managed to save her eyes. Today, Lali is in rehabilitation, learning to walk with the help of smell and sound again. She has found a new home at the NGO’s rescue centre at MIDC, Hingna Road. Like her, the centre is home to several animals who have been victims of cases of animal abuse and cruelty. Some time back, a litter of six puppies was found thrown near Itwari in a polythene bag. Rescued by the NGO, three puppies were adopted and the remaining three are at the centre, waiting for someone to adopt them. Recently, TOI had highlighted how cases of animal abuse are increasing in the city. Data available with the NGO underlines it. “Of the rescue calls that we get, nearly 40-50% are cases of cruelty on animals. The situation is saddening, to see an ever increasing number of abuse and cruelty cases,” says Gargi Vairagare, founder of NGO RISE (Rising Infinitely For Social Empowerment). Rise for Tails is a new vertical of the NGO, which was one of the nominees for Times of India’s Nagpur Heroes. Sharing another heart-wrenching incident, Vairagare says, “A female dog Pearl was run over by three youngsters riding a three-seater vehicle in Jaripatka. They ran over her twice and fled when an onlooker, the informer, yelled at them. Pearl lost one of her eyes and had a broken spine. She was with us for over three months, until she passed away due to complications.” The animal welfare activist believes that the only way to control growing animal abuse is sterilization and vaccination, which will help control the population of strays in the city. For this purpose, the NGO, which has done over 320 rescue operations till date, has launched a first-of-its-kind mobile clinic in the city which is all set to get operational. “Through the mobile clinic, we won’t just treat animals but also vaccinate and sterilize strays in different areas. We are focusing on a massive sterilization drive with post-operative care of the dogs. We are appealing to people to come forward and sponsor their dog’s operations,” says Vairagare. The NGO has already started sterilization programme three weeks back. The mobile clinic is expected to be on the road by next week. CARING FOR STRAYS - Cases of brutal animal abuse on rise in city - NGO Rise for Tails all set to launch first-of-its-kind mobile clinic in the city - Apart from rescues, NGO to also perform vaccination and sterilization of strays - Members says effective sterilization best way to control population of dogs and cruelty cases - Those wanting to vaccinate or sterilize dogs in their area can contact NGO on 9307179148||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mobile-clinic-to-help-stem-rising-cases-of-animal-abuse/articleshow/78816548.cms||Manka Behl
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Revellers heed advice, exercise caution on Panchami evening||KOLKATA: When the midnight force moved in around Panchami midnight, most policemen on duty — since 4pm — could not believe their eyes. The withdrawal order for the evening force came an hour earlier than expected. Most veterans said this was a new record. Till last year, the night force could not release the team on duty since evening at least till 2am. The mood was set within minutes of the court upholding its order not to allow outsiders inside pandals. As pandal after pandal got barricaded, only the over-enthusiasts could muster the energy to venture out. “We had a new challenge by late evening with bikers stopping outside the pandals. A few were there in their cars. But then, they were not many in number,” said a traffic cop from Beliaghata posted outside 33 Pally. There were a few exceptions though. With Lockgate flyover now virtually the only straight link between north and central Kolkata, there were some snarls during the office time in the evening. “Last-minute shopping was noticed not only at New Market, Gariahat or Hatibagan, but even at local markets like Behala, Bhowanipore, Rashmoni Bazar and Garia,” observed an officer. Organizers at Hindustan Park or Ekdalia Evergreen in the south or Talla Barowari and Bagbazar Sarbojanin up north said they only had a few hundred locals turning up at the pandals all through the Panchami evening. “I was fed-up with the terrible KKR performance. After my friends refused to accompany me, I went panda-hopping alone. I had never thought that Bagbazar can look so desolate on a Puja day,” said Ranabir Panja, a resident of Dunlop. “If we had 25% of the usual visitors on Chaturthi, we had even less the number on Panchami,” said an organizer of Mudiali. Traffic movement was smooth along VIP Road on Panchami evening, thanks to a slew of changes made by Bidhannagar Police. They barred the U-turn between Ultadanga and Kestopur, stopped pedestrian movement along VIP Road between Lake Town and Dum Dum Park and made all cars and autos take the service lane to keep the main carriageway free for traffic movement. “We have deployed our full force to man traffic. We have resorted to a contactless approach to alert motorists not to park vehicles in no-parking zones and while directing them to change lanes,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Police. Traffic movement along New Town and major parts of EM Bypass was also smooth. According to police and Puja organizers, no revellers from the districts was making all the difference. An organizer of Tridhara Sammilani said: “A marked change was seen in the crowd pattern the past two years. Earlier, people used to visit the pandals from Saptami till Navami. The highest crowd concentration took place in the evening. But as the Pujas are being inaugurated early now-a-days, people from even adjoining districts did not want to waste a day and are coming to the pandal from since Chaturthi morning. But with no local trains plying, there are hardly any revellers from the districts this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revellers-heed-advice-exercise-caution-on-panchami-evening/articleshow/78796784.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University not likely to conduct senate elections before NEP 2020 implementation||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University might not conduct senate elections even as the tenure of the existing body is coming to end on October 31. Sources said this is pending decisions on soon-to-be implemented National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, which envisages many governance reforms. The University Grant Commission (UGC) has apparently already written to all universities asking the vice-chancellors to initiate action for the reforms. Highly placed sources said university authorities are planning to start the process of forming the board of governance body in the University as mentioned in Chapter 19 of the NEP 2020 instead of going for senate election. Notably, they said Satya pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India and PU’s sitting senate member who has completed tenth tenure in governing body, has also given recommendations for NEP 2020. According to sources, the authorities do not want to hold senate elections, which they postponed twice in the last two months, as the tenure lasts for four years once elected. Sources also said legal guidance is already sought by the PU on the formation of new BOG. Legal experts suggested that election now will raise complications later if any of the members elected went to court to get relief from execution of BOG till their four-year tenure is completed. Experts suggested that the universities should not hold elections of both the senate and the syndicate, as the central government is in the process of finalising NEP 2020. Meanwhile, Ashok Goyal, seven-time senator of the university, said according to the NEP, the existing elected body has to elect the new BOG, but if the tenure of the senate is coming to an end on October 31, then they may not be involved in it. Goyal alleged that the university is waiting to dissolve the present senate so that they can get nominations from the chancellor office to constitute BOG. He also pointed out the other course of action available to the university, in which of the 90 senate members, 36 are nominated and six are ex-office while 49 are elected. “The university can form new BOG from nominated and ex-officio with a plea that they were not able to get the election conducted due to non-approval of the elections from Chandigarh administration,” he added. Rahul Bhandari, education secretary of Punjab government, said the Punjab government is not aware of any decision on senate by the university yet. Sitting senator and former member of parliament Pawan Kumar Bansal said it is not possible that university will not hold senate election as the university is governed by PU calendar and it will be violation of the act by authorities. Experts also agreed that according to 1966 Punjab Reunion Act, as PU is an interstate body corporate, with stakes of both central and Punjab state governments, if the university will not take Punjab government into confidence in forming BOG, there are chances that the state will not release annual fund as promised to the university. BOX NEP 2020 recommendations for constituting BOG >> New members of the board will be identified by a committee appointed by the board and selection of new members will be done by the BOG itself. >> BOG will be empowered to make all appointments, including that of head of the institution and take all decisions regarding governance Formation of senate body Ex-officio: 6 members Nominated: 36 Elected : Registered graduates (15); Professors on the staff of the teaching departments of the university (2); Readers and lecturers on the staff of the teaching departments of the university (2): Principals of technical and professional colleges (3); Staff of technical and professional colleges (3); Heads of affiliated arts colleges (8); Professors, senior lecturers and lecturers of affiliated arts colleges (8); Faculties (6); Punjab Legislative Assembly (2) >> All decisions have to be approved by the senate and syndicate taken by the university authorities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-not-likely-to-conduct-senate-elections-before-nep-2020-implementation/articleshow/78818086.cms||Aarti Kapur
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops step up mask drive with more prosecutions||KOLKATA: The MaskUp Kolkata campaign, which was launched to ensure that there is increased awareness about wearing masks, finally saw a jump in prosecution over the past week. Since October 18, 1,864 people have been prosecuted for not wearing masks, an healthy average of more than 460 prosecutions per day. As many as 500 were hauled up for not wearing masks correctly on Tuesday. On Panchami, the number had reached close to 200 by the first half of the day. While Kolkata Police plans to distribute a lakh masks during the Pujas, the force was facing flak for not prosecuting the violators at a time when Kolkata was witnessing a sharp spike in cases ahead of the festive season. In fact, just 160-180 were prosecuted in the first week of October. “We have already initiated social media campaigns making it mandatory for pandal-hoppers to wear masks. We have distributed masks at several public spots. On our part, we will also do whatever is required to be done,” said commissioner Anuj Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-step-up-mask-drive-with-more-prosecutions/articleshow/78796777.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||2.3 km-long Girnar ropeway to facilitate 5-6 lakh people every year||RAJKOT: If its developers can be quoted, on Saturday, Gujarat will be home to “world’s longest ropeway to a temple” after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launches the Girnar ropeway project at Junagadh online. Going beyond the developers’ claims, the ropeway completed at the cost of Rs 130 crore by Usha Breco limited, will facilitate 5 to 6 lakh people visit the Girnar mountain every year. The project has been given to the company on BOT (build-operate and transfer) basis on a lease period of 98 years. The tough terrain and continuous rainfall last year posed a huge challenge for the developers who, for the first time in ropeway construction history, had to employ the services of a helicopter in the project. “The terrain is very difficult and sans roads to carry the materials for building the ropeway. We had to build a material ropeway to carry the materials to the top. Helicopters were also used to carry the construction materials higher up. The area also witnessed heavy rains in the last two seasons, while the Covid-19 pandemic also disrupted work for many weeks,” Apurv Jhawar, managing director, Usha Breco, told TOI. The ropeway is over 2.3 km long and includes nine towers. It will comprise 25 carriages, including one glass-floored cabin, each having capacity to carry eight passengers at one time. The ropeway has the capacity to carry 800 passengers in an hour, and 8,000 in a day. “The ropeway will take passengers to an altitude of 900 metre, which is equal to 5,000 steps. The tallest pillar is 66 metres high,” Jhawar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2-3km-long-girnar-ropeway-to-facilitate-5-6-lakh-people-every-year/articleshow/78815138.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||High-rises opt for ‘ghot puja’, restricted entry||KOLKATA: Puja organizers in residential complexes and high-rises have come up with a slew of measures to implement safety guidelines to protect their residents and prevent the virus from spreading during the festival. While some have opted for ‘ghot puja’ instead of traditional festivities, others have requested senior citizens not to spend much time in the pandal and return home after participating in rituals. Some others have introduced a system with the help of which only a few people can offer anjali and make way for others. “Safety of the residents is a priority and we are taking all possible precautions to ensure that,” said Mainak Kanrar, joint secretary of the residents’ welfare association at Shukhobrishti in New Town. Only 15 people will be allowed inside the pandal to offer anjali at a time. Barricades have been set up to restrict entry. Members of the organizing committees are reviewing the safety guidelines to stick to the Calcutta High Court guidelines. At Saptaparni co-operative housing society in Ballygunge, where a majority of residents are in the senior citizens’ category, the residents’ association has decided to suspend the puja this year to prevent further spread of the infection. “We will conduct a small two-hour-long ‘ghot puja’ on one of the festive days but there will be no pandal or idol this year,” said Indrani Chowdhury, secretary of the board of society at the complex. At Merlin Warden Lakeview in Ultadanga, engagements of committee representatives along with other residents have been limited to as minimal as possible. “Security guards, cook and other helps have been hired to take care of the arrangements. Outsiders’ entry at the pandal during the puja days has been restricted,” said Deepak Jaiswal, the president of the residents’ association. A residential complex in Lake Town has requested senior citizens to not spend long hours at the pandal. “We want to protect the senior citizens yet not want them to miss out on the festive fervour. Arrangements will be made for them to offer prayers and participate in the rituals so that they remain safe,” said Sumit Ghosh, a member of the organizing committee. Several complexes have also formed a team of volunteers to help out residents who fall ill. The New Town Residents’ Forum has released a list of volunteers who will be available throughout the pujas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rises-opt-for-ghot-puja-restricted-entry/articleshow/78796791.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||I-T dept issued forms late, extend date for returns: CAs||Nagpur: Amid business associations demanding extension of deadline for filing of income tax (I-T) returns till March 31, chartered accountants (CAs) say the extra time is needed also because of delay from the I-T department’s side. The online filing format is issued each year by including amendments carried out in the fiscal’s budget concerned. The forms that should have been released by April or May only started coming from July and continued till September. There is a separate form for each kind of taxpayer like salaried persons, businessmen, companies HUF etc. There are seven forms in all. The online format or schema as it’s called in technical jargon, for the salaried persons’ return was issued on June 2 which was later updated on June 15 and July 8. Some of the returns are not accepted due to technical errors. Such returns can only be filed after the updated forms for the concerned category are released. The schema for the companies’ returns which contribute for majority of tax paid was first released on September 22 and later updated on October 1. In the normal course, returns for taxpayers who are subject to tax audit have to be filed before September 30. Those not covered under tax audit have their deadline as July 31. Owing to Covid, the dates have been now extended to November 30 for both the categories. CAs say even adhering to the original dates may have been difficult as the forms itself were not released in time. “Last year, the forms were issued in time but again there has been a delay this fiscal. Earlier, the matter was also taken to the courts,” said chartered accountant Amit Raja a partner on M/s Khetan Raja & Co. “Ideally, the forms should have been issued in April but there are delays from the I-T department’s side. Tax payers whose returns are not accepted in the system have to wait till the updates are released,” he said. CA Kailash Jogani said, “Businesses have not been able come back to normal yet. The books are not ready due to practical difficulties faced during the pandemic. Delay in issuing online forms has also been a major concern. The department should extend the date till March 30.” “Even as the date for filing the returns has been extended till November 30, the deadline for finishing tax audit is October 31. With this, CAs are in a hurry to finish the audit first. This in turn has held up work on filing returns of taxpayers not covered under tax audit,” said CA Rajeev Damani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/i-t-dept-issued-forms-late-extend-date-for-returns-cas/articleshow/78816470.cms||Shishir Arya
October 23, 2020||Kanpur||Girl spotted with youth by father commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: A 17-year-old girl allegedly hanged herself to death on late Wednesday night after being spotted by her father with a neighbouring youth in a village under the limits of Billhaur police station of the district. Police said the girl’s father in his complaint has alleged that a local youth abetted her for suicide. The police said they will book a case against the youth and arrest him if the charges are found to be true. “The girl allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling fan hook after she was spotted by her father with a village youth in their house on late Wednesday night,” said Inspector Billhaur Prayag Narain Bajpai. The girls’ father, on spotting the youth inside his house with his daughter, had tried to nab the youth, but the boy fled, he further said. Later, the girl’s father slept outside the house. “The minor girl, however, locked her inside a room and ended her life. The incident came to light on Thursday morning when her father found her body hanging. He later apprised local police station. The accused youth was identified as Akhilesh (19), son of their neighbour Om Prakash,” said Bajpai further. “A police team along with forensic experts arrived at the spot. We are investigating the case. The girl was pursuing High School. At the time of incident, the girl’s mother had gone to her parents house. While she was sleeping with her two younger siblings inside the house, her father in the front portion of the house,” the officer said. The body was sent for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-spotted-with-youth-by-father-commits-suicide/articleshow/78815426.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Eknath Khadse to join NCP today with his wife and daughter||MUMBAI: Along with high-profile BJP leader Eknath Khadse, his wife Mandakini and daughter Rohini too will join the Sharad Pawar-led NCP on Friday. Some former legislators too will join NCP, Khadse told TOI. Mandakini is in the cooperative sector, is chairperson of Mahananda, and has been associated with milk producers’ federation for long. A lawyer-turned-politician, Rohini is chairperson of Jalgaon district central cooperative bank. In the 2019 assembly elections, it was expected that BJP would nominate Khadse from his home town, Muktainagar, but at the last moment, Rohini (37) was nominated. She was defeated by Chandrakant Nimba Patil (Independent) by a margin of 3,000 votes. Khadse expects an exodus from BJP to NCP due to discontent among workers at grassroots level. “In North Maharashtra, many BJP leaders and activists will quit the party and join NCP,’’ Khadse said. Khadse iterated that former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis destroyed his political career. “Ever since he took over as CM, he humiliated me, fabricated cases and initiated probes against me,’’ he said. His entry into NCP was unconditional, he said. “I have not asked for a ministerial post or organization post. I will strengthen NCP in North Maharashtra. I have no ambition to become a cabinet member or get nominated to the legislative assembly,’’ he said. Reports indicated that Sharad Pawar may ask a senior cabinet member to quit and accommodate Khadse. “A very senior politician, Khadse has been MLA for six consecutive terms. Under such circumstances, it will be appropriate to accommodate him in the cabinet,’’ a senior NCP leader said. Khadse’s daughter-in-law, Raksha, a BJP Lok Sabha member from Raver in Jalgaon district, has no plans to quit BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/khadse-to-join-ncp-today-with-wife-daughter/articleshow/78817407.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 23, 2020||Kanpur||ED to grill Vikas Dubeyfinancier’s wife Shweta||Kanpur: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to interrogate slain gangster Vikas Dubey financier Jaikant Bajpai’s wife Shweta in connection with a money laundering case. The ED is probing the money laundering case, which was registered against Dubey and his 10 associates including Jaikant, last month. According to officials, the case was registered under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Earlier, the ED on Wednesday had questioned Dubey’s wife Richa. Jaikant and his three brothers — Shobhit (24), Rajaikant (39) and Ajaikant (45) — had been booked under Section 3 (1) of Uttar Pradesh Gangster Act, and at present are in jail. Recently, the district administration had attached their several movable and immovable properties at different locations including Brahmnagar and Kakadeo areas of the city. The administration had also seized property of Shweta in the form of agricultural land, amounting to Rs 33 lakh. During investigation, it came to fore that Shweta had 2.5 ‘biswa’ of agricultural land worth Rs 33 lakh in her name. The authorities thereafter made seizure of the agricultural land located in Chowdharypurwa village of Billhaur. As per the investigators, she had purchased immovable property by diverting the amount collected through illegal means. On July 6, ED wrote to Inspector General of Kanpur Range Mohit Agarwal and sought details from district police on the slain gangster and his aides. Sources in the ED said, “Soon a team will visit Kanpur jail to question Jaikant, an alleged financier of slain gangster Dubey.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ed-to-grill-vikas-dubeyfinanciers-wife-shweta/articleshow/78815397.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||Man gets life term for raping minor in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A special court for trial of cases under POCSO Act in Bareilly on Thursday awarded life imprisonment to a man for raping a girl in March 2015. The girl was a minor. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 30,000 on the accused. Sonu of Thakurdwara, Fatehganj West, was found guilty under section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO Act and section 376 (punishment for rape) of IPC. The rape survivor was six-year-old when the crime occured in Bareilly's Fatehganj West. The court has also directed the convict to pay Rs 50,000 for the survivor's medical treatment, who spent several days in hospital. According to the verdict, the medical examination, blood samples collected from the clothes of the survivor and the accused, established the crime. “The court has found the accused guilty. He has been sentenced with rigorous life imprisonment by the additional district and sessions judge Anil Kumar Seth ", District Government Council SK Pathak On March 12, 2015, the girl was abducted and raped by Sonu, while she was playing outside her house near the farm fields in Bareilly. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor-in-bareilly/articleshow/78815143.cms||Maria Khan
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Hectic lobbying on for Rajya Sabha polls||LUCKNOW: As the state BJP reportedly dispatched a list of 20 names to be considered by the party’s central leadership for the Rajya Sabha elections from the state, hectic efforts were also on in the BSP for the victory of its candidate Ramji Gautam with the support of either the BJP or the Samajwadi Party. According to sources, among prominent names in the BJP list are Neeraj Shekhar, Arun Singh, Sanjay Sinh, Daya Shankar Singh, Jay Panda, Sambit Patra, Amit Malviya, apart from names from the OBC and SC sections. It also has the name of the son of a former bureaucrat, sources say. The central leadership will take a final decision soon. To ensure victory of its ninth candidate, the BJP will have to depend on its rivals and its political managers are in touch with MLAs of various political parties. “We know the situation for us is not as safe as it was in 2018,” revealed a senior functionary of the ruling BJP, while sounding confident of the victory of all, including its ninth candidate. On the basis of its strength, BJP can have eight clear winners while SP can have one. Meanwhile, in an interesting development, former RS member Naresh Agarwal also threw his hat in the ring and started lobbying for the ninth ticket. He was confident of manipulating support of MLAs beyond the BJP. The BSP’s decision of fielding its candidate Ramji Gautam, in charge of Bihar elections, has turned the election interesting though it is also a fact that the BSP does not have adequate numbers. For the BSP leadership, it was a good day as some of its rebel MLAs on Thursday expressed their faith in the party leadership and the leadership is confident that Ramvir Upadhyay and Aslam Raini would vote for the party candidate. The BSP MLAs were called to the party office on Thursday and they signed a blank nomination paper as approvers, though in the afternoon they were informed about Ramji Gautam as the party candidate. In yet another development, a powerful business woman from Gujarat backed off after the BJP declined to declare her as party’s official candidate and this time she was not ready to contest the RS elections as independent. However, she is still reportedly lobbying to become the official candidate of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hectic-lobbying-on-for-rajya-sabha-polls/articleshow/78818617.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||Covid patients wary of hosps to be counselled||Prayagraj: The district administration has roped in a team of expert psychologists to counsel the elderly testing Covid positive to convince them to get admitted to hospital for treatment for their own good. The administration had decided that elderly corona patients would not be allowed home quarantine to ensure proper treatment since fatality rate is high in aged patients, the elderly are reluctant to get admitted in hospital. Officials have roped in expert psychologists of Motilal Nehru Divisional hospital to counsel and convince the elderly patients to go to hospital for their own good as it would ensure proper, regular check-up and comorbidities would be handled better under constant medical supervision. Since the government allowed home isolation, the majority of corona patients are opting for it because of which there is less pressure on hospitals and till Sunday, 15,254 patients had completed their home isolation. The high preference for home isolation is evident from the fact that 194 patients were declared cured on Sunday, out of which 50 were discharged from hospitals while remaining 144 were in home isolation. “The team of the district mental health programme will counsel and motivate elderly Covid patients and those with comorbidities to get hospitalised,” said clinical psychologist at Motilal divisional hospital, Dr Ishanya Raj. “Many patients fear they would not get proper care in hospitals without any family members to attend and their condition will worsen. Besides, the fear of being alone causes stress due to which they do not want to leave home. We have already helped some patients get over their fears,” Dr Raj added. “We need to take more care of the physical and mental health of senior citizens now than ever before. Lack of proper care, supervision and neglect can prove fatal,” said Dr Rakesh Paswan of the hospital. Our team will counsel such patients to change their mindset and develop a positive attitude towards hospital care, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-patients-wary-of-hosps-to-be-counselled/articleshow/78815157.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Jesuit priest’s interim bail plea rejected by NIA court||MUMBAI: A special NIA court on Thursday rejected the interim bail plea of 83-year-old Jharkhand Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested earlier this month in the Elgar Parishad case. Swamy had last week moved court seeking interim bail citing age, ailments and coronavirus. Swamy’s defence lawyer submitted that he suffered from Parkinson’s disease, had undergone prostate surgery and had fallen in jail. NIA had arrested Swamy on October 8 but did not seek police custody. He is lodged in Taloja jail. NIA had opposed his plea for interim bail. “The submission in respect to medical condition of the applicant has no merit. The medical prescription attached with the present bail application has been issued by the physician is of an old date rather than indicating the current condition with present date,” NIA had said. NIA also said that under the garb of the pandemic, Swamy was trying to take undue advantage. It said Swamy and other accused were booked under offences that could attract a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. It said that while guidelines issued by a high court highpowered committee permitted an undertrial above 60 to seek interim bail, it could not be granted mechanically. NIA, in its charge-sheet, said on December 31, 2017, Elgar Parishad at Shaniwarwada, Pune, was funded by banned CPI (Maoist) as part of a conspiracy to create unrest. It said speeches by activists of Kabir Kala Manch promoted enmity between caste groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nia-court-rejects-jesuit-priests-interim-bail-plea/articleshow/78817410.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nashik||October rain damages crops sown in 14,500ha||Nashik: Spells of heavy rain in October have so far damaged crops sown in roughly 14,538 hectare, said the district administration. Specifically, rain on October 18 and 19 had caused the maximum crop damage across the Nashik district, the officials have said. According to the initial panchanamas done jointly by the revenue and agriculture department officials, it has been assessed that the rainfall in the 48-hour period damaged crops sown in 7,783ha — almost 7,238ha had paddy crop alone. Moreover, 16,885 farmers in 351 villages of the district have reportedly lost their crops. The maximum damage was reported in the Peth taluka, where 8,740 farmers in 145 villages lost their paddy crop grown in 4,296ha. Even onions grown in 422 ha were lost during this time. The rain that occasionally lashed the district between October 1 and 17 has affected 2,852 farmers in 90 villages. Crops across 6,755ha were damaged and again paddy was worst affected — 6,185ha of paddy crop bore the brunt. More than 1,200 farmers from 28 villages in Igatpuri lost paddy sown in 5,800ha and 706 farmers in 25 villages of Trimbakeshwar are believed to have lost crops grown in 350ha during this period. The current assessment is still in the initial stages, and a thorough panchanama would be filed soon to get a clearer picture of crop damage. However, according to the officer, the actual figures may not be too different from the initial assessment figures. Besides paddy and onion farmers, other farmers growing vegetables, including tomatoes and pomegranate, were also affected. While the pomegranates across 8ha were affected, the administration said the loss caused to grapevines were not reflected in the initial assessment. The final assessment would help identify the exact volume of damage. “The rain caused extensive damage to the farmers and the government has asked us to prepare the panchanama. The initial assessment has been done and reported to the government. The final panchanama will be carried out soon and the report will be presented to the government for further action,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/october-rain-damages-crops-sown-in-14500ha/articleshow/78816476.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||Sanitary vending machines in 1k schools to reduce dropout rate||Prayagraj: Amid concern over the high dropout rate among schoolgirls due to lack of menstrual hygiene management facilities, sanitary pad vending machines and incinerators for their disposal would be installed at 1,000 government girls’ high school and intermediate colleges across the state. The 1,000 schools would include 23 from Prayagraj district. Each school will be granted Rs 30,000 to install these machines for which a budget of Rs 3 crore has been sanctioned by the Centre. Director general (school education) Vijay Kiran Anand said, “The budget has been sanctioned under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan during a recent meeting convened at Shastri Bhawan in New Delhi.” The 23 schools selected in Prayagraj district include Government Girls Inter Colleges (GGICs) in Handia, Jasra, Mungari in Rampur, Naribari, Civil Lines, Old Katra, Phaphamau, Shankargarh and Phulpur. Government Girls High School in Gohari and, Government Higher Secondary School in Beri in Manda and Pipraon will also benefit from the scheme, said officials. Officials said that several surveys have shown that the lack of information about menstruation, poor access to sanitary pads and a non-facilitating school environment makes it difficult for girls to attend schools. As per a 2019 survey conducted in gram panchayats of all 75 districts of UP by Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), over 5.13 lakh girls in the age group of 11-14 years dropped out of school in 2018-19. The survey claimed that the maximum number of drop-outs were from Bahraich, Sitapur, and Shahjahanpur. ICDS is a programme run by the Union ministry of women and child development (MWCD). “A 2015 survey conducted by the state health department showed that around 28 lakh adolescent girls miss school every month due to menstrual problems. The report also said that over 19 lakh eventually quit education every month in UP. A 2012 survey conducted by UNICEF indicated that over 85% girls in India still use cloth while menstruating, instead of sanitary napkins being which is a safer option,” said an official. MWCD statistics show that there are 16.2 lakh girls in the country between the ages of 11 to 14 years who do not attend school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sanitary-vending-machines-in-1k-schools-to-reduce-dropout-rate/articleshow/78815170.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||RMC raids firm selling fake herbal tonic for Covid-19 patients||RAJKOT: Stock of herbal juice and health and nutri drinks worth Rs eight lakh was seized from Rootsberry Concept Private Limited by Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Thursday. The company was allegedly misleading people with a an unapproved herbal product named ‘Govind 90’ as an immunity booster for Covid . RMC officials said the firm named ‘Pure Foods’ on Gondal Road run by Jayesh Radadiya was selling the fake herbal juice claiming it to be useful in Covid. The firm was also operating on food catering license obtained for different addresses. The firm produced and packaged various herbal, cosmetic and Ayurvedic products without approval under FSSAI. “The firm was running its business without any license and illegally producing food products and nutraceuticals,” said a statement issued by the health department of RMC. “They were duping people during the pandemic with its product claiming it to treat Covid patients with misleading advertisement, deceptive words, and using identical names,” according to the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-raids-firm-selling-fake-herbal-tonic-for-covid-patients/articleshow/78815073.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Judicial custody for 32 tribals held in Palghar lynching case||MUMBAI: Thirty-two of 50 tribals arrested on Wednesday in the Palghar lynching case of April, were on Thursday sent to judicial custody by Dahanu court judicial magistrate M V Jawale. The other 18 will be produced before the judicial magistrate on Friday, said advocate for the accused, Amrut Adhikari. State CID had on Wednesday added 208 accused in the case. Fifty of them, all male tribals from Gadchinchale village in Kasa, were shown as arrested on Wednesday. This is the first time accused in the case have been given magisterial custody when produced in court soon after arrest. The lynching of seers Kalpavruksha Giri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35), and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), in Gadchinchale on the night of April 16 had led to the initial arrest of 154 adults and 11 juveniles. All were taken into police custody before being sent to judicial custody. Of the 154 adult accused, 10 are out on default bail after police failed to file a charge-sheet against them within the stipulated 90 days. Nine juveniles who were at Bhiwandi children’s remand home also got bail as police failed to file the final report within 90 days. CID had filed three charge-sheets in Dahanu court in July and August. As FIRs had named an unidentified mob of over 500, a search is on for more accused. Meanwhile, Thane court special sessions judge P P Jadhav on Thursday adjourned hearing of bail applications of 62 accused to November 3, special public prosecutor, advocate Satish Maneshinde said. The accused are among those arrested soon after the lynching. The trial will be held in a Thane court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/judicial-custody-for-32-tribals-in-palghar-lynching-case/articleshow/78817412.cms||Sandhya Nair
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris sponsors disabled cricket player selected for Dubai match||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district administration has sponsored the travel expenses of a disabled boy, who has been selected for the Divyang Premier League (DPL) cricket match to be held in Dubai in the second week of November.A second-year postgraduate student from Ooty, S Ravichandran, 21, is the only player to be selected from the Nilgiris.District collector J Innocent Divya had on Wednesday handed him over a cheque for Rs 25, 000 from her discretionary fund.Born to C Subramani-S Vasanthamani couple from Thalaikundha in Ooty, Ravichandran had lost his left arm in a medical procedure as a toddler. “I started playing cricket during my school days. I always had the support of my parents.” Ravichandran said.He, along with 15 other players from Madurai, Theni, Ariyalur, Namakkal, Pudukkottai and Salem districts would represent the state in the DPL. “Travel and kit expenses are to be borne by the players, while the Divyang Cricket Control Board of India will take care of food and accommodation. I thank the collector for sponsoring my travel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-sponsors-disabled-cricket-player-selected-for-dubai-match/articleshow/78816485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Varanasi||More than Rs 10 crore transferred to accounts of flood-hit farmers||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanth, on Thursday, transferred Rs 10,38,57,977 in the account of 41,293 flood-affected farmers of Gorakhpur district from state disaster response fund. He also talked to two farmers through video conferencing from Lucknow, said ADM FR Rajesh Kumar Singh said. CM Yogi also interacted with Paramhans (59) of Sadar Tehsil and Kunti Devi of Bansgaon tehsil who told the CM that they got the government help timely. While talking to TOI, Paramhans said, “CM Yogi asked me that about the loss of crop due to floods. I thanked him for construction of Tarkulani regulator as it will benefit a large number of farmers. The CM said that the undergoing construction work at the regulator will be completed soon.” “I also told the CM that I received relief packets during the flood and also Rs 9,585 credited in my account,” he said. Yogi also talked to 67-year-old farmer Kunti Devi of Rawat village. She was very happy on recieving Rs 6,750 in her account, “CM Yogi asked me about my loss of crop during the flood. I thanked him for the help,” said Kunti Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/more-than-rs-10cr-transferred-to-accounts-of-flood-hit-farmers/articleshow/78816478.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kanpur||Woman raped in front of minor daughter in Uttar Pradesh||KANPUR: A 28-year-old married woman, who had gone to the fields in her village along with her five-year-old daughter, was raped by a village goon in Etawah district on Wednesday night. On being informed, police arrested the accused in the wee hours of Thursday. The crime took place in the fields located near the survivor’s house. “The woman along with her minor daughter had left the house for nearby fields when a local goon caught hold of her and dragged her to a desolate spot and raped her. The woman was threatened by the goon that her minor daughter would be killed if she resisted. He later fled the spot,” police said. The incident came to light when the survivor’s daughter returned home and informed the family members about the incident. They rushed to the spot, and on finding the survivor lying in the fields in a semi-unconscious state, admitted her to a hospital before alerting the local police. “The accused identified as Anil, a local hoodlum, has been arrested. An FIR has been registered at the Jaswantnagar police station against him under relevant sections including 376 of IPC,” said SSP Akash Tomar. “The woman, about 28 years of age, who lives in a village under Jaswantnagar police circle, is recuperating at the hospital,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-raped-in-front-of-daughter/articleshow/78815432.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Varanasi||Probe ordered into stamp duty evasion of British era bldg||Varanasi: District magistrate Ghazipur MP Singh on Thursday formed a three-member committee under an ADM to probe the alleged stamp duty evasion of over Rs 41.50 lakhs in a case of registry of a commercial complex constructed in British period. Officials hint that if this evasion is proved, the registry department may face verification of records of other cases of registry. Singh told TOI, “On coming to know about allegations of stamp duty evasion in high volume, I formed a three-member team comprising officials from the finance and registry department under an ADM to probe into the irregularities. The course of action will be decided after the probe is over.” The officials said that a commercial complex constructed in British era is located near DAV College in the city. This complex is spread in 13,031 sqmt, including 1700 sqmt built area. This building had been sold in April 2019. During the time of purchase of stamp for registration, the built area was shown in 225.5 sq mt while the first floor of the building was not mentioned in the papers. Registrar Deepak Agrawal admitted that when the documents of the building registered in the name of one Sheela Devi in April 2019 were examined, evasion of stamp duty of Rs 41,53,770 came to light after which a report was forwarded to the joint commissioner, registration. The evasion came to light when the new owner submitted self-assessment certificate before the Ghazipur municipal board for fixing house and water taxes. In the certificate the actual details of the complex had been mentioned, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/probe-ordered-into-stamp-duty-evasion-of-british-era-bldg/articleshow/78815689.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 23, 2020||Nashik||IIT-Bombay team inspects smart road||Nashik: A team from IIT-Bomaby on Thursday inspected the 1.1km smart road to resolve the issue of uneven stretches. The team is expected to submit its reports about the measures that need to be taken to repair the faults by the end of October. The Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) had admitted that the construction of the city’s maiden smart road is faulty and sought help from IIT-Bombay. During the board meeting of the smart city in January this year, chairperson of NMSCDCL Sitaram Kunte had said that the riding quality in the smart road was not as per the set standard. However, it was not possible to rectify this drawback as the road construction work had been completed. Hence, a board meeting of the smart city body had decided to rope in experts from IIT-Bombay to find a solution. The NMSCDCL had written a letter to the intititute, but the team’s visit was delayed by around six months due to the Covid-19 crisis. “We are expecting the report to be submitted by month-end,” an NMSCDCL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/iit-bombay-team-inspects-smart-road/articleshow/78816483.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||6 trains to be converted to mail/express||Prayagraj: After introducing mail, express and clone trains during the gradual unlock of the Covid lockdowns, the railway board has now decided to enhance the speed of some passenger trains and convert them into mail and express trains. The move will make passengers reach their destinations in shorter time. The railway board will soon allow these converted mail/express trains to run on their scheduled routes. In the list of 358 trains issued by the railway board, there are six trains of the North Central Railway (NCR) as well. These include trains running between Prayagraj to neighbouring districts such as Jhansi, Bareilly, Itarsi and Chopan. “The railway board has instructed converting six passenger trains into mail/express trains. Thereafter, these trains will be introduced for common passengers, ensuring them a faster journey to their destinations,” said chief public relation officer (CPRO), NCR, Ajeet Kumar Singh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/6-trains-to-be-converted-to-mail/express/articleshow/78815240.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Bollywood cast dazzle without retakes after 3-hour Ramlila rehearsal||AYODHYA: As a dazzling Ramleela is live-streamed from the illuminated Laxman Qila along banks of the pristine Saryu in Ayodhya, the Bollywood star cast aided by advanced acoustics and visual technology is recreating the splendour of ‘treta yug’. The day starts early for these artists who quickly get into the groove for a three-hour rehearsal, a three-hour makeup session before the three-hour live performance in the evening. And they perform live with seamless dialogue delivery without a single retake, though many are accustomed to retakes on Bollywood sets. Vindu Dara Singh as Hanuman and Rakesh Bedi as Vibhishan performing their roles during the ongoing Ramlila in AyodhyaThe star-studded Ramleela troupe in Ayodhya comprises a 120-member crew from Mumbai and 85 artistes, including actor-turned netas like Ravi Kishen and Manoj Tiwari. The epic story is shot from nine different angles by a 55-member Doordarshan team and is live streamed on multiple social media platforms. Doing the role of Ravana, actor Shahbaz Khan told TOI, “It’s an enlightening experience to enact the Ramayana and the biggest challenge is giving a non-stop live performance without retakes. We began our rehearsals in early August. Now, an onstage dress-rehearsal is done for three hours every day.” Actor Kavita Joshi, who’s enacting the role of Sita said, “I am eating, sleeping and breathing Ramayana and working hard for the final live performance. There’s a specialised 12-member makeup team, which brings alive the visage of Ramayana characters in us.” Talking to TOI, Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan, who’s enacting the role of Bharat, said, “the greatest lesson from Ramayana is the ‘maryada’ of Ram, which teaches us humanity.” Reacting to the experience, Anurag Shukla, a Ayodhya citizen, said, “In the last few decades, the tradition of Ramleela in the temple town was overtaken by Durga Puja, but this has changed now. I hope to be part of the Ramleela audience next year.” The live performance, which began from October 9 will end on Saturday and ‘Ravan Dahan’ will be done on Sunday. “A 100-foot tall Ravana effigy is being erected. We have invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be the chief guest on this occasion,” said Subhash Malik, director of the Ramleela..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bollywood-cast-dazzle-without-retakes-after-3-hr-ramlila-rehearsal/articleshow/78818526.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP fields 17 Muslim candidates in civic polls||JAIPUR: For the first time, BJP has given tickets to 17 Muslim candidates to contest in the municipal elections. In 2014, four candidates were given tickets, but none of them was able to secure any seat in the elections. According to civic polls history, no Muslim candidate has ever won in Jaipur from BJP. Delimitation has changed the ground situation in most of the wards with many turning out to be Muslim populated wards. Hence, both parties are now forced to give tickets to more candidates from the minority community. Sajida Begum will be contesting from Ward No. 23 this year. There are 7,184 voters there out of which only 400 are non-Muslims. “Municipal elections are completely based on the liaison a candidate has in her/his area. Party politics doesn’t play a role. You need to connect with people to get votes,” said Sajida. Many of these Muslims candidates belong from BJP Alpasankhyak Morcha. “This year BJP has given tickets to people working on the ground. Many candidates have worked in the party for a long time and this year they have been rewarded. I am sure that with more focused wards, victory will be ours,” said Shaheed Painter, a candidate from Ward No. 89, Jaipur Heritage, where only 600 are from other communities. Around 15 candidates were given tickets from Jaipur Heritage and one from Greater as most of the minority population wards come under Heritage. A senior BJP leader said, “In urban body polls, most of our voters belong to Hindu community. Congress deliberately divided wards to keep the minority votes concentrated in one. Hence, we also have to give tickets to minority community members. Contrary to popular opinion, we have no shortage of minority candidates as our workers belong to every section.” This is been challenged by the opposition. Giriraj Khandelwal, former Congress councilor, said fear of losing in minority wards has forced BJP to give tickets to Muslims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-fields-17-muslim-candidates-in-civic-polls/articleshow/78816488.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Vadodara||150 electric bikes gutted in Makarpura||VADODARA: As many as 150 electric bikes were gutted in a fire caused by a short-circuit at a shed in Makarpura GIDC on Thursday morning. Fire officials said that a godown storing electric bikes and its spare parts had caught fire sometime around 11 am. Flames in the godown were noticed a little late due to which electric bikes in such large numbers and spare parts were completely gutted. “We were sprinkling water from all sides of the shed so that the fire could not spread to the neighbouring units. Our primary investigation after the fire was controlled revealed that a short-circuit had sparked the fire,” said fire officer Nikunj Azad of Makarpura GIDC fire station. “The shed was just used for storage and the bikes were meant for sale in other cities,” Azad said. A minor fire was also reported from a house in Dandiya Bazaar. However, the house was filled with smoke and firemen had to use equipment for removing the smoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/150-electric-bikes-gutted-in-makarpura/articleshow/78815038.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Woman hits auto driver with dagger||MUMBAI: In a road rage case, a female two-wheeler rider assaulted an auto driver with a dagger in Virar on Wednesday, while he slapped her. Arnala police booked Manjeet Kaur (50) under IPC Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt using a dangerous weapon) and filedan NC offence against the driver, Durgesh Patil (35). A video of the incident went viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-assaults-auto-driver-with-dagger/articleshow/78817414.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras case: STF begins probe into conspiracy angle||LUCKNOW: UP special task force (STF) on Thursday started probe into conspiracy angle in Hathras case. In the first phase, STF teams from Bareilly and Noida have been given four FIRs for investigation. The two teams have collected details from investigating officers of these cases. STF will look into FIRs lodged against the members of Popular Front of India (PFI), Congress leader Shyoraj Jeevan Valmiki, and two other cases registered in Hathras. A senior STF official said a video clip in which Valmiki is purportedly heard plotting caste clashes would be examined. In the video, Valmiki reportedly says that a senior party leader would arrive after the “bullets are fired” and claims that he would garner support from the Samajwadi Party. “There will be a fierce clash and nobody will be able to stop riots,” Valmiki says in the video. STF will also probe the antecedents of four PFI members — Atiq-ur-Rahman from Muzaffarnagar, Siddiqui from Malappuram in Kerala, Masud Ahmad from Bahraich and Alam from Rampur. The Enforcement Directorate is also probing the case and transactions in the accounts of Masud Ahmad. The other two FIRs lodged in Hathras are against political leaders for allegedly instigating people in the district. STF will also investigate the origin of website ‘Justice for Hathras victim’ which was allegedly used to fuel tension. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-case-stf-begins-probe-into-conspiracy-angle/articleshow/78818602.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Ward 60 crucial seat for both BJP and Congress||JAIPUR: Ward No. 60 of Greater Jaipur is the hottest battleground this municipal election as both the candidates are considered as frontrunners for the mayor’s post. As the seat has been reserved for Other Backward Caste (OBC) woman candidate, the BJP has fielded Sheel Dhahabai, though the party has not officially announced her as the mayor’s face from Jaipur Greater. Similarly, cabinet minister Lal Chand Kataria is extending his support to Kiran Dewal, who is among the front runners for the mayor’s post from the Congress camp. As the seat is crucial, senior party leaders have started campaigning for their contenders. On Thursday, BJP president Satish Poonia joined Dhahabai to canvas. During the campaign, Poonia hinted that she would be the candidate for mayoral post. A BJP source said, “Poonia also met three BJP rebels who were contesting elections against her after tickets were denied to them. They were pacified by the senior leaders and chances for Dhahabai has improved.” Voters said it would be a tough battle in the ward as Congress candidate Dewal is the wife of Prithvi Raj Sangarsh Samiti president Ghyanshaam Singh, who was active on the ground for the past many years. Kataria’s campaigning scheduled this week will also make a difference. Equations in Jaipur politics before the municipal elections changed after the seats were reserved for the (OBC) women category. Many party bigwigs are now out of the Jaipur mayor’s race as both the top posts in the two proposed corporations got reserved for women (OBC) in a draw. While, the BJP is counting at its seasoned candidate in this ward, the Congress has launched a fresh face. Giriraj Singh, a resident of Ward No. 60 said, “This is the election for mayor’s post in Greater Jaipur and not for the councillor. The candidate who will win from this ward will be elected mayor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ward-60-crucial-seat-for-both-bjp-and-congress/articleshow/78816523.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Not one terror activity in UP since I took over, says Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday recalled contribution of cops martyred in duty and said 125 criminals have been snuffed out since he took over as CM in March 2017 and this contained crime. He also said property of Rs 596 crore belonging to criminals have been attached or seized and no gangster was left untouched in the crackdown. Yogi said, Rs 50 lakh compensation was raised to Rs 1 crore for families of policemen killed in Bikru massacre. “The government is with their families and is taking steps in their interest,” he said, while speaking on Police Commemoration Day at Reserve Police Lines, Mahanagar. “There has been no terror activity since I took over in 2017,” he said, citing efforts by Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) in maintaining vigil and establishing cooperation with Central and state intelligence apparatus. CM also said action by Special Task Force (STF) led to arrest of 648 criminals and 11 encounters in a year. Churning out data, he said, Gangster Act was slapped on 34,217 criminals in last one year and property of Rs 596 crore have been seized and confiscated and this sent out a strong message. “Other states have set up similar units modelled around UPSTF,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/terror-snuffed-out-in-up-since-i-took-over-reins-in-2017-yogi/articleshow/78798394.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kanpur||Bandhav Samiti’s 160th Durga Puja a low-key affair this year||Jhansi: The long awaited celebrations of the 160th Sharadiya Durga Puja of the Bandhav Samiti commenced sans its usual glitter due to Covid-19 pandemic. This year the celebrations would miss the grand Dhoonochi dance and ‘Dhakis’ specially brought from Kolkata and the evening entertainment programmes have also been suspended. Besides, the three-day Bhog (feast) will also be distributed in packets instead of being served at the pandal. Even the traditional ‘Agomoni Gaan’ (hymns) sung door-to-door on the 6th day of Navratra to mark the commencement of puja days was restricted to the Durga Bari premises where people of Bengali community gathered following social distancing norms on Thursday. President of the samiti, Pradeep Mukherjee said, “Earlier it was decided that only ‘Ghot Pujo’ will be performed with minimum participation to continue our 160-year-old tradition. But after the nod from administration it was decided to celebrate the puja following the Covid norms. We have decided to make mask mandatory for entry inside the premises. Besides, we have also made separate entry and exit gates for the common public who will be allowed to enter the pandal in a small number at a time”. Since 1861, the Durga Puja is being celebrated here by the Bengali community who settled here over a century and a half ago. The Bandhav Samiti has been associated with the one of the oldest Durga Puja in the state. The uniqueness of the puja here is that the idol is prepared by a Muslim artisan, a tradition transferred from the father to his son. Following environment friendly measures, the samiti has even started to immerse the idol inside the Durga Bari premises inside a specially made tank since many years. “We have been attached to the Pujo since our birth and it is a part of our culture and tradition. Most of us take leave during this period to lend our hand to the puja preparations. This is for the first time that we are experiencing such a void. However, we are still happy that at least the puja is taking place since it is our 160th puja”, said Pradeep Kumar Tarafdar, a senior committee member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bandhav-samitis-160th-durga-puja-a-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/78815449.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 23, 2020||Varanasi||Last minute nod for idol installation leads to chaos||Varanasi: On the eve of Saptami- the seventh day of Navratra when idols of Goddess Durga is opened for devotees after installation- several puja organisers who had placed orders for idols, could be found making hue and cry for their orders at the earliest. On the other hand, majority of organisers have preferred Kalash Pujan while old puja organisers in Bengali dominated area have barred entry of devotees in pandals in view of Covid-19 menace. At the workshop of Nirmal Dada, his junior Jaideo revealed that to meet expenses of wages of their regular labourers they had created 8-10 small idols of Goddess Durga and sold the same. “We did not take more orders even after the district administration granted permission for installing small idols in puja pandals on October 14 as artisan from West Bengal, who used to camp here since April every year, either avoided coming or had returned. In such a case, taking order for more idols was not a wise decision,” he said. But, at the workshop of another prominent artisan Abhijit Biswass workshop the artisans could be found struggling to complete their orders apart from handling the puja organisers desperate to get their orders. Biswas, who used to make around 60 idols for Durga Puja, said that as there were no orders earlier, he asked West Bengal artisans to return home. But, later the administration permitted idol installation following which he and his team members, who had around 20 structures ready, accepted the orders for around 36 idols. He said that he couldn’t refuse these orders as they were from people having decades old relations with his workshop. Biswas and his team could be found working hard to ensure that all the idols are delivered by late night to ensure timely installation. The Kendriya Puja Samiti president Tilakraj Mishra said that many puja organisers have managed to procure small idols from artisans in Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar (Mughalsarai) in Chandauli but still idols are not available at around 100 pandals. The total number of Durga Puja organisers is above 500 in the district. “We were seeking permission for only Kalash Pujan but the administration surprisingly agreed to permit idol installation. As artisans were not in position to prepare idols within a week, majority of organisers have opted for Kalash Pujan. As per the records, a total of 503 idols, including 259 in city areas, are installed at Durga Puja pandals every year. Following the state government’s guidelines in view of Covid-19, the district administration granted permission for puja pandals and idol installation in prescribed sizes, on October 14. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and SSP Amit Pathak not only made it clear that puja organisers will install idols of less than 5ft, but also directed not to hold any night-long celebrations. At many puja pandals in Pandey Haveli, Bengalitola and adjoining areas, the idols have been installed along with banners containing instruction that entry of devotees is not allowed in view of Covid-19. Only members of the puja organising committee will be allowed to enter the pandal for performing rituals there, said the office bearers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/last-minute-nod-for-idol-installation-leads-to-chaos/articleshow/78815678.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kanpur||DM to head panel for solving issues of tannery owners||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar heard the grievances of tannery owners and directed the district magistrate on Wednesday to constitute a committee to solve their issues. In a meeting of Udyog Bandhu, a delegation of tannery owners led by Leather Export Promotion Council regional chairman Javed Iqbal, Ashraf Rizwan, Mohd Arshi, Javed Firoz and Arshad Jamal met the divisional commissioner and raised the issue of Jal Nigam doubling the rate of Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) operation and maintenance. They said Jal Nigam had initially fixed the rate at Rs 7 per hide, but raised it to Rs 20.35 in 2018 which was strongly opposed by them. The state government then ordered the tanneries to run at half capacity, after which the district administration imposed a 15-day roster. The result was that production was reduced to one-fourth. Now, Jal nigam is issuing notices for payment of CETP operation and maintenance cost. The divisional commissioner noted the points raised by the tannery association and asked the district magistrate to set up a committee of municipal commissioner, Jal Nigam, joint commissioner industries, and representatives of tannery owners. The committee will hold a meeting within 15 days and whatever it decides would be binding on all. Jal Nigam officials, however, said tannery owners should deposit 50% of demanded cost till a decision is taken by the committee. The divisional commissioner also asked the district magistrate to present a proposal for arranging land for setting up a mega leather cluster within 15 days. The problem of waterlogging in Rania industrial estate was also raised and it was decided that a separate DPR be made after a meeting with all stakeholders. The commissioner also told the SDM and chief fire officer to send a proposal for setting up a fire station in Rania industrial estate through DM Kanpur Dehat. He also asked officials of PWD and other departments to construct the broken roads in industrial estates and complete the patchwork by November 15. Raj Shekhar also asked officials to handover the building for the regional office of ESI and its dispensary without delay. Joint director, industries, Sarveshwar Shukla said he would convene a meeting soon and complete the proceedings of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dm-to-head-panel-for-solving-issues-of-tannery-owners/articleshow/78816608.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||In Nilgiris, daily spike doubles to 60 in a day||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district saw a sharp increase in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, when it recorded 63 new cases, up from 30 on Wednesday. With this, the tally has touched 6,273, of which 425 are active cases. A total of 19 patients were discharged from treatment centres on the day, taking the number of recovered patients to 5,811. Of the 63 new cases, 18 people had travel history to other districts. The remaining were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. There is a considerable dip in the number of cases, which had touched 144 on October 12. Also, the number of active cases has reduced to below 450 from 799 some 10 days ago. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health department, said, “The main reasons for the decrease in caseload are strict focus on containment areas and immediate hospitalization of positive cases.” He said at least 2,000 samples were being tested for Covid-19 a day. The hill district has tested 1,40,980 people so far. The official said the standard operating procedures were strictly followed in buses, as chances of the virus transmission during travel were very high. “We increased the number of services while limiting the passenger capacity to 50%. This worked well.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-nilgiris-daily-spike-doubles-to-60-in-a-day/articleshow/78816540.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Farm bill: Rajasthan assembly session likely on November 2||JAIPUR: The state government has written to the Speaker to convene an assembly session in the first week of November to bring in a legislation to counter the three farm laws enforced by the Centre last month, sources said on Thursday. The session could be convened as early as November 2. The last assembly session, which was convened from August 14 following the rebellion by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and the political crisis faced by the Ashok Gehlot government, was adjourned on August 24. Since the session was adjourned but not prorogued, the Speaker will not require the governor’s consent to reconvene the House, sources said. “A draft of the bill is being readied. The session will be called in the first week of November to pass the bill,” PCC chief and cabinet minister Govind Singh Dotasra said on Thursday. The state government’s proposed farm law will guarantee to continue procurement of crops at minimum support price (MSP), permit farmers and mandis to approach a civil court over disputes with traders and state control to check black marketing/hoarding. The Congress had been stressing on these aspects not provisioned in the three laws framed by the Centre. Congress-ruled Punjab passed its own law to counter the Centre’s farm laws on Tuesday. Rajasthan might become the second state to do so. In a cabinet meeting held on Tuesday night, the ministers suggested to modify Punjab’s law to suit Rajasthan farmers’ needs. Sources said the state law would continue to allow private players to enter contract farming or buy directly from the farmers as entailed in the Centre’s laws, but would introduce provisions mandating every purchase to be done at MSP. The state was planning to make procurement of crops below MSP a penal offence, said sources. In Rajasthan, the MSP is currently given on seven crops—wheat, gram, black gram (udad), moong, groundnut, soyabean and mustard. Rajasthan might allow farmers the right to end contract farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farm-bill-raj-assembly-session-likely-on-nov-2/articleshow/78818222.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||Enforce police watch on roads to ensure wearing of masks: HC||PRAYAGRAJ: To ensure cent percent wearing of face masks in the state, the Allahabad high court has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure that every road in the state should have a constant surveillance of police from 7am to 10pm. Besides, the court directed that a task force must be formed for surveillance of roads and surveillance plan can be implemented in the cities of Prayagraj, Kanpur, Varanasi, Agra and Lucknow at first and thereafter, it may be followed in other districts of the state. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar fixed November 9 as the next date for hearing of this matter. During the course of hearing, the additional advocate general, representing the state government, informed the court that a health officer in each municipality has already been appointed in the state for proper fogging and sanitization of the municipality. In other connected PIL relating to the issue of parking and encroachment over public land, the court directed authorities to remove any re-encroachment over public land. The additional advocate general further informed the court that the authorities are working to identify new vending zones/places in state for hawkers who have been dispossessed from the earlier places of occupation, which they had earlier encroached upon. During the course of hearing, the counsel for Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) apprised the court that the parking opposite the Yatrik Hotel and behind the Raj Karan Palace at Prayagraj have started functioning. The court passed this order on October 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/enforce-police-watch-on-roads-to-ensure-wearing-of-masks-hc/articleshow/78815146.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University to hold midterms by Nov-end, semester exams pushed to Feb||LUCKNOW: The mid-term assessment of undergraduate and postgraduate students in Lucknow University will be winded up by November and the semester examinations are likely to be held in February. The decision taken in a meeting on Thursday has brought relief to students who were worried about the delay and the probability of mid-term assessment and semester examinations being held back-to-back to compensate for the delay. Every year, midterm assessment is held in October, but since there was no announcement this year, students suspected it may be held in December and feared they may have to appear in back-to-back examinations. Now, since midterms will end in November, students will get enough time to prepare for the semester exams likely to be held in February. The heads of departments will decide whether to conduct midterm examination in online or offline mode. The undergraduate internals will be of 20 marks with 10 marks for presentation on a topic selected by students and remaining 10 will be for assignments. The presentation marks have to be submitted by November 30 and of academic participation by December 31. For postgraduate students, the total internals of 30 marks will include 15 of written test to be completed by November 30 and 15 of academic participation by December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-to-hold-midterms-by-nov-end-semester-exams-pushed-to-feb/articleshow/78818534.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Only nationalism, not casteism, will thrive: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW/MEERUT: Flagging off the campaigning for UP assembly bypolls, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday reiterated his commitment of providing security to women and checking the exodus of people from west UP owing to caste and communal flare up. In a scathing attack, CM Yogi said opposition was sympathizing with organisations which have been trying to stoke tension. “A Congress leader and its former president went to meet a PFI leader in Kerala. Congress has been sympathizing with the organisation that has been actively contributing in creating tension in the country,” he said. He also exhorted on BJP's development and nationalism slogan taking centrestage in UP. "Those who play politics of caste, show them the mirror & tell them that their casteism slogans won't work in Western UP but only BJP's developmental & nationalism slogans will work," he said. “Youth like Sachin and Gaurav won’t be sacrificing their lives any more,” Yogi said at a rally in Bulandshahr where bypoll will be held on November 3. Yogi tears into Opposition, says it wants to divide nationHe said innocent youth like Sachin and Gaurav lost their lives because of caste and communal politics in the region. The lynching of Jat youths, Sachin and Gaurav, had triggered Muzaffarnagar communal clashes in 2013. The duo was accused of having killed a youth from another community. Yogi’s remarks are being seen as BJP’s attempt to consolidate the party’s position among Jats who form a major vote bank in west UP region. BJP has fielded Usha Sirohi, widow of senior BJP MLA Virendra Singh Sirohi. Yogi, along with UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, also addressed rallies in Naugawan Sadat (Amroha) and Tundla on Thursday. He said this was the same region where Kanwar Yatra was banned by the Akhilesh government on the ground of ers,” Yogi said in a veiled attack on Ajit Singh-led Rashtriya Lok Dal which is contesting from Bulandshahr in alliance with SP. Addressing a rally in Naugawan Sadat (Amroha) assembly seat, Yogi said criminal elements used to hold sway because people were divided into castes. “But now the criminal elements are either behind bars or are dead.” In Tundla, where BJP has fielded Prempal Singh Dhangar, Yogi accused the Samajwadi Party of orchestrating violence in the name of caste and opposing people centric schemes of the BJP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-nationalism-not-casteism-will-thrive/articleshow/78818621.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Coronavirus bugs 281, claims 4 lives in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths in the city continued to be the highest in the state on Thursday. As many as 281 more people tested positive for novel coronavirus infection in 24 hours, while four city residents lost the battle with the disease. The fresh infections accounted for 12% of the total reported in all 75 districts. Among deaths, 11% of the overall were in Lucknow. With this, the city’s caseload reached 60,912 since the outbreak. About 94% of these including 312 patients on Thursday have recovered so far. However, deaths have mounted to 837. While the daily transmission has come down, the rate of casualty continues to be over 1.3%. Around 3,450 are still carrying the virus. Of these 2,285 patients are in home isolation and the rest in hospital. Condition of about 150 patients was said to be serious. Within the city, Gomtinagar continued to record the highest number of cases with 27 more residents testing Covid-19 positive on Thursday, followed by Indiranagar 25, Rae Bareli Roard 20, Chinhat 18, Chowk 17, Aliganj and Jankipuram 16 each, Alambagh 14, Talkatora 12, Madiaon 11 and Hazratganj and Vikasnagar 10 cases each. According to the CMO office, total eight patients died in Lucknow hospitals, of which four were city residents and four from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronavirus-bugs-281-claims-4-lives/articleshow/78818546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Varanasi||33 Indian workers held hostage by Somalia firm||GORAKHPUR: A company in Somalia, SOM Steel Limited, is alleged to have held 33 Indian labourers, including 25 from Uttar Pradesh, hostage since last eight months, and are not being fed properly. Their plight came to light when a labourer hailing from Kushinagar district contacted Rajesh Mani of Manav Seva Sansthan seeking help. Mani contacted Indian High Commission in Nairobi, Kenya and external affairs ministry through tweet and email on Wednesday apprising them of the labourers plight and was assured of help. The mission in Kenya replied to Mani within two hours, saying they are in touch with the Somalian government for the rescue of 33 Indian labourers in Mogadishu. Among the captive labourers, 21 are from Gorakhpur division, including seven from Gorakhpur, 10 from Kushinagar, three from Deoria and one from Maharajganj. One labourer is from Siddharthnagar, one Sant Kabir Nagar and two from Gonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/33-indian-workers-held-hostage-by-somalia-firm/articleshow/78816475.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Covid graph on downward spiral after peak in districts||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh saw Covid-19 peak in pockets which saved the state from witnessing a huge surge, said officials in the state health department on Thursday. Claiming that the number of active infections in UP had declined to about 29,000, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “Different districts of UP witnessed Covid-19 peak at different times and fizzled out. In this way, Covid-19 peak took place in pockets in the state. As a result, even the highest peak in the state was not big considering the population and risk of spread.” Prasad said that 21 districts saw Covid-19 peak in August, while 50 recorded the peak in September. The week between September 8-15 saw Covid surge in a maximum of 24 districts. Meanwhile, 2,402 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state tally to over 4.6 lakh on Thursday. The number of recoveries reported during the same time was 2,581 which took the total to 4,27,937. The state also recorded the death of 35 persons, taking the total to 6,790. Saying that the peak had declined in all the districts, Prasad said though the number of cases was falling, the risk of the virus still persisted. “The ongoing festive season increased economic activity and changing weather conditions has made it easy for the virus to spread. Therefore, prevention protocols must be adhered under all circumstances,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-graph-on-downward-spiral-after-peak-in-districts/articleshow/78818576.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Food controller suspended, 13 FIRs lodged||LUCKNOW: Barely a month into the paddy procurement season, a regional food controller in Bareilly was suspended for irregularities in paddy purchase and 13 FIRs were registered in six different districts of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday for anomalies in procurement. The state government suspended 11 officials and sent adverse reports against four officials while 21 others were handed out warnings and another 184 officials slapped with notices after lapses were found in improper handling of paddy purchase centres. Home officials said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, regional food controller (RFC) in Bareilly was suspended for corrupt practices in paddy purchase in the region. Commissioner Bareilly will lead the inquiry, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/food-controller-suspended-13-firs-lodged/articleshow/78818596.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||FIR against rumours of mass conversion by Valmikis in Ghaziabad||LUCKNOW: Amid a swirling controversy over Valmikis in Ghaziabad’s Karhera village embracing Buddhism to protest the alleged brutality on the Hathras Dalit girl, an FIR was registered on Thursday on a complaint by a Valmiki community member, who alleged forms promising jobs and perks were circulated in Karhera in October second week and a false narrative was built on mass conversions. Ghaziabad police said, investigations revealed talk on religious conversions was exaggerated and circulated as a part of plot to show the state government in poor light. Talking to TOI, additional superintendent of police, Gyanendra Singh, said, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of a villager, Monu Valmiki. “Charges of vilification of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language and public mischief were pressed against unidentified persons,” he said. During investigation, it was found a criminal conspiracy was hatched to spread rumours on religious conversions to disturb harmony, police said. Blank forms and incomplete documents were distributed as government beneficiary schemes and rumours of religious conversions were spread to tarnish government’s image, a police official privy to probe told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fir-against-rumours-of-mass-conversion-by-valmikis-in-gzb/articleshow/78818634.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Prevention is only remedy of Covid at present, says doctor||LUCKNOW: As no treatment of novel coronavirus has been discovered so far precaution is the only remedy, said Dr Ajay Shankar Tripathi, head, pathology department and chief consultant, Covid wing, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civil Hospital. Addressing a workshop at Sri Ram Global School on Thursday, the doctor highlighted measures taken by the UP government in checking the spread of Covid-19. Dr Tripathi said that the aged, pregnant women, children and persons suffering from diabetes, cancer, asthma needed special care to protect themselves from the virus. He said that initially virus samples were sent to Pune and Delhi, but now the testing labs are set up in the state. As many as 46 RTPCR machines and TrunAT facilities are available in 75 districts besides CB-NAAT machines in eight districts and 142 private labs, he added. Replying to a query raised by senior teacher Pooja Prasad about use of triple layer or N95 masks, he said that the home-made cotton masks are the best which should be changed after every six hours and in case of getting wet. Dr Asutosh Partap Singh, manager of Civil Hospital, Dr Shravan Chaudhary from pharmacy, teachers and employees of Sri Ram Global School were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prevention-is-only-remedy-of-covid-at-present-says-doc/articleshow/78818553.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kanpur||4 wanted criminals caught in encounter||Jhansi: Police caught four interstate wanted criminals after a brief encounter in Jhansi on Thursday. Three out of four have sustained bullet injuries on their legs and have been admitted at Jhansi Medical College, while the fourth one is in police custody. As per details, all the four accused were intercepted near Notghat Bridge under Baruasagar police station in the afternoon. As they saw the police, the gang opened fire on them. The police also fired in retaliation, overpowering all the four and injuring three of them. The accused have been identified as Sanjive Chaturvedi alias Sanji (32), resident of Lalitpur, and Rajdeep Chauhan alias Kallu (26), Raja Babu Chauhan (20) and KP Singh Chauhan (26), residents of Madhya Pradesh. Rajdeep, Sanjive and Raja Babu were carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000 each on their heads. Moreover, the three accused from MP—Rajdeep, Raja Babu and KP Singh—carried an additional reward of Rs 10 thousand each in two different police stations of MP. Police recovered three country-made guns, a semi-automatic pistol along with a number of live cartridges and cash worth Rs 50,000. Jhansi SSP Dinesh Kumar P said, “The police were looking for them in a loot case that took place a month ago in which the gang looted Rs 2.25 lakh cash from a businessman near Baruasagar. The victim was travelling with a huge amount of cash from MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-wanted-criminals-caught-in-encounter/articleshow/78815438.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Nashik||Sharp fall in active cases in Sinnar||Nashik: The industrial town of Sinnar in Nashik district has reported a sharp fall in Covid-19 cases over the past 10 days. According to the rural health officials, the number of active cases, that once was around 1,000, now has almost halved. Moreover, most positive patients are now opting for home isolation. Sinnar has three CCCs and one dedicated Covid health centre. “At present, there are 598 Covid-19 positive patients. Of them, 412 have opted for home-isolation. This means there is minimal pressure on health workers at the CCCs. This also means more attention can be paid to those who need it. We have two CCCs currently working, and the third one is ready to serve whenever required,” taluka health officer Mohan Bachchhav said. Bachchhav said greater awareness among people has helped the authorities and health workers put a check on the spread of the infection. Asked if any of the facilities would be shut temporarily, the officer said: “We have decided compulsorily admitting Covid-19 patients with comorbidities and those who are aged above 50 years (even if they are asymptomatic) to the facilities so that their treatment is not compromised.” The officer added the number of new cases in Sinnar had dropped from 60 per day to about 20 per day. The swab testing count too has fallen from 150 to around 50 a day. Moreover, antigen tests are being done in primary health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sharp-fall-in-active-cases-in-sinnar/articleshow/78816545.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||‘Follow Covid protocol in GPDP meets’||Lucknow: Chief secretary RK Tiwari on Thursday directed officials concerned to ensure that Covid-19 protocol is strictly observed during meetings held for the formulation of Gram Panchayat Development Programme (GPDP). Reviewing the work taken up under Jan Yojana Abhiyan 2020-21, Tiwari said in view of Covid-19 pandemic, panchayat members should follow social distancing and wear masks while attending meetings. “Panchayats can hold meetings in smaller groups to avoid crowd. They should ensure better participation and include issues concerning women and children in GPDP,” he added. The GPDP exercise, which started on October 2 will continue till January 31 next year. Under this, all gram panchayats have been mandated to prepare a plan for economic development and social justice on the basis of resources available with them. The planning will involve convergence with schemes of all central ministries related to 29 subjects listed in the Eleventh Schedule of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/follow-covid-protocol-in-gpdp-meets/articleshow/78818565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Varanasi||Accused taken to crime spot for probe||Varanasi: After CJM court’s order of 48-hour police remand for Dhirendra Pratap Singh, the main accused in firing incident at Durjanpur on October 15, Ballia police took him to the crime spot and his house to recover the firearm used in the incident. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said Dhirendra was sent to jail on October 19, Ballia police had started process to take him on remand for further investigation. The CJM court had ordered 48-hour police remand since Thursday morning after which police started further investigation, he said. Police took Dhirendra to the crime spot in Durjanpur village where he had opened fire killing one Jaiprakash Pal on October 15, and also to his house amidst tig ht security arrangements. While he was near his house, Dhirendra interacted with his mother and asked his neighbours to take care of his family. However, it couldn’t become clear whether police succeeded in recovering the revolver used by Dhirendra, as DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chandra Dubey as well as SP Ballia Devendra Nath could not be contacted despite repeated efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/accused-taken-to-crime-spot-for-probe/articleshow/78815693.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Lamborghini craze lands teen techie in jail||LUCKNOW: The fascination for luxury sports car Lamborghini and the dream to own one by hook or crook has landed a 19-year-old engineering student behind the bars. The teen techie hailing from Saran district of Bihar was caught impersonating for a candidate in interview for group D job in railways in Prayagraj on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Manishek Kumar of Aami village, was caught by Atul Mishra, chairperson of railway recruitment cell, Prayagraj. According to railway officials, the accused was caught after he correctly solved difficult mathematical equations within seconds and that too in fluent English, triggering suspicion. “The accused with a beard, wearing branded clothes had claimed that he hails from a poor family and had studied in Hindi medium. In order to confirm our suspicion, we cross checked the biometrics and photo of the candidate Ayushman Aman given in December 2019 for physical efficiency test (PET) and found the person appearing in the interview before us was different,” said Mishra. “The accused had appeared for Ayushman Aman in the written exam as well and had taken Rs 7.50 lakh for it,” he said, adding, “Though in questioning later he claimed to have taken only Rs 26,000.” During the probe, railway officials found that the second year engineering student had a fascination for Lamborghini and had been impersonating candidates in entrance exams for professional courses and jobs to collect the money to buy one. “In a WhatsApp chat retrieved from his mobile phone, the accused had even communicated his wish to buy a Lamborghini with his handler, saying he is collecting money for it by charging for impersonation,” added Mishra. The probe also revealed that the accused had earlier cleared NEET for another candidate. Railways had conducted a computer based test for group D job in 2018, following which a PET was conducted in 2019. The candidates were called for an interview after Covid-19 lockdown ended. At each stage, biometrics and photos of candidates were matched, but in this case the real candidate Ayushman Aman appeared only for PET and he and the impersonator Manishek somehow managed to dodge scrutiny till the latter appeared in the interview and was caught. The accused was booked under Sections 419, 420, 467,468 and 471 of IPC. He was sent to jail on Thursday. According to railway officials, 67 candidates had been called for interview out of which 15 were absent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lamborghini-craze-lands-teen-techie-in-jail/articleshow/78818561.cms||Arvind Chauhan
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||PGI team inspects wards, thanks staff||LUCKNOW: In times of virtual care, a team from SGPGI’s administration made physical rounds of the intensive care units and high-dependency wards of Rajdhani Covid-19 hospital on Thursday. Led by director Prof RK Dhiman, the team that comprised Prof RK Singh, Dr Alok Nath and Dr OP Sanjeevan wore PPE gear and took stock of the situation inside wards. Besides speaking to patients about any issues they were facing, the team lent a patient ear to the employees posted here. Later talking to reporters, Prof Dhiman said that the aim of the exercise was to boost the morale of the staff which has been working hard during the pandemic. “It is natural for fatigue to set in. While on the one hand, we went there to take stock of the situation, we also thanked them for their hard work and sense of commitment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pgi-team-inspects-wards-thanks-staff/articleshow/78818568.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP 112 will now respond to 'Daroga Ji, Chori Ho Gaeel'||LUCKNOW: Perhaps in a first for a police force in the country, UP Police’s emergency helpline service, UP 112, will now answer calls in regional dialects as well. The initiative is aimed at wider reach for people in distress, especially in the rural areas of the state, besides spreading awareness about various schemes of UP 112 for elderly in emergency situations. Among the dialects to be added are Bhojpuri, Awadhi, Braj, Bundeli, and Uttarakhandi. This is being done on the suggestion of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Giving details, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi, said callers fluent in local dialects have been selected. “The initiative has been taken to further improve the response time in the action taken after receiving a complaint. This will also make a complainant using a local dialect comfortable and confident while communicating with the cops of the help line service,” he added. ADG, UP 112, Asim Arun said that on the directions of CM, a need was felt for those people who can converse only in regional dialects. “We first identified communication officers who could converse in local dialects and then they were given training,” he added. The communication officers serving at the emergency services have been specially trained, he said. Arun added that women seeking help on UP 112 are more comfortable communicating in the local dialect. So this initiative will help them to share their problems with clarity and avail timely help in emergency, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-112-will-now-respond-to-daroga-ji-chori-ho-gaeel/articleshow/78818661.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||JDA approved colonies, but yet to provide basic facilities||JAIPUR: Besides other civic problems, no drainage system is the major issue that the residents of wards in Vidhyadhar Nagar are facing. Many colonies were approved by the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), but after five years, residents are still waiting for proper roads and sewerage lines in their areas. Deepak Maheshwari, a resident of the area, said, “The colonies developed the civic body are functioning properly. However, most of the colonies do not have civic facilities. There is no co-operation from the government officials as well.” General board of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) ceased to exist last year in November. Since then, civic work has been neglected in the area. Now, local representatives are not in charge, the advantage of which is being taken by the officials. “Door-to-door garbage collection is totally failed. Except in main roads, vehicles do not come to the inner lanes. Depots are coming back and sanitation condition is degrading,” said Rashmi Jain, another resident. Most of the colonies do not have drainage system and waterlogging is a big problem over there. During monsoon, waterlogged roads had become a major problem as many people were stuck in traffic for long hours. “In kachhi basti, condition is bad as people are not that politically connected to get their work done. During monsoon, people have to struggle in the locality to get out of their house due to chocked sewerage line and waterlogged roads,” said Kehsav Dhanka, a resident. In 2014, out of 14 wards in Vidhyadhar Nagar legislative assembly area, 10 seats were with BJP, 2 independents and 2 Congress. GFX Headline: No proper roads, sewer lines in Vidhyadhar Nagar Voxpop Mahipal Singh Garbage depots are surfacing everywhere. The sanitation problem is visible clearly. Sanitation workers of the JMC never come on time and most of them neglect their duties. Bhagwat God During monsoon, roads get blocked due to heavy waterlogging. Even the colonies approved by the JDA do not have basic infrastructure like roads, street lights, drainage system. People have to spend money from their pockets. Rajesh Salodiya In kacchi basti, there are no sewerage lines and proper drainage system. Most of the time sewerage lines are choked and dirty water keep flowing on roads. Even after many complaints to officials, our pleas are not taken seriously. Former councillors Dinesh Kanwat | Former BJP councillor Everywhere, sewerage, drainage and other civic amenities are in bad shape. Our complaints are not resolved even after complaining many times at the corporation’s office. There is a need to get better board in the city which I believe the BJP will make. Manju Sharma | Former Congress councillor Sewerage, roads, sanitation are some of the problems people of the area are facing. Our government has worked efficiently till the board was functioning. We are certain it will be our victory. Narpat Singh Rajvi | MLA There is a lack of co-ordination between different departments. Everyone tries to do away with their responsibilities and people suffer. Things will not work properly until good councillors are elected. I am sure people will vote for the BJP considering the work we have done in the past. Main issues No sewerage lines Street lights No pucca roads Sanitation Waterlogging during monsoon Irregular garbage collection system Drinking water Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage Number of wards (After delimitation) – 42 Ward numbers – 1 - 42 Number of wards (Before delimitation) – 14 Ward numbers – 01-14 BJP – 10 INC – 2 Independent – 2 Voters (Voters’ List 2020 - JMC, Heritage) Male – 1,74,323 Female – 1,57,628 Total – 3,31,951||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-approved-colonies-but-yet-to-provide-basic-facilities/articleshow/78816544.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Marital dispute ends in two murders||RAJKOT: A bitter marital discord ended in the brutal murder of a woman and her maternal uncle in Chunaravad locality in full public view about 50m from busy railway station area which also has Thorala police station located nearby on Thursday evening. The assailant identified as Imran Pathan (31) then went home and immolated himself along with two children — aged eight and seven years. Imran and his two children, along with his mother-in-law Firoza Pathan (48), whom he had stabbed earlier, are battling for life in hospital. Police said Imran first allegedly stabbed his wife Nazia Pathan (28), her maternal uncle Nazeer Akhtar Pathan (46) and his mother-in-law Firoza Pathan (48) near the railway station in full public view. While Nazia and Nazeer died on the spot, Firoza was rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where her condition is said to be stable. According to the police, Imran and Nazia were not getting along well. They had applied for divorce and started living separately. However, after they reached a compromise, Nazia returned to live with Imran. But on the day of the crime, Nazia went to her mother’s house in Rukhadiapara locality from where she called up 181 Abhyam helpline, asking their help to secure the custody of her two children. “When Imran came to know about this, he went to Firoza’s house and entered into a heated argument. While the argument was on, in a fit of rage, Imran stabbed Nazia, Nazeer and Firoza with a knife,” said Manoharsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police, Rajkot west. After stabbing his wife and her kin, Imran rushed to his house and set himself and his son Ikan Pathan (8) and daughter Allu alias Aasu Pathan (7) — ablaze, added Jadeja. Imran and his sons were admitted to the burns ward of the Rajkot civil hospital, where the condition of his sons is said to be critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/marital-dispute-ends-in-two-murders/articleshow/78815251.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Surat||Yet another diamond trader ends life in Surat||SURAT: “There is no business and my partners are insisting on closing down. Hence I am taking the extreme step," read the suicide note left behind by a 39-year-old diamond businessman who hanged himself to death at his office in Mahidharpura area of the city on Wednesday. Mukesh Patel, a resident of Katargam area, took his own life self using a rope. Police have recovered the note from his office at Kabir Building in Dalgiya Mahollo in Mahidharpura. The door was locked from inside and when no one was responding to the knocking, neighbours alerted the police and also called family members of Patel. After the police and Patel’s brother arrived at the spot, they broke open the door and found Patel hanging. Police are yet to find out exactly how much debt Patel was in as the family members were busy in performing his last rights. “The exact amount of debt or financial loss is yet to be found out. Once the family members are free, police will investigate further,” said a police officer from Mahidharpura police station. Patel hailed from Bhavnagar district and lived with family in Lakshmi Township near Gajera School in Katargam. Debt-ridden Patel also suffered huge losses during the lockdown, found police during preliminary investigation. Like all other diamantaires, Patel too had made purchases before lockdown on credit. During the lockdown, majority of the stock remained unsold with Patel. He also did not receive payment for the diamonds that he sold just before lockdown. “After lockdown, he managed to sell off some stock but without any profit margin, thereby incurring heavy loss," said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/financial-crisis-pushes-yet-another-diamond-merchant-to-end-life/articleshow/78815098.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Study records 8 endemic plant species in Ambazari Bio Park||Nagpur: The Ambazari Biodiversity Park, spread over 758 hectares is not only a bird’s paradise but also a safe haven for endemic plant species. Out of the 215 endemic plant species which are found in Maharashtra, 8 species have been reported here. “These findings are part of a study conducted by a botanical expert from the Forest Survey of India (FSI), Central Zone, Nagpur. The research was conducted for all the three seasons between March 2019 till September 2020, and the report was released a few days ago,” said Prabhunath Shukla, deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), Nagpur. Shukla says the study on floral diversity of Ambazari has revealed a higher level of endemism. It was conducted by researcher K Chandramohan from the FSI. The research has revealed the presence of 415 plant species belonging to 283 genera and 77 families in the biodiversity park area. “Due to the grasslands and good habitat, we recorded 263 species of birds at the Ambazari forest earlier and hence, the biodiversity park is known as a bird’s paradise,” said Shukla. The 758-hectare Ambazari forest land was handed over to the department in lieu of the forest area diverted for the inter-state Bawanthadi dam between Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The eight endemic species have been recorded for the first time in Maharashtra. Take for example the Boerhavia crispa. This species was earlier recorded from only Karnataka and Tamil Nadu but has now been found in Ambazari. Cyathocline manilaliana, which is recorded only from Telangana, has been reported from the park here. Similarly, other endemic plant species Andrographis longipedunculata, Telosma pallid, Dipcadi saxorum, Iphigenia pallidar, Boerhavia crispa, Cyathocline manilaliana, Oropetium roxburghianum, & Tripogon filiformis have been reported during the study. “The endemic plant species are usually more vulnerable to anthropogenic threats and natural changes and therefore, hold a higher extinction risk. The preservation of these species is a major concern in a worldwide context and thus, their in-situ conservation should be the topmost priority for any biodiversity management practices,” said Chandramohan. The FSI researcher added that “The biodiversity park is also known for its grass diversity. I found 47 species of the grass family. They are characteristically reported in regions where there is insufficient soil water to support an arboreal canopy yet adequate moisture to permit the existence of a grass-dominated canopy rather than desert vegetation.” According to the study, “Biodiversity in grasslands is complicated because of the rather subtle nature of the grassland ecosystem. Ironically, the largest family representing the diversity of the Ambazari Biodiversity Park is Leguminosae (Legume family), of which 62 species were recorded in the park area. High diversity of Leguminosae family, which fix atmospheric nitrogen and enrich the nitrogen status of the soil is probably due to nutrient-poor soil developed from basalt originated from Deccan trap.” Sounding a note of caution, Chandramohan said, “At times we overlook the biodiversity importance of the grasslands and this is the reason we should accord high conservation priority to the grasslands which face pressure due to grazing, forest fires, and many times plantation activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/study-records-8-endemic-plant-species-in-ambazari-bio-park/articleshow/78816572.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||14 RAS officers promoted to IAS rank||Jaipur: The central department of personnel and training on Thursday promoted 14 Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officers to the IAS (Indian Administrative Service) rank.A notification in this connection stated, “The President is pleased to appoint the following members of the State Civil Service of Rajasthan to the Indian Administrative Service against the vacancies determined by the government of India under Regulation 5(1) of the said Regulations in consultation with the state government for the Select List of 2019, on probation until further orders and to allocate them to the Rajasthan cadre, under Rule 5(1) of the IAS (Cadre) Rules, 1954.”The promoted officers are Mahendra Kumar Parakh, Hridesh Kumar Sharma, Laxam Singh Kuri, Nalini Kathotia, Rajendra Singh Shekhawat, Sohan Lal Sharma, Meghraj Singh Ratnoo, Anuprerna Singh Kuntal, Rajendra Vijay, Prakash Chandra Sharma, Shakti Singh Rathore, Kum. Pragya Kewalramani, Tara Chand Meena and Hari Mohan Meena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/14-ras-officers-promoted-to-ias-rank/articleshow/78816551.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Central team visits flood-hit areas in Telangana, takes stock of losses||HYDERABAD: The state government will update the flood loss and submit a report to the visiting central team. The report will cover damage to properties and crops in the state due to excessive rainfall recently. The central team comprising senior officials of four departments reached Hyderabad on Thursday and interacted with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and others. The team also visited some of the flood-affected areas in Hyderabad. The government had earlier submitted a report to the Union government by estimating the losses at Rs 8,000 crore. The report had mentioned about the loss incurred till October 16. Officials said the updated report would be prepared by including the latest losses. A financial consultant from the Centre was also part of the central team. Reportedly, the team has asked the state government to look at the disaster relief norms and prepare the report accordingly. However, official sources said the disaster management rules do not provide support for restoration works of roads or tanks and relief is provided only for crop damage. “A high-level committee in the Centre will go through the report submitted by the state government before suggesting any financial relief,” sources said. Meanwhile, the central team of joint secretary Praveen Vasista, RB Kaul from finance ministry, K Manoharan from the agriculture ministry and SK Kushwaha from the road transport and highways ministry went to Falaknuma area and took stock of the damage left behind by the floods. They visited Al-Jubail Colony, Ghazi Millat Colony, Kandikal Gate main road, Hafeez Baba Nagar and other flood-affected areas along with GHMC officials. The team also visited Palle Cheruvu and Balapur. Some members of the team later visited Siddipet to assess the crop damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-team-visits-flood-hit-areas-takes-stock-of-losses/articleshow/78818259.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Court stays salary cut of teachers||Jaipur: The Rajasthan high court on Thursday stayed the state government’s decision to deduct one-day salary of government teachers, in a civil writ petition filed by an individual.Meanwhile, the state government has reconsidered its decision to cut the salaries of ayurveda nurses, having included them in the category of essential services. There are around 1,500-2,000 ayurveda nurses in the state and around 50,000 teachers.Four different cadres under All Rajasthan State Government Employees’ Joint Federation had filed four applications in the high court against the government’s decision to cut salaries of the employees. The hearing in the five other petitions will be held on November 3.The cabinet had earlier decided to deduct two day’s remuneration of officers belonging to all-India and state services and one-day’s salary of other employees from September to mobilise resources for Covid relief fund.BoxEmployees demand bonus, payment of deducted amount before DiwaliJaipur: A day after the Centre announced bonus for the central government employees, the All Rajasthan State Government Employees’ Joint Federation on Friday demanded that state government employees should also be given bonus before Diwali. They have urged the government to release the 16-day salary for month of March, which was held back. “We have also demanded that the salaries which were deducted in the last two months be paid to us,” said state general secretary of the federation Tej Singh Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-stays-salary-cut-of-teachers/articleshow/78816574.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||WhatsApp group succeeds in curbing wild elephant deaths on railway tracks||Coimbatore: A WhatsApp group formed by forest department officials in Tamil Nadu and Kerala last year has turned saviour for wild elephants that cross railway tracks between the Madukkarai forest range and the Walayar forest range.The group named Railway and Forest was formed last December to prevent elephant deaths on tracks, assistant conservator of forests M Senthilkumar told TOI. “We added Southern Railway officials, loco pilots, forest department officials in Coimbatore and Palakkad to the group. Loco pilots who notice an elephant on the track would click a picture with GPS location and post it in the group. A team of anti-poaching watchers (APWs) or anti-depredation watchers (ADWs) would rush to the spot and chase away the elephants by bursting crackers. We have deployed a team of APWs and ADWs specifically for the task,” he said. Foresters in Kerala would take appropriate measures if the animals are spotted on the other side of the border, he saidTwo railway lanes B lane (Palakkad–Coimbatore) and A lane (Coimbatore–Palakkad) pass through the forest range. While the B lane is 3.5km long, the A line is a 1.8km stretch. As many as 10 wild elephants were killed while crossing the lanes between 2007 and 2016.The interstate coordination is saving elephants, said district forest officer D Venkatesh. “Officials of both the states used to convey information about elephant movements over phone from 2016. But it was a cumbersome process and resulted in delayed action. The WhatsApp group is a big success,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/whatsapp-group-succeeds-in-curbing-wild-elephant-deaths-on-railway-tracks/articleshow/78816569.cms||A Subburaj
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||State govt giving final shape to farm bill draft||Jaipur: The state’s agriculture department is in the process of finalising the draft of the bills to be introduced in the special session of assembly to reject the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The dates for the special session will be announced only after finalising the draft. “The draft is being prepared by the agriculture department. After preparation, it will be examined by the legal department. The special session will be called only after finalising the draft,” said an official.It is believed the laws brought by the Centre will be overturned on similar lines as that of Punjab.Punjab became the first state to legislatively counter the Centre’s contentious farm laws when its assembly unanimously passed on Tuesday three agriculture bills, along with another bill protecting the state’s farmers from attachment of their land holding up to 2.5 acres in any recovery proceeding by any court in the state.Punjab’s bills essentially seek to amend the provisions of the three central laws and, among other things, provide for imprisonment of not less than three years and fine for a person who “harasses/ compels a farmer to sell his agricultural produce below MSP”.Punjab’s bills also restore the primacy of Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act over the central legislations. They also protect consumers from hoarding and black marketing of agricultural produce.The state cabinet on Tuesday decided to call a special session of the assembly against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. During the meeting, the ministers under the chairmanship of CM Ashok Gehlot discussed three farms bills: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020.“INC under the leadership of Smt #SoniaGandhi ji& #RahulGandhi ji stands absolutely with our annadatas and will continue to oppose the anti-farmer laws passed by NDA Govt. Today Congress Govt in #Punjab has passed Bills against these laws & #Rajasthan will follow soon,” Gehlot tweeted on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-giving-final-shape-to-farm-bill-draft/articleshow/78816567.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Allahabad||‘With multi-pronged approach patients recovering fast’||Prayagraj: A multi-pronged approach which includes counselling and a balanced diet can play a crucial role in treatment of Covid-19 patients, especially those suffering from co-morbid conditions, say in Prayagraj health officials. Health department records show that at least 25% of the 20,784 patients who have recovered were diagnosed with comorbid conditions. Health officials said, “Apart from medication, other strategies like boosting patients’ self-confidence, convincing them to adopt a positive mindset, boosting immunity levels and counselling have helped them recover faster. These patients not only recovered faster, but their hospital stay was also cut short because of their improved health.” Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Comorbidity is the state of having multiple medical conditions at the same time, especially when they interact with each other in some way. Morbidity is the state of being sick or having a disease. There were at least 25% patients who apart from suffering from ailments like diabetes and hypertension also tested Covid-19 positive. They were able to recover faster due to their inner strength, positive mindset and counselling sessions.” The latest example was of a 65-year-old woman in Prayagraj who recovered from Covid-19 despite suffering from Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD) for the past 14 years. ILD is an umbrella term used for diseases that cause scarring (fibrosis) of lungs. The scarring causes stiffness in the lungs which makes it difficult to breathe and get oxygen to the bloodstream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/with-multi-pronged-approach-patients-recovering-fast/articleshow/78815254.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Sero survey begins in Chandrapur||Chandrapur: After finalizing the clusters and target individuals, the district health administration has launched a sero survey to ascertain the tentative number of people infected and cured of Covid-19 in Chandrapur. The district is likely to be going through community spread of the coronavirus and administration is keen on knowing the extent of spread. The survey is aimed at estimating the number of people who have contracted Covid-19 and developed antibodies against it. Administration is inclined to undertake meticulous measures to curb the spread based on the findings of the sero survey. Collection of blood samples of frontline corona workers across the district has already started. The survey’s outcome will help in ascertaining the number of citizens who have suffered the infection, and accordingly strengthening the health facilities to stem further spread. District collector Ajay Gulhane said people with high risk and low risk contacts and citizens in containment zones have been included into the survey. In all, 21 villages and nine containment zone have been identified for the sero survey. A total of 2,400 samples will be collected under the survey. This would include 1,400 samples from common people, 600 samples from containment zones and 400 samples from high-risk population. Gulhane added that frontline Covid workers like government officials, health workers and police personnel will be especially tested under the survey. He called upon the public to cooperate with the teams coming for survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sero-survey-begins-in-chandrapur/articleshow/78816577.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Blaze rages on at Mumbai central mall||MUMBAI: A level 4 fire that broke out at City Centre Mall in Mumbai Central on Thursday night was spreading, creating panic among residents. All were evacuated safely from the mall and building. A resident said smoke had spread to the adjacent Orchid Tower. Samajwadi Party corporator and MLA Rais Shaikh, who lives there, said the front portion is a mall and a residential building is behind on the plot. Eyewitness Mustafa Kapadia said they heard batteries, probably from mobile accessories shops, exploding. Shaikh said there was a fire at the mall earlier too. “I complained but no safety measures were implemented,” he said. BMC officials said the fire started in a shop on the second floor but it was difficult to reach it due to thick smoke. Firemen opened the mall windows to access the shop and were trying to control the blaze with 13 engines till the time of going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-at-mumbai-central-mall-all-evacuated/articleshow/78817451.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 23, 2020||Business||Goldman Sachs agrees to largest penalty ever in 1MDB scandal||NEW YORK: Global financial titan Goldman Sachs agreed to pay $2.9 billion in penalties to settle criminal charges in the 1MDB Malaysian bribery scandal, the largest US fine ever in a corruption case, the Justice Department announced Thursday. Acting US assistant attorney general Brian C Rabbitt said Goldman "accepted responsibility" in the case that involved $1.6 billion in bribes, the largest ever recorded, and massive gains laundered through the US financial system. Goldman Sachs helped raise $6.5 billion for the Malaysian government's sovereign wealth fund. The US Justice Department has said more than $4.5 billion was stolen from 1MDB by high-level officials at the fund and their associates between 2009 and 2015. The investment fund "was looted by corrupt officials and their co-conspirators, including senior Goldman bankers" turning it "into a piggy bank for corrupt public officials and their cronies," Rabbitt said at a press briefing. In a first for Goldman Sachs, the company's Malaysian unit pleaded guilty in a US court Thursday for violations of American bribery law as part of a deal to end the criminal probe in the sweeping case that involved authorities in nine countries. The guilty plea could curtail activities of Goldman Sachs Malaysia but allows the parent company to avoid admitting wrongdoing in court -- which would have damaged its ability to do business. The parent company pleaded not guilty in US court and agreed to "deferred prosecution" for three-and-a-half years, during which time the firm will face increased monitoring by regulators. But Rabbitt stressed that despite the deal, the company has been charged in the bribery scandal, "so there has been a significant amount of criminal liability" for Goldman and "imposes meaningful consequences" in the cases. The Justice Department has charged three individuals in the case including two former Goldman executives. Tim Leissner, the former Southeast Asia chairman, has pleaded guilty, while Ng Chong Hwa, also known as "Roger Ng," former head of investment banking for GS Malaysia, is awaiting trial, and Low Taek Jho remains a fugitive. "Goldman admitted today that, in order to effectuate the scheme, Leissner, Ng, Employee 1, and others conspired with Low Taek Jho" to pay the bribes and ignored red flags, the statement said. In another stunning turn, the company said it will demand repayment of $174 million in salary and bonuses paid to current and former executives including chief executive David Solomon and his predecessor Lloyd Blankfein. These so-called clawbacks are almost unheard of in corporate cases. Solomon said in a statement "it is abundantly clear that certain former employees broke the law, lied to our colleagues and circumvented firm controls," adding, "we recognize that we did not adequately address red flags." Included in the total penalty amount, Goldman will pay a $400 fine to the SEC and repay $600 million in earnings, and pay a $154 million fine to the Federal Reserve, which also will require the company to improve its risk management and internal oversight. The Malaysian government dropped the charges against Goldman in July after reaching a $3.9 billion settlement with the financial giant. The firm, which posted profits of $3.5 billion in the latest quarter, had set aside more than $3.1 billion as of September 30 "for litigation and regulatory proceedings." Goldman shares closed US trading 1.2 per cent higher after settling the uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/goldman-sachs-agrees-to-largest-penalty-ever-in-1mdb-scandal/articleshow/78819108.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Contest for 10th RS seat from UP turns curious||LUCKNOW: The Rajya Sabha election for 10 seats in the state is heading for an interesting finale with many contenders emerging for the 10th seat which is open. On the basis of their strength in the assembly, BJP can win eight seats and SP one. None of the parties have the strength to win this on its own. According to reports, two nomination forms have been procured by senior BSP leaders. Besides a powerful woman from Gujarat, who has contested unsuccessfully the RS poll in the past, is also testing the waters for a repeat. According to sources, the leader of BSP legislature party, Lalji Verma, has taken one set of nomination papers while another has been bought in the name of Ramji Gautam, former national coordinator of the party. While the BSP headquarters in the state is reportedly calling its MLAs to approve the nominations, its effective strength is much below its actual strength -- 18. Even with its full strength, the party would need at least 18 more votes for its candidate to reach the magic figure of 36. However, three of its MLAs, Anil Singh, Mohammad Aslam Raini and Ramveer Upadhyaya have rebelled while Ritesh Pandey has become an MP. Another, don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, is languishing in a Punjab jail and is unlikely to make it to the house on November 9 to cast his vote. In yet another development, managers of an influential Gujarat woman have started trapping the floating voters to build up the numbers. If things work out, she might get support from the ruling BJP as the ninth candidate, say highly placed sources. In the 2018 elections as well, the BJP managed to ensure the victory of its 'additional' candidate Anil Agarwal. At present, there are over a dozen MLAs, who are not committed to any part. Among them are four members of SBSP, which is now out of NDA and a group of Independents, led by Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiya. Meanwhile, the SP candidate Ram Gopal Yadav filed his nomination papers on Wednesday in the presence of party chief, Akhilesh Yadav. In the BJP, names of three sitting candidates Neeraj Shekhar, Arun Singh and cabinet minister Hardeep Puri are being considered certain. Besides, there are speculations over former MP Sanjay Sinh, state vice-president Daya Shankar Singh and former state chief Laxmi Kant Bajpai. The name of a former powerful bureaucrat's son is also doing the rounds as a likely candidate from the BJP. Besides, there are speculations over former MP Sanjay Sinh, state vice-president Daya Shankar Singh and former state chief Laxmi Kant Bajpai. The name of a former powerful bureaucrat's son is also doing the rounds as a likely candidate from the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/contest-for-10th-rs-seatfrom-state-turns-curious/articleshow/78798400.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Twin delight for northeast Delhi as wait for 2 flyovers ends tomorrow||NEW DELHI: The two new flyovers at Shastri Park and Seelampur will be thrown open to commuters on Saturday. The two projects have been completed well within the budget of Rs 303 crore, in fact saving Rs 53 crore for Delhi government. The flyovers will ease the difficulties of the commuters in the area and should prove a big a relief to motorists going from Ghaziabad, northeast and east Delhi to the inter-state bus terminal at Kashmere Gate People from Shahdara, Seelampur, Dilshad Garden, Jafrabad and Gandhi Nagar will also escape the traffic snarls on Grand Trunk Road. The travel time between Shahdara and ISBT is expected to reduce by around seven minutes. “The project got delayed because of the Covid lockdown,” a PWD official said. The construction of the flyovers began in April 2019. The Shastri Park flyover is 700 metres long and will be a two-way flyover. Each of the six carriageways is around 10.5m wide. The flyover has two loops: one for the commuters coming from Khajuri Chowk towards Kashmere Gate and the second for vehicles coming from Gandhi Nagar and turning towards Shahdara. The second flyover at the Seelampur junction is 1.3-km long and is double-laned. The officials said that the two new flyovers will render the passage from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Dilshad Garden signal free. Government officials said that the budget for the flyovers was cleared by the Delhi cabinet in July 2017. The Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, or UTTIPEC, the regulatory body for transport infrastructure in Delhi, had approved the project a month earlier in June 2017. PWD will now upgrade the existing roads in the area by widening the existing underpasses by three metres. The Seelampur Chowk will also be widened and provided with signal-free left turn and U-turn towards in an effort to decongest the area. A Delhi government official said that they were optimistic that these flyovers would boost the road infrastructure in the capital, particularly in east Delhi, and from Saturday, these flyovers would make the stretch between ISBT Kashmere Gate and the Uttar Pradesh border free of traffic signals. He said, “The inauguration of these flyovers will end the traffic bottlenecks in areas such as Seelampur, Shastri Park and Shahdara. They will also improve connectivity to Gandhi Nagar and Khajoori Khas.” The flyover at Shastri Park was opened for trial for a limited number of vehicles two days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/twin-delight-for-northeast-delhi-as-wait-for-2-flyovers-ends-tomorrow/articleshow/78816599.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Siblings aged 10, 9 years drown in stone quarry pond in Tirupur||Coimbatore: Two siblings, aged 10 and 9 years, drowned in an abandoned stone quarry pond at Periyayepalayam near Avinashi in Tirupur district while taking bath on Wednesday. While one body was retrieved on the same night, the remaining one was recovered on Thursday morning. The Avinashi police identified the deceased as P Ayileshwaran and his younger brother T Balan, residents of Periyayepalayam. Both were students of Chepauk government school in Chennai. Ayileshwaran was studying in Class V and Balan in Class III. A police officer, who didn’t want to be named, said the siblings’ father Tamil Selvan was an autorickshaw driver in Chennai. “As he was struggling to make a living without any work during the lockdown, his wife Kasthuri, 32, of Chennai, moved to Periyayepalayam along with her sons six months ago in search of work. She took a house on rent there and found a job with a banian company at Kumar Nagar.” When Kasthuri returned from work around 7.30pm on Wednesday, her sons were missing from the house. She searched for them in nearby areas, but couldn’t trace them. Meanwhile, some children in the area told her that they had seen the duo heading to the stone quarry pond for bathing. “She went there, but there was no trace of them. She subsequently alerted the Avinashi police and fire and rescue services personnel, who retrieved the body of Ayileshwaran around 10.30pm. Because of darkness, they had to stop search operations for Balan,” the officer said. When the search resumed on Thursday, fire and rescue services personnel retrieved the body of Balan around 7am. Both the bodies were sent to the government hospital at Avinashi for autopsy. The Avinashi police have registered a case and further investigation is on. On October 12, two siblings had drowned in the Noyyal river in Tirupur city when they had gone for fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/siblings-aged-10-9-years-drown-in-stone-quarry-pond-in-tirupur/articleshow/78816585.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Goa||Socorro ATM theft: Three persons held in Delhi||PANAJI: Three persons have been arrested in Delhi by the special cell of Delhi police in the Union Bank ATM theft case at Socorro near Porvorim. Police said that after arresting two persons, they followed the third suspect, who, when stopped for questioning, opened fire at the team. In the return fire, police shot him in the knees before apprehending him. Earlier, Goa police had shared information with their Delhi counterparts on learning that the suspects were in Delhi. The Goa crime branch team have already reached Delhi to take custody of the accused. Thieves had stolen the ATM attached to the Union Bank near the Socorro church junction on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday and decamped with the Rs19 lakh that was in machine. Chief minister Pramod Sawant congratulated both the teams for cracking the case. “I congratulate the Goa and Delhi police teams for cracking the Porvorim ATM cash burglary case. Excellent work by both police teams to investigate, identify and apprehend the accused culprits swiftly in a joint operation with decisive and smart action,” Sawant said. Porvorim police, who investigated the case, said that the ATM was found at an isolated spot some 400m from the bank premises. The team had asked for the closed-circuit television camera (CCTV) footage from the ATM centre to identify the accused, but it had been damaged by the thieves. The bank branch and ATM attached to it do not have a security guard posted there for some time now. Police were informed of the theft by a neighbour, who in turn was alerted by a person who had gone to withdraw cash in the morning. The bank has been operating from rented premises for years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/socorro-atm-theft-3-persons-held-in-delhi/articleshow/78818261.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||2,238 in fray for civic polls||Jaipur: In all 2,238 candidates are left in the fray for civic polls in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota following the withdrawal of nominations by 427 aspirants for civic polls in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. Election symbols will be allotted on October 23. In Jaipur Greater, 136 candidates withdrew their nominations, leaving 686 councillor aspirants in the fray. In Jaipur Heritage, 430 candidates will contest after 77 withrew their names. The elections are scheduled on October 29 and November 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2238-in-fray-for-civic-polls/articleshow/78816581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 82,000 fined Rs 1.6 crore for not wearing masks in 21 days||MUMBAI: BMC has penalized 82,000 people for not wearing masks while stepping out of home and collected Rs 1.6 crore as fines from them in 21 days. It intensified action against those without masks and recently filed a case against a person at Chembur for not wearing a mask and refusing to pay the fine. BMC started its drive in April and till October 21 acted against a lakh people and collected Rs 2.3 crore. Around 82 % faced action in the last three weeks, a civic official said. It started awareness campaigns, distributing around 20 lakh ‘No mask, No entry’ stickers. It intensified its action as the city is opening up and more people are coming out. Officials said wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing can help prevent the virus from spreading. The 24 wards have been given a target to penalize at least 2,000 people daily for not wearing a mask. Recently, the civic chef sought police help. Masks have emerged as a contentious issue as Covid-19 cases shot up after Ganpati festival ended. Health experts said the spread increased as Mumbaikars have been failing to use a mask or maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/82k-fined-rs1-6cr-for-not-wearing-masks-in-21-days/articleshow/78817428.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Tech glitch mars Rs 10,000 relief distribution, Nadeem Colony residents rue the delay||HYDERABAD: After the harrowing experience of the recent floods, the residents of Tolichowki’s Nadeem colony are now facing a palpable disappointment and even resentment over not receiving Rs 10,000 which was announced by the state government as a relief to each of the rain-affected families. Nearly 300 flood-affected residents who gathered at Chapra colony’s gate number one to receive the relief amount which was being distributed by the officials had to return empty handed after waiting for over six hours on Thursday due to server issues. Speaking to TOI, Mohammad Zafarullah Khan, who works as a distributor of Priya pickles said, “My warehouse, where I used to stock all the distribution material, got completely submerged in flood water. I came here at 9.45am in the morning to receive the relief amount. It is 2.30pm now and the officials are still saying there is a server problem.” Drawing attention of AIMIM MLA Kausar Mohiuddin and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao over the lack of proper arrangements in distributing relief amount, another resident Razia Sultana said, “ If not at our doorstep, they could have at least made some proper arrangements in an open area or a function hall where they could accommodate all of us and also took care of the server problems.” The municipal administration minister recently urged the residents not to panic and said that about four lakh families in the city would get Rs 10,000 per family as an immediate relief at their doorstep. While agreeing to the delay in distributing the relief amount to the flood-affected families of Nadeem colony, MLA Mohiuddin said, “The officials distributing the relief amount were facing issues with the server as the residents were not receiving OTP number due to the server issue. We have asked the officials to go door-to-door and distribute amount from tomorrow,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-glitch-mars-rs-10k-relief-distribution-nadeem-colony-residents-rue-the-delay/articleshow/78818312.cms||Moulika.KV
October 23, 2020||Nashik||Most Covid norm violators in Nashik in 21-40 yr age group: Officials||NASHIK: The health department of the civic administration is worried as many in the age group of 21-40 years are not following the prescribed safety norms while venturing out of their homes and are, thereby, facilitating the transmission of Covid-19. Of the 2,000 people in the city who have been penalised for not wearing masks in public places, over 70% belong to the aforementioned age group. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Kailas Jadhav has directed the health department to step up action against those who are not wearing masks as the civic body fears that a second wave of the pandemic may break out during winter. “We are continuously taking action against the erring citizens who are not wearing masks in public places. While most of the citizens are following norms, there are some who are not following the safety protocols,” said the civic officials. “Our observation is that a section of people is not wearing masks in public places. Around 70% of the citizens penalised for not wearing masks fall in the age group of 21-40 years,” said officials. “Although such people, who are are not following safety norms, are asymptomatic, there are chances of them infecting people with comorbidities, senior citizens and pregnant women. We are worried about such negligent people who are not adhering to safety protocols,” said officials. According to civic officials, 40% of the total 60,073 Covid-19 patients identified in the city so far fall in the age group of 21 to 40 years while around 36% of the patients were from the age group of 41 to 60 years. Around 11% of the patients fall in the age group of 60 years and above. Around 13% of the patients were from the 1-20 years age group. During a meeting with the NMC and the district administration, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had expressed his concerns as close to 46% of the total patients identified in August were from the age group of 21-40 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/most-covid-norm-violators-in-21-40yr-age-group-officials/articleshow/78816582.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM’s performance is a ticket to victory: Zafar Islam||LUCKNOW: The newly lected Rajya Sabha member of the BJP Syed Zafar Islam on Thursday claimed that the performance of the Yogi government would guarantee victory of the BJP in byelections to all the seven Assembly seats in the state. The BJP MP, who is also national spokesman of the party, was talking to TOI on Thursday after his extensive tour of the eastern and western UP to campaign for party candidates and propagating the party line on the recently introduced farm laws. The young BJP MP claimed that during his tour of the state, he found a forceful support for Yogi Adityanath, mainly for steps being taken by him to improve the law and order and his anti-corruption crusade. Besides, everyone is praising the CM for waging a decisive battle against the novel coronavirus pandemic, he further added. In the byelections, all BJP candidates will emerge winners thanks to the CM’s performance, Zafar said, adding that welfare schemes launched by the Union government are also enhancing the BJP’s credibility among the poor. On the farm laws the BJP MP said that people have now realised that Congress was trying to create confusion over the issue. The Central government has already made it clear that farmers’ interest would be protected and no corporate house would be able to gobble up their land, he added. “It is ironic that policies introduced by the Congress governments through recommendations of the finance commission in 2007 are now being opposed by the same party to misguide the people,” said Zafar. He said that it was this reason that the so-called farmers’ protests are now limited only to Congress-ruled Punjab state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/zafar-up-cms-performance-is-aticket-to-victory/articleshow/78818620.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Cop, two bootleggers caught with 72 bottles denied bail||RAJKOT: Three bootleggers including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with Ahmedabad traffic police were sent to judicial custody on Thursday when a local court in Rajkot rejected their bail applications. Police said Kunal Shah, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Virendrasinh Darbar, both aged 36, and Mahendrasinh Vaid (30), were arrested with 72 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 1.44 lakh, two cars and five cellphones from Vidyanagar Road in Rajkot on Tuesday night“During their interrogation, Shah admitted on Wednesday night that they would put cheap whisky in high end brand scotch bottles and sell them at exorbitant prices in Rajkot. Shah also had a machine to seal the bottles which he would buy from scrap dealers. He would sell a bottle worth Rs 300 for Rs 3,000,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group (SOG). As all the three accused are from Ahmedabad, the Rajkot SOG contacted Ahmedabad prevention of crime branch (PCB). The Ahmedabad PCB officials raided Shah’s house in Naroda locality of Ahmedabad on Thursday and found two barrels of 46 litre each filled with cheap whisky. Also found were 127 empty bottles of high end brand scotch, three bottles filled with IMFL, 625 bottle caps and a machine to seal the bottles. ASI Darbar used to pilot the car of the bootleggers from Ahmedabad to Rajkot in his car. The bootleggers had transported five liquor consignments to Rajkot from Ahmedabad in the past three months. The accused trio were produced before a court here on Thursday which and sent them to jail after rejecting their bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-two-bootleggers-caught-with-72-bottles-denied-bail/articleshow/78815289.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Health department strengthens post-Covid care, orders separate clinics, ward||JAIPUR: The health department on Thursday ordered the setting up post-Covid clinics and post-Covid ward at district headquarters for counselling and rehabilitation of patients after their recovery. The orders, issued by principal secretary Akhil Arora, mentioned that some of the common problems for which patients require care after recovery are respiratory distress, mental trauma of stress, transitory diabetes, cardiac problems, kidney problem, pancreas problems and body fatigue. The order mentioned that attendants of patients getting discharged from hospital or under home isolation should be made aware that if the patient reports any complication after recovery, they should immediately rush him/her for check up at post-Covid clinic or call helpline 181.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-department-strengthens-post-covid-care-orders-separate-clinics-ward/articleshow/78816593.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||IFS Ranjana Kala appointed Head of Forest Force, U’khand gets second female HoFF||Dehradun: Ranjana Kala, a 1985-batch Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer was on Thursday appointed as the Head of Forest Force (HoFF) of Uttarakhand. She will take over from the current incumbent of the post, Jairaj. Speaking with TOI about her focus area, Kala, who hails from Pauri district, said, “The prime focus will remain on fulfilling all the announcements made by the chief minister related to forest department and to transform the forest organisation into a more vibrant place of work by inducing positivity among all the officers and staff.” Kala was also appointed as the Chief Wildlife Warden of the forest department from April 1 to July 15, 2019. She has spent almost a decade (9 years) in the watershed management department, playing a significant role. In her leisure time Kala prefers to do yoga and she believes it is not about being a good professional, “but most important is to be a good human being first.” Incidentally, her husband IFS Rajendra Kumar also retired as the Head of Forest Force of Uttarakhand, his tenure was from March 2016 to January 2018. Prior to Kala, Uttarakhand had another female HoFF — Veena Shekhri — from November 2015 to February 2016. Kala will join the post of HoFF on November 1 and will retire on December 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ifs-ranjana-kala-appointed-head-of-forest-force-ukhand-gets-second-female-hoff/articleshow/78938752.cms||Shivani Azad
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||12 districts report less than 10 Covid cases||JAIPUR: Twelve districts in the state reported less than 10 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 1,822 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,80,755. Out of 12 districts, Pratapgarh, Jhalawar and Banswara have reported no fresh cases. Sirohi reported just one new infection, Baran (2), Karauli (4), Barmer (5), Jaisalmer (5), Bundi (6), Dholpur (7), Chittorgarh (8) and Tonk (9). Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bikaner collectively reported 856 new infections accounting for 47% of the total cases. Recoveries are on the rise as 2,654 persons were cured in the last 24 hours taking the tally of such persons to 1,60,614. In Jaipur, 713 persons recovered, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (451) and Bikaner (251). Active cases in Jaipur dipped further to stand at 6,258. From 9241 cases on October 8, Jaipur has reported a significant dip of 2,983 cases. “Active cases are going down, which is a positive sign. People should countinue taking precautions, wearing masks and follow social distancing norms,” said a health department official. The day also saw the death of 12 persons which took the casualty count to 1800. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (349), Jodhpur (280), Bikaner (227), Sikar (107), Ajmer (85), Pali (79), Sriganganagar (74), Nagaur (72), Kota (70), Alwar (62), Udaipur (48), Jalore (45), Jhunjhunu (43), Bharatpur (42), Bhilwara (40), Dungarpur (34), Churu (33), Rajsamand (31), Hanumangarh (22), Dausa (18), Sawai Madhopur (14), Tonk (9), Chittorgarh (8), Dholpur (7), Bundi (6), Barmer (5), Jaisalmer (5), Karauli (4), Baran (2) and Sirohi (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 357, Jodhpur 172nd, Bikaner 133rd, Ajmer 131st, Bharatpur 91st, Udaipur 64th, Nagaur 54th, Sikar 49th, Chittorgarh 27th, Sriganganagar 24th and Churu reported its 20th Covid-19 death. BOX: Today’s positive: 1822Cumulative positive: 1,80,755Today’s deaths: 12Cumulative deaths: 1800Today’s recovered: 2654Cumulative recovered: 1,60,614Active cases: 18,341||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-districts-report-less-than-10-covid-cases/articleshow/78816603.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Lakes in Chengalpet fill with sewage||Chennai: Streams of sewage are flowing unchecked into freshwater lakes in Chengalpet, polluting them and the groundwater all around. The local panchayats contribute to the mess, randomly digging stormwater drains, which mostly carry sewage, that flow into these water bodies. There are six inlet points into Vandalur lake and about a dozen into Manapakkam lake. The recent rain has seen streams of sewage from local households running through these channels into the lakes. A panchayat official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said in most town panchayats underground drainage projects had been sanctioned. However, none of the village panchayats have any proposal for such a project. “In the Vandalur area, it is all village panchayats. They either have septic tanks or choke pits. For village panchayats sewage or drainage system is not planned for now,” said an official. But a recently constructed canal to carry storm water at Otteri village has been converted into a sewage drain in no time. Venkatesh, a resident of Vandalur, said the canal joins the Vandalur lake and carries a stream of sewage. “The lake was recently cleaned and restoration work is going on. In such a situation the administration should take steps to plug such sewage channels entering the lakes. No steps are taken in Vandalur taluk for solid waste management, sewage management and rain water harvesting,” he said. Arun Krishnamoorthy of the NGO Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI) said most of these suburban lakes are potential freshwater reservoirs and are a major source for ground water recharge. “If these are contaminated, it would be very difficult to reclaim them,” he said. EFI had removed about 100 tonnes of garbage from Vandalur lake alone and set up fences and percolation pits and trenches around it to naturally filter the water entering the lake. “But if these sewage channels are not plugged, it would spell disaster,” he added. Chengalpet collector John Louis could not be contacted despite several attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lakes-in-chengalpet-fill-with-sewage/articleshow/78816769.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||CBI used for political ends: Maharashtra home minister||MUMBAI: A day after the Maharashtra government issued a notification withdrawing its general consent to the Central Bureau of Investigation, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said the decision was taken as the premier agency “was being used to settle political scores and there was suspicion that just like in the past, the TRP scam case, being investigated by the Mumbai police, may be handed over to the CBI.” “CBI is a professional agency, but of late it has been used to settle political scores. A complaint in the TRP case has been registered in UP, and it is rumoured that due to political pressure, there could be an attempt to combine all the cases and to give them to CBI. To prevent misuse of the general consent, we decided to revoke it,” Deshmukh said. He said there have been instances where the Supreme Court, in some of its judgements, has taken objection to the CBI’s ways of functioning. “They have been called ‘caged parrots’ by some SC judges. This shows that these agencies are being misused,” Deshmukh said. The Maharashtra government had issued general consent to the CBI in 1989. The Sena-NCP-Congress government’s withdrawal has marked an upping of tensions with the Centre. “With the withdrawal, CBI cannot probe any cases in Maharashtra without prior consent of the state,” Deshmukh said, adding that a few other states like Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Sikkim, too, had issued such orders. The CBI on Tuesday took over the probe in the TRP case lodged in Lucknow on the recommendation of the UP government. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the state government had to take a decision to withdraw general consent to the federal agency as it was seen that the Centre was interfering in matters pertaining to Maharashtra. “Many states have already issued such orders, Maharashtra’s patience was tested, and it has much later issued such an order,” Raut said. Ongoing investigations such as the one in the Sushant Singh Rajput case, however, will not be impacted by the state’s notification as it cannot be applied retrospectively. The state’s public works minister Ashok Chavan had told TOI on Wednesday that the general consent had been withdrawn because of apprehension that the TRP case would be taken over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cbi-used-for-political-ends-maha-home-min/articleshow/78818729.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Infected with Covid, ex-banker jumps before train, dies||JAIPUR: A 66-year-old man infected with Covid-19 committed suicide by jumping before a moving train at Malviya Nagar in the city on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as Surendra Kumar Brij, a retired bank officer, and a resident of Sector-10 in Malviya Nagar. The deceased has left a suicide note in which he stated that he was depressed after testing positive for Covid-19. Brij and his wife were tested positive on October 19. According to police, the wife of the deceased woke up at 2am and found her husband missing from home. “She was baffled after seeing the suicide note in the bedroom. She immediately rushed to the police station along with a neighbour. We started searching for him in and around Malviya Nagar and Jawahar Circle area. At 6am, his mutilated body was found on the railway tracks passing through Malviya Nagar,” the police said. “I am leaving home and ending my life. Nobody should be held responsible for my step,” read the suicide note. The police further said that Brij’s only son is working in a private company in Delhi. “Their son wished to visit them, however, both of them refused. The man got up in the middle of night and walked towards the railway tracks which are almost a kilometre away from his home and ended his life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/infected-with-covid-ex-banker-jumps-before-train-dies/articleshow/78816613.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Over 1 crore consumers never paid their power bills in UP||LUCKNOW: Amid UP government's promise to provide round-the-clock power supply to the consumers, and the proposal to privatise Purvanchal distribution company, the UP Power Corporation Limited's (UPPCL) data show that more than 38% consumers have not paid their electricity bill since the date of connection. The fact was shared by UPPCL chairman and additional chief secretary (energy) Arvind Kumar in a series of tweets on Thursday. He said that out of a consumer base of 2.83 crore, 1.09 crore consumers have not paid their bills. About 96% of these defaulters are from rural areas. UPPCL sources said that the amount recoverable from these consumers is around Rs 68,000 crore. Significantly, of the over 1 crore consumers who have never paid their electricity connection, maximum 43 lakh -- out of total 83 lakh -- are from the Purvanchal Discom alone. Data shows that in Purvanchal alone, a staggering 3.78 lakh consumers are those who have pending arrears above Rs 1 lakh. “These figures show that the distribution company is in such a bad state of affairs,” said a senior UPPCL official. Sources said that this was one of the key reasons why the state government has been pitching for privatisation of Purvanchal districbution company, comprising Azamgarh, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Basti, Prayagraj and Varanasi zones. Purvanchal is followed by Madhyanchal comprising Lucknow, Devi Patan and Ayodhya zones. Here, as many as 33.45 lakh consumers have not paid their bills since getting a connection. This discom has total 79 lakh consumers. In fact, Lucknow zone alone accounts for around 11 lakh such consumers. Data show that more than 1.7 lakh consumers account for those consumers who have pending arrears above Rs 1 lakh. The Dakshinanchal discom follows next with over Rs 22 lakh consumers -- out of 55 lakh -- faltering on payment of their electricity bills. It is only Paschimanchal discom which has been performing well with just over 10 lakh such consumers. It has total 65 lakh consumers. The chairman, in his tweets, also said: “A large chunk of defaulters may be bogus and may need bill revision. It is a big challenge before our officials to locate these consumers and find out what is recoverable and what is not. Power needs to be purchased for UPPCL to be able to supply. Unless people pay up, we won’t have enough finances to purchase.” (sic) A senior UPPCL official said that the situation was despite the state government coming up with schemes like Aasan Kisht Yojana and One Time Settlement scheme, waiving surcharge on bills of consumers. Sources said that some of the consumers may be bogus or non-existent. “Yet the number of consumers which need to be tapped is significant,” the official said. The arrears accounting for more than 38% come at a time when the state government seeks to bring down the line losses to 15%, which is more than half of what exists as on date, sources said. In fact, energy minister Shrikant Sharma has been seeking to bring down feeder wise line losses to wheel in round the clock power supply to the consumers. Meanwhile, power engineers under the aegis of Vidyut Karamchari Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti submitted a detailed plan to improve the financial position of the UPPCL “within the existing system”. The samiti said that the areas which need to be worked on include billing, increasing revenue collection, stopping power theft and better working environment. It was only earlier this month that the power engineers and employees had gone on a work boycott in protest of UPPCL plans to privatise Purvanchal distribution company. Explaining the reason for such a large number of defaulters while giving example of MVVNL, MD Surya Pal Gangwar said, “The figure of 33.45 lakh defaulters is still under scrutiny. We have found data of 2.5 lakh consumers who were issued double bills due to technical error when the data was fed into the system. Maximum defaulters are from rural areas.” According to MVVNL, out of total 4,070 feeders in 19 districts, 1,272 (mostly in rural areas) are the worst performers in terms of revenue recovery. In each district, 60 underperforming feeders are being inspected by teams of 30 members each of vigilance and MVVNL staff (meter readers).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1-cr-consumers-never-paid-their-power-bills-in-up/articleshow/78818663.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||BJP cornered over claim of 50% rebate in property tax, water bills||Nagpur: Corporators Praful Gudadhe and Abha Pande on Thursday tore into claims of BJP — Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) ruling party — of planning to provide rebate of 50% in property tax and water bills as relief from Covid-19 pandemic. The NMC general body on Thursday approved the budget presented by standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke and passed a resolution directing the civic chief to only waive penalty on late payment of property tax and water bills for current fiscal 2020-21. Pande, an independent corporator, said, “In meeting of all public representatives held in August, the ruling party said rebate of 50% would be given in property tax and water bills. But the chairman in his budget expected full revenue from property tax and water bills. Ruling party should not give ‘jumla’ and provide relief to people through rebate,” she said. Gudadhe said the ruling party should avoid politics on rebate issue, especially when people facing severe financial crisis. “Rate of taxation is 54% in property tax and can be reduced to 12%. It can give also give a major relief to people,” he said. The corporator told TOI that BJP had announced 50% rebate in property tax and water bills. “On the other hand, it expected full revenue from these two sources. It is a clear case of cheating people,” he said. Zalke has expected revenue of Rs223.35 crore from property tax and Rs175 crore from water bills, which is the actual revenue. The NMC has distributed demand notes to 5.50 lakh properties. Between April 1 and October 20, it earned revenue of Rs100 crore which is almost on par with revenue (Rs107 crore) earned during the corresponding period last year. According to mayor Sandip Joshi, NMC needs state government’s approval to give 50% rebate. “After our decision in August, the then civic chief had said he will submit proposal with the government. We are ready to submit proposal if Gudadhe assures to get it approved,” he said. Joshi said, “Civic chief is having powers to waive off penalty on late payment. I have asked the civic chief to waive it off and plan one time settlement for arrears of property tax as well as water bills.” Pande alleged that NMC is losing huge revenue due to extension of contracts for advertisement hoardings for last many years and not going for tender. Corporators from almost all parties criticized private water operator — Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW). Congress corporator Darshani Dhawad said, “OCW miserably failed to provide 24X7 water supply even after eight years. Still, many areas are depended on water tankers. In my ward no. 12, 40% area has no water network,” she said. BJP corporator Prakash Bhoyar said, “OCW is not listening to our requests of correcting water bills. Many people received high bills even up to Rs30,000 due to leakages,” he said. Pande condemned the budget proposal to give Rs52 crore to OCW. Corporators Satish Holey, Harshala Sable, Jitendra Godeshwar, Viranka Bhivgade, Vaishali Nitnaware and others too blamed OCW for contaminated and low pressure water supply. BJP corporators Sandip Jadhav, Dayashankar Tiwari, Nanda Jichkar, Avinash Thakre, Virendra Kukreja and others appreciated Zalke’s budget and proposal to develop Vande Mataram garden. “Zalke is having a big heart so avoided new works and planned to complete ongoing and proposed works. All were doubting whether budget will be tabled or not due to pandemic. But Zalke very well planned and presented budget,” he said. Joshi said, “No administrative approval will be required for works proposed in the budget and tender should be floated directly as very few months remained in this fiscal.” Gudadhe said former civic chief Tukaram Mundhe had presented budget on March 16 and Zalke presented it after seven months. “Now, civic chief will present revised budget in February considering revenue up to December,” he said. Despite NMC facing financial crisis, many corporators demanded statues and memorials. Excluding Bhoyar, none raised problems being faced by patients and people due to Covid-19, especially related to bills of private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-cornered-over-claim-of-50-rebate-in-property-tax-water-bills/articleshow/78816619.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 23, 2020||Nashik||City buses start ops, commuters want services from more depots||Nashik: The city bus service by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) resumed on Thursday after a gap of close to seven months evoking mixed responses from commuters. “Today, we made 204 trips on 10 routes. Close to 1,000 passengers travelled to their destinations,” said a senior MSRTC officer from Panchavati depot. Buses were operated between the Nimani bus depot and Nashik Road Railway station at a frequency of 45 minutes in both the directions. Buses also plied from Nimani bus depot to various destinations. Buses plied on the routes going to Shramik Nagar (Satpur), Ambad, Uttam Nagar, Vijaynagar (via Indiranagar) and Pathardi village (via Indiranagar). “In the morning, we had very few passengers. Some buses were running without any passenger on board,” said the officer. “As the day progressed, people started coming to the bus stops and the terminus to take the buses and also enquire about the services,” added the officer. Most of the passengers were upset with the fact that the buses were being operated only from a central location in the city. “One who had to travel from Nashik Road to the industrial estates in Ambad or Satpur was forced to travel to Nimani to take the bus to their respective destinations. It would be in the interest of the MSRTC to start a bus from the depot and operate it in a roundabout systems so that people can travel fairly early,” said Rajesh Shinde a resident of Nashik Road. However, there was praise for MSRTC from a section of commuters. “We will now be able to travel at fair price across the city without having to travel in crowded autorickshaws. We only hope that the frequency of the buses is increased soon,” said Sheetal Gadhave, a working woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-buses-start-ops-commuters-want-services-from-more-depots/articleshow/78816605.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Committee finds lapses in Sprinklr deal||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The two-member committee that was constituted to examine whether proper procedure was followed while hiring Sprinklr Inc for managing Covid-19 data of the state government and if the company had ensured data protection, has concluded that proper procedure was not followed while hiring the company. The committee consisting of former civil aviation secretary M Madhavan Nambiar and cyber security expert Gulshan Rai submitted its report to the government on Wednesday. It is reliably learnt that the committee found that the procedure to be followed while a government enters into agreement with a firm was not followed in the case of Sprinklr. The IT department should have consulted the law department while entering into the agreement. It is also learnt that the committee also said that data of 1.8 lakh citizens of the state that was maintained by the company was transferred back to the servers of C-DIT. However, it is learnt that the committee has not found any fault with the government regarding data sharing and data protection with the company. The two-member committee was constituted by the government on April 20, to examine mainly three aspects — whether the privacy of citizens have been adequately protected under the arrangement with Sprinklr Inc, whether adequate procedures have been followed while finalizing the agreement with the firm and whether deviations, if any, were fair, justified and reasonable considering the extraordinary and critical situation that the state was facing. The committee originally consisted of Nambiar and former health secretary of state Rajeev Sadanandan. When the government appointed Rajeev Sadanandan as adviser to the chief minister on health-related affairs in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the committee was reconstituted by replacing Sadanandan by well-known cyber security expert Gulshan Rai. The fresh committee, with the same terms of reference as the previous one, was given a term to submit the report till October 10. The government had roped in Sprinklr Inc for Covid-19 data collection and analysis on March 25, with an agreement that the agreement will be for either six months or till Covid-19 outbreak is under control. However, after the first month, the matter ran into controversy when it came out that the government had engaged the firm without following the necessary procedures, including going for a bid. The then IT secretary M Sivasankar had reached out to every media as well as the coalition partner CPI explaining why the company’s services were availed. The agreement between the firm and the government had also said that if required, both the parties can decide to extend the services after the contract period is over. However, in the wake of the controversies, the government decided not to extend the services of Sprinklr Inc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/procedures-flouted-in-sprinklr-deal/articleshow/78815294.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP e-way projects: 20% work finished in Bundelkhand, 60% in Purvanchal||LUCKNOW: The three major infrastructure projects, Purvanchal Expressway, Bundelkhand Expressway and Gorakhpur Expressway, which are nearing completion, are all set to trigger economic activities in the state, giving a boost to the agriculture and industrial sectors. Reviewing the progress of the three e-ways at a meeting held at his office here on Thursday, chief executive officer of the UPEIDA Awanish Awasthi said that despite Covid-19 pandemic the pace with which the work is being carried out is exemplary. The meeting was attended by developers and officers. Appealing to UPEIDA officers and developers to maintain the momentum, the CEO said that every effort should be made to complete these projects by June next year. Awasthi said if local authorities would face any difficulty in the land acquisition at the district level they should immediately contact him or other officers of the UPEIDA, but no laxity would be tolerated. About 20% of the work has been completed in the Bundelkhand e-way project despite the fact that the construction got underway only this year. Similarly, 60% work has been done on Purvanchal e-way and Gorakhpur link e-way is over 14% complete, Awasthi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-chief-sets-june-deadline-for-e-ways-completion/articleshow/78818614.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Facebook friends loot man with job offer, three held||RAJKOT: They could not have imagined in their wildest dreams that their Facebook friends who had called them all the way from Haryana to Rajkot, promising to get them jobs, would thrash and loot them. Police arrested Madhav Jalu alias Satish (21), Vishal Chawda (20) and Bhautik Chawda (21), all serving as traffic wardens with Rajkot traffic police, on Thursday for allegedly beating up and robbing Kuldeep Rawat (26) and Rajendra Rajput (25) of Rs 9,000 cash and a tablet worth Rs 2,000 on October 19. “Jalu befriended Rawat on FB, a fortnight ago. Jalu then hatched a conspiracy to loot him. He promised Rawat to get him a job with the monthly salary of Rs 15,000 and asked him to come down to Rajkot,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch (DCB). Rawat contacted his friend Rajput, who lives in his neighbourhood in Adarsh Nagar locality of Vallabhgadh in Faridabad district of Haryana. When Rajput said he too needed a job, Rawat asked him to accompany him to Rajkot. Both came to Ahmedabad by train and then caught a bus to Rajkot. After alighting at Rajkot bus stand, Rawat contacted Jalu who told him to take an autorickshaw to Madhapar Chowkadi. “At Madhapar Chowkadi, Jalu and the co-accused were waiting for the victims on three bikes. The accused asked the victims to sit on their bikes and took them to Aji Dam-2 near Gavaridal village on the outskirts of Rajkot where the accused allegedly thrashed the victims with plastic pipes and robbed them off their cash and valuables,” added Gadhvi. The accused also broke the cellphone belonging to one of the victims. Meanwhile, the victims sought the help from a farmer who directed them to Kuwadava Road police station. The officials of Kuwadava Road police station along with the DCB traced Jalu on the basis of his cellphone location, leading to arrest of all the accused. The police recovered Rs 9,000 cash and the tablet from the accused. Also seized were three bikes and three cigarette lighters in the shape of pistols which were meant for scaring the victims. It also came to light during the investigation that Jalu had uploaded the photographs of cigarette lighters resembling pistols on the FB and had invited buyers to purchase them at cheaper rates, presenting the pistols as the real ones. Jalu had robbed five persons of Rs 51,000 who had come to Rajkot to buy the pistols in the past one year. Of the victims, four were from Rajasthan, while one was from Haryana. However, no official complaint had been lodged in these connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fb-friends-loot-man-with-job-offer-three-held/articleshow/78815313.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 35 fatalities, 3,882 new Covid cases in 24 hours; nearly 59,000 tested||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 35 more fatalities on Thursday, taking the Covid-19 death toll to 6,163, while 3,882 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to over 3.44 lakh. These fresh cases came out of the 58,770 tests conducted the previous day; 16,795 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TRueNat and 41,975 Rapid Antigen Tests. Thursday’s daily tally is the highest in 33 days, since September 19 when the city reported 4,071 new cases of Covid-19 in a day. The fatality rate of Covid-19 in Delhi is 1.79%, fifth-highest in the country after Punjab (3.14%), Maharashtra (2.64%), Gujarat (2.24%) and Bengal (1.87%). Doctors said the cases of Covid-19 are likely to increase further in the days to come due to festival rush in markets and other public places and also because viruses tend to survive longer in cold weather. “Infections caused due to seasonal influenza, swine flu and other viral illnesses are known to increase during winter. Covid-19 is likely to follow the same trend and, therefore, there is an urgent need to aggressively follow preventive measures such as wearing a mask while venturing out and washing hands frequently,” said a senior doctor. Fatalities are higher in people with co-morbidities, for example diabetes, high blood pressure and heart disease, he added. The rise in Covid-19 cases is also pushing up the number of active cases. Latest data shows there are 25,237 active cases of Covid-19 in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/35-fatalities-3882-new-cases-in-24-hrs-nearly-59000-tested/articleshow/78816648.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||As star campaigner, CM Yogi is in high demand among NDA nominees in Bihar||NEW DELHI: Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar may have been wary of unabashed Hindutva but many of his party candidates are looking at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s appeal among the voters. Adityanath on Wednesday addressed a rally in Paliganj assembly constituency in Patna district in support of JD(U) candidate Jaivardhan Yadav, who is pitted in a triangular contest with BJP rebel Usha Vidyarthy entering the fray as LJP candidate while the Mahagathbandhan nominee is CPI(M-L)'s Sandeep Sourav. Most of the BJP star campaigners are being roped in to address rallies in the constituencies where party rebels are contesting the polls as LJP nominees. More than 50 BJP-JD(U) rebels are contesting the polls on LJP symbol and Adityanath is one of the most desired campaigners. “We are scheduling star campaigners’ rallies as per demand made by the candidates. Yogi’s rallies are witnessing a good response from the people, which makes him popular in demand by the candidates,” said a senior leader. He said the campaign schedule is being planned for the entire NDA family and not party-wise. “People will not accept the alliance of RJD and CPM. Bihar is looking at the future.. the state will not accept violence of the past,” BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav, who also addressed the Paliganj rally with Adityanath, said. Keeping in mind the challenge rebels have posed to the ruling alliance, even PM Narendra Modi’s inaugural physical rally on Friday has been organised in Sasaram, where BJP rebel Rameshwar Chaurasia is trying his luck as LJP candidate. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will also be present in PM rallies. Starting from Tuesday, Yogi is addressing 18 rallies in six days before the first phase of polling in Bihar polls. Yogi kicked off his campaign by addressing a rally in Ramgarh seat on Tuesday, and then gatherings in Arwal and Karakat constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/as-star-campaigner-cm-yogi-is-in-high-demand-among-nda-nominees-in-bihar/articleshow/78818627.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
October 23, 2020||Nashik||Onion prices rise to Rs 6,200/quintalafter falling a day earlier at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions on Thursday increased by Rs 400 per quintal to Rs 6,200 at the Lasalgaon APMC, which had recorded the season’s highest price of Rs 7,100 two days ago at the country’s largest onion maket. The average price actually fell at the market by Rs 1,300 per quintal to Rs 5,800 on Wednesday, following reports that a section of private traders were importing onions from Iran and Turkey. The minimum and maximum wholesale prices were recorded at Rs 1,601 and Rs 7,050 per quintal, respectively, at Lasalgaon on Thursday. Around 4,176 quintal of onions were auctioned at Lasalgoan as against an auction 7,000 a day earlier on Wednesday. The reason for the average price to increase by Rs 900 per quintal to Rs 7,100 on Tuesday was attributed to supply shortage due to the recent rain that damaged most of the stored produce. According to APMC officials, the arrival of onions at Lasalgaon has dropped from 21,000 quintal around two months back to 7,000 quintal now. It further dropped to 4,000 quintal on Thursday, leading to a marginal rise in the prices. Presently, the onions arriving in the wholesale markets in Nashik district are of summer variety that were harvested in March and April. The shelf life of summer onions is over six months. Farmers prefer storing them in the hope of getting better price and they get them to the market as per their requirement for money. The summer onions that are stored by farmers cater to the market until the arrival of fresh kharif variety by mid-October. However, the rain not only damaged the kharif onions, but also delayed the arrival of the new crop. The summer stock is about to exhaust. The drop in supply as compared demand has led to the current steep rise in prices in the wholesale markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-prices-rise-to-rs-6200/quintalafter-falling-a-day-earlier-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/78816672.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||NCW follows up case till action taken report on crimes against women received||Mangaluru: The National Commission for Women will act on any instance of crimes against women, including sexist remarks that come to its notice. “Even if it is a media report, tweet or social media post, NCW team tracks the same and acts as per procedure laid down and gives the accused time to respond,” said NCW member Shyamala S Kundar. She was replying to query regarding recent instances of sexist remarks by Congress and BJP leaders during electioneering in Madhya Pradesh. Without naming either the Congress or BJP leaders, Shyamala said the commission seeks report on the incidents from heads of state police force and the entire issue is handled in a time-bound manner. Since the entire process is now online, if a reply sought within a specified time is not received, red flags are raised prompting a follow up. “Officials duty-bound to reply to the notice cannot fudge facts without fear of censure,” Shyamala warned. Even in the Hathras incident, the NCW team visited the victim in AIIMS, New Delhi and gave direction to Uttar Pradesh Director-General of Police Hitesh Chandra Awasthy to take steps as mandated by law. The process is on, she said, adding NCW will follow up the case till it receives the final action taken report. “We are not worried about the state where the crimes against women take place, we are only interested in providing justice,” she said. She said although NCW stands with women facing injustice across India, it will not lose focus over due process. The commission works non-politically and will not be swayed by the political affiliation or stature of a person accused of either indulging in crimes against women, including making sexist remarks, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ncw-follows-up-case-till-action-taken-report-on-crimes-against-women-received/articleshow/78815332.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: M Sivasankar not an accused now, says NIA||KOCHI: Special court for considering cases of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday disposed the anticipatory bail petition by M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, in connection with the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case after the agency submitted before court that the petition was premature as the bureaucrat was not an accused in their case. When the matter came up for hearing on Thursday, NIA senior prosecutor Arjun Ambalapatta said that the agency was not considering making him an accused now and hence the anticipatory bail plea need not be considered. “At this point of time, we haven’t made any consideration as to whether to make him an accused or not. In case he is made an accused, he might be arrested, that is different. As of now, he is not an accused,” the prosecutor said. The defence counsel however urged the court to record NIA’s submission before disposing the petition. The court hence recorded the prosecution’s statement that he was not an accused currently and disposed off the anticipatory bail petition. Sivasankar moved the court on Monday with the anticipatory bail plea after moving high court with similar pleas in cases relating to Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling filed by Enforcement Directorate and customs (preventive). In the bail plea, Sivasankar claimed that he fears an arrest due to political interference. In the petition, he had stated that he was interrogated by NIA for 34.5 hours on four occasions. He had said in his petition that he appeared before NIA whenever he was given notice in spite of his physical ailments. He had claimed in the plea that he had fully cooperated with questioning sessions which used to start in the morning and continue till late night. He has not committed any crime including offences under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) probed by NIA, the petition had stated. “The petitioner is strongly apprehensive that due to political will, there are possibilities for a vexatious arrest and the petitioner has no other way than approaching the court to establish his innocence and to escape from vexatious arrest at the instance of the respondent in connection with the crime,” the petition had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-not-an-accused-now-says-nia/articleshow/78815380.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand deaf-blind girl 2nd in UN contest||DEHRADUN: Asha Patwal, the 16-year-old deaf-blind girl from Doon, who had raised the issue of deaf-blind persons not being included in the census, emerged among the top three contestants from across the world in the UN World Data Forum competition, the results of which were declared on Thursday night. Patwal stood second in the competition in which the first and third spot winners were contestants from Portugal. The New York-based UN World Data Forum, which operates under the United Nations Statistics Division, had put out a call for videos from those between the ages of 15 and 24, on the topic ‘why data matters’. TOI had reported on Wednesday that Patwal, who suffers from dual disability, had in her video entry to the competition, stressed on the need to involve people with double disability in the census so that government schemes can be made for them as well and they are able to showcase their potential. The one minute-long video of the deaf and blind girl won many hearts. The voting was done online for the 10 finalists who were shortlisted from across the world. Expressing her happiness in sign language when informed of her win, Patwal said, “I hope people understand the need and urgency to include us in the census so that we — the people with double disability — can also participate in the making of a nation.” Asha, like her father and two siblings, is suffering from congenital blindness. After suffering from brain fever at her hometown in Rudraprayag, she became deaf too. She is currently studying at the Sharp Memorial School for Blind in Rajpur. The school’s principal, Sumana Samuel, told TOI, “These children need support, and even if they are provided the smallest of support, they can change the world. They are full of energy and are highly self-motivated. It is high time that parents start disclosing the authorities who come for census regarding their child’s dual disability, if any, rather than hiding them. The government should also focus on including people with double disability as per their talent, not disability.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/deaf-blind-girl-from-doon-in-top-3-of-un-world-data-forum-competition/articleshow/78814293.cms||Shivani Azad
October 23, 2020||Vadodara||Garba singers making non-resident Gujarati's sway online||VADODARA: This year they couldn’t perform amid a sea of revellers dancing to the garba tunes during Navratri in Gujarat. But many garba singers are making the non-resident Gujaratis (NRGs), settled in different countries, sway to their tunes. Garba artists have taken to the virtual world to dish out their best of performances and wow the revellers abroad. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, Navratri wasn’t organized in Gujarat. Even abroad, Gujaratis, who love to play garba, were not able to organize Navratri. So, we decided to perform garba online for the revellers who didn’t want to miss their annual Navratri celebrations,” said Maharshi Pandya, a well-known garba singer from Vadodara. Every morning, Pandya wakes up at the crack of dawn and gets ready to render some soulful garbas that are relayed online for the garba lovers in the US and Canada. “I sing live between 6 and 9 am at Indian Standard Time (IST) every day to ensure that revellers enjoy garbas at night in the US and Canada. The revellers watch my performance on YouTube and play garba in their homes,” Pandya told TOI. This Navratri, most garba artists are completely out of work and hence are trying to earn some money through online performance apart from continuing the annual tradition of singing garbas during Navratri. “On the first night of Navratri, I sang live for the audiences in Canada. Gujarati families swayed to the garba tunes in their homes and enjoyed every moment,” said Kaushal Pithadiya, 25-year-old garba singer from Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/garba-singers-making-nrgs-sway-online/articleshow/78815114.cms||Tushar Tere
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Owners of 81 premises fined for having mosquito breeding sites||Rajkot: As many as 81 premises were found to be having mosquito breeding sites during the check conducted last week by the health department of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC). Subsequently, the premises were slapped with notices and fines worth Rs 30,550 was collected from them. “Last week, the RMC checked 422 premises which included 96 hospitals, 189 scrap yards and 125 construction sites. A total of 81 sites were found to be having mosquito larvae, subsequent of which they were issued notices and slapped with fines,” said L T Vaja, health officer of the RMC health department. “The eggs of aedes aegypti mosquitoes that cause dengue exist for more than a year in the still water. Hence, the checking of such premises becomes very important,” said P P Rathod, deputy health officer of the RMC health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/owners-of-81-premises-fined-for-having-mosquito-breeding-sites/articleshow/78815344.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Can old fruit-bearing trees be felled on residential plots?||DEHRADUN: Residents of New Road in the state capital have alleged that mature fruit-bearing trees in a residential plot — believed to be over a century old — have been marked for felling, despite an advisory issued by the forest department sometime ago, warning of strict action if old trees were harmed in any way. “These are healthy fruit-bearing trees of different varieties, like jackfruit and mulberry, but the plot of land where they are planted has recently been sold by its owner to someone else. Now the new owner is getting all the trees felled by the forest department,” alleged a resident of New Road. Environmentalists say that tree felling across Doon valley has become rampant of late on residential plots, as most original owners are selling out. The new owners, having spent a fortune to buy the land, are adamant about felling the trees to construct their houses. This is destroying the city’s verdant look. “Recently, I got a complaint that someone is planning to fell old trees near Johri village, claiming they are causing dampness and damage to their house. But we need to understand — what came first here — trees or the house?”said environmental activist Sanjiv Srivastava. Dehradun DFO RajIv Dhiman, when queried about the forest department’s stance on the issue, said, “There’s a ban on felling 21 species of trees on residential plots. But we can’t stop anyone if a residential building is involved. We have to give clearance. In fact, there are some trees which don’t even need clearance for felling, like jamun and other fruit-bearing trees. Locals are yet to report the case of 11 New Road to forest department, but we’ll inspect the ground situation and take action if anything wrong is happening.” Residents say that in order to ensure that the valley remains green, MDDA needs to be roped in and instructed to clear construction plans of every house very carefully. “It’s mandatory to seek permission from the forest department, but in case the trees don’t fall in the restricted category, even the forest department is helpless. Hence, the urban development authority needs to be very cautious while clearing plans for house construction on plots where trees exist,” said Romika Dhaul, a Dalanwala-based architect. Scientists at Forest Research Institute (FRI) meanwhile said that no tree should be felled whatever the circumstance, as it hurts the valley’s environment. “If trees are to be felled for construction work within the city, then mitigation plans should be made at the very least. Every tree has a role to play, and only those that are diseased or deemed dangerous should be felled. The older the tree, better is its carbon absorption from the environment,” said Anup Chandra, senior scientist at FRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/can-old-fruit-bearing-trees-be-allowed-to-be-felled-on-residential-plots-in-doon/articleshow/78814279.cms||Shivani Azad
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Woman, son die in house collapse in Visavadar||RAJKOT: A woman and her son were killed following a house collapse due to heavy rainfall in Visavadar town of Junagadh district on Wednesday night. The woman’s husband and her other son were injured in the incident. The incident occurred in Jivaji Sheth no Delo locality on Railway Station Road in Visavadar. The deceased were identified as Reena Makwana (40) and her son Divya Makwana (11). The injured include Reena’s husband Dinesh Makwana (44) and her other son Dipesh Makwana (13). “The house was already in a dilapidated condition. It collapsed as it couldn’t withstand the constant lashing of the rain,” said an official from Visavadar police station. The incident occurred when Reena was cooking in the kitchen, while Dinesh, a farmer and Dipesh were seated on the cot in their drawing room. When Divya was in the process of going to the kitchen, the house collapsed. “All the victims got trapped under the debris. The neighbours rushed to the spot and removed the debris from which Dinesh and Dipesh were extricated alive. However, Reena and Divya had succumbed to their injuries,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-son-die-as-house-collapses-due-to-heavy-rain-in-visavadar/articleshow/78815356.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar: Three suicide cases surface in one day||HARIDWAR: Three suicide cases surfaced in Hairdwar and its adjoining areas on Thursday. In the first case, a 47-year-old woman from Ahmedabad, Gujarat, allegedly committed suicide at her hotel room in Haridwar. She has been identified as Joytsna Ben and was found unconscious. She was later referred to a higher centre where she died during treatment. “The woman consumed poison and we did not find any suicide note in the room. We sent her body for autopsy,” SHO Amarjeet Singh told TOI. Another incident of suicide surfaced in SIDCUL police station limits where an 18-year-old boy, Rajat Pal — a resident of Bhrampuri village and a native of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh — ended his life by hanging at his home. A third suicide case was reported in Syhampur police station where a 24-year-old man was found hanging from a tree. Police did not identify him and shared details with other police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-suicide-cases-surface-in-one-day/articleshow/78814306.cms||MS Nawaz
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath witnesses season's first snowfall||DEHRADUN: After a prolonged dry spell, the weather changed in Uttarakhand on Thursday with Kedarnath valley and surrounding peaks in the Garhwal Himalayas receiving the season's first snowfall, causing a drop in the mercury. Besides snow activity being recorded in Kedarnath, light to moderate showers lashed several other parts of Garhwal region, while cloudy weather prevailed in state capital Dehradun. According to the regional meteorological centre, Auli received 8mm rainfall while Joshimath recorded 2.6mm showers. The Met office had issued a forecast of very light to light rain/snowfall in isolated places, especially in the higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Nainital, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh districts. "Due to western disturbance, there was light rain and snow activity recorded in the hills of Uttarakhand. Kedarnath and surrounding hills received light snowfall," said a Met official. The temperatures, which were settling above normal in both plains and hills of the state, are likely to drop by a few notches following snow activity in the hills. "We could see some drop in the maximum temperatures in Uttarakhand in the next few days," said a Met official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-witnesses-seasons-first-snowfall/articleshow/78814301.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||BSP fields national coordinator Ramji Gautam for Rajya Sabha seat||LUCKNOW: In a surprise move, BSP has decided to field its national coordinator Ramji Gautam for the tenth Rajya Sabha seat from UP, though it lacks the numbers to win the seat on its own. The candidature of Gautam is learnt to have been finalised in a meeting of party MLAs on Thursday. According to sources in the party, Gautam’s selection is crucial as belongs to dalit community, a votebank which Mayawati needs to consolidate before the next assembly elections in the state. “BJP has the numbers to win eight seats while SP can win only one. Both will have left over votes. A candidate needs 36 votes to win while BSP has 15. This does not include Anil Singh and Mohammed Aslan Raini who have rebelled against the party, and don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is in jail. The question is, if BSP is serious about winning this seat, where will it get support from,” a party member said. Sources said Gautam’s nomination is likely to be filed on October 26. The election is scheduled for November 10. Gautam, along with Mayawati’s nephew Akash Anand, was named national coordinator in June 2019. He worked at a private firm as a chemical engineer before joining the party in 2015. Currently, he runs a business of pesticides and agriculture-related chemicals. “Gautam, who hails from Lakhimpur Kheri, is also working as coordinator for Rajasthan. He has also worked in southern states. His candidature is important for the party as it sends out the message to the cadre that if they work hard, they will be rewarded. The decision is crucial ahead of assembly elections as it would rejuvenate workers,” a party member said. “Dalits are unhappy with BJP even though they have supported it in previous elections. It is important for BSP to win back the support of its core voter if it has to win the next election,” he said, adding that the party was already trying to woo Brahmins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-fields-natl-coordinator-ramji-gautam-for-rs-seat/articleshow/78818646.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NGO worker held for raping woman from UK in hotel||NEW DELHI: A 27-year-old UK national has alleged that she was raped by an NGO worker in a hotel in Karol Bagh in central Delhi. The rape case was filed last month. The accused, Rupak Chatterjee (37), was arrested in Jaipur earlier this month and he was brought to the capital on a production warrant by Delhi Police on Tuesday. The survivor was working with the NGO to empower women and came in touch with the accused there. Two other British women working with the NGO also alleged that the accused had developed physical relations with them. Two separate rape cases were filed in Jaipur based on their statements. Police said the survivor came to the city in February as she wanted to work with an NGO that was helping needy women and victims of crime. She read about the NGO online and through Facebook and then got in touch with the accused. After working in Jaipur, Chatterjee asked her to work in Delhi too. Her complaint with police mentioned that he had assaulted her in a hotel in Karol Bagh. The other two survivors also said that he had had physical relations with them too. The trio sought the help of an advocate and reported the matter at Sarita Vihar police station. “Since two complaints pertained to Jaipur, a zero FIR was registered and transferred there. The complaint of the 27-year-old woman pertained to Karol Bagh, so a rape case was registered there on September 15. Cops in Jaipur were given details of the accused and they arrested him on October 1. Chatterjee was brought to Delhi after the production warrant was obtained. Further investigation is under way,” said a senior police officer. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ngo-worker-held-for-raping-woman-from-uk-in-hotel/articleshow/78816774.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie Express resumes after seven months||DEHRADUN: After a gap of over seven months, Mussoorie Express — which runs between Old Delhi and Dehradun — started its operations again. On the first day on Wednesday, the Dehradun-bound 04041 Mussoorie Express departed from Old Delhi railway station with 80 passengers and on the second day on Thursday, there were 134 passengers on board. The Old Delhi-bound train had 146 commuters on the first day from Dehradun. According to a railway official, gradually all trains have started functioning. While Shatabdi Express and Nanda Devi Express are running with a very low occupancy, New Delhi Janshatabdi and Kathgodam Janshatabdi have more passengers. Dehradun station master Sitaram Sonkar said, “Ahead of the festive season, Moradabad railway division has sent a proposal for approval from the railway board for five trains — Link Express, Janata Express, Howrah Express, Indore Express and Ujjaini Express — but none of the trains has been approved yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-express-resumes-after-7-months/articleshow/78814317.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||State tax department conducts raid in four stone crushers in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: Seven teams of the special investigation branch of the state tax department on Thursday conducted raids on four contractors involved in stone-crushing and their offices in Haridwar, on the complaint of tax evasion. Sale and purchase records and office computers were seized by the raiders, who also inspected the stock of raw materials with the stone crushers. Officials claimed initial investigation had revealed tax evasion, but proper assessment to assess the value of tax evasion will take a month to be completed. The deputy commissioner of SIB told TOI, “After we received complaints against the stone crushers, we kept a close watch on the sale and purchase data given by the stone crushers, and finally conducted raids in Bhogpur and Gandikhatta villages. Seven teams with 40 officers were formed for the raids, in which we seized documents, computers and hard discs related to sale and purchase records, which will be investigated later. Initial investigations have already revealed evidence of major tax evasion, but proper assessment will take time. Action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-tax-department-conducts-raid-in-four-stone-crushers-in-haridwar/articleshow/78814320.cms||MS Nawaz
October 23, 2020||Nashik||PDS shop on barge supplies grain to 4 inaccessible villages in Nandurbar||Nashik: A barge, that doubles up as a public distribution system (PDS) shop, helps supply grain to almost 400 tribal families in four villages of Nandurbar district in north Maharashtra.Urga, Bhadal, Bhabri and Bhamane villages, on the banks of the Narmada river’s backwaters, are in Akrani taluka along the Gujarat border. District officials said the villages cannot be accessed by road and the only way to reach them is by a boat/barge. There is also no mobile connectivity and electricity in these villages.A road, however, is being built to link the villages to the taluka headquarters.Most residents here have small pieces of land where they grow vegetables and paddy for their own consumption. They also fish in the river and sell the catch in nearby markets.Akrani tehsildar Dynaneshwar Sapkale told TOI that the PDS contractor takes a barge on rent from officials of the Sardar Sarovar project to ferry more than 90 quintal of rice and wheat to the residents of the four villages. “The contractor supplied grain to the 102 tribal families in Bhadal a couple of days back. The barge would travel to the remaining villages within the next few days,” he added.Under different government schemes, each family gets 20kg rice at Rs 3 per kilogram; and 15kg wheat at Rs 2 a kilogram.“The barge travels from the Bhusa point near the taluka headquarters once a month to these four villages. It takes around two hours to ferry the grain. Once the barge reaches the riverbank, the village residents buy their quota of grain. The material is weighed before it is handed over to the people,” added Sapkale.According to him, the villagers are given the grain supplies to last them four months before the onset of the monsoon. They are given the grain in advance in June since the Narmada is usually in spate during the monsoon and its risky to ferry the material on a barge then.“The district administration coordinates with the contractor to ensure that supplies reach these villagers every month. Our staff travels with the contractor to ensure that the villagers are not deprived of their share,” said Sapkale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pds-shop-on-barge-supplies-grain-to-4-inaccessible-villages-in-nandurbar/articleshow/78816785.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 23, 2020||Chennai||State reported 1L cases in past 3wks, total infections 7L||Chennai: Three weeks after reporting six lakh Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu reported another one lakh cases that pushed case tally to 7,00,193 on Thursday. The cumulative death toll touched 10,825 after 45 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours. There were 34,198 people still under treatment across the state. While the total number of cases in Tamil Nadu is the fourth highest after Maharashtra (16 lakh), Andhra Pradesh (7.9 lakh) and Karnataka (7.8 lakh), toll was the highest in Tamil Nadu after Maharashtra, which has reported more than 42,000 deaths. Case fatality ratio in Tamil Nadu was 1.6% compared to Maharashtra (2.6%), Andhra Pradesh (0.8%) and Karnataka (1.3%). After testing 79,821 people using RT-PCR tests, the state added 3,077 new infections on Thursday. Hotspot Chennai (833) continued to report the maximum number of cases after Coimbatore (285) and Chengalpet (193). While all other districts reported cases below 200, four districts reported cases in one digit – Ramanathapuram (9), Ariyalur (7), Perambalur (7) and Tenkasi (5). Incidence per million is the highest in Chennai (26,487), followed by Chengalpet (19,502), Kancheepuram (15,878) and Theni (11,374). Of the 45 deaths reported in the past 24 hours, Chennai (13) had the highest followed by Salem(5), Tiruvallur (4) and Chengalpet (4). While Tirupur and Trichy reported three deaths each, Thanjavur and Tiruvannamalai reported two deaths each, and nine other districts reported one death each. Though the toll was the highest in Chennai, the case fatality rate was highest in Madurai (2.3), Sivaganga (2.2), Ramanathapuram (2.1), Tenkasi (1.9), Dindigul (1.9) and Tirupathur (1.9) followed by Chennai (1.8). With 11,107 cases, active cases were the highest in Chennai, followed by 3,753 in Coimbatore. In all other districts, active infections were below 2,000 cases. Perambalur (82) had the least number of people under treatment, followed by Sivaganga (149) and Tenkasi (150). On Wednesday, the Chennai region together reported 1,295 cases and 22 deaths, and other districts in the north reported 334 cases and three deaths. Together, the eleven northern districts reported 1,629 cases and 25 deaths. The districts in the west reported 879 cases and 12 deaths, while the central districts reported 302 cases and six deaths. Southern districts logged 267 cases and two deaths. On Thursday, 4,314 people were discharged putting recoveries at 6.5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-reported-1l-cases-in-past-3wks-total-infections-7l/articleshow/78816863.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Day 13: Exams delayed by 1 hr as glitches continue||Nagpur: Students of Nagpur University faced many technical glitches on Thursday morning during the re-exam for BSc (Mathematics) paper which was cancelled on Wednesday. Over 4,000 students had failed to download the paper on Wednesday afternoon due to a snag in the server, after which the exam was rescheduled. On Thursday, when the paper commenced at 8 in the morning, the ones who joined early got easy access while others faced several issues during login. The exams started about an hour late for such aggrieved examinees after NU extended time for them. According to officials, as the paper was made available from 7.30am, the examinees rushed to login causing load on the server. The delay led to a cascading effect on other exams like MA which was scheduled at 1.30pm but started late. Students are suffering due to total mismanagement of NU administration and haste shown in conducting the online exams, as per college teachers who were monitoring the exams. Even MA paper was made available for examinees about an hour in advance. Students rushed in at the same time for login that slowed down the server again. Many students complained about not finding the paper of ‘MA research methodology’ on the app after which NU officials made it available. NU helplines were busy throughout the day with a slew of complaints from harried students due to one or other technical glitches that continue to mar the exams right from Day 1. Some of them also complained that they couldn’t get time to complete paper as it was automatically closed after the scheduled time but they couldn’t login time due to server problems. NU officials said they would be holding re-exam for students who suffered due to crash in Vodafone-Idea server on October 15. ‘Images of diagrams in BSc paper took time to upload’ According to officials from Promarc Software Limited, problems cropped in Thursday’s BSc paper as images of diagrams took time to upload. “The mathematics paper had over 50 questions with diagrams in 150 questions set for it. Even in WhatsApp account it takes time to upload or send 50 images. Obviously, the server got congested and consumed time for loading diagrams. Moreover, the number of examinees was more than 5,000, who tried to logged in simultaneously. All this overloaded the server and, therefore students couldn’t open the question paper,” they told TOI. The officials, who have developed Pariksha App, added they reduced the resolution of diagram images by sitting at the exam section past midnight on Wednesday. The BSc paper went off smoothly without any major complaints on Thursday, barring minor ones, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/day-13-exams-delayed-by-1-hr-as-glitches-continue/articleshow/78816817.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC orders removal of explicit content after woman’s plea||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has directed social media platforms to immediately remove links to objectionable content related to a 24-year-old woman after she moved court. In her plea the woman complained she had been blackmailed as a 16-year-old minor by her school classmate to share sexually explicit photos that have now been uploaded online. She said initially she was friendly with the boy and entered into a relationship, which later became abusive. Justice Vibhu Bakhru also directed police to forward all the material including links to the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) for notifying the objectionable contents for removal from the internet space while asking Facebook and Google to remove the offending contents and URLs from their platforms. The court said police must use protocols and resources available with NCRB and other agencies concerned to identify persons who are posting the offensive contents online and prosecute them. The court was informed by National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, a non-profit organisation involved in helping to find missing children, reduce child sexual exploitation and prevent child victimisation, that they have an agreement with NCRB and protocols are in place. In the petition the woman informed the court that the boy used to emotionally blackmail her and compelled her to send her intimate photographs to him. Later, she ended her association with him. She claimed that in 2019, she came to know that the man had posted her intimate pictures on various platforms such as Twitter, Instagram and YouTube and the uploaded photographs were the same that were sent by her to him when she was a minor. He misused the photographs and uploaded them on internet, she said, adding that she lodged an FIR against him with the Special Cell, cyber crime department of Delhi Police and also contacted the social media platforms for removing the objectionable photographs. The court noted that even after complaints the material continued to be displayed and said this “brought into sharp focus the problem of preventing circulation of identified objectionable material on the platforms operated on internet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-orders-removal-of-explicit-content-after-womans-plea/articleshow/78816814.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Drowning turns out to be murder over love affair||PALANPUR: The case of accidental drowning in the river turned murky after police found out that it was actually a case of murder. On October 7, a decomposed body found floating on the Sabarmati river and later identified to be of Manji Thakor of Golvad village in Idar taluka of Sabarkanthha was fished out by the villagers. Later, on the next day, his brother approached the Idar police with an application stating that he suspects his brother was killed and dumped in the river and that he did not die from drowning. In a joint operation conducted by LCB and Idar police, under the instruction of IG Gandhinagar Range Abhay Chudasma and superintendent of police Sabarkantha, Chaitanya Mandlik, police first exhumed the body and later sent it for forensic investigation. The FSL report revealed that the 21-year-old Manji was murdered through electrocution. Based on a tip off, cops approached one Sonaji Thakor, who broke down and confessed to killing the man. He alleged that the deceased was having illicit relation with his daughter. “I called Manji Thakore on October 5 and after a heated argument I hit him with a stick on the head. And later with the help of two relatives Badsangji Thakor and Dashrathji Thakor, I threw Thakor’s body on a live wire. After ensuring that he was dead, we threw him in Sabarmati River near our village,” the accused recounted. Police have arrested the accused following his confession, said Chaitnya Mandlik, SP, Sabarkantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drowning-turns-out-to-be-murder-over-love-affair/articleshow/78815389.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad lacks flood management plan: Congress||HYDERABAD: Senior Congress leader and former member of National Disaster Management Authority Marri Shashidhar Reddy on Thursday alleged that both TRS and BJP are playing politics over the rain havoc and floods in Hyderabad. In a statement, he said that there was no permanent plan for the city to face this kind of situation. “Though TRS has been in power for the last six years, it has not done anything towards mitigating the problem,” he said. He said the BJP is showing overenthusiasm in sending the central team. “The central team should come only after the state government sends a full report on the floods,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-lacks-flood-mgmt-plan-cong/articleshow/78818341.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||HC dismisses man’s plea for not following its directives||Nagpur: Coming down heavily on a petitioner for not following its directives of cooperating with investigating officer (IO), the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court dismissed his petition seeking protection from coercive action by police. Petitioner Sameet Thakkar was granted interim protection by HC on August 28 by restraining police from taking any coercive action against him for his alleged defamatory tweets against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and son Aaditya over death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. “It appears to us that on the one hand, the petitioner seeks interim relief and on the other, he thinks he needn’t follow the conditions imposed by HC under the impression that he can help himself without anybody’s assistance. If this is his conduct, we don’t think it would be appropriate for us to entertain this petition any further,” a division bench comprising Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote observed. Thakkar had moved the court through counsel Raspal Singh Renu for quashing of FIR lodged against him at the Sitabuldi police station by Shiv Sena activist Nitin Tiwari. According to him, the FIR was in response to his revelation about alleged inaction by Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra over the death of a young Bollywood actor. He prayed for quashing FIR against him and also demanded security in wake of alleged threats from Shiv Sena activists. After Thakkar failed to cooperate, the IO lodged a complaint against him for non-cooperation. Subsequently, HC directed him to report to the police station everyday between 6 pm and 8pm from October 13. Petitioner’s counsel Renu filed an affidavit on October 20 informing that he had filed two more petitions before two HC benches, including Mumbai, where similar directives were issued. Therefore, it was very difficult for him to come to Nagpur to mark his presence. Thakkar had also moved the Supreme Court with his grievances. “We can very well understand the petitioner's difficulties in running from one police station to another. But, we can’t understand why he didn’t intimate IO about his difficulties. We also fail to understand why he hasn’t sought any modification of HC’s October 12 order till date that directed him to report to Sitabuldi police,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-dismisses-mans-plea-for-not-following-its-directives/articleshow/78816834.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Cheating case filed against Kummanam Rajasekharan||KOTTAYAM: Police on Thursday filed a case against former Mizoram governor and BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekharan in a cheating case. Kummanam was named fourth accused in the FIR registered by Aranmula police in Pathanamtitta district on a complaint by Harikrishnan, an Aranmula native. Praveen B Pillai, former personal assistant of Kummanam, is the prime accused. According to the complainant, the accused took money from him promising a share in a new venture. Pillai is alleged to have cheated the complainant by posing as a middleman and taking money from him for starting the new venture based in Palakkad. A cheque was issued to the complainant in return of money received, police said. During this time Kummanam was serving as the governor in Mizoram. When a complaint was raised, BJP NRI cell former convener Harikumar intervened and returned Rs 6.25 lakh of the total Rs 30.75 lakh he had reportedly given to the accused, police said. Harikrishnan resorted to a police complaint after he was neither made a partner nor his cash was returned. Meanwhile, Kummanam alleged that the case against him was politically motivated. “Police is creating allegations against me. Nowhere in the complaint it is said I have any role in the dealing. I was made an accused without even holding an enquiry with me, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cheating-case-filed-against-kummanam/articleshow/78815417.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Not being allowed to step out of cell: Umar Khalid to court||NEW DELHI: Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid on Thursday alleged in court that he was not being allowed to step out of his cell as if he was in solitary confinement. Khalid said it was taking a toll on his mental health and causing him extreme discomfort. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat took note of the issue and directed the jail superintendent to appear on the next hearing on Friday. Khalid also said that the jail staff wasn’t unmuting him during the video-conferencing hearing so he was not able to raise his grievances before the court. Khalid said that he had been facing issues inside the jail. “I am aware that your honour has passed an order. However, the situation has aggravated in the last 3-4 days. It is a sort of solitary confinement. Nobody is allowed near my cell. I am not allowed to step out of my cell. No one is allowed to talk to me,” he said, appearing from jail. On October 17, the court had directed Delhi Police to give adequate security to Khalid. Warning against any “half-hearted measures”, the court directed the jail authority to inform it the steps being taken to address the grievances. Khalid claimed that although a senior jail official had assured him that he would be allowed outside his cell, and had even opened his cell for 10 minutes, he was put back inside and not allowed out any further. “It’s causing me extreme discomfort. I have not been well for the past three days. This is like punishment for unruly prisoners. Security ka matlab nahi hai aap bahar nahi niklenge (asking for security doesn’t mean one is not allowed outside at all),” he pointed out. Khalid’s lawyer Trideep Pais added, “In every hearing, the superintendent had assured that this will not happen…. Your honour may say that the jail superintendent should not take action against him only because he (Khalid) has complained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-being-allowed-to-step-out-of-cell-khalid-to-court/articleshow/78816950.cms||Aamir Khan
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Concept photography adds zing to Dasara festivities||Mangaluru: All these years Dasara was celebrated with installation of Nava Durga and Sharada idols at various temples and pandals. With Covid-19 limiting the celebrations, a new trend is emerging. Models, especially girls and women and young children are donning various forms of Durga and posting their pictures on social media. Several professional photographers have come up with this concept photography and are posting a photo a day, explaining the significance of the 9-day festival. K Prasad Pai, who along with his team shot two concepts of Navarasa (nine expressions of Durga), said, “We captured photos in two extreme expressions — anger and calmness of Durga. It took two days each to do this. ‘Kali’ was shot at a private farm at Hebri and ‘Sharada’ at Mala, in Karkala taluk. We also wanted to depict the immersion of Sharada, so we captured the sequence in a nearby stream. Our make-up artist Priya Baliga had to carry jasmine in an ice box from Mangaluru to the location which is nearly 80 kms. It’s difficult for models to be in water wearing a saree, but our model Prithi Shenoy showed all courage and so did Sheethal Nayak, as Kali”. Another team Lanchanaart, Udupi, comprising Tejasvi S Acharya, a Vastu and astrology consultant and Shashank H Shivathaya, an advocate, tried to the give message of mythology using shlokas. “Photography is a creative art. We want to show the emotional aspect and energy form of Durga. So, each day we are presenting one picture with particular emotion and explaining the significance of the day.’’. Pachi Rayaramane of Chayakuteer, Puttur, who has shot a few series earlier said, “Most people don’t know the importance and details of traditions. So, I wanted to reach people with a message. Also, for shooting nine forms of Durga one needs to have patience as well as a good make-up artist. It’s a time-consuming concept. But make-up artist Manasa Nakshtrithhaya along with model Pratheeksha Hebbar showed how well Durga can be depicted as seen in the pictures. Sadhana Hebbar has been our resource person, who helped us post the details about the traditions on social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/concept-photography-adds-zing-to-dasara-festivities/articleshow/78813759.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: ‘Stabbed woman a victim not participant in crime’||VADODARA: In an important judgement, a consumer court in Vadodara chastised a state-run insurance company for denying mediclaim to a woman stab victim, observing that she was a ‘victim’ of the crime and not ‘a participant’ as claimed by the insurer. New India Insurance Company and the third-party administrator (TPA) turned down Rs 2.5 lakh hospital bill of Alpa Patel, who was stabbed by two persons who were contracted by her husband Sunil, who plotted the crime as he had extra-marital affairs. Sunil was, however, not named in the FIR. Directing the insurer to pay the entire treatment expense of Rs 2.5 lakh along with interest to Patel, the additional Vadodara District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum said that the company had been “unfair” with the woman by misinterpreting its own clause. “A person injured in a criminal act is also eligible to get treatment money from the insurance company if the person is a victim in the case,” the court observed. After settling the bill of a private hospital in Chhani where she was treated, Patel submitted the documents including the copy of FIR to the TPA M/s Vipul Medicorp TPA Pvt Ltd. But the TPA rejected the claim citing the clause that any injury or illness sustained whilst or as a result of participating in any criminal act is not payable. Patel then approached the consumer forum against the insurance company and TPA to get her claim amount. Patel, a resident of Mehsananagar in Nizampura, was stabbed on February 20 of 2015 when she returning home after buying milk. She underwent treatment for over a week. The court upheld that though the policy is in her husband’s name, Patel is also an insured person as a joint holder of the policy. Thus, she was not a participant in the crime, but a victim of it, the court stated. As a victim, she is eligible to get the entire amount of her treatment, said advocate P V Moorjani, who represented her. “We argued that Patel had taken the policy in 1999 and renewed it every year while the clause of a criminal act was brought in later,” Moorjani said. “Since the clause was issued by the insurance company in 2002, it cannot be enforced on an existing policy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/stabbed-woman-a-victim-not-participant-in-crime/articleshow/78815173.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Fish prices soar due to bad weather||MANGALURU: The price of fish, which should have been moderating at this time of the year from a high during the monsoon ban months, are still hovering at uncomfortable levels – thanks to the inclement weather over the past few weeks that has prevented fishermen from venturing into the sea. But the prices are likely to head south, depending on the catch, as boats have already left for deep sea fishing, fisheries department officials’ aid. Though the prices of staple fish like mackerel and sardines have remained at a constant high of above Rs 200 per kilo, the price of premium fish has seen a downward trend. Though fresh mackerels are available, the supply of sardines has dried up and the frozen one’s are dumped into the market at a high price point. At the KFDC outlet in the city, seer fish with weight less than two kilos was retailing at a comfortable Rs 380 to Rs 400 per kilo (whole), while black and white pomfrets were retailing at Rs 450 and Rs 750 a kilo, which is a reasonable rate at this time of the year. Historically the prices of seer fish is around Rs 480 per kilo in October-November months and goes up later. Likewise, white pomfrets retail about Rs 750 in October-November months. The lesser fancied black pomfret retails at Rs 550 per kg during these months. But somehow, the prices of mackerel and sardines, which saw their prices rise above Rs 200 per kilo about 18 months back, have never seen a marked dip. This year also they are retailing at Rs 200 to Rs 240 per kilo. Two years ago, when the catch was good the prices used to fall to as low as Rs 80 per kilo for sardines and Rs 130 for mackerels. Even eateries are bearing the brunt of it and witnessing fewer footfalls due to Covid and the high prices of fish are not helping either. Usually a seer fillet that cost around Rs 80- Rs 175 pre-Covid times has shot up to Rs 150 to Rs 260 per piece in fish eateries. Likewise mackerel costs Rs 80 to Rs 100 and pomfret from Rs 200 to Rs 310, depending on the eatery, usually frequented by office-goers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fish-prices-soar-due-to-bad-weather/articleshow/78814059.cms||Stanley Pinto
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||IndiGo to connect city with Jaipur||Coimbatore: IndiGo has introduced a flight to Jaipur and restarted its flights to Kolkata, bringing cheer to the large Rajasthani and Bengali population in the city during the festive season of Navratri and Diwali. The flight services would be available from next week with stopovers in Hyderabad and Chennai. Fliers, however, don’t seem to be concerned about the stopovers, which they feel is better than the stress of finding and moving into a connecting flight. The private airlines would operate flights to Jaipur on all days, starting Sunday. The flight would take off from the city at 11.50am and reach Jaipur at 4.15pm via Hyderabad, where it would stopover. Madanlal Bafna, president, Rajasthani Sangh, said, “This has been a long-pending demand from our community, because many of us constantly travel back and forth for personal reasons, weddings and business.” Earlier, he said, flying to Rajasthan used to take anywhere between six to 12 hours, because they had to fly to Mumbai, New Delhi or Chennai and change flights. “It was really cumbersome for old people.” IndiGo has also resumed two flight services to Kolkata with a stop in Chennai. One of the flights would start operations from Monday and it would fly only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. The flight would leave the city at 4.15pm and reach Kolkata at 8.30pm. The other flight would start operations from November 1 and the service would be available on all the seven days of a week. It would take off from the city at 4.15pm and reach Kolkata at 8.20pm. There are at least 10,000 people from West Bengal living and working in the district. “Earlier, this flight was operational. Services were stopped because of the pandemic. Resumption of services would help many of us fly back home for Navratri and spend the days with our families,” said Swaroop Kumar Chattopadhyay, secretary, Bengali Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/indigo-to-connect-city-with-jaipur/articleshow/78816848.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: All-woman pujas take up safety challenge||KOLKATA: The mammoth task of organizing a mega annual show has been replaced by a symbolic invocation of the deity. But meticulous execution of Covid protocol is the key to the event’s success. The city’s all-woman Puja committees are ready for the challenge. Hygiene and cleanliness, after all, come naturally to them. The women of Salt Lake’s BE Block managed to wrest the organizing rights in the 41st year of their para Puja. “We are helming the Puja when the world is going through a unique crisis. Our theme is ‘gharoa’ or homeliness. Our pandal is an abode of reverence this time, as opposed to pomp and glitz,” said Smita Banerjee, president, BE (East) Puja. Even before the High Court had stepped in, Banerjee and her team decided that their community festival would be more in spirit this time. “Everyone is on board, digitally. Only a few of us are physically here in the pandal, which is an extension of the ghor (household) that we are adept at running. ‘Gharoa’ would also imply staying protected within the four walls of our homes,” said Sarmishtha Mukhopadhyay, secretary. This time, there are no bhog (feasting), no cultural events and people may not groove to the beats of the dhaak (drums) during Sandhi puja. “Social distancing and other Covid-19 guidelines are being implemented with utmost care. We have a sanitizing tunnel. Masks are being given out,” said Sarbani Lahiri, secretary Marshelin Cooperative Housing Society on EM Bypass.  “Our adherence to safety norms is one of the strictest in town. We are supervising 24x7 to follow the High Court directive,” said Smita Ghosh of all-women team at Siddhi in Bangur Avenue.  “We are constantly checking to keep at bay even the slightest deviation of norms,” said Keya Dey, treasurer, Kali Dutta Street Sarbojanin Puja near Sovabazar Metro station. The women from different walks of life are pulling all stops to ensure a safe four-day affair amid the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-woman-pujas-take-up-safety-challenge/articleshow/78816846.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Demolition of Nizam-era Bela Kaman riles activists, locals||HYDERABAD: The Nizam-era Bela Kaman or Shali Banda Kaman in Shalibanda, which had sustained damage during the recent torrential rains, was demolished overnight by GHMC officials. Activists and some locals, however, felt that repairs could have given it a new lease of life. Kaleem, a local, said, “Some people had complained that the structure posed a danger and could collapse at any time. While we expected an inspection to be carried out, the structure was brought to the ground within a matter of minutes.” The GHMC officials had barricaded the area following report of damage. N Giriraj, assistant city planner, Charminar, said: “We had been getting complaints about the structure since the rains last year. There is a hospital located nearby which pregnant women frequent. In light of the danger posed to the public, senior officials took a call to demolish the Kaman.” He said a house, probably dating back to the same era, located near the Kaman was also given a notice. “We have got a response from the owners. After our engineers inspect it again, we will take a call on it,” the official said. INTACH convenor Anuradha Reddy, however, differed with the move. “The GHMC has got a heritage wing. Before the civic body demolishes anything, some conservation architect should have had a look at it.” Experts suggested that routine maintenance would have saved the heritage structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demolition-of-nizam-era-bela-kaman-riles-activists-locals/articleshow/78818350.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||CWC to adopt kids of hooch tragedy victim||PALAKKAD: District child welfare council, on Monday, decided to adopt three teenaged children of Sivan, one of the five victims of the hooch tragedy at Payattukadu Colony in Chellamkadu near Kanjikode. The scheduled caste and scheduled tribes welfare department will provide the children a new house as they were living in a thatched house in the tribal colony. The children became orphans after their father’s death and their mother had deserted them some years ago. CWC members had spoken with the children, who are now under the care of tribal head Viswanathan, through video call. District child welfare officer P Meera, child welfare council officer U S Subha and child welfare council member V S Mohammed Kasim reached the colony and met the children and Viswanathan and discussed about the steps being taken to adopt the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cwc-to-adopt-kids-of-hooch-tragedy-victim/articleshow/78815436.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Corpn-ECR residents’ meet on storm drains hits rough weather||Chennai: Greater Chennai Corporation’s meeting with the residents of areas along the East Coast Road (ECR), to clarify doubts about the stormwater drain project that is being opposed, ended up in scenes of chaos after a three-hour heated discussion at the Amma Maligai on Thursday. The meeting was held to assuage concerns of the residents from Kottivakkam to Uthandi who have opposed construction of stormwater drains (SWD) on the eastern side of ECR. The residents say it is not needed as there has been little to no flooding and since the soil absorbs the rainwater. GCC has now told the residents that they would be forming a ward-level task force for the project with the local assistant engineer addressing queries and inputs of the residents. “Twenty five associations participated in the meeting. We plan to include more rainwater harvesting structures in the drains,” an official said. The meeting started off on a sour note as some residents refused to attend it. In a letter to GCC and German development bank kfW, which is funding the project, Sushma Erevelles, the co-ordinator of the coalition against SWD, said they wanted GCC to come to the spot and explain the project to the residents. The coalition also demanded copies of the detailed project report, the plan and environment impact assessment. Residents demanded the documents during the meeting too. Officials, however, refused to part with them saying they were confidential documents. GCC commissioner G Prakash, who was part of the meeting for 15 minutes, told the gathering that a majority of residents were in favour of the project but left after residents and representatives of fishing community opposed the claim. Chief engineer (SWD) L Nandakumar and a few zonal level officials then engaged with the residents, showed them a presentation on the worst-case flooding scenarios for Chennai with global warming, flooding in countries and other Indian cities. “GCC officials had decided not to stop or halt the project despite our opposition,” said R Balakrishnan, office bearer of VGP Golden sea view residents welfare association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-ecr-residents-meet-on-storm-drains-hits-rough-weather/articleshow/78816946.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid tally inches close to 41,000-mark in dist||Coimbatore: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has been on the decline for the past two weeks, when the daily spike was lesser than the number of patients getting discharged from treatment centres. Things weren’t any different on Thursday, when the district logged 285 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 40,982, even as 290 patients were discharged. The active cases now stand at 3,753, while 36,701 have recovered from the virus infection. The recovery rate has further improved to 89.5%. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, rose to 528 with the state including one more death that occurred in the district two days ago in the bulletin. The deceased was a 59-year-old diabetic man, who was admitted to the ESI Hospital on Saturday afternoon. He died of pneumonia, diabetic keto acidosis and brain damage on Tuesday night. It was also the day when the Covid-19 death rate fell to an all-time low of 1.28%, closer to the target of 1%. Officials, however, admitted that many deaths were occurring in hospitals. In some cases, they said, patients die after testing negative for the virus, but because of the complications, including pneumonia, triggered by the virus. An officer said, “Such deaths are not recorded. It is up to the hospitals to notify the cause(s) of death correctly and mention it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-tally-inches-close-to-41000-mark-in-dist/articleshow/78816915.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KC(M) fourth Kerala Congress faction in LDF||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF state committee on Thursday decided to induct Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K Mani as a constituent of LDF. All existing constituents welcomed the party to the front during the state committee meeting held here. The LDF also decided to include KC(M) in seat distribution talks for local body polls that will begin soon. “When voters who support KC(M) start supporting LDF, UDF’s destruction will become faster. It will soon shrink to a one- or two-party front. We hope to gain a major edge in the local body polls because of the new developments. It will also brighten our chances for continuance in governance,” said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. To a query, he said KC(M) hasn’t placed any conditions before LDF during negotiations. Sources in LDF said the same concern was raised by NCP state president T P Peethambaran in the LDF meeting. NCP leader Mani C Kappan represents Pala seat, the home turf of Jose K Mani and there were reports that Jose will seek Pala seat to contest in next assembly poll. CM Pinarayi Vijayan, who presided over the meeting, said there hadn’t been any discussion on seat sharing with the new party. He said all such matters would be discussed by LDF only prior to polls. Jose welcomed the LDF decision. “This is a recognition for the politics upheld by K M Mani sir and for the people who have aligned with that politics,” he said. On October 14, Jose announced the decision to associate with LDF. CPM welcomed the decision that day itself and CPI state executive approved the proposal on Wednesday. KC(M) will be the fourth Kerala Congress faction in the LDF. KC(B) led by R Balakrishna Pillai, KC(Scaria Thomas) led by ex-MP Scaria Thomas and Democratic Kerala Congress are the existing factions. With two MLAs — N Jayaraj and Roshy Augustine and Lok Sabha MP Thomas Chazhikadan — KC(M) will be the biggest Kerala Congress faction. LDF didn’t discuss the case of RSP (Leninist) led by MLA Kovoor Kunjumon though he had submitted a request seeking entry into the front. “We will continue to cooperate with all parties and groups which support us. Our approach is to strengthen the coordination with all such groups and necessary directives to include them during local body poll seat sharing talks have been given,” said Vijayaraghavan, when asked about the status of Kunjumon’s request. LDF state panel decided to draft a manifesto for the local body polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kcm-4th-kerala-cong-faction-in-ldf/articleshow/78815460.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja: Footfall surges in malls; full house at Kolkata restaurants||KOLKATA: With pandal-hopping taking a backseat, malls and restaurants have emerged as a hangout zone for Puja enthusiasts. Several malls have extended the timing of food courts and restaurants during the festival. Kolkata restaurants have witnessed a sharp spurt in footfall in the lead-up to the pujas with Panchami and Sasthi recording full occupancy throughout the day at most eateries across the central parts of the city, including Park Street. This has prompted shopping malls to keep their food courts open till 2am during the Puja. The surge of patrons is set to continue during the pujas, believe restaurant-owners and the Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) – the restaurants’ nodal body. Last week, the HRAEI-affiliated restaurants started offering a 20% discount on food to induce diners to support local restaurants. Former national president of Federation of Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of India, T S Walia, said the discount scheme and the festival have combined to generate a good response sine last week. “The first three days of the week and last Thursday were good. We have also initiated special programmes to draw in crowds during pujas,” said Walia who owns Xrong Place. Park Street restaurants have seen footfall slide up sharply since Tuesday. Many have had a waiting crowd for the first time since the lockdown. “It’s been packed for both lunch and dinner since Tuesday. The crowd is swelling with each passing day and this should continue till the end of the pujas. People are no longer scared to eat out which is evident. But the fact remains that we are still not allowed to fill up more than 50% of our capacity,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. HRAEI president Sudesh Poddar said the discount scheme has helped. “There has been a 15% hike in footfalls on weekdays. As decided earlier, it would be closed during four days of the festival,” added Poddar who owns restaurants like Songhai, Manthan. Poddar pointed out that the association is also contempl-ating approaching its members to extend the offer for the entire November. Charles Mantosh, owner of Floriana and Waldorf, said that due to Covid, restaurants have suffered a lot but there has been a revival. “The response is now quiet encouraging. This week’s crowd was very good,” he added. South City that has the largest food court among city malls will see the facility along with all restaurants operational till 2am. The food courts at Quest and City Centre malls in Salt Lake and New Town will be operational till midnight. At City Centre I, some restaurants will be open till 1am. During Puja, around 70% of the revenue that malls garner comes from food and beverage. Malls expect to double October’s F&B sales in these four Puja days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/footfall-surges-in-malls-full-house-at-restaurants/articleshow/78816928.cms||Udit Prasanna Mukherji
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||In Dubbak, woman voters call the shots||HYDERABAD: All major political parties and independents are vying with one another to capture the women voter base and beedi workers, many of whom are women, in Dubbak constituency. Leading the TRS campaign, state finance minister Harish Rao recently addressed a rally of women in the constituency. BJP and Congress too roped in women leaders to campaign for their candidates. The reason being that Dubbak constituency has more number of women voters than men. Of a total of 1,98,807 voters, 1,00,779 are women and 98,026 are men. Dubbak consists of Dubbak, Mirdoddi, Thoguta, Doultabad, Raipol, Chegunta, Narsingi and Gajwel mandals and in all the mandals, women voters outnumber men. For instance, Dubbak mandal has 55,208 voters, of whom 27,983 are women and 27,725 are men. For the ruling TRS, former deputy speaker Padma Devender Reddy and former minister Sunitha Lakhma Reddy are the driving force, campaigning for party candidate Solipeta Sujatha. BJP’s M Raghunandan Rao has party national vice-president DK Aruna and other women campaigning for him vigorously. Congress party’s lone woman MLA Anasuya alias Sitakka is touring Dubbak segment in support of party nominee Cheruku Srinivas Reddy. All the parties have deputed women leaders to speak to self-help group women in rural areas where leaders of these groups have a considerable influence. The leaders hold regular meeting with SHG women leaders, seeking support for their candidates. Not to be left behind, local women sarpanches, mandal parishad territorial constituency women leaders are also campaigning for their parties’ candidates. Interestingly, this is the first time that two women are contesting the electiont. Even when the constituency was Dommata (before the reorganisation of constituencies), there were no women candidates. This time, TV anchor K Karthika is contesting as All India Forward Block candidate along with Sujatha from TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-dubbak-woman-voters-call-the-shots/articleshow/78816913.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Dehrandun police arrest sharpshooter of notorious ‘Jeeva gang’||DEHRANDUN: A team of Dehradun police on Thursday arrested the dreaded sharpshooter of notorious Jeeva gang, Mujahed alias Khan and his two accomplices from Dehradun. Mujahed, a resident of MDDA colony in Dalanwala area of Dehradun, was nabbed after his involvement in the recent loot case surfaced. According to police, he had snatched a bag from a local trader on October 19, as he had been facing money crunch these days. But the stolen bag had only a lunch box inside instead of cash. “After the failed loot attempt, Mujahed, along with his accomplices, was hatching a plan to carry out another loot incident in Dehradun. However, he was caught before he could execute his plan," said Arun Mohan Joshi, Deputy Inspector General (DIG), Dehradun. Cops also recovered one country-made pistol, two live cartridges, two daggers, a bike used in the crime and the tiffin box looted from the local trader, from their possession. Shweta Choubey, superintendent of police (SP), Dehradun, said Mujahed was working as a construction material supplier in Bypass road of Dehradun and is one of the main henchmen of gangster Sanjeev Maheshwari alias ‘Jeeva’. Choubey added that Mujahed, on the directions of Jeeva, went to Haridwar and wrongly murdered a local cloth merchant in place of Subhash Saini in 2017. He was arrested by Haridwar police and sent to jail. “He also told police that he murdered a local college student leader in Lucknow in 2015 on the orders of Jeeva as well," said SP City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-police-arrest-sharpshooter-of-notorious-jeeva-gang/articleshow/78814430.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Pawan Kalyan to canvass for BJP in Dubbak?||Hyderabad: BJP, which has an alliance with Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party in Andhra Pradesh, is hoping he will campaign for party candidate M Raghunandan Rao in Dubbak. Sources said Telangana BJP leadership approached him and sought his support for Raghunandan in the bypoll. “He is a big star and has a huge following in Telangana. We hope to have his support for our candidate,” a BJP leader said. Sources said it would be known in next few days if Pawan Kalyan would tour the segment or hold a virtual rally in support of the BJP nominee. Pawan Kalyan had campaigned in Telangana for the TDP-BJP alliance in 2014 elections, after which he parted ways with the TDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pawan-kalyan-to-canvass-for-bjp-in-dubbak/articleshow/78816945.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Centre ignores ASI warning on Golconda Fort||HYDERABAD: The Qutub Shahi quake-proof architecture may have kept the Golconda Fort unrattled for five centuries, but official negligence is now taking a heavy toll on this magnificent monument of great historical importance. The fortification around the fort breached at least at three places last week, as decades of neglect made the stone-mud wall too feeble to withstand the onslaught of heavy rains. According to sources, long before the rains brought down portions of the fortification of the Fort, the Hyderabad circle of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) sent a report to its headquarters pinpointing the cracks developed on the fort wall and seeking funds for repairs. Sources said only 15% of its original budgetary allocation is earmarked for the Hyderabad ASI circle that controls South India’s biggest fort complex and world’s biggest necropolis. But as the ASI headquarters sat on the report, the incessant rains, meanwhile, played havoc with the city’s major landmark that lent its name to three cities outside India. Two cities in the USA and one city in Trinidad and Tobago are named after Golconda. Ironically, a replica of Charminar, another Qutub Shahi structure, built in Bukhara city of Uzbekistan in 1807, has been awarded the world heritage tag, while the original structure in Hyderabad craves for the recognition, along with the Golconda Fort. According to heritage experts, while there is no threat to the main fort and its buildings including the Bala Hisar (summit of the fort), jail, durbar hall, temple, mosque, baradari, Ambar khana, and the mahals, the fortification wall, ramparts, gates and bastions are under threat. While the main structures are located on a plain area where rainwater does not log, there is every danger of water seeping into the outer fortification, ramparts and bastions. The gap between stones has widened so much that rainwater started flowing through them with force. Experts say the fort needs at least Rs50 crore for immediate upkeep. A close inspection reveals that while areas inside the fortification are relatively safe, those close to habitations are crumbling down. ASI is understaffed in Hyderabad to properly take care of the monuments. “I inspected the fort... There are large cracks at various places. They need to be fixed immediately. The damaged portions can be restored. Unless the fort is strengthened the next episode of heavy rainfall may turn out to be the nemesis,” said INTACH Hyderabad convener, P Anuradha Reddy. City historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah said Golconda Fort needs regular care and maintenance as it is a stone and mud structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-ignores-city-asi-warning-on-golconda/articleshow/78818369.cms||Syed Akbar
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Deploy central forces: Congress to Dubbak poll body||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) wrote another letter to the chief election commissioner of India seeking deployment of central forces for conduct of free and fair elections in Dubbak. In a second letter to CEC Sunil Arora, Congress alleged that huge distribution of money and liquor was going on in the constituency. It said since the constituency falls in the district of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and finance minister T Harish Rao, police will not be able to function without fear and a fair election is not possible. The party also demanded that all wine shops be closed to stop free flow of liquor. Congress alleged that Siddipet collector M Venktatram Reddy has been working in the district for the last six years and is known to be close to the ruling party. “At one point of time, the collector’s name was doing the rounds as a probable candidate of TRS,” Congress said in the letter. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee said since the collector would not function independently, it is important to deploy the central forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deploy-central-forces-cong-to-poll-body/articleshow/78816942.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Protests shift from rail tracks to platforms, open spaces nearby||Bathinda: Even as 30 farm organisations on Thursday vacated railway tracks in Punjab to allow the movement of goods trains, protests against the three newly enacted farm laws continued. Farm bodies set up stages either at railway platforms or at vacant places not far from railway tracks. The organisations stated they would ensure only goods trains were pressed into service and passenger trains did not operate. The movement of goods trains has been allowed till November 5 for bringing in coal for the smooth running of thermal power plants, bringing in fertilisers, including DAP, for wheat sowing, and transport of food grains to other states. The organisations will hold a review meeting on November 4 to decide on the next course of action. The protest was shifted from the tracks to railway platform in Barnala. In Mansa, it was being shifted behind the railway station. In Batinda, the agitation was also shifted from the railway tracks. “We are equally at ease on the platform, though it has comparatively less space. Here, older people, for whom going to tracks was bit tough, we will be more comfortable,” said farm activist Chamkaur Singh Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa said their protests would continue till the Union government did not withdraw the contentious farm laws or made them farmer friendly by ensuring minimum support price (MSP) for crops continued. BKU Ekta Dakonda general secretary Jagmohan Singh said apart from continuing with the protests against central farm laws, they were studying the bills passed by Punjab assembly. “Our relaxation on movement of goods trains should not be presumed as withdrawal of protests,” he said. 4-yr-old at stir too Barnala: Children holding flags of various farmer organisations have been a hallmark of farmer protests against the Union government’s agriculture laws. One such child, four-year-old Sahibjot Singh, was spotted at the Barnala railway station. He was accompanying father Gurpreet Singh (29) of Raisar village in Barnala district. Gurpreet is the district general secretary of Krantikari Kisan Union. Sahibjot was enrolled in LKG at a private school in Chananwal village in March before the schools were closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Now he is a regular at the protests with his father, Gurpreet, had done masters in public administration and Bachelor of Education (B Ed). Gurpreet, who owns six acres of land, had started agriculture in 2013 after the death of his father Baltej Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protests-shift-from-rail-tracks-to-platforms-open-spaces-nearby/articleshow/78818835.cms||Neel Kamal
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||KMSC relents, lifts dharna from Ferozepur rail track||DEVIDASPURA: Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Wednesday decided to give passage to goods trains and lifted its dharna from the rail track at Basti Tanka Wali in Ferozepur. However, the farmers’ body announced that the dharna at Devidaspur, near Amritsar rail track will be extended till October 29. “We held a meeting today and decided to postpone our dharna at Basti Tanka Wali in Ferozpur till further announcement but we will keep sitting on the rail track at Devidaspur till October 29,” said KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. Activists of KMSC have been blocking rail traffic for the past 29 days in protest against the three controversial agriculture laws brought by the Centre. Another farm leader, Gurbachan Singh Chabba clarified that Devidaspura rail roko agitation didn’t hamper movement of goods trains. “Goods trains can reach Amritsar via Tarn Taran from Beas, which will not hamper the movement of DAP, fertilisers, farm produces etc,” he said. Chabba said a meeting would be held on October 28 to take a decision on the Basti Tanka Wali rail track dharna. “For now, we have postponed our stir and will announce our decision after the October 28 meeting,” he said, adding that neither the state nor the Centre is serious about saving the farming profession and farmers. “Everybody is playing politics and it is the poor farmer who will bear the brunt of these policies” he said. Meanwhile, KMSC members are touring villages and towns to mobilise women for the women’s rally scheduled in Amritsar on October 23. The participants will wear saffron dupattas. Veer Kaur, a woman farm leader said, “This is the time when women should come out of their homes and show solidarity with us. The farm laws will not only affect farmers and their families but their all of society.” She said women’s rallies will also be held in Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Hoshiarpur, Tanda, Jalandar and Kapurthala, following which effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be set ablaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kmsc-relents-lifts-dharna-from-ferozepur-rail-track/articleshow/78818836.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Veteran TRS leader and Telangana’s first home minister Nayani Narsimha Reddy passes away at 86||HYDERABAD: Former state home minister and senior TRS leader Nayani Narsimha Reddy passed away at a private hospital in the wee hours of Thursday. The 86-year-old Narasimha Reddy is survived by his wife Ahalya Reddy, son Devender Reddy and daughter Samantha Reddy. His son-in-law Srinivas Reddy was a GHMC corporator till recently. Narasimha Reddy, who was born on May 12, 1934 in Naredugommu village in Devarakonda mandal in Nalgonda district and moved to the city in 1970, had tested positive for Covid-19 last month and was treated at a private hospital for 16 days. He was again taken to a hospital in Jubilee Hills for Covid-19 complications and died while undergoing treatment at 12.25 am on Thursday. The last rites were conducted at Maha Prasthanam on Thursday evening with state honours. Several ministers including KT Rama Rao and others participated in the last rites. Chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao expressed shock over the demise of Nayani. The CM recalled his association with Nayani during the separate statehood movement and in the state government. The CM conveyed his condolences to the members of the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/veteran-trade-union-leader-and-former-home-minister-nayani-passes-away-at-86/articleshow/78816957.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: No change in stance on homosexuality, says KCBC||KOCHI: Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) on Thursday came out with a statement in the backdrop of Pope Francis’ support of ‘same-sex civil unions’ revealed through his remarks in a documentary film, stating that ‘the teachings of the Church on family life and homosexuality have not undergone any change’. “Reports that the Pope endorsed the validity of same sex marriages in a documentary film Francesco, directed by Evgeny Afineevsky is confusing and false. Theological teachings of the Church about marriage and family life are not conducted through documentaries,” said the KCBC statement issued by deputy secretary general Fr Jacob G Palackappilly. “Pope Francis has taught before as well that those in the ‘state of LGBT’ are children of God and that they deserve all humanly love, care and consideration. The Church had taken a similar stand in the document released by congregation for the doctrine of faith in 1975 about sexual ethics. The Church’s stand is that homosexual predilections and homosexual activities have to be understood separately,” the KCBC statement said. The statement goes on to claim that media reports of the Pope saying that those indulging in homosexual relations need to be given legal protection equal to a family is not right. Homosexuals living together is not considered as marriage by the Church, however, various countries have acknowledged this as a civil relationship, KCBC said in the statement. “The pastoral needs of these persons living in such civil relationships, is a subject that the Church is seriously thinking about. The official stand of the Pope on this subject is the pastoral predilections referred to in Amoris Laetitia (Happiness of love), a post-synodal apostolic exhortation by Pope Francis addressing the pastoral care of families. The media commission chairman of KCBC Bishop Joseph Pamplany makes it clear through this statement that the Pope has not changed this stand,” stated the KCBC statement. According to a report in the New York Times, reiterating his view that gay people are children of God, Pope Francis said in the documentary, “Francesco,” which debuted at the Rome Film Festival: “What we have to create is a civil union law. That way they are legally covered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/reports-of-pope-backing-same-sex-marriages-false/articleshow/78815475.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS has no right to seek vote: Uttam||Hyderabad: TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy urged the people of Dubbak to teach a lesson to the TRS in the November 3 polls.Uttam said the TRS has no moral right to seek vote from the people as it has not fulfilled a single promise it has made. He said people did not benefit from the formation of Telangana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-has-no-right-to-seek-vote-uttam/articleshow/78816952.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Tahir Hussain ‘used clout to act as riot kingpin’, denied bail||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court dismissed three bail applications of ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain saying “prima facie he used his muscle power and political clout to act as a kingpin in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration”. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said, “I find that there is enough material on record to presume that the applicant was very well present at the spot of crime and was exhorting the rioters of a particular community and as such, he did not use his hands and fists, but rioters as human weapons, who on his instigation could have killed anybody.” “It is prima facie apparent that the applicant abused his muscle power and political clout to foment communal violence in the area,” the court said. Senior advocate K K Manan sought bail for Hussain on the ground that he was a victim of circumstances and was caught in a political crossfire and the allegations levelled against him are nothing, but a political blame game to malign his image. He argued, “There is no evidence by way of even a single video footage or CCTV footage to prove that the applicant had participated in the riots or caused damage to any property.” Special prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary opposed the bail arguing Hussain was the “main kingpin” who instigated the rioters of a “particular community and provided logistical support like sticks, stones, acid bottles, knives, swords, fire arms etc., to the rioters at the roof of his house”. Calling the allegations against Hussain as “extremely grave”, the judge was of the view that even if there were no direct acts of violence attributable to him, he couldn’t shy away from his liability under the provisions of law invoked against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tahir-used-clout-to-act-as-riot-kingpin-denied-bail/articleshow/78816967.cms||Aamir Khan
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||2.7L violators owe Rs13.7cr in traffic fines||Nagpur: Errant motorists in Nagpur owe more than Rs 13 crore in unpaid traffic fines. The dues have been mounting since the state police rolled out e-challan system in January 2019. Latest figures show that nearly half the offenders are not paying the fines. In all, 47.73% of fines issued from February 8, 2019 to October 15, 2020 remain unpaid. Sitabuldi traffic zone has earned the dubious distinction of having the highest unpaid fine amount in city. The zone is yet to recover over Rs 2.31crore from 46,731 violators. It is followed by MIDC where 30,832 violators have defaulted on fines to the tune of over Rs 1.51 crore. Cotton Market zone is third with 31,025 violators owing over Rs 1.48 crore. The traffic police are now focusing on recovering fines against challans issued through hand-held devices on the spot. The traffic police continue to issued e-challans generated through CCTV cameras despite poor recovery of dues. Figures obtained from the traffic police reveal that 6,34,261 challans were issued until October 15 using hand-held devices on which police personnel enter the licence number of offending drivers and chassis number of vehicles into a database. The devices also allow the personnel to click pictures of violations on the spot to minimise chances of motorists contesting the circumstances under which they were issued fines. Here the recovery rate is a bit better with 4.83 lakh violators paying Rs 14.03 crore fine. 1,52,079 violators booked in this mode have also defaulted to the tune of Rs 77.69 lakh. The unpaid dues are majorly from CCTV camera cases as police cannot collect fine immediately. Of the 1.49 lakh e-challans issued through CCTV cameras, only 32,827 have paid fines amounting to Rs 1.05 crore, while 1.16 lakh violators are yet to pay Rs 5.04 crore. Traffic cops deployed at various intersections in the city admitted recovery of fines from violators was an uphill task. “The arrears have shot up since the introduction of the system as offenders do not pay penalty despite being sent SMSes and reminders,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-7l-violators-owe-rs13-7cr-in-traffic-fines/articleshow/78816992.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand students to get free Wi-Fi in college, universities||DEHRADUN: The state higher education department has decided to provide free Wi-Fi facility to Uttarakhand’s college students. The department aims to provide facilities to more than 1 lakh students studying across 105 government degree colleges and universities of the state from November 8. The department has a contract with Reliance Jio to provide internet in the college campuses. There are several degree colleges and universities in the state which are located at high-altitude regions where the students struggle to avail the internet facility due to poor network connections. The state higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat said that currently the free Wi-Fi facility is available to a small number of students residing in big cities, but from November 8, the free 4G-speed Wi-Fi facility will be available across all the college campuses. He added that Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will inaugurate the project on November 8 and it will be a major step towards digital learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-students-to-get-free-wi-fi-in-college-universities/articleshow/78814442.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Two transsexuals, auto driver detained for murdering man||Coimbatore: The city police detained an autorickshaw driver and two transsexuals on Thursday for murdering a 23-year-old youth over a money dispute at Thottipalayam here on Wednesday. Police identified them as Michael Antony, 24, and transgenders Ragini and Venba, who killed S Sounder, 23, of Bhoopathy Street at Thottipalayam. Michael, an autorickshaw driver, was staying in a house at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar at Thottipalayam with his family. He had befriended N Bhagyalakshmi, 45 and her son N Elangovan, 27, who were staying in another portion of the house. Michael had obtained Rs 38,100 from Bhagyalakshmi after pledging his autorickshaw a few months ago. He used to bring his two transgender friends to the house. Bhagyalakshmi and Elangovan did not like it and complained to the landlord, who asked Michael to vacate the property. Subsequently, he moved to another rented house at Cheran Maa Nagar. Michael met Bhagyalakshmi on Wednesday morning and demanded the autorickshaw’s RC book. He allegedly gave her Rs 10,000. Bhagyalakshmi later contacted him over phone and told him that he had given her only Rs 9,000. When Michael got angry, she told him to visit her house to discuss the issue. She also informed Elangovan about the incident. Elangovan brought his relatives Sounder, R Arun, 28 and S Kirubakaran, 19, both from Thottipalayam to the house to confront Michael, who was accompanied by Ragini and Venba. “Following a heated argument, Ragini hit Elangovan using a wooden log. When Sounder, Kirubakaran and Arun tried to stop her, Michael attacked them using a knife. Sounder suffered a deep injury on his chest and Elangovan suffered injuries on his hip. Arun suffered injuries on his eyes. When neighbours rushed to the spot, Michael and the two transgenders threatened them and managed to escape,” a police officer said. Sounder was taken to a private hospital, where doctors declared him as brought dead. The Peelamedu (law & order) police registered a case under Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. A police team led by inspector T Jothi is interrogating Michael, Ragini and Venba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-transsexuals-auto-driver-detained-for-murdering-man/articleshow/78816964.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||In Jalandhar, police foil BJP’s Dalit yatra||JALANDHAR/NAWANSHAHR: BJP SC Morcha’s ‘Dalit Insaaf Yatra’ was on Thursday foiled by the police at the very point of its origin in Jalandhar after rounding up former Union minister Vijay Sampla, Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma and some other leaders of the party. BJP had announced to gherao chief minister’s residence in Chandigarh to protest against the alleged atrocities on the Dalits and other issues relating to the community. But, apprehending trouble with the yatra as farmers were opposing it, the Jalandhar police had made elaborate arrangements to stop it. Facing heat over farmers’ issue, BJP now wants to raise the issue of “atrocities on Dalits in Punjab”. While it was Sampla who had announced the yatra, later state BJP president Ashwani Sharma also threw his weight behind it and he was scheduled to flag it off. Minister of state Som Parkash also addressed the BJP workers from a cargo vehicle, on which yatra was to be taken out. He said the Dalits were facing atrocities in Punjab. Sampla and Sharma also spoke on the same lines and mainly focused on the incident of a few persons forcing a Dalit man to drink urine in Jalalabad. It is learnt that senior police officials led by DCP Gurmeet Singh present at the site had also conveyed to senior BJP leaders that they would not be allowed to proceed further. As they announced to start the yatra and Sharma flagged it off, the police stopped the BJP workers. Thereafter, Sampla and a few other senior leaders were taken away by the police in buses to Circuit House and later released. BOX OR S/C BJP men, farmers clash in Nawanshahr Nawanshahr: Although the police had foiled the BJP SC Morcha’s ‘Dalit Insaaf Yatra’ at Jalandhar itself, a scuffle took place between farmers and local BJP leaders at Nawanshahr at around 2.30pm on Thuersday. Activists of at least three leftist farmers’ unions had gathered near Dr B R Ambedkar’s statue close to the bus stand on Phagwara-Chandigarh highway as they came to know that Sampla was supposed to stop there. The leaders of district BJP unit and SC Morcha leaders were also there to welcome Sampla. But, when they came to know that the yatra had been stopped in Jalandhar, they decided to leave after garlanding the statue of Dr Ambedkar. As local BJP leader Jeewan Kumar ascended to the statue and garlanded it, two farmers quickly pulled him down. But, he again tried garlanding the statue, following which the scuffle broke out. In the melee, BJP district president Dr Poonam Manik received an injury on her hand. Jeevan Kumar and another BJP worker also received some gashes. Later, the police intervened to control the situation. Meanwhile, Punjab BSP president Jasbir Singh Garhi has said the Dalit Insaaf Yatra was a drama by ‘anti-Dalit’ BJP and they would wash the statue of Dr Ambedkar in Nawanshahr with milk, as it has been ‘polluted’ by BJP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-foil-bjp-yatra-in-jalandhar/articleshow/78818837.cms||IP Singh
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC to operate 3,000 special buses for Dasara||HYDERABAD: To clear passenger rush during the festive season, TSRTC will operate 3,000 special buses from Hyderabad to various destinations in Maharashtra, Karnataka and across the state. State-owned transporter will not operate services to destinations in AP as the two Telugu states failed to reach an understanding. Of the 3,000 special buses, 2,000 buses would be operated between October 22 and 25. Buses going towards Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and Warangal would come to Uppal Crossroads, while passengers heading towards Medak, Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Adilabad can board buses from Jubilee Bus Station. For booking tickets in advance, TSRTC officials have appealed passengers to make use of the website, www.tsrtconline.in. For any enquiry or information on buses contact: 8330933537 (MGBS), 040-27802203 (JBS), 04023747297 (Dilsukhnagar) and 9949958578 (Ameerpet) On the other hand, the decision to resume inter-state bus services between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh was yet to be taken as authorities failed to sign ‘reciprocal agreement’. Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar informed that while APSRTC officials were saying that they were ready to run 1,60,000 km as per the proposal of TSRTC, they were yet to officially sign the agreement to start services. APSRTC officials have been asked to reduce their bus operations from 2,60,000 kms to 1,61,000 and operate equally with TSRTC.  TSRTC executive director E Yadagiri said: “There are no special buses for the festive season from Telangana to AP or vice versa as the decision on inter-state services between both states is pending. We are awaiting their response on a proposal we made at the last meet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-to-operate-3000-special-buses-for-dasara/articleshow/78816966.cms||Moulika.KV
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Raidurgam: Thief caught stealing wallet at funeral||HYDERABAD: Raidurgam police arrested a thief who stole the wallet of a person who was at the funeral of former minister N Narasimha Reddy at Maha Prasthanam on Thursday. The thief was roughed up by the people in the presence of police before being whisked away. Police arrested Shiva of Mangar Basti for stealing a wallet containing Rs 1,300 at the funeral. The victim noticed that his wallet was stolen and immediately caught Shiva. Police said Shiva has been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thief-caught-stealing-wallet-at-funeral/articleshow/78816960.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Covaxin gets DCGI nod for Phase III trials||HYDERABAD: Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech, which is developing India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, has finally received approval to proceed with Phase III human clinical trials. The approval was given by the Subject Expert Committee (SEC), which advises the drug regulator Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on approvals for drugs and vaccines, at its meeting held on October 20, 2020, as per the SEC minutes of meeting uploaded on the CDSCO website. “After detailed deliberation and based on the available evidences, the committee recommended for grant of permission to conduct Phase III clinical trial subject to the condition that the Primary efficacy endpoint for symptomatic cases should be amended…” the SEC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-iii-trials/articleshow/78816977.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||NCW member visits Mangalore University, cracks down on prof, ex-registrar||Mangaluru: Trouble is mounting for two senior faculty of Mangalore University. While Arabi U, professor, department of post-graduate studies in economics, is under the lens for sexually harassing a student, A M Khan, former registrar, is facing the heat for not acting promptly on the internal complaints committee report against the former. The visit of the National Commission for Women (NCW) to the university on Thursday has compounded their problems further. Shyamala S Kundar, member, NCW who discussed this issue with P S Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, directed him to place Khan under suspension forthwith. She also directed the VC to issue a show-cause notice to Arabi for his misdemeanour. There has been a similar incident in the past around 6 years ago when the university compulsorily retired an employee charged similarly without benefits. The court upheld the same later, Shyamala said. “The vice-chancellor has assured to issue a show cause notice to Arabi after getting the legal opinion the university has sought from its counsel to make the case foolproof,” Shyamala told TOI. “It is the view of the Commission that authorities concerned must provide instant justice to women who fall victims to injustice. If a woman feels she is denied justice and has to wait for two years as in this case, they will not come forth in the future,” she said. Yadapadithaya said the university has taken the views of the Commission seriously. “Since the state government appointed Khan to the statutory post in the university, the university cannot initiate action against him, although he is still an employee,” the VC told TOI. In an interim development, Khan pursuant to the memo issued to him by the university sought copies of documents pertaining to the case and these have been provided to him, VC said. The former registrar has sought 15 days’ time to reply to the memo after this latest development, VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ncw-member-visits-mangalore-university-cracks-down-on-prof-ex-registrar/articleshow/78814213.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 23, 2020||Mysuru||10th Cauvery awareness rally kicks off||Madikeri: Activists and members of the Cauvery Nadi Swachhata Andolana and Akhila Bharata Sanyasi Sangha on Thursday jointly kicked off the 10th annual Cauvery River Awareness Rally in Talacauvery in Kodagu district. Those participating in the rally will travel along the course of the Cauvery River from its source in Talacauvery to the point where it joins the sea at Poompuhar in Tamil Nadu to raise awareness against polluting the lifeline of the two states. Founder vice-president of Akhila Bharata Sanyasi Sangha Sri Ramananda Swami said that the primary objective of the rally was to raise awareness among the people to preserve the health of the river forever. “We have been organising this rally from Talacauvery to Poompuhar for the past nine years,” he said. Convener of the Cauvery Swachhata Andolana Chandramohan stressed the need to keep the river clean across its entire length. “Water collected at the source of the river in Talacauvery will be carried in kalashas, and emptied into the sea in Poompuhar on November 7,” Chandramohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/10th-cauvery-awareness-rally-kicks-off/articleshow/78814555.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||53rd Vardhanthi celebration of Heggade on Saturday||Dharmasthala: The 53rd vardhanthi celebration of D Veerendra Heggade being conferred the title of ‘Heggade’ of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala will be observed in a simple manner at the Kshetra on October 24. Born on November 25, 1948 as Veerendra Kumar, he became the 21st dharmadhikari of Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala, aged 20 at Nelyadi Beedu in a ‘pattabhisheka’ ceremony, wherein the title of Heggade was conferred on him. Heggade completed 50-years of service as dharmadhikari on October 25, 2017. A yearlong ‘Suvarna Mahotsava’ celebration was held from then up to October 25, 2018 to mark this occasion. Dharmayana, felicitation souvenir chronicling his achievements was brought out along with various other commemorative publications. He is the eldest son of the late Rathnavarma Heggade and Rathnamma couple and has four siblings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/53rd-vardhanthi-celebration-of-heggade-on-saturday/articleshow/78813939.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Notice issued to owners of dilapidated buildings||Coimbatore: Ahead of the northeast monsoon, the district administration is identifying dilapidated buildings that may imperil lives. The administration has identified 223 such buildings, including government buildings. Authorities have issued notices to owners of 81 buildings and government departments that own 13. Authorities plan to get the owners to set right and strengthen the structures or demolish them to prevent further weakening resulting in collapse during the rainy season. Collector K Rajamani had instructed officials to identify such buildings soon after the collapse of a house on Chetti Street at Selvapuram, which caused four deaths. The incident happened on September 5, following incessant showers. In 2019, a 20ft tall compound wall collapsed on a row of houses killing 17 people at Nadur village in Mettupalayam. It had collapsed due to heavy rain. In the wake of such incidents, there were requests from various quarters to identify weak structures and remove them. Soon after the collector’s instruction, the city corporation, municipality and panchayats identified 220 buildings including houses, apartments as well as offices of government departments. Authorities found 13 structures that are beyond repair and have decided to demolish them. Owners of some buildings have been asked to vacate the occupants as the structures are too weak and pose a threat to them. Once the building owners respond to the notices, a decision would be taken on demolishing other buildings, said an official. The owners have been asked to demolish the dilapidated structures on their own at the earliest, before the onset of monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/notice-issued-to-owners-of-dilapidated-buildings/articleshow/78817021.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Never tested positive, yet turns up with a post-Covid condition||MUMBAI: A senior citizen suffering from breathlessness, exertion and dry cough visited a Navi Mumbai hospital. The 60-year-old had never tested positive for Covid, but a lung function test showed restriction consistent with Covid features. A high resolution CT scan revealed mild residual Covid lesions caused by the immune response in fighting the virus and some fuzziness in the lungs. The doctors ruled out other illnesses by conducting more investigations. The patient revealed that he had travelled to pilgrim towns including Varanasi prior to the lockdown in February-March and that he had mild fever for a few days. On the basis of his history and his condition, they concluded that it was a case of post-Covid. He was treated with steroids and inhaler. While this was a stray case in June, doctors are now reporting more instances of patients, who have never tested positive, landing in hospitals with post-Covid symptoms. They report a history of fever or cough which subsides in a day or two and which they may have ignored. But with symptoms re-surfacing, many are being subjected to the RT-PCR test where results come negative. But the same patients then test positive in the antibodies test, indicating a history of Covid. Doctors claim that many may have neglected signs of Covid earlier as mild symptoms subside in a day or two. Dr Jayalakshmi T K, a consultant pulmonologist with Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai, has seen about 30 such patients, who have never tested positive for Covid but come with unexplained breathlessness and cough. “We ask for their history. Then they reveal that they might have had fever two or three months ago. Subsequently, we carry out investigations through blood tests, x-ray, and scans to rule out causes such as tuberculosis or a heart problem. The RT-PCR would be negative, but a CT scan shows typical Covid-like features and it is fairly confirmatory. A high CO-RADS score in the scan is suggestive of Covid and in some cases, the antibody tests too come positive. Though a positive antibody test need not necessarily mean that their symptoms are because of Covid,” she said. Dr Jayalakshmi points out that these patients are suffering from post-Covid lung sequelae indicating a prior condition. These patients may have been either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, which explains lack of care when they were infected.  A 72-year-old cancer survivor from Lonavala treated in a Mumbai hospital, was one such case. Though suffering from breathlessness and fever, he tested negative for Covid-19 thrice in the RT-PCR test. But an antibody test done later came positive indicating he had a history of Covid-19. “His CT scan showed Covid-like lesions. This could be a case of late Cytokine storm,” said Dr VA Sajit Babu, a pulmonologist. He said less than one per cent come with symptoms like fever and breathing difficulties a month or two after being infected with Covid. However, the body’s response to the infection leaves traces which linger on for months. “Though they may test negative for Covid, these patients have shadows on their lungs, their blood markers are on the higher side and the ground glass opacity in their lungs are exactly like those of patients suffering from Covid. Their cytokine markers too are elevated, indicating that they had Covid in the past,’’ said Dr Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/never-tested-positive-yet-turns-up-with-a-post-covid-condition/articleshow/78819332.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: MPs Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, BB Patil test positive for Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 has hit two MPs for the first time in the state. TRS MP from Zahirabad BB Patil announced that he tested positive. Congress MP ( Bhongir) Komatireddy Venkat Reddy also tested positive. BB Patil announced that he was found positive during recent tests and asked people who were in touch with him since last week to go under quarantine. The MP took to twitter to announce his status. He said that his medical condition was stable and that he was taking medicines as prescribed doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mps-komatireddy-bb-patil-test-ve/articleshow/78816997.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CBI’s stand on Titanium case shows BJP-UDF link, says CPM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CBI’s refusal to investigate into Titanium graft case has once again established the unholy nexus between BJP and UDF, claimed CPM secretariat here on Thursday. It was on September 3, 2019, the state government recommended a CBI investigation into the case involving an estimated graft of Rs.68 crore. Vigilance report and all related documents were given to the CBI. Investigation by the central agency was sought after the state government was asked to explore diplomatic relations for availing the help of Interpol for probing the international links of the case in which former chief minister Oommen Chandy and former ministers Ramesh Chennithala and Ibrahim Kunju were in the accused list, the secretariat said in a statement. “The suspended state of CBI inquiry into the Marad case was also an example for the BJP-UDF camaraderie. The investigation into Marad case was suspended to save Muslim League. It should be noted that BJP had been pressing for CBI inquiry into Marad riot case. It is the same CBI that readily submitted an FIR in the court on a petition filed by a Congress MLA with an alleged motive to upset the Life Mission project,” the statement said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister said he was surprised to know about the CBI’s refusal to take up the Titanium corruption case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cbis-stand-on-titanium-case-shows-bjp-udf-link-says-cpm/articleshow/78815491.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||DK collects Rs 10L penalty for not wearing mask||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada district has collected Rs 10 lakh as penalty from people who violated the mask rule. Nearly 9,000 people were caught flouting the rule at various places in the district so far. Though the district is witnessing a downward trend in new Covid-19 cases, police, urban local bodies and gram panchayats have been continuing drives against mask rule violation. The district, which has recorded the highest single day spike of 493 cases on October 1, has shown a downward trend with an average of 190 fresh cases per day in the past week. As on October 21, police, urban local bodies and gram panchayats in the district have penalized 8,841 persons for not wearing mask in public places and collected Rs 10,14,830 as penalty. Experts believe increased awareness and stringent measures will help bring down the Covid-19 curve. Recently, the government had reduced the penalty for not wearing masks from Rs 1,000 to Rs 250 in urban areas and from Rs 250 to Rs 100 in rural areas. The government took this decision within a week after it increased the fine steeply following criticism from public. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy told TOI that wearing mask and early diagnosis are the prominent steps that help in the control of Covid-19. “People should go to a doctor and get themselves tested for the virus if they experience any of the symptoms of Covid-19. Delay in diagnosis and self-medication leads to complication. In the meantime, we must give more emphasis for Information, Education and Communication(IEC), especially to insist people wear masks in public places. People were more alert when the penalty was Rs 1,000, but it has been reduced now. People will follow the rules only when the implementation is more stringent. Or else, people may take it very lightly. Similarly, spread of fake messages on social media on Covid-19 also must be stopped,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-collects-rs-10l-penalty-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/78813684.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Festival shopping gains momentum||Coimbatore: Collector K Rajamani has urged commercial establishments not to issue dubious advertisements offering big discounts or offers to lure people, leading to overcrowding of shops. In a statement, Rajamani said that advertisements of festival offers, special discounts and free products will attract huge crowds. “Trade outlets should desist from doing so, because massive crowds would turn into fertile ground for Covid spread. Strict action would be taken against the commercial establishments that issue advertisements resulting in crowding,” he said. “As Diwali is approaching, people, not only from the city and rural areas of Coimbatore, but also from Kerala visit shops here. Hence, all shops should take necessary precautionary measures and prevent crowding.” Noting that Coimbatore has just started witnessing a drop in Covid cases, the collector said that it was imperative for public to wear masks and maintain social distancing to check the spread of the virus. Shoppers descended on the Brookebond Road on Thursday, choking traffic on the stretch as well as the Devenga School Road, where a temporary flower market has been set up in view of the puja festival. From morning, there was milling crowd at the flower market, purchasing flowers for the festival. The crowd grew more by evening and traffic congestion turned worse. The situation was more or less same in other shopping hubs of the city, forcing corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian to make a surprise visit at trade outlets on Oppanakara Street. He instructed shopkeepers to follow Covid prevention rules. He asked them to keep hand sanitisers at the entrance of all shops and insist that customers clean hands before entering. They have to make sure that customers wear masks and maintain distance, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/festival-shopping-gains-momentum/articleshow/78816976.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Never tested positive, yet turns up with a post-Covid condition||MUMBAI: A senior citizen suffering from breathlessness, exertion and dry cough visited a Navi Mumbai hospital. The 60-year-old had never tested positive for Covid, but a lung function test showed restriction consistent with Covid features. A high resolution CT scan revealed mild residual Covid lesions caused by the immune response in fighting the virus and some fuzziness in the lungs. The doctors ruled out other illnesses by conducting more investigations. The patient revealed that he had travelled to pilgrim towns including Varanasi prior to the lockdown in February-March and that he had mild fever for a few days. On the basis of his history and his condition, they concluded that it was a case of post-Covid. He was treated with steroids and inhaler. While this was a stray case in June, doctors are now reporting more instances of patients, who have never tested positive, landing in hospitals with post-Covid symptoms. They report a history of fever or cough which subsides in a day or two and which they may have ignored. But with symptoms re-surfacing, many are being subjected to the RT-PCR test where results come negative. But the same patients then test positive in the antibodies test, indicating a history of Covid. Doctors claim that many may have neglected signs of Covid earlier as mild symptoms subside in a day or two. Dr Jayalakshmi T K, a consultant pulmonologist with Apollo Hospital in Navi Mumbai, has seen about 30 such patients, who have never tested positive for Covid but come with unexplained breathlessness and cough. “We ask for their history. Then they reveal that they might have had fever two or three months ago. Subsequently, we carry out investigations through blood tests, x-ray, and scans to rule out causes such as tuberculosis or a heart problem. The RT-PCR would be negative, but a CT scan shows typical Covid-like features and it is fairly confirmatory. A high CO-RADS score in the scan is suggestive of Covid and in some cases, the antibody tests too come positive. Though a positive antibody test need not necessarily mean that their symptoms are because of Covid,” she said. Dr Jayalakshmi points out that these patients are suffering from post-Covid lung sequelae indicating a prior condition. These patients may have been either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, which explains lack of care when they were infected.  A 72-year-old cancer survivor from Lonavala treated in a Mumbai hospital, was one such case. Though suffering from breathlessness and fever, he tested negative for Covid-19 thrice in the RT-PCR test. But an antibody test done later came positive indicating he had a history of Covid-19. “His CT scan showed Covid-like lesions. This could be a case of late Cytokine storm,” said Dr VA Sajit Babu, a pulmonologist. He said less than one per cent come with symptoms like fever and breathing difficulties a month or two after being infected with Covid. However, the body’s response to the infection leaves traces which linger on for months. “Though they may test negative for Covid, these patients have shadows on their lungs, their blood markers are on the higher side and the ground glass opacity in their lungs are exactly like those of patients suffering from Covid. Their cytokine markers too are elevated, indicating that they had Covid in the past,’’ said Dr Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/never-tested-positive-yet-turns-up-with-a-post-covid-condition/articleshow/78818405.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Rlys dropping pantry car not wise: Officials||Chennai: The move of the railways to consider removing pantry cars and add passenger coaches to boost revenue and capacity will affect quality and availability of food onboard trains from Chennai. The alternative planned is to load food prepared in base kitchens at intermediate stations onto long distance express trains or encourage passengers to order food online through e-catering. Sources say this would impact quality and availability of food when passengers need them on trains that run for more than 24 hours. Officials who have worked in the catering section say both the plans are bound to fail unless railways strengthened the ground infrastructure to offer fresh food for passengers on long distance trains, which may either not have convenient stoppages to load food or not stop at stations during mealtime. Food stalls should be set up at wayside stations too. Southern Railway does not have base kitchens in Chennai or in other cities to prepare food and load them onto trains, and around 50% of the food units at Central and Egmore railway stations are not functioning. “Many of the long distance trains to Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Chhapra and others do not have stops enroute that are in sync with breakfast, lunch or dinner time. Tamil Nadu Express reaches Warangal early in the morning and halts for two minutes. The previous stop at Vijayawada is at 4.10am. This means that more than 1,500 food packets for breakfast will have to be prepared much early. If the train is delayed, the food will go stale and passengers will have to go without food. E-catering is yet to take off,” said a source. He said the railways’ attempts to set up food stalls are not working well. “The entire catering is run by contractors who exit if they don’t get the anticipated profit. Many quit because of losses incurred due to non-operation during lockdown,” he added. Railways also has closed vegetarian refreshment rooms at stations to promote base kitchens. But base kitchens too have not taken off because it needs huge space with heavy machinery. Food vending on platforms too have been stopped. T Sadagopan, a consumer activist, said, “Quality of food will take a hit and it may cost more if pantry cars are removed. Pantry offers a fresh food experience. Senior citizens and those with children will suffer. If someone needed hot water urgently, they just got get it at the pantry car.” Despite several attempts, railways are yet to incorporate reheating facilities in coaches as it is not possible to retrofit coaches due to a lack of space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rlys-dropping-pantry-car-not-wise-officials/articleshow/78817062.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Pistol, 10 live cartridges stolen from API’s house||Yavatmal: A service pistol and 10 live cartridges were stolen from the house of an assistant police inspector Rahulkumar Raut in the city on Wednesday. Raut, who is posted in the economic offences wing of Yavatmal police, claimed he and his wife had gone out on Wednesday leaving the pistol and magazine having 10 cartridges in a cupboard at his Gedam Nagar residence. When Raut returned after some time, he was shocked to see the cupboard broken and the pistol and magazine missing. The culprit had also stolen Rs5,000 cash. A maid, who was at home when the couple had gone out, said a stranger had visited the house enquiring if anybody was home. Raut then informed his seniors and a complaint was lodged. On Thursday, city police brought a sniffer dog to the spot, but to no avail. A senior police officer said it is the negligence on part of the cop. “If he is unable to guard his own service pistol, what can the public expect from such an officer,” he said. Superintendent of police Dilip Patil Bhujbal summoned LCB chief Pradeep Siraskar and city police station officer Dhananjay Sayare to his office on Thursday and instructed them to expedite the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pistol-10-live-cartridges-stolen-from-apis-house/articleshow/78817044.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: SAD will reverse Centre’s laws, Captain Amarinder Singh just tricked us, claims Sukhbir Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal claims that when his party comes to power in Punjab, it will declare the entire state a principal market to nullify “Modi’s farm laws” and repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, 2017, enacted by the state’s Congress government. After his party’s core-committee meeting, Sukhbir said here on Thursday: “We have been demanding to not only continue the system of assured minimum support price (MSP) but also extend it to all 22 listed crops. When we form the government, we will convert this demand into decision.” In his first reaction after the Punjab Vidhan Sabha passed four bills to blunt the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws, Sukhbir said that the opposition parties were shocked to see how chief minister Amarinder Singh had “played a trick on Punjab by betraying the sabha’s unanimous resolution”, which had rejected the central laws outright and committed the state government to declaring Punjab a principal market zone. The SAD president said: “The special assembly had also rejected the 2017 APMC Act as a photocopy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s anti-farmer Acts. But the bills which were the Amarinder government brought subsequently carried none of these provisions. Amarinder is guilty of misleading and betraying the house.” Accusing the chief minister of “telling brazen lies about farmers on the sacred floor of the vidhan sabha”, he said even the farm unions to whom Amarinder had shown the first draft had dismissed the final bills as “tutte futte” (broken version). Alleging that the BJP and Amarinder were on the same side against farmers, Sukhbir said: “He (Amarinder) thrust the bills before us just minutes from introduction, giving us no time to study, just as he had done with the 2004 river water bill, which has brought no result.” Referring to Amarinder’s statement about his willingness to resign if the Centre imposed its will, Sukhbir quipped: “Those who were sincere about resigning to fight for the farmers have resigned already, while Captain Sahib is only boasting. An Akali minister quit the Union cabinet and she doesn’t boast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-will-reverse-modi-laws-capt-just-tricked-us-sukhbir/articleshow/78818858.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh minister lashes out at Congress for opposing farm laws||SHIMLA: Urban development and cooperation minister Suresh Bhardwaj has lashed out at the Congress for misleading farmers on farm laws. He said the farm laws would revolutionise the agriculture sector in the coming times. He said Congress is acting as a lobbyist for anti-farmer forces. “Congress is misleading the farmers. It is playing in the hands of a handful of people who had earlier been exploiting the agrarian community,” Bhardwaj added. Bhardwaj said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Central government had been working towards doubling farmers’ income and also initiated several schemes and programmes. “After realizing the needs of these laws to make agriculture-related schemes and policies a success, the government took the call. But the Congress could not digest it. It seems the Congress does not want farmers to come out of the shackles of a fragmented system,” he added. The minister said Congress and others joining them to oppose these laws are not the well-wishers of farmers, but acting at the behest of middlemen. He said newly implemented acts are not going to harm the farmers, but will rather give them the freedom to market their produce. He said that Congress party is shedding crocodile tears and claiming that the new laws will hit APMCs. The same Congress during the UPA rule had been advocating abolishing of APMCs and even promised the same during 2019 general polls. The minister said APMCs and marketing board would continue to function as usual. The state government provides grant in aid to them and would continue to do so. “These bills are not about MSP and there will be no change in government procurement under MSP. It allows the development of private mandi infrastructure in the state and ensures seamless market access to farmers,” he said. He said the laws would give price assurance of farm produce to the farmers at the time of sowing with better income options. It would increase diversification with more focus on cash crops and improve the agribusiness supply chain and curtail price fluctuation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-minister-lashes-out-at-cong-for-opposing-farm-laws/articleshow/78818860.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Successful address change for these trees||NEW DELHI: In what could be considered a fairly big success, 60% of the 111 trees transplanted from a construction area at Delhi Technological University in September last year have survived and are growing well. Many trees, some as old as 15 years, were shifted from the 5,600 square metre area where a new academic block and two hostel buildings were coming up. The surviving ones are now mostly growing along DTU’s sports complex. However, those that were shifted to the rear of the sports complex have almost all withered away. A walk by the numbered trees shows that jamun and kadam trees have survived in bigger numbers. Of the 111 survivors, 48 are kadam trees, 15 jamuns, 14 papri trees, 12 neems, 10 kachnaars, five kaner and two Alstonias. There were also one each of amaltash, machkan, sheesham, bakan and surf (Kesiaviflora). “We cannot specifically say which particular variety has survived the transplantation,” admitted a DTU official. “It is a mix. On the same stretch, one kadam tree is growing well when another has died. I think it all depends on how the roots have been dealt with when they were lifted from the original spot.” The sheesham tree that had been watered at the time of the shifting by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia has been growing well. This tree was over 15 years old planted when the classes started for the college in 1998. The university had given the responsibility of the transplantation exercise to a private contractor for Rs 7.6 lakh. The transplantation cost and three-month maintenance charge for each tree averaged Rs 6,844. The cost incurred for trees with girth up to 30 cm was Rs 2,800. For those measuring 31-50cm, it was Rs 5,000 and for those with 51-125cm, it was Rs 7,100. There were 81 trees with girth of 125cm. The biggest of the trees, with girth of 126-200cm, numbered 14 and cost Rs 9,200 each for transplantation and maintenance. The DTU official added, “The private contractor claimed 90% success in transplantation, but actually 60% of the trees have survived. What we understand is that upon transplantation, a tree has to be maintained and its watering needs meticulous met. Even when the university was closed for the lockdown, our horticulture department looked after them properly.” The success rate seems to put Delhi government’s recent tree plantation policy in a perspective. The policy mandates that agencies engaged in shifting trees from construction sites must achieve a transplant success rate of 80%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/successful-address-change-for-these-trees/articleshow/78817081.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Spurned man, 21, kills self||Coimbatore: A 21-year-old man committed suicide allegedly after the parents of the girl he was in love rejected his proposal. Police identified him as P Manickam of Vadavalli, an undergraduate student in a city college. “He was in love with a girl in the locality. But her parents were making arrangement for her marriage. When he approached the girl’s parents a few days ago and requested them to pause the marriage plan as he wanted to marry her, they turned him away. He committed suicide at his house on Wednesday,” a police officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spurned-man-21-kills-self/articleshow/78817048.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Jamaat leader A Pookunju dies at 74||ALAPPUZHA: The Kerala Muslim Jamaath Council chairman A Pookunju passed away here in the wee hours of Thursday. He was 74. He was undergoing treatment due to renal and liver disease at a private hospital here. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled the death of Pookunju. In his message, the chief minister said that he worked for the educational and social upliftment of backward communities including Muslims. “He always kept a secular attitude in his activities,” Vijayan said. He was born to Hasanarkunju and Zainaba Umma in Kayamkulam. He completed LLB from Law College, Thiruvananthapuram and LLM from Law College, Kozhikode. He started his law career in Kozhikode and later he started practicing at Mavelikkara and Alappuzha district courts. He stepped into politics through the Kerala Students Union and later joined the Indian Union Muslim League. He also held various positions including the general secretary of the Jamaat Council. He was IUML state committee member, Kerala State Wakf Board chairman and government pleader. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also expressed grief over Pookunju’s death. He was laid to rest on Thursday afternoon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jamaat-leader-a-pookunju-dies-at-74/articleshow/78815521.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Youth held in transwoman murder case||Coimbatore: Police on Thursday detained a 23-year-old man in connection with the murder of a transwoman in the city. The youth has been identified as R Rajesh from Nagapattinam district. Police said Rajesh murdered the transwoman, Sangeetha, and dumped the body in a plastic drum filled with salt at her house. Sangeetha, 59, daughter of Maruthan from NSR Road in Saibaba Colony, was the president of the Coimbatore Transgenders Association and was running Covai Trans Kitchen at RS Puram. A special team collected the details of staff working in the kitchen and learned that Rajesh was missing. He was staying with Sangeetha, who allegedly sexually harassed him, police sources said. Unable to bear the torture, Rajesh murdered her, they added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-held-in-transwoman-murder-case/articleshow/78817098.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Guv briefs VCs of agri varsities on NEP||Jaipur: Governor and chancellor of universities Kalraj Mishra on Thursday said agriculture and animal husbandry are the backbone of the state’s economy.He asked the agriculture, veterinary and animal science universities to develop such vocational courses which can help the state in developing rapidly in these fields.During a video conference with the vice-chancellors of various universities, Mishra focused on the development of curriculum for local and traditional occupations of agriculture and animal husbandry to meet the needs of the area.The governor asked the VCs, while studying the new education policy in depth, to update the curriculum in accordance with the norms of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the Veterinary Council, to start new professional courses.Mishra said, “Under the new education policy, the ICAR and the Indian Veterinary Council (VCI) will serve as commercial standard for agricultural and veterinary universities. These councils will be members of the General Education Council and will act as a coordinator between curriculum, research and other activities.”He also instructed the universities to identify points which are not mentioned by ICAR and VCI. He said such points should be decided by a university at its own level in the interest of the students so that immediate action can be taken to implement the new education policy on the report proposed by ICAR and VCI.Mishra also emphasized on the establishment of ‘Centre of Excellence’ by adopting innovations in agricultural and veterinary universities.Secretary to the governor Subir Kumar said according to the instructions of governor Mishra, the universities must carry out resource mapping. “Action should be taken for self-financing of universities along with vocational courses,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-briefs-vcs-of-agri-varsities-on-nep/articleshow/78815536.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Salem||No power to buildings sans completion papers: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Buildings that do not have completion certificates cannot get electricity connections, as the Madras high court has stayed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco) order withdrawing the requirement. The state government on April 16, 2018, issued an order making building completion certificate mandatory for providing regular utility connections like electricity, water and sewage. Tangedco issued a memo dated May 14 this year to all of its field officers to insist on building completion certificates for providing new service connections. After following the rule for four months, all of a sudden on October 6, Tangedco issued a memo withdrawing the order. Assailing the withdrawal done without any rhyme or reason or any legal or factual basis, a public interest writ petition was filed by Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer rights organisation, saying completion certificate was made mandatory for electricity connection after a series of directions from the high court. On Thursday, admitting the PIL, a vacation bench of Justice V Parthiban and Justice G R Swaminathan stayed the Tangedco’s withdrawal order. The bench has also directed the Tamil Nadu government and Tangedco to file their detailed counter to the PIL. The petitioner-organisation said that the order withdrawing the rule is not only cryptic but also has no reason whatsoever assigned to recall the earlier instructions issued, which were based on the directives of this high court and the statutory provisions of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that came into force from February 4, 2019. “The withdrawal memo is also an attempt to set at naught the statutory provisions notified by the state government brought in to rein in the illegal encroachments and the unauthorised constructions galore in the state which undermines the core concept of rule of law,” the forum said. Asserting that Tangedco is also an instrumentality of the state, the petitioner contended that it is bound by the law enacted by the state government and has no power or authority to nullify the statutory provisions by refusing to implement the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/no-power-to-bldgs-sans-completion-papers-hc/articleshow/78819359.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||No power to buildings sans completion papers: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Buildings that do not have completion certificates cannot get electricity connections, as the Madras high court has stayed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco) order withdrawing the requirement. The state government on April 16, 2018, issued an order making building completion certificate mandatory for providing regular utility connections like electricity, water and sewage. Tangedco issued a memo dated May 14 this year to all of its field officers to insist on building completion certificates for providing new service connections. After following the rule for four months, all of a sudden on October 6, Tangedco issued a memo withdrawing the order. Assailing the withdrawal done without any rhyme or reason or any legal or factual basis, a public interest writ petition was filed by Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer rights organisation, saying completion certificate was made mandatory for electricity connection after a series of directions from the high court. On Thursday, admitting the PIL, a vacation bench of Justice V Parthiban and Justice G R Swaminathan stayed the Tangedco’s withdrawal order. The bench has also directed the Tamil Nadu government and Tangedco to file their detailed counter to the PIL. The petitioner-organisation said that the order withdrawing the rule is not only cryptic but also has no reason whatsoever assigned to recall the earlier instructions issued, which were based on the directives of this high court and the statutory provisions of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that came into force from February 4, 2019. “The withdrawal memo is also an attempt to set at naught the statutory provisions notified by the state government brought in to rein in the illegal encroachments and the unauthorised constructions galore in the state which undermines the core concept of rule of law,” the forum said. Asserting that Tangedco is also an instrumentality of the state, the petitioner contended that it is bound by the law enacted by the state government and has no power or authority to nullify the statutory provisions by refusing to implement the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-power-to-bldgs-sans-completion-papers-hc/articleshow/78817100.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Govt considering to hold rural body polls without party symbols||Jaipur: The state government is considering to hold panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections without the symbols of political parties, as is done in sarpanch and panch elections at the gram panchayat level. If a decision is reached, candidates for all the rural bodies could be contesting the upcoming elections as independents without the political parties officially supporting any of them. The state election commission is yet to announce polls for the panchayat samitis and the zila parishads.The system of holding panchayat elections on party symbols started during the tenure of late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat when he was chief minister from 1993 to 1998. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has now asked his ministers to get a feedback from the Congress legislators and those supporting his government on whether the state should go back to the old pattern."Opinions are being sought from the legislators but the matter has not been placed before the cabinet and no decision has been taken so far," PCC chief and school education minister Govind Singh Dotasra told TOI on Thursday.Independent legislator Sanyam Lodha tweeted to confirm that the ministers were seeking opinions of MLAs in this regard. "Sirohi district’s in-charge mines minister Pramod Jain Bhaya sought (my) opinion on phone on holding panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections without party symbols. I have suggested him to hold the elections on party symbol," Lodha tweeted.Even as the ruling Congress reasons that it wants to do away with the party symbol system to avoid large crowds involving party workers during the corona pandemic, the opposition BJP sees falling popularity of the Gehlot-government in rural areas as the real motive behind the move.BJP state president and legislator Satish Poonia said, "There is no need for this ‘experiment’; the decision to hold panchayat elections with party symbols was taken unanimously in the early 1990s. People in villages understand and follow political ideologies, so there is no justification in not following the party symbol system." Poonia added, "The real intention of the Congress government is to confuse voters, as it had tried to do by bifurcating and delimiting the municipal corporations several times. It knows people in villages too are equally unhappy with its governance; the electricity tariff issue is going to haunt the Congress. Fearing electoral defeats, this government is experimenting with one thing after another."Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, however, said, "The demand to hold elections without party symbols was raised in writing by non-political persons at the grassroots level. The Congress does not fear any electoral loss; the BJP should stop its politics of lies and deceit."If the government decides to go back to the old pattern of party-less panchayat polls, it would have to bring in an ordiance to do so, said Congress sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-considering-to-hold-rural-body-polls-without-party-symbols/articleshow/78815549.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Trichy||No power to buildings sans completion papers: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Buildings that do not have completion certificates cannot get electricity connections, as the Madras high court has stayed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco) order withdrawing the requirement. The state government on April 16, 2018, issued an order making building completion certificate mandatory for providing regular utility connections like electricity, water and sewage. Tangedco issued a memo dated May 14 this year to all of its field officers to insist on building completion certificates for providing new service connections. After following the rule for four months, all of a sudden on October 6, Tangedco issued a memo withdrawing the order. Assailing the withdrawal done without any rhyme or reason or any legal or factual basis, a public interest writ petition was filed by Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer rights organisation, saying completion certificate was made mandatory for electricity connection after a series of directions from the high court. On Thursday, admitting the PIL, a vacation bench of Justice V Parthiban and Justice G R Swaminathan stayed the Tangedco’s withdrawal order. The bench has also directed the Tamil Nadu government and Tangedco to file their detailed counter to the PIL. The petitioner-organisation said that the order withdrawing the rule is not only cryptic but also has no reason whatsoever assigned to recall the earlier instructions issued, which were based on the directives of this high court and the statutory provisions of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that came into force from February 4, 2019. “The withdrawal memo is also an attempt to set at naught the statutory provisions notified by the state government brought in to rein in the illegal encroachments and the unauthorised constructions galore in the state which undermines the core concept of rule of law,” the forum said. Asserting that Tangedco is also an instrumentality of the state, the petitioner contended that it is bound by the law enacted by the state government and has no power or authority to nullify the statutory provisions by refusing to implement the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-power-to-bldgs-sans-completion-papers-hc/articleshow/78819358.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||No power to buildings sans completion papers: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Buildings that do not have completion certificates cannot get electricity connections, as the Madras high court has stayed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco) order withdrawing the requirement. The state government on April 16, 2018, issued an order making building completion certificate mandatory for providing regular utility connections like electricity, water and sewage. Tangedco issued a memo dated May 14 this year to all of its field officers to insist on building completion certificates for providing new service connections. After following the rule for four months, all of a sudden on October 6, Tangedco issued a memo withdrawing the order. Assailing the withdrawal done without any rhyme or reason or any legal or factual basis, a public interest writ petition was filed by Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer rights organisation, saying completion certificate was made mandatory for electricity connection after a series of directions from the high court. On Thursday, admitting the PIL, a vacation bench of Justice V Parthiban and Justice G R Swaminathan stayed the Tangedco’s withdrawal order. The bench has also directed the Tamil Nadu government and Tangedco to file their detailed counter to the PIL. The petitioner-organisation said that the order withdrawing the rule is not only cryptic but also has no reason whatsoever assigned to recall the earlier instructions issued, which were based on the directives of this high court and the statutory provisions of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that came into force from February 4, 2019. “The withdrawal memo is also an attempt to set at naught the statutory provisions notified by the state government brought in to rein in the illegal encroachments and the unauthorised constructions galore in the state which undermines the core concept of rule of law,” the forum said. Asserting that Tangedco is also an instrumentality of the state, the petitioner contended that it is bound by the law enacted by the state government and has no power or authority to nullify the statutory provisions by refusing to implement the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-power-to-bldgs-sans-completion-papers-hc/articleshow/78819355.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Erode||No power to buildings sans completion papers: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Buildings that do not have completion certificates cannot get electricity connections, as the Madras high court has stayed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco) order withdrawing the requirement. The state government on April 16, 2018, issued an order making building completion certificate mandatory for providing regular utility connections like electricity, water and sewage. Tangedco issued a memo dated May 14 this year to all of its field officers to insist on building completion certificates for providing new service connections. After following the rule for four months, all of a sudden on October 6, Tangedco issued a memo withdrawing the order. Assailing the withdrawal done without any rhyme or reason or any legal or factual basis, a public interest writ petition was filed by Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer rights organisation, saying completion certificate was made mandatory for electricity connection after a series of directions from the high court. On Thursday, admitting the PIL, a vacation bench of Justice V Parthiban and Justice G R Swaminathan stayed the Tangedco’s withdrawal order. The bench has also directed the Tamil Nadu government and Tangedco to file their detailed counter to the PIL. The petitioner-organisation said that the order withdrawing the rule is not only cryptic but also has no reason whatsoever assigned to recall the earlier instructions issued, which were based on the directives of this high court and the statutory provisions of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that came into force from February 4, 2019. “The withdrawal memo is also an attempt to set at naught the statutory provisions notified by the state government brought in to rein in the illegal encroachments and the unauthorised constructions galore in the state which undermines the core concept of rule of law,” the forum said. Asserting that Tangedco is also an instrumentality of the state, the petitioner contended that it is bound by the law enacted by the state government and has no power or authority to nullify the statutory provisions by refusing to implement the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/no-power-to-bldgs-sans-completion-papers-hc/articleshow/78819356.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Bhagwant Mann: Punjab govt lying on legislations||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Bhagwant Mann on Thursday said chief minister Amarinder Singh was playing with farmers’ sentiments by lying about agriculture bills passed by the state assembly to negate the Centre’s anti-farmer laws. Mann said if the bills passed in the specially-convened Punjab assembly session were valid, the Congress government would not have run away from including procurement of cotton crop and other crops at minimum support price (MSP) in the bills brought in. However, the MP’s statement came even as AAP MLAs had earlier supported the four bills brought by the Punjab government. Mann, Lok Sabha MP from Sangrur, said Amarinder was playing hide and seek with farmers in collusion with Prime Minister Narendra Modi by bringing in bills in the Punjab assembly to negate the laws passed by Parliament. He likened the state legislations as a ploy to torpedo the peasant struggle. The AAP leader lamented that the MSPs fixed by the government for cotton and maize were completely flouted in Punjab mandis to force farmers to sell their produce at Rs1,000 per quintal less as against Rs 5,745 and Rs 1,870 per quintal for cotton and maize, respectively. He asked Amarinder to tell farmers of Punjab whether the Punjab vidhan sabha had the legal and constitutional right to go for an amendment in the bills already passed by Parliament. He asked if these laws guaranteed farmers the purchase of wheat and paddy crop at the MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-govt-lying-on-farm-legislations-mann/articleshow/78818865.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Finally, coal rakes start reaching power plants||PATIALA: After facing a severe shortage of coal stock the three private and two government-run thermal power plants in Punjab are ready to receive 84 coal rakes that were held up at different stations following the rail-traffic blockade by the farmers. PSPCL’s seven rakes, 15 coal rakes of GVK power plant, 22 rakes of NPL Rajpura power plant and 40 rakes of TSPL Banawali power plant were held up. On Thursday evening, one rake had reached Rajpura plant. “There is around 4,000 metric tonne (MT) of coal in one rake,” said GVK spokesperson. He said 15 rakes would soon reach the power plant that had to shut down both its electricity generation units on October 12 running out of coal. “We are getting seven rakes of coal in a day or two. We will have to order some more rakes for the stock. Each coal rake costs around Rs 2 crore,” said PSPCL director (generation). He said private power plants in the state would also start getting their rakes from Thursday. The PSPCL has started a unit each in two government-run power plants that are left with four to five days of coal stock. The PSPCL employees had already submitted their ‘work to rule’ notice to the PSPCL management maintaining that the employees would work from 9am to 5pm only. The government-run units were started after the two private power plants, including TSPL and GVK finished their coal stocks. According to the railways, 26 of the 30 spots in the Ferozepur division were vacated by the farmers by Thursday evening and they have already moved 12 goods trains carrying food grains. Ferozepur DRM Rajesh Aggarwal said, “After the tracks were cleared, 12 (food grain) loaded goods trains have already been moved, while more such trains have been confirmed for the inward supply of fertilisers, tractors, coal and containers.” Aggarwal said the railways is running a thorough track clearance exercise in the division and once it is complete, the goods trains would be running at a higher speed than now. Meanwhile, a flurry of activities was witnessed at all the major railway stations in the division, including Ludhiana, from where a few goods trains passed on its way to Jalandhar and Jammu, while empty trains on the Amritsar-Ludhiana section also went towards Ambala and some other destinations via Ludhiana. Ambala division divisional railway manager G M Singh said there were 50 empty and loaded rakes in the division station. A tractor consignment of a private company left for Chandigarh railway station on Wednesday night, after the farmers allowed to the goods train to ply. There are around 65 goods rakes which need to be unloaded, he added. Besides, there are 22 rakes of Nabha thermal plant and containers which need to be sent. He said the Punjab government has sent a communication that the railway can start sending goods trains on lines from Kharar, Lalru, Morinda and Bathinda. BOX Parcel trains to be short-terminated The railways has decided to continue with the short-termination of four parcel special trains – * 00901 Bandra Terminus-Jammu Tawi commencing journey on Oct 23 will be short-terminated at Ambala, and therefore, 00902 Jammu Tawi-Bandra Terminus train will short-originate from Ambala on Oct 25. * 00463 Howrah-Amritsar parcel train starting journey on Oct 24 will be short-terminated at Delhi and 00464 Amritsar-Howrah train will short-originate on Oct 23 from Delhi. * 00467 Howrah-Amritsar parcel train starting journey on Oct 22 will be short-terminated at New Delhi and 00464 Amritsar-Howrah train will short-originate on Oct 26 from New Delhi. * 00763 Hyderabad-Amritsar parcel train leaving on Oct 23 will be short-terminated at New Delhi and 00764 Amritsar-Hyderabad train will short-originate on Oct 26 from New Delhi. (With inputs from Mohit Behl in Ludhiana and Arti Kapur in Chandigarh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/updatedtracks-clear-84-coal-rakes-to-reach-power-plants/articleshow/78818863.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Starting medical colleges gets tougher||THRISSUR: Starting medical colleges could become a tougher task if the draft guidelines prepared by the recently constituted National Medical Commission (NMC) come into effect. One major change that has been mooted is that applications for setting up a new medical college can be submitted by individuals and entities that are running a 300-bed hospital at least for two years. As per existing norms, applications for starting medical colleges can be submitted even by freshers with enough financial resource base, and land, though they lack any exposure in the medical field. Interestingly, the guidelines have been generally welcomed by both government officials and owners of private medical colleges in Kerala, though all have suggested some changes. Ensuring a hospital running experience is considered a major asset for those venturing into the medical education field, according to vice-chancellor of the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) Dr Mohanan Kunnummal. That will provide an additional revenue stream for managements, apart from the students’ contributions, some experts said. Though leader of private medical college association Dr K M Navas generally welcomed the proposal, he said the hospital running experience period could be reduced to one year, instead of two years. “The cost of medical education will go up, if the two-year period is insisted upon, as the college can then be actually started only after three to four years, considering procedures involved.” Another condition being proposed by NMC is that all medical colleges must mandatorily have an emergency medicine unit. This intensive care unit (ICU), with at least 15-beds, should be headed by a professor qualified in emergency medicine field. The unit must also have at least nine senior resident doctors on duty. Dr Mohanan said the Association of State Health University Vice Chancellors has also welcomed this proposal considering that most deaths occur in the casualty wings of hospitals, which may not be properly equipped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/starting-medical-colleges-gets-tougher/articleshow/78815545.cms||T Ramavarman
October 23, 2020||Salem||Collector permits coracle ride, bath at Hogenakkal||Dharmapuri: Collector S Malarvizhi on Thursday granted permission for tourists to visit Hogenakkal waterfalls, take bath in river Cauvery and ride coracle. Earlier, the collector visited the Hogenakkal waterfalls and met reporters. “We will allow three people excluding oarsmen in the coracle for a ride,” she said, adding that violators will be strictly punished with police action. She said four teams have been formed to monitor tourists’ movements in the waterfalls area. The number of teams will be increased depending on the tourists’ inflow. The tourists will not be allowed to visit five-waterfalls area, coracle riding to Marathukadavu area, walking on the hanging bridge and visiting crocodile park. “We have allotted specific areas to have food and tourists should not have foods in other spots,” she said. She confirmed that the water flowing level in river Cauvery, if raised more than 20,000 cusecs, tourists visit will be once again banned. “We will allow tourists only when the water flow is less than 20,000 cusecs,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/collector-permits-coracle-ride-bath-at-hogenakkal/articleshow/78817079.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Madurai||No power to buildings sans completion papers: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Buildings that do not have completion certificates cannot get electricity connections, as the Madras high court has stayed Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation’s (Tangedco) order withdrawing the requirement. The state government on April 16, 2018, issued an order making building completion certificate mandatory for providing regular utility connections like electricity, water and sewage. Tangedco issued a memo dated May 14 this year to all of its field officers to insist on building completion certificates for providing new service connections. After following the rule for four months, all of a sudden on October 6, Tangedco issued a memo withdrawing the order. Assailing the withdrawal done without any rhyme or reason or any legal or factual basis, a public interest writ petition was filed by Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer rights organisation, saying completion certificate was made mandatory for electricity connection after a series of directions from the high court. On Thursday, admitting the PIL, a vacation bench of Justice V Parthiban and Justice G R Swaminathan stayed the Tangedco’s withdrawal order. The bench has also directed the Tamil Nadu government and Tangedco to file their detailed counter to the PIL. The petitioner-organisation said that the order withdrawing the rule is not only cryptic but also has no reason whatsoever assigned to recall the earlier instructions issued, which were based on the directives of this high court and the statutory provisions of the Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019, that came into force from February 4, 2019. “The withdrawal memo is also an attempt to set at naught the statutory provisions notified by the state government brought in to rein in the illegal encroachments and the unauthorised constructions galore in the state which undermines the core concept of rule of law,” the forum said. Asserting that Tangedco is also an instrumentality of the state, the petitioner contended that it is bound by the law enacted by the state government and has no power or authority to nullify the statutory provisions by refusing to implement the relevant rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-power-to-bldgs-sans-completion-papers-hc/articleshow/78819357.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cyber hit on Dr Reddy’s Labs as Covid vaccine work begins||HYDERABAD: Pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories was the target of a cyber attack less than a week after it received approvals to start phase two and three trials of the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in India. Although the company refused to say if the hackers tried to steal vaccine-related data, the attack has come at time when Covid-19 vaccine developers across the world have faced similar threats. As early as July, US security agencies had charged Chinese government-linked hackers with targeting biotech company Moderna involved in developing a vaccine. Japanese vaccine makers, on the other hand, have been facing attacks since April. Security agencies in the UK too have said that several organisations involved in Covid-19 vaccine development in the UK, US, and Canada have been targeted by a Russian hacking group. Chinese hackers allegedly stole data from Spanish laboratories in mid-September. The data breach at Dr Reddy’s took place early on Thursday morning and reportedly forced the company to shut all its global manufacturing facilities. The company has facilities in India, the US, the UK, Mexico and China. The breach is believed to have taken place at the company’s own data centre and also brought down its website for a few hours. The company informed the bourses that “in the wake of a detected cyber-attack, we have isolated all data centre services to take required preventive actions”. “We are anticipating all services to be up within 24 hours and we do not foresee any major impact on our operations due to this incident,” Dr Reddy’s Labs CIO Mukesh Rathi said in a regulatory filing. Dr Reddy’s Labs CFO Saumen Chakraborty confirmed that the data centre targeted by the hackers was the company’s own but the impact of the attack was “minimal”. Dr Reddy’s sources also said that only a few manufacturing facilities were impacted by the attack. The news of the data breach sent the company’s scrip tumbling in early trade to Rs 4,832 per share before closing 0.46% (23.30 points) lower on the Bombay Stock Exchange on Thursday at Rs 5,023.6 per share as compared to Wednesday’s closing price of Rs 5,046.9 a share. Dr Reddy’s had entered into a tie up with Russia’s sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in September this year to conduct clinical trials for Sputnik V in India and to distribute 100 million doses of the vaccine in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-hit-on-dr-reddys-labs-as-covid-vaccine-work-begins/articleshow/78818872.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,400 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,456 new Covid-19 positive cases and five deaths, taking the total Infection count so far in the state to 2,27,580. While the death toll in the state is 1292, a total of 2,06,105 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection in the state, while 20,183 patients are under treatment and remain active cases. The case fatality rate in the state is currently 0.56 percent as against the national average of 1.5 percent. The case fatality rate is a measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus as against the number of patients who get infected with the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1400-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78817080.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Salem||Now, TruJet reduces flight operations||Salem: TruJet has decided to operate flights between Salem and Chennai only for five days instead of seven. “Flight service will be stopped on Tuesday and Wednesday from October 25,” station manager K Prasanna Kumar said. “We took the decision due to administrative reasons,” he said. “We have changed the flight timings also. The flight will depart from the Chennai airport at 7.15am and will reach the Salem airport at 8.15am. It will take off for Chennai at 8.35am and land there at 9.35am. “We will give connections to Kadapa, Vijayawada, Mysuru and Belgaum cities from Chennai,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/now-trujet-reduces-flight-operations/articleshow/78817102.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||1,600 NIT-Warangal students get degrees online||HYDERABAD: As many as 1,607 candidates received their degrees at the 18th convocation of the National Institute of Technology Warangal, which was held virtually for the first time, using motion capture and augmented reality. Of the total candidates, 119 students received their PhD degrees, 616 were MTech and other post graduate degrees awardees, and 872 received BTech degrees. Apurva Bhardwaj, a chemical engineering graudtae, received the Institute Gold Medal from Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal virtually in the convocation for being the student with the highest CGPA among all the branches of engineering. Seven other students also received gold medals from distinguished guests at the convocation. “Think out of the box, beyond restrictions and challenges and bring light where there is darkness,” Pokhriyal advised students. He said that the world has become way too mechanical and that there is a need to make humans more ‘human’ by laying human values as the foundation of education. NR Narayana Murthy, founder of Infosys, who was the guest of honour, called graduation a watershed event in one’s life, where students make a commitment to themselves and the Indian society to become intelligent, informed, disciplined, enthusiastic, and committed agents of progress. Pokhriyal inaugurated three newly constructed buildings and laid the foundation for the Rudrama Devi Ladies Hostels Complex of NIT Warangal on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-6k-nit-w-students-get-degrees-online/articleshow/78817099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Poll expenditure limit for LS and assembly polls increased||Jaipur: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has issued an order increasing the upper limit of election expenses applicable to candidates in elections to Lok Sabha and legislative assemblies. Following the revision of the amount, it will be Rs 77 lakh for the candidates contesting in Lok Sabha elections and Rs 30.80 lakh for those contesting in assembly elections in Rajasthan. Election Commission has constituted a committee to examine the issues concerning expenditure limit for a candidate in view of increase in number of electors and rise in Cost Inflation Index and other factors. Considering the factor of Covid-19, the ministry of law & justice has notified an amendment in Rule 90 of Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 enhancing the existing expenditure limit by 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poll-expenditure-limit-for-ls-and-assembly-polls-increased/articleshow/78815552.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||MBBS intake for all India quota seats to start on October 27||CHENNAi: Admissions for MBBS seats under all India quota in central institutions and deemed universities will begin on October 27. The schedule released by the medical counselling committee (MCC) says registration for first round will end on November 2. Students can lock choices between October 28 and November 2, results for the first round published on November 5 and those allotted seats given till November 12 to join. In the second round, participants will be given five days to register from November 18, and can lock choices before November 22. Results will be published on November 25 and vacant seats transferred to state universities on December 3. Registration for mop-up round to central and deemed universities, ESIC, AIIMS and Jipmer will begin on December 10 and allotment will be on December 17. Vacant seats will be transferred between December 28 and 31. To keep non-serious students away, a non-refundable registration fee and refundable security deposit will be collected from all. They will have to forfeit the refundable deposit of up to Rs 2 lakh if they don’t join colleges allotted after the second and mop-up rounds. Those registering for deemed universities will have to pay the non-refundable registration fee of Rs 5,000 and a refundable security amount of Rs 2 lakh. For (15% All India Quota)/Central Universities (DU, AMU, BHU and Jamia Millia Islamia,Delhi)/AFMS & ESI, a non-refundable registration fee of Rs 1,000/ for UR candidates, Rs 500 for SC/ST/OBC/PH candidates and a refundable security amount for Rs 10,000 for UR candidates and Rs 5,000 for SC/ST/OBC/PH will be collected. Single-window counselling will be held for central universities, AIIMS, Jipmer, ESIC and AFMC along with allotment for all India quota seats and deemed universities. There will be three rounds of counselling for deemed and central universities including a mop-up round of DGHS followed by stray vacancy round at the institution level (list of 10 times the number of vacancies will be sent to institutes which would be exhausted strictly in terms of merit).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mbbs-intake-for-all-india-quota-seats-to-start-on-october-27/articleshow/78817104.cms||Pushpa Narayan
October 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers take out tractor march against agricultural laws in Karnal||KARNAL: A number of farmers, on Thursday, took out a tractor march against the three agricultural laws at chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency of Karnal. The protest was led by Rattan Mann, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU). Protesters assembled at the old grain market, Karnal and took out a tractor march towards the mini-secretariat, where police stopped them at the entrance. Thereafter, farmers handed over a memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav. Mann said, “The Modi-led NDA government has forcibly imposed anti-farmer laws on farmers. These laws will only help the corporate sector to exploit farmers. The government should roll back the laws and bring in another law, ‘Kharid Garanti Kanoon’ (Right to sell at MSP). If someone purchases farmers’ produce below the MSP, buyers should be given punishment of five years minimum. Also, the government should ensure timely payment to farmers.” He appreciated the Punjab government for passing bills against the three farm laws of the Centre. Mann attacked deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and said if Dushyant did not pressurise the government to pass a bill against these laws, he would withdraw his support. Mann also said they will launch a “Maha Kranti” against the farm laws once the paddy season ended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-take-out-tractor-march-against-agri-laws-in-karnal/articleshow/78818867.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH students’ union calls off hunger strike||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) students’ union on Thursday called off its relay hunger strike launched against the new qualifying criteria for PhD and MPhil seats. The union claimed that the cut-off introduced this year may result in nearly 64 PhD and MPhil reserved seats falling vacant during the ensuing academic year. However, the union said that they called off the strike after the admission grievance redressal committee recommended to fill all the reserved category seats. “Students union has strong conviction towards complete implementation of reservation. However, committee has recommended to fulfill all reserved categories seats, on this assurance, we are calling off the strike, but we will intensify our struggle in various forms,” read a statement by the union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-students-union-calls-off-hunger-strike/articleshow/78817101.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Before launch, loopholes in Dharani portal examined||HYDERABAD: Days before the Dharani portal being thrown open for public, the officials have started dummy exercises to detect any defects in it. The website, aimed for uploading property details, will be launched on October 25. In Narayanpet, district collector Harichandana visited the tahsildar office on October 18 to check the functioning of the Dharani portal. Meanwhile, chief secretary Somesh Kumar held a meeting with district collectors on October 17 and informed them that Dharani portal would be inaugurated on October 25. He advised all collectors through the video conference to ensure that the staff is aware of their role. The chief secretary made a power-point presentation. Following directions from the chief secretary, tahsildars carried out dummy exercises on how to upload the property details on the Dharani website. They were also given a proforma to fill after they undertake the exercise of filling up at least 10 forms. While the administrative machinery in the districts has been gathering the details from villages, a 68-year-old man in Sangareddy committed suicide recently as he feared his property would not be entered in the records in his name. The incident occurred in Indrakaran village of Kandi mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/before-launch-loopholes-in-dharani-portal-examined/articleshow/78817111.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||Armed miscreants rob three families in two villages in one night||PILIBHIT: A gang of 4-5 armed miscreants robbed two families in village Shivnagar and a third in neighbouring Biharipur under Gajraula police station, within just three hours between 11PM and 1AM on Wednesday night. Police, led by Pilibhit city circle CO Virendra Vikram, have inspected the spots and lodged FIRs in the cases. All three victims said robbers barged into the houses by scaling walls of their courtyards. They overpowered male members of the houses at the point of a pistol, fastened them tightly to cots, collected the gold and silver jewellery along with cash from the rooms, forced the women to hand over the jewellery they were wearing, and escaped. The victims put the total value of their robbed valuables at over Rs 3 lakh. The first house to be robbed was of Gulabi Lal in Shivnagar at 11PM, the second of Naresh Pal at 12 midnight — both in the same village. The third robbery was committed in village Biharipur in the house of Siya Ram at 1AM. SHO Jai Prakash Singh said the FIRs against the anonymous robbers were lodged under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/armed-miscreants-rob-three-families-in-two-villages-in-one-night/articleshow/78813528.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Don’t crowd during port trust polls: HC||Chennai: The Madras high court has ordered strict adherence of Covid-19 SOP prescribed by the Centre and state government by Chennai Port Trust while conducting polls to elect members of recognised trade unions to participate in the port’s administrative committee. Justice R Suresh Kumar also restrained the unions from organising physical campaigns for the election. “If at all the employees’ associations want to do campaigns, they can do so by electronic mode,” the judge said. The court passed the orders on a plea seeking to call for the letter issued by the chairperson of the port trust calling for the ‘check off’ election dated September 29 and quash the same. The unions wanted the court to direct the authorities to postpone the election for at least six months in view of the pandemic. Refusing to postpone the election, the court said, “The check off procedure is part of the election process in order to identify maximum command among employees by a recognised union for the purpose of nominating two members from the largest employees supported trade union, in the body of the Chennai Port Trust. Hence, it is an important task to be undertaken by the port trust.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-crowd-during-port-trust-polls-hc/articleshow/78817118.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Gold, silver found in EB Nagaraju’s lockers||HYDERABAD: ACB sleuths opened two bank lockers on Thursday in the corruption case registered against tahsildar EB Nagaraju and found Rs 69 lakh worth gold and silver along with some property documents. Nagaraju had allegedly ended his life in prison on October 13. ACB sleuths opened ICICI Bank lockers in Old Alwal and Medchal branches belonging to , Nagaraju’s benamis — PJ Mahender Kumar and his brother PJ Nanda Gopal. In the Alwal branch locker, 65-tola gold jewellery worth Rs 65 lakh was found and in Medchal branch locker, Rs 4.5 lakh worth 35 silver biscuits, weighing 7.3 kilos, were found. “During the investigation, it was revealed that Swapna, wife of Nagaraju, was using the two lockers opened in the name of benamis. They were friends of Nagaraju,” said an ACB official. ACB seized the gold and silver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-silver-found-in-nagarajus-lockers/articleshow/78817106.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man kidnaps, kills boy, then calls for ransom||HYDERABAD: A 9-year-old boy, who was kidnapped on Sunday, was throttled to death the same day and his body burnt in Mahabubabad district by his abductor before he made ransom calls, police said on Thursday. Cops are also probing if a relative had any role in the kidnapping. The boy, Deekshith Reddy, was picked up near his residence by Manga Sagar, a motor mechanic, who was known to family as they were from the same village near the town. Sagar had lured the boy, who was playing with his friends, by offering him a joyride on his bike. The boy readily agreed to go as Sagar was known to his businessman father Ranjith Reddy, cops said. The boy’s father had recently bought a property and Sagar hatched the plan hoping to squeeze him for money, but apparently developed cold feet and murdered the boy, cops said. “The boy was killed the same day he was kidnapped. Sagar feared that the boy will disclose his identity. So he throttled him, poured petrol and burnt the boy so the body could not be identified. After killing the boy, Sagar made VoIP calls to the family for ransom,’’ Mahabubabad SP N Koti Reddy said. The SP said that the boy was taken to a possible hideout in Palupusapalli hillock from where Sagar called demanding Rs 45 lakh as ransom on Sunday and Monday. Investigators said that the mechanic was arrested after they came across CCTV footage and trapped him when he came to take cash from a family member. The role of boy’s relative is being probed as he could be a possible accomplice, investigators said. Until Sagar disclosed that the boy was murdered, local police had the impression that the boy was alive and it was being treated as a case of kidnap for ransom. The accused was taken to the hillock from where the burnt body was recovered later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kidnaps-kills-boy-then-calls-for-ransom/articleshow/78818881.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Salem||DMDK man, father-in-law killed in road accident||Namakkal: Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) functionary Vijay Kamal, 42, of Weaver’s Colony in Tiruchengode and his father-in-law P Ranganathan, 65, of Palayam in Erode were killed in a car accident at Karumagoundampalayam near Tiruchengode around 2am on Thursday. Vijay’s wife Divya, 29, mother-in-law Matheswari, 60 and sister-in-law Akalyam, 26, have been admitted to the government hospital in Tiruchengode. According to Tiruchengode rural police, Vijay had left for Bengaluru with Divya, Matheswari and Akalyam to pick up Ranganathan, who was admitted to a private hospital for heart disease. “They were on the way to Palayam to drop Ranganathan, Matheswari and Akalyam. When the car neared Karumagoundampalayam, Vijay lost control over the vehicle, which rammed a tamarind tree. Vijay and Ranganathan succumbed to injuries on the spot,” a police officer said. Vijay was working as an assistant professor in a private college in Tiruchengode. He was the former district deputy president of DMDK and had contested in the 2016 Tamil Nadu assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dmdk-man-father-in-law-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/78817108.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Bags-on-wheels facility to make rail travel easier||NEW DELHI: Carrying your luggage to and from railway stations is going to get easier. The city division of Indian Railways will soon be providing an application-based bags-on-wheels (BOW) service, making travelling easier for passengers. It would be first-of-its-kind facility for railway commuters in India. The Delhi division recently awarded a contract to a private firm to provide the services under its New Innovative Non-Fare Revenue Ideas Scheme. An official said that the BOW application will soon be available for iPhone and Android users. With the app, passengers can raise a demand to carry their luggage to the railway station or to their home. The bags will be picked up and delivered to the destination securely. “The firm will provide door-to-door services to passengers for a nominal fee, making the travel experience hassle-free. The bags will smoothly reach the passengers’ train coach from their home, or the other way around, as required,” the official said, adding that the facility will be very helpful for senior citizens, disabled and women passengers travelling alone. The delivery of the luggage will be ensured prior to departure of the train. Initially, the firm will provide its services for the passengers boarding trains from New Delhi, Delhi Junction, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi Cantonment, Delhi Sarai Rohilla, Ghaziabad and Gurgaon railway stations. SC Jain, DRM Delhi, said that the facility will enhance the scope of earnings for railways with straight-away non-fare revenue of Rs 50 lakh per annum and 10% revenue sharing for one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bags-on-wheels-facility-to-make-rail-travel-easier/articleshow/78817124.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Tirupur GH ensures baby born weighing 550g survives||Coimbatore: Despite not being a tertiary care centre, the Tirupur government hospital ensured that a 550g baby survived and gained enough weight to be discharged. The baby was intensely monitored till his organs were matured, kept on respiratory assistance till he breathed on his own and fed till he latched on breastfeed on his own. This is the lowest weight baby that the hospital has handled so far. Even the region’s tertiary care centre--Coimbatore GH’s lowest weighing baby that survived was around 650g.The mother, Bhuvaneshwari, 25, and her husband Udhaykumar, 28, reside at Pandiyan Nagar in Tirupur. The couple thought that Bhuvaneshwari was having abortion when she started bleeding in her sixth month of pregnancy on July 27. They rushed her to Tirupur GH, where doctors immediately performed a c-section and took the child out.The head of the hospital’s neonatal ward, Dr Priya, said the baby was born at 24 weeks of pregnancy and was a handful in size. “All the organs were present but had not matured. The neonate was given surfactant and put on CPAP, continuous positive airway pressure, and other medications to prevent infections and respiratory issues. We started on his tube feed early, and once he was stable, Kangaroo mother care was started,” she said. “This enabled the baby to gain weight,” she said. “We never expected the baby to survive, because baby’s survival rates born before 28 weeks are low. Many of these babies take time to even cross 1kg,” she added.However, CPAP was taken off the baby in a week and started drinking milk orally a couple of weeks later and then even learned to latch on. By Wednesday, the baby had gained 1.46kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tirupur-gh-ensures-baby-born-weighing-550g-survives/articleshow/78817125.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Agra||Cong & SP sympathizing with rioters, says UP CM Yogi||Meerut/Agra: Launching the BJP’s by-election campaign from Bulandshahr, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday attacked the Congress and other opposition parties, alleging that they play “politics of caste” and “sympathize with rioters”. The attack comes days after massive protests erupted over the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras and arrest of four persons with alleged link with PFI. “A Congress leader and its former president went to meet a PFI leader in Kerala. Congress has been sympathizing with the organization which has been actively contributing in creating tension in the country,” the CM said. Seven assembly seats in the state are going to polls on November 3. CM Yogi addressed three consecutive rallies in Bulandshahr, Amroha and Tundla on Thursday. “Those who play politics of caste, show them the mirror and tell them that their slogans will not work in western UP. Only BJP’s developmental and nationalism slogans will work,” he said. Referring to the new university coming up in the name of Maharaja Mahendra Pratap in Aligarh, the CM said the king was “denied” his due credit for donating his property to Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). “Maharaja Mahendra Pratap had donated his entire property for establishing AMU, but there is not a single commemorative slab in the university in his honour,” he said. “Then the BJP came to power in the state, and a new university in the name of the Maharaja is being set up by the government in the same Aligarh,” he said. Addressing another rally in Tundla, the chief minister targeted the Samajwadi Party for playing “dirty politics”. Addressing the rally at Beeri Singh College ground, CM Yogi said, “Samajwadi Party has no shame. They are playing with the security of women by giving ticket to a family member of a gang-rape accused who is in jail since last nine months.” BJP candidate on Tundla (SC) seat, Prempal Dhangar, is up against Samajwadi Party candidate Maharaj Singh Dhangar whose son is facing gang rape charges. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cong-sp-sympathizing-with-rioters-says-up-cm-yogi/articleshow/78814544.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||KSRP sets record promoting 106 constables as HC within 9-years||Mangaluru: Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) that forms the bulwark of state police’s response to law and order situations created history on Thursday. The 15,000-odd strong force beamed with pride when the KSRP top brass pinned the head constable’s shoulder patch on Sanjay Bhajantri, a 2011 batch recruit. This was the fastest ever that a constable had been promoted to the rank of head constable. This process hitherto took 24 years. Alok Kumar, additional director-general of police (KSRP) told TOI that KSRP has made it a practice to identify its personnel from the constabulary level who are eligible for promotion and give them timely promotion. “Bhajantri is a fine example of the policy that the reserve police wing of state police has adopted,” Alok said, adding he made it a point to get a photograph taken with the newly promoted head constable for the KSRP record book. With 14 battalions and two training schools dotting the state, KSRP is often called on to deal with the most difficult of law and order situations when it is often beyond the local police units to deal with it. “Accelerated promotions will motivate youth planning to join KSRP about their career prospects,” Alok said. Promotion will ensure that personnel better get pay and facilities such as bigger quarters allotted on the basis of their ranks, he noted. Recruits who hitherto joined as constables and retired as head constables and that too with promotion coming after 24-years can now look forward to retiring at the level of Sub inspector or Assistant Sub Inspector, noted Praveen Sood, director-general and inspector general of police in a tweet. Incidentally, Bhajantri was one among the 106 KSRP constables from the 2011 batch to get their promotions which five years ago was dream, Alok tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ksrp-sets-record-promoting-106-constables-as-hc-within-9-years/articleshow/78813649.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Three of a gang from Bangladesh that uprooted ATMs across country held in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A notorious criminal from Bangladesh was arrested after an encounter with Delhi Police’s Special Cell early on Thursday. He was identified as Sohag Kham alias Rustam. Two of Suhag’s associates—Safiq and Sofequl Molla—have also been arrested. The gang uprooted ATMs across the country, police said. The shootout took place in east Delhi’s Anand Vihar around 1.45am. Police had received a tip-off about some suspects involved in a case of uprooting of ATM in Goa coming to IGI airport in Delhi. They laid a trap on Wednesday evening. Safiq and Molla were apprehended by a team led by inspector Vinod Badola and others when they stepped out of the airport. Safiq belongs to Bagerghat while Molla is a resident of Khulna in Bangladesh. Police recovered around Rs 33,000 from them. From their personal search, flight tickets for travel to Kolkata were recovered as well. They further revealed that they had planned to flee to Bangladesh through illegal channels. The duo revealed that the mastermind behind the ATM robbery, committed on October 18, was Sohag Khan and gave police his coordinates. “A specific input was received that Suhag was likely to uproot an ATM in east Delhi in a few hours,” said a senior officer. Accordingly, a trap was laid near Plaza Hotel in East Delhi to apprehend him. Two pistols, cartridges and a new mobile phone were seized from Suhag. The arrested men disclosed that they had procured Indian IDs and used to commit crime in different states. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-of-a-gang-from-bangladesh-that-uprooted-atms-across-country-held/articleshow/78817170.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No nod for layouts in FTL of lakes: Telangana to HC||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that the new layout regularisation scheme (LRS) does not accord any blanket permission to the competent authority to regularise all illegal layouts, the government informed the HC it will not regularise layouts within full tank level (FTL) of water bodies and also those that came up on shikam land. Municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar said this in an affidavit before HC following a direction from a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy to answer contentions raised by Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy. The Congress MP had challenged the new LRS in general and the proposed penal charges in particular. Arvind, in his affidavit, said the restrictions contained in GO 111 in respect of constructions within the catchment areas of Osman Sagar and Himayat Sagar reservoirs would continue to be applicable. He said that the new LRS Rules, issued on August 31 and notified through GO 131, have made no exception for these areas. Stating that Rule 5 of LRS-2020 clearly say no layout regularisation or development is allowed in areas that fall under river beds, lake beds tanks, pond and kunta, the principal secretary, however, said if already layouts have come up in such areas, the water bodies and their courses should be maintained as recreational zones, buffer zones and green zones and no development activity would be allowed in such areas. “No layout development activity shall be carried out within 30 metres from the boundary of river course, or lakes of 10 hectares and above. For less than 10 hectares of lakes, shikam land and kuntas, nine metres distance from their boundaries has to be maintained. For layouts on canals and vagus too, the distance of nine metres was prescribed in the LRS GO. If it is a nala, the distance to be maintained is two meters,” he said in the affidavit. Refuting allegations that innocent buyers were being penalised through LRS, Arvind said the money collected from plot owners in illegal layouts would be used to provide amenities like roads, drains etc. The money that comes from the LRS scheme would strengthen local bodies and they would be able to provide better infrastructure facilities to the hitherto unauthorised layouts, the affidavit said. “A separate escrow account will be maintained by the respective local body for the purpose so that the money that comes from regularisation will be spent on development of the same area. To prevent further mushrooming of unauthorised layouts, the state has banned registration of plots in illegal layouts,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-nod-for-layouts-in-ftl-of-lakes-t-to-hc/articleshow/78818891.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 23, 2020||Delhi||(S)mall wonder: Hopes lift as shoppers start coming back||NEW DELHI: Every year, the weekend before Dussehra and Durga Puja kickstarts the eagerly awaited ‘golden period’ of retail shopping that gladdens mall store owners till mid-January. Each outlet looks forward to high sales during this time. This year though, the Covid-19 pandemic had thrown all projections and preparations awry. And the poor turnout even after the malls were allowed to open did not enthuse sellers. Until recently. Now, call it Covid fatigue, better awareness about how to beat the virus or belief in the safety measures adopted by retail establishments, perhaps even the hint of winter in the air, people are back, and mall operators, shops and food outlets are cautiously optimistic. From staring at a complete washout, footfall and sales are close to 60% of October 2019’s numbers. And if all goes well — and the spread of infection remains under control — they may end the quarter at almost 75% of same period last year. Yogeshwar Sharma, executive director & CEO, Select Citywalk, reported 30,000 visitors over the weekends these days, around 60% of the football in normal times. He said the mood was upbeat and most mall tenants are looking at the coming quarter with a lot of hope and positivity. An official from Ambience Mall confirmed that footfall there woo was increasing by the week. In a similar optimistic vein, Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Retail, said that while the number of buyers is around 40% of what it was at the same time last year, most malls in the chain have seen spend per footfall go up almost 180%. She observed that international and luxury premium brands were logging their usual festive numbers, and F&B outlets had also touched 50% of normal sales after alcohol was permitted to be served. “If these encouraging trends continue, we expect to reach 70% of last year’s festival sales,” said Bector. Abhishek Bansal of Pacific Malls also had similar numbers to report for this his enterprises in Tagore Garden, Ghaziabad and Dwarka. October might end after recording 60% of last year’s performance, and, in fact, with cinema attendance increasing, he was hopeful of clocking 75%. Buoyed by the numbers, the Pacific malls have special décor for the season, such as a large replica of the Ram temple planned at Ayodhya, for a festive feel. Sharma and his ilk have also observed a change in shopping pattern in that there are more ‘focused’ shoppers now than the ‘floater crowd’ and the average time spent at the mall by each visitor has halved to an hour from two hours earlier. Electronics, beauty and athleisure are performing well, though gifting and formal- or occasion-driven wear are sluggish. Food takeaway is also doing better than expected in most malls. Most mall owners have asked their brand retailers to pass on any price benefits to consumers to incentivise their visits to the malls. Sharma opined that more than ever, there is now the need for price parity with online portals. He felt that people having their favourite brands home-delivered at lower prices was impacting brick-and-mortar stores in the Covid era.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/small-wonder-hopes-lift-as-shoppers-start-coming-back/articleshow/78818415.cms||Amin Ali
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai bus terminus turns dump yard||CHENNAI: The temporary bus terminus at Vallallar Nagar has become a dump yard for construction debris causing untold miseries for commuters. Almost 50% of the facility for Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses, on Basin Bridge Road, is unusable, but, the issue has failed to attract the attention of the authorities concerned. The temporary terminus was shifted to the new premises after the old terminus at Vallallar Nagar was taken over for metro rail work. Later, the facility was left unattended. According to a MTC conductor, the terminus too began to be used to offload construction material during the lockdown period. “The volume of waste has gradually increased in the past few months. The debris mountain has now encroached upon the bus terminus space,” he added.  A visit by TOI on Thursday found that the steadily growing pile of discarded waste included bitumen, demolished concrete dividers and other material. Compounding the problem, rainwater is getting collected amid the debris and passengers coming to the terminus must be extremely cautious as the waste is scattered, say residents of the area. The coming monsoon could worsen the situation if nothing is done to resolve the issue, they warn. When contacted, officials in Greater Chennai Corporation said the construction material was a mix of debris. “We are attempting to tie up with other corporation zones to clear it. We have already removed a part of it,” said an official. The volume of construction debris had begun increasing only during the lockdown period, he said.  MTC buses to different places including Thiruverkadu, Koyambedu and Parry’s are operated from the Vallallar Nagar bus terminus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-bus-terminus-turns-dump-yard/articleshow/78817161.cms||Suresh Kumar
October 23, 2020||Agra||To prevent Covid-19 surge in winter, SNMC sets up 110 lakh litre oxygen tank||AGRA: After scientific inputs of a possible surge in Covid-19 cases this winter, the SN Medical College (SNMC) in Agra has established a 110 lakh-litre oxygen tank for treatment of infected patients. The state government has also directed the college administration to make arrangements for 100 additional beds for treatment of symptomatic Covid-19 patients with other health problems. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “Now, we have made adequate arrangements for uninterrupted oxygen supply to Covid-19 patients. Besides the new 110 lakh-litre oxygen cylinder, large width pipelines have been connected to the Covid-19 facility to ensure patients get oxygen supply as per their requirements. We are working to make SNMC a specialty treatment centre for Covid-19." To provide best possible treatment, SNMC administration has started working on a plan to develop a super specialty centre for Covid. In its first phase, an 85-bed ICU facility will be developed for Covid-19 patients in critical condition. Here, 30 ventilators will be made available. Besides, 20 bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) and 25 high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines have been acquired. SNMC is also going to set up an advanced pathology for diagnosis of health issues related to Covid patients. For this, four modern machines have been acquired from a company authorised by the state. These include high-performance liquid chromatography, fully automated biochemistry analyzer, hormone analyzer, point of care testing and Elisa reader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/to-prevent-covid-19-surge-in-wintersnmc-sets-up-110l-litre-oxygen-tank/articleshow/78814563.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra registers 34% drop in demand for medical oxygen||PUNE: Maharashtra has registered an almost 34% reduction in the demand for medical oxygen following the recent drop in the number of Covid-19 cases. The decrease in the demand for medical oxygen in Pune division and district has been even higher at 44% and 38%, respectively, as on October 20, revealed data provided by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A senior health department official said the state hospitals’ daily demand for medical oxygen has gone down to 430-450 tonnes from almost 600-650 tonnes a day in the beginning of October. “This is almost over 200 tonnes of reduction, on a daily basis, in the medical oxygen requirement as of now. This is primarily because of the reduction in the active Covid-19 cases,” he said. In districts where the reduction in active cases was to a lesser degree than others, the official said, the demand for medical oxygen might have dropped to a lesser degree in comparison to the districts where the active caseload has gone down significanctly. FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “From 229 tonnes per day requirement of medical oxygen in Pune district as on October 1, the need has come down to 140 tonnes by October 20. This is a drop by almost 39%. In case of Pune division, the daily demand for medical oxygen has come down to 210 tonnes by October 20 from 372 tonnes per day as on October 1. This is a drop by 44%.” Pratapwar said the drop in oxygen requirement of hospitals was due to the reduction in the Covid-19 active caseload in Pune division. “Another reason is the divisional commissioner’s order around September-end on forming committees to monitor use of oxygen in hospitals. The committees were to monitor if oxygen was being used rationally by the hospitals. The committees came across instances of irrational use of oxygen by some hospitals,” he said. A source from the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA), who also has several gas manufacturing units in Maharashtra, told TOI, “The demand for medical oxygen has dropped wherever my units are located. We have so far seen almost a 75%-80 % decrease in the requirement of medical oxygen in October in districts such as Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-registers-34-drop-in-demand-for-medical-o2/articleshow/78819411.cms||Neha Madaan
October 23, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra registers 34% drop in demand for medical oxygen||PUNE: Maharashtra has registered an almost 34% reduction in the demand for medical oxygen following the recent drop in the number of Covid-19 cases. The decrease in the demand for medical oxygen in Pune division and district has been even higher at 44% and 38%, respectively, as on October 20, revealed data provided by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A senior health department official said the state hospitals’ daily demand for medical oxygen has gone down to 430-450 tonnes from almost 600-650 tonnes a day in the beginning of October. “This is almost over 200 tonnes of reduction, on a daily basis, in the medical oxygen requirement as of now. This is primarily because of the reduction in the active Covid-19 cases,” he said. In districts where the reduction in active cases was to a lesser degree than others, the official said, the demand for medical oxygen might have dropped to a lesser degree in comparison to the districts where the active caseload has gone down significanctly. FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “From 229 tonnes per day requirement of medical oxygen in Pune district as on October 1, the need has come down to 140 tonnes by October 20. This is a drop by almost 39%. In case of Pune division, the daily demand for medical oxygen has come down to 210 tonnes by October 20 from 372 tonnes per day as on October 1. This is a drop by 44%.” Pratapwar said the drop in oxygen requirement of hospitals was due to the reduction in the Covid-19 active caseload in Pune division. “Another reason is the divisional commissioner’s order around September-end on forming committees to monitor use of oxygen in hospitals. The committees were to monitor if oxygen was being used rationally by the hospitals. The committees came across instances of irrational use of oxygen by some hospitals,” he said. A source from the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA), who also has several gas manufacturing units in Maharashtra, told TOI, “The demand for medical oxygen has dropped wherever my units are located. We have so far seen almost a 75%-80 % decrease in the requirement of medical oxygen in October in districts such as Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-registers-34-drop-in-demand-for-medical-o2/articleshow/78819410.cms||Neha Madaan
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mahbubnagar civic chief caught taking bribe||HYDERABAD: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths caught Mahbubnagar municipal commissioner V Surender when he took Rs 1.65 lakh bribe from a complainant at his office on Thursday. In another raid, deputy executive engineer (DEE) of Dundigal municipality was caught by the ACB when he took Rs 2.25 lakh bribe. As per ACB’s official statement, Surender demanded the bribe from Ali Ahmed Khan, a contractor from Mahbubnagar, to forward the quotations of the complainant to the collector for approval and to issue work order for installation of a new chlorination plant in the municipality. ACB sleuths trapped the accused and recovered the bribe amount from his possession. Surender was arrested and searches at his office and house were conducted. DEE N Hanumantha Rao Naik was caught red-handed at Uppal Indoor Stadium when he took Rs 2.25 lakh from Riyasat Khan to do check measurement in respect of the work executed by the complainant at Suryapet municipality. The accused engineer was previously posted in Suryapet. ACB arrested the accused and conducted searches at his office and house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mnagar-civic-chief-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/78817207.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra registers 34% drop in demand for medical oxygen||PUNE: Maharashtra has registered an almost 34% reduction in the demand for medical oxygen following the recent drop in the number of Covid-19 cases. The decrease in the demand for medical oxygen in Pune division and district has been even higher at 44% and 38%, respectively, as on October 20, revealed data provided by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A senior health department official said the state hospitals’ daily demand for medical oxygen has gone down to 430-450 tonnes from almost 600-650 tonnes a day in the beginning of October. “This is almost over 200 tonnes of reduction, on a daily basis, in the medical oxygen requirement as of now. This is primarily because of the reduction in the active Covid-19 cases,” he said. In districts where the reduction in active cases was to a lesser degree than others, the official said, the demand for medical oxygen might have dropped to a lesser degree in comparison to the districts where the active caseload has gone down significanctly. FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “From 229 tonnes per day requirement of medical oxygen in Pune district as on October 1, the need has come down to 140 tonnes by October 20. This is a drop by almost 39%. In case of Pune division, the daily demand for medical oxygen has come down to 210 tonnes by October 20 from 372 tonnes per day as on October 1. This is a drop by 44%.” Pratapwar said the drop in oxygen requirement of hospitals was due to the reduction in the Covid-19 active caseload in Pune division. “Another reason is the divisional commissioner’s order around September-end on forming committees to monitor use of oxygen in hospitals. The committees were to monitor if oxygen was being used rationally by the hospitals. The committees came across instances of irrational use of oxygen by some hospitals,” he said. A source from the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA), who also has several gas manufacturing units in Maharashtra, told TOI, “The demand for medical oxygen has dropped wherever my units are located. We have so far seen almost a 75%-80 % decrease in the requirement of medical oxygen in October in districts such as Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-registers-34-drop-in-demand-for-medical-o2/articleshow/78819409.cms||Neha Madaan
October 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra registers 34% drop in demand for medical oxygen||PUNE: Maharashtra has registered an almost 34% reduction in the demand for medical oxygen following the recent drop in the number of Covid-19 cases. The decrease in the demand for medical oxygen in Pune division and district has been even higher at 44% and 38%, respectively, as on October 20, revealed data provided by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A senior health department official said the state hospitals’ daily demand for medical oxygen has gone down to 430-450 tonnes from almost 600-650 tonnes a day in the beginning of October. “This is almost over 200 tonnes of reduction, on a daily basis, in the medical oxygen requirement as of now. This is primarily because of the reduction in the active Covid-19 cases,” he said. In districts where the reduction in active cases was to a lesser degree than others, the official said, the demand for medical oxygen might have dropped to a lesser degree in comparison to the districts where the active caseload has gone down significanctly. FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “From 229 tonnes per day requirement of medical oxygen in Pune district as on October 1, the need has come down to 140 tonnes by October 20. This is a drop by almost 39%. In case of Pune division, the daily demand for medical oxygen has come down to 210 tonnes by October 20 from 372 tonnes per day as on October 1. This is a drop by 44%.” Pratapwar said the drop in oxygen requirement of hospitals was due to the reduction in the Covid-19 active caseload in Pune division. “Another reason is the divisional commissioner’s order around September-end on forming committees to monitor use of oxygen in hospitals. The committees were to monitor if oxygen was being used rationally by the hospitals. The committees came across instances of irrational use of oxygen by some hospitals,” he said. A source from the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA), who also has several gas manufacturing units in Maharashtra, told TOI, “The demand for medical oxygen has dropped wherever my units are located. We have so far seen almost a 75%-80 % decrease in the requirement of medical oxygen in October in districts such as Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-registers-34-drop-in-demand-for-medical-o2/articleshow/78819412.cms||Neha Madaan
October 23, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra registers 34% drop in demand for medical oxygen||PUNE: Maharashtra has registered an almost 34% reduction in the demand for medical oxygen following the recent drop in the number of Covid-19 cases. The decrease in the demand for medical oxygen in Pune division and district has been even higher at 44% and 38%, respectively, as on October 20, revealed data provided by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). A senior health department official said the state hospitals’ daily demand for medical oxygen has gone down to 430-450 tonnes from almost 600-650 tonnes a day in the beginning of October. “This is almost over 200 tonnes of reduction, on a daily basis, in the medical oxygen requirement as of now. This is primarily because of the reduction in the active Covid-19 cases,” he said. In districts where the reduction in active cases was to a lesser degree than others, the official said, the demand for medical oxygen might have dropped to a lesser degree in comparison to the districts where the active caseload has gone down significanctly. FDA assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “From 229 tonnes per day requirement of medical oxygen in Pune district as on October 1, the need has come down to 140 tonnes by October 20. This is a drop by almost 39%. In case of Pune division, the daily demand for medical oxygen has come down to 210 tonnes by October 20 from 372 tonnes per day as on October 1. This is a drop by 44%.” Pratapwar said the drop in oxygen requirement of hospitals was due to the reduction in the Covid-19 active caseload in Pune division. “Another reason is the divisional commissioner’s order around September-end on forming committees to monitor use of oxygen in hospitals. The committees were to monitor if oxygen was being used rationally by the hospitals. The committees came across instances of irrational use of oxygen by some hospitals,” he said. A source from the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA), who also has several gas manufacturing units in Maharashtra, told TOI, “The demand for medical oxygen has dropped wherever my units are located. We have so far seen almost a 75%-80 % decrease in the requirement of medical oxygen in October in districts such as Pune, Mumbai, Raigad and Ratnagiri.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-registers-34-drop-in-demand-for-medical-o2/articleshow/78817185.cms||Neha Madaan
October 23, 2020||Agra||Mothers of children with intellectual disabilities to be made ‘special police officers’ in UP’s Etah district||AGRA: In a move that seeks to empower mothers of minors and adults with intellectual disability and prevent bias and crime against such people, police in Etah district have planned to designate their mothers as 'special police officers' (SPOs). The district police has, so far, identified and compiled a list of over 1,900 such families. The initiative — taken under ‘Mission Shakti’ of the Yogi Adityanath government to empower women — is a brainchild of Etah superintendent of police (crime) Rahul Kumar who feels people with intellectual disabilities are soft targets of various types of crimes. “We have conducted several case studies where a person with intellectual disability, after the abduction, was subjected to organ harvesting, sexual exploitation, forced begging, drug peddling and other criminal activities. Besides, grabbing of land owned by such people is quite common, too. These people and their family members need special protection from police. So, we have taken up this plan,” Kumar told TOI. According to data available with the UP Police emergency service ‘Dial 112’, over 5,000 calls in connection with crimes against intellectually disabled people were received in the past one year. Notably, none of these calls was made by the victims, said police, adding most of the complaints were lodged either by their family or a neighbour. Nationwide data on crimes against intellectually disabled people is not available, but the “situation is serious,” said the officer. Senior superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Singh, meanwhile, confirmed that they had, so far, identified 1,986 families with a member suffering from an intellectual disability. “Their well-being will be regularly monitored by station house officers and other senior officials. We have decided to designate the mother of each person with intellectual disability as SPO to empower them socially and prevent crime against their children.” Kumar has been monitoring the registration of people with intellectual disability at police stations since 2013. “The thought of appointing mothers as SPOs is based on the situational crime prevention theory.” The SPOs will not have any power, and there is no provision for a salary for them under the UP Police manual, but they have the right to mention the designation on their nameplate outside their house. Besides, the SSP will issue an identity card to them. “After becoming part of the police family, they will have a sort of natural protection against crimes. It will also help curb social stigma towards intellectually disabled people and their families. Besides, designating the mothers as SPOs will also help empower women,” said Kumar, who is an editorial member of ‘Guidebook for First Responders to Handle Mental Health Emergencies’. Praising Etah police for their “remarkable initiative”, district magistrate Sukh Lal Bharti said the district administration would use the data of such families to provide them with benefits under various schemes. “Soon, a detailed report of the initiative will be sent to the state government for its implementation in other districts,” added the DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mothers-of-children-with-intellectual-disabilities-to-be-made-special-police-officers-in-ups-etah-district/articleshow/78814583.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 23, 2020||Pune||Oxygen manufacturers favour relief for closed units to reopen||Pune: Oxygen manufacturers want the state government to offer power tariff subsidies, soft loans and reduction in GST to ensure reopening of the closed units and further ease supply of the gas ahead of winter. Around 15-20 small oxygen manufacturing units or MSMEs in Maharashtra are shut for months because of losses caused by high electricity bills and other factors. Sources from the All India Industrial Gases Manufacturers’ Association (AIIGMA) said had these units been functional, the state would not have faced the severe oxygen shortage when the Covid-19 pandemic peaked.AIIGMA president Saket Tiku told TOI, “ Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) units producing medical oxygen in Maharashtra have communicated to the government through us that they are willing to restart operations.”He added, “They have requested the government for power tariff subsidy, soft loans and GST exemption. This will not only ease oxygen supplies, if there is a second wave of the pandemic, but will also ensure an increase in supply to the industries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxygen-manufacturers-favour-relief-for-closed-units-to-reopen/articleshow/78817193.cms||Neha Madaan
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||Old Mumbai University trophies stolen from Marine Lines pavilion||MUMBAI: Silver trophies won by Mumbai University and laurels earned by alumni have gone missing from the varsity’s sports pavilion. Rare awards that adorned showcases in the office at Marine Lines for over three decades have been ransacked. But as the varsity is not clear about the total loss incurred, it’s unable to file a police complaint. The incident came to light on Monday morning when sports director Mohan Amrulev entered his cabin to find the lock of a cupboard had been picked and several pieces missing. According to sources, many were old circulating trophies, awarded after MU’s teams won a competition for three years in a row. The sports pavilion is situated on F Road in Marine Lines next to Wankhede Stadium. A police officer confirmed that MU authorities had visited Marine Drive police station. “However, they didn’t know what was stolen. They have gone back to take stock of the items and have told us they will come back soon," he said. MU authorities are looking for records, including photographs that may reveal details of the missing trophies. Senate member Supriya Karande, who had in meetings pressed upon the university to install CCTV cameras, said, “The university’s casual attitude has led to a huge loss of pieces of history which reflected the pride and prestige of this institution.” Sources said the director’s cabin is usually locked, keys kept in the sports office and the key to the main door of the office is with security staff. “This showcase has not been opened since 30-40 years. But on Monday morning, we were alerted by the director that the lock of one cupboard was broken. Now, an internal inquiry is on to find what was lost,” said a source. Aroon Tikekar, who chronicled the history of the university in The Cloister’s Pale, writes of the legends who embarked on their sporting career at MU. Those who donned the university blazer before achieving greater heights in the global arena include Adille Sumariwala (athletics) who represented India at the Moscow Olympics, Kamlesh Mehta (table tennis), Pravin Thipsay and the Khadilkar sisters (chess), and Michael Ferreira (billiards and snooker). The legacy of university cricket can be gauged by the fact that Dilip Sardesai played for Bombay University and Sunil Gavaskar first came to light in inter-university tournaments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/old-mum-university-trophies-stolen-from-marine-lines-pavilion/articleshow/78818420.cms||Mateen Hafeez
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite blocking 90 accounts, gangsters threaten each other on Facebook||CHANDIGARH: Despite UT police cyber cell’s claim of blocking 90 accounts of gangsters and their associates, shooters and associates of gangsters are still threatening each other on Facebook seemingly without any fear of police. At least five posts were posted by the associates of the gangsters after the murder of Students Organisation of Panjab University leader Gurlal Brar. Punjab based Davinder Bambiha gang took responsibility for gunning down Brar at Industrial Area Phase 1 by posting a post on Facebook on the night of October 11. Soon Lawrence Bishnoi gang also posted on Facebook, threatening revenge on Bambiha group for the murder of Brar. Not to be left behind, Bambiha gang put up another post on Facebook warning Bishnoi group of severe repurcussions if even one person from Bambiha group was killed. Meanwhile, Bhola, a shooter of Bishnoi Gang, also posted on Facebook and threatened Bambiha group that he would take the revenge for Brar’s murder soon by killing their men. Bhola had also written in his post “Feeling sad for Gurlal Brar at Ambala cell.” Another shooter of Bishnoi gang, Mani, also uploaded posts on social media and threatened Bambiha group. In reply, Bambiha group urged their supporters to share their post and support them on October 18. When contacted, the crime investigation department (CID) of UT police said they are tracing the IP addresses of all these posts of the gangsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-blocking-90-accounts-gangsters-threaten-each-other-on-facebook/articleshow/78818893.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo assault cop in Camp for telling them to cover their faces, arrested||PUNE: The Cantonment police have arrested two casual workers on the charge of assaulting a policeman following an altercation over not wearing masks at a public place on Wednesday. The incident occurred around 11.30am on the road between Charbawadi police chowky and Babajaan dargah. Bablu Anwar Sayyed (25) and Ayub Javed Shaikh (20), both residents of Camp, were later arrested under Section 353 (obstructing public servant), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to a public servant) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code after an FIR was lodged by police sub-inspector (PSI) Ganesh Kulal. Senior inspector Chandrakant Bhosale, from the Cantonment police station, told TOI, “The arrested men do not hold a regular job. They eke out a living doing casual work in the area. Kulal was patrolling the area and carrying out a drive against people violating mandatory wearing of masks at public places.” “Kulal and his team spotted Sayyed and Shaikh standing on the road without wearing masks. He questioned them over the same, but the duo started arguing on the grounds that they were local residents and merely standing on the road. A verbal duel ensued when the PSI asked them to pay a fine for not wearing masks following which the two men assaulted him,” Bhosale said. Deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte said, “In last two months, Pune police have caught 1.10 lakh people, mostly those riding two–wheelers, for going without masks and have collected Rs5.60crore from them.” Ghatte said that the policemen are keeping a close eye on people travelling without masks. A senior police officer said that apart from youngsters, even women motorists and elderly persons argue with the police personnel executing the drive against people without masks. People should follow the rules for their own safety and larger interest of the society, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-assault-cop-in-camp-for-telling-them-to-cover-their-faces-arrested/articleshow/78817211.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 23, 2020||Pune||24-hour Covid caseload in Pune Metropolitan Region drops below 1,000 again, 41 dead||PUNE: The Covid-19 daily tally dropped below 1,000 again in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with 832 people testing positive for the contagion in the last 24 hours. Besides, the recoveries in PMR continued to exceed new cases both in the municipal as well as rural areas on Wednesday. A total of 1,530 patients were discharged in PMR on Thursday after they were declared cured. With this, the total recoveries have risen above 2.94 lakh in PMR, while the case tally surpassed 3.17 lakh. The region had reported less than 1,000 daily cases for five consecutive days till Tuesday. On Wednesday, the case count had risen above 1,000. Among the fresh cases, as many as 369 cases were recorded in the PMC limits, while the rural areas added 281 cases and the PCMC limits added 182. The region’s death count reached 7,600 on Thursday, with 41 more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. These included 21 fatalities from the PMC limits, six from the in PCMC limits and 14 from the rural as well as the Cantonment areas. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 7,130 samples were tested in the region on Thursday, including 3,518 from the PMC limits, 2,217 from the PCMC limits and 1,395 from the rural areas. The region so far has tested 13.63 lakh samples, of which over 50% have been tested from PMC limits. Meanwhile, region’s active caseload further dropped to 16,086 on Thursday night. As many as 7,840 patients were admitted in hospitals for treatment and 8,246 were in home isolation. Civic officials said number of critical patients in the PMC limits further dropped to 708 on Thursday. As many as 1,879 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits, while 384 patients were on ventilator support. The officials urged people to exercise extreme caution and maintain social distancing to keep the contagion at bay. Besides, the official said, people should wear mask while venturing out without fail. “People visiting the market for festive shopping should ensure that they don’t go out maskless,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/24-hour-caseload-drops-below-1k-again-41-dead/articleshow/78817216.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 23, 2020||Chennai||PMK hits out at AIADMK; to hold stir for 20% reservation for vanniyars||Chennai: PMK founder S Ramadoss on Thursday hit out at the AIADMK government headed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for “not raising its voice on issues of people’s welfare, while Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy had fulfilled promises he made and even those he did not”. Refuting the charges, senior minister D Jayakumar told reporters there were no problems with allies and that the PMK was very much part of the AIADMK-led alliance, which was intact. “There are no problems in the alliance. Political parties will express several views to promote themselves... but we know what our responsibilities are and will fulfill them,” Jayakumar said. Earlier, Ramadoss, who was reacting to reports that 56 welfare corporations were set up by the AP government for the backward classes last week, tweeted, “Here, the rulers (TN government) have nothing to say on the people’s demands. Even when the matter is raised, they ignore it…refuse to look into it.” The hard-hitting jibe targeting the state government comes against the backdrop of PMK’s angst that its long-standing demand for exclusive 20% reservation for the vanniyar community had not been met. In a statement, Ramadoss announced a “historic and strong agitation” after the Covid-19 pandemic was brought under control, to get the government to call for a meeting to sign the agreement for the reservation. Jayakumar said it was the AIADMK government led by late CM J Jayalalithaa that established the principles of social justice and ensured 69% reservation in TN. He said the state had topped in all sectors and it was wrong to compare the state with Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pmk-hits-out-at-aiadmk-to-hold-stir-for-20-reservation-for-vanniyars/articleshow/78817218.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops book unknown persons for illegal mining in Raipur Rani||PANCHKULA: Unknown person booked for mining gravel in Mirpur village in Raipur Rani on Thursday in an acre of land. Mining officer Sunil Kumar registered a complaint with the police. According to him, his team received a tip-off that illegal mining was going on between Narainpur and Mirpur villages. The team rushed to the stretch at 12.30 in the night and found a hastily laid pathway leading to down to a plot of land. When the team reached the place, they found that 25-foot deep hole on one acre of land. Fresh signs of gravel mining were found, but no machine or persons were found on the spot. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the IPC and Section 21 (4) of the Mining Act at Raipur Rani police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-book-unknown-persons-for-illegal-mining-in-raipur-rani/articleshow/78818896.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Rs 40 Lakh relief to kin of accident victim||CHANDIGARH: The motor accident claims tribunal has awarded a compensation of Rs 40.56 lakh to the family of a deceased, who was crushed under the wheels of a canter in January 2016. On January 21, 2016, Harmail Singh was going on a road leading from Banur to Rajpura on his motorcycle. At 5.16 pm, when he reached near Jangpura village in Banur, a rashly driven canter came from the rear and rammed into his bike. Harmail fell on the road and was run over by the canter and died on the spot. The canter driver sped away from the site. The deceased’s postmortem was conducted in Derabassi, Mohali and an FIR was registered against the driver of the canter. It was stated that the deceased was 54-year-old and was earning Rs 48,000 per month. He was in his good health and was laborious and due to his death, the claimants suffered a huge loss. The insurance company said no accident took place with the offending vehicle and the driver of the canter did not have a valid driving licence at the time of accident and if an accident took place, the same could have been due to the rash driving of the deceased, who was riding a motorcycle without following any traffic rules etc. After arguments, the court ordered in the favour of the family of Harmail Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-40l-relief-to-kin-of-accident-victim/articleshow/78818895.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||RT-PCR testing cost may be lowered soon in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The cost of RT-PCR test for Covid-19 is likely to be reduced by Delhi government to encourage more people to get themselves tested. A source said the final decision would be taken after considering all factors involved, including the feasibility of reducing the cost, and the opinion of experts would be taken for this purpose. The government is thinking about reducing the cost due to the onset of winter and the festive season, when experts feel Covid-19 cases may surge. Initially, the cost of RT-PCR was Rs 4,800. It was reduced to Rs 2,400 on the recommendations of a high-level expert committee. Delhi Disaster Management Authority accepted the recommendations and fixed the cost of testing to make it affordable for the public. A source in the health department said a meeting to discuss the matter was scheduled for earlier this week, but it could not take place due to some urgent issue. “The matter will be taken up for discussion soon and the rate will be decided on the recommendation of the committee of experts,” said the source. RT-PCR and RAT tests at government facilities in Delhi are free, but private labs charge for it. A doctor with a private lab said reducing the RT-PCR cost below Rs 2,400 would make it difficult for them to carry out the tests. “RT-PCR tests involve multiple factors and costs. Each testing kit costs Rs 1,200-1,300, while the sample collection kit costs Rs 300. Added to this are costs of collection, lab and pathologist. Reduction in cost could also affect the quality of tests,” added the doctor. Contrary to the doctor’s views, RT-PCR cost varies across states. Haryana government recently reduced the cost from Rs 1,600 to Rs 1,200. The cost reduction was done for the second time in the state. In Kerala, the testing cost was recently brought down to Rs 2,100 from Rs 2,750. Uttar Pradesh government in September reduced the cost from Rs 2,500 to Rs 1,600. Currently, Delhi has the highest testing cost in the NCR. Watch Covid-19: RT-PCR testing cost likely to be reduced in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rt-pcr-testing-cost-may-be-lowered-soon/articleshow/78818432.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||BDL, OFM to make Nag and Namica||HYDERABAD: The final user trial of the 3rd generation Anti-Tank Guided Missile (ATGM) Nag was carried out at 6.45 am on Thursday from Pokhran range. The missile, which was launched from Nag missile carrier Namica, was integrated with the actual warhead and a tank target was kept at a designated range. The missile hit the target accurately defeating the armour, according to defence officials. The ATGM Nag was developed by DRDO to engage highly fortified enemy tanks in day and night conditions. The missile has ‘fire & forget’ ‘top attack’ capabilities with passive homing guidance to defeat all MBTs equipped with composite and reactive armour. The Nag missile carrier Namica is a BMP II based system with amphibious capability. With this final user trial, Nag will enter into production phase. The missile will be produced by defence PSU Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) in Hyderabad, and Ordnance Factory Medak will produce the Namica. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO and the Indian Army for the successful trial of NAG missile. G Satheesh Reddy, secretary DDR&D & chairman DRDO, appreciated the efforts of DRDO, Indian Army and the industry in bringing the missile up to the production phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bdl-ofm-to-make-nag-and-namica/articleshow/78817224.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||This Pimpri tailor turns to stitching masks to help the needy & make ends meet||By: Ashish Gupta PUNE: Sambhaji Solanke (41), who once specialized in stitching shirts and trousers, now sews up double-layered and 3D masks to help the needy and make ends meet. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, his business took a huge hit. He has since then moved to a house in Sus gaon on a rent of Rs3,000 against his previous house in Pashan, for which he paid Rs8,000 per month. His shop is still in Pashan but he had to let go of two of his tailors. “I used to see migrant workers without masks and get concerned about their well-being. So, I started stitching and distributing masks among them. Though people were willing to pay, I did not charge them anything,” Solanke said. He distributed around 50-60 masks daily for almost a month. Even now, he gives away masks for free if anyone approaches him directly. Delving further into how he took up mask-making, Solanke said, “I had gone to purchase a mask at the medical store during the initial days of the lockdown and was shocked to see a pricetag of Rs350 on a mask. After returning home, I had a discussion with my wife, a tailor specializing in stitching blouses, and we decided to stitch cloth masks.” Solanke’s shop’s display window, which once used to showcase a variety of shirts and trousers, now hosts rows of myriad masks that he has been stitching since the lockdown was first relaxed. Sarita Mane (21), a resident of Pimpri, said, “I once chanced upon the masks on display at Solanke’s shop and fell in love with the different colours and patterns. The affordable price of Rs20-Rs30 was an added delight. I have purchased masks from Solanke three times now.” “I have a hotel on Baner Road and I got 12 masks ordered from Solanke for my employees. Solanke’s masks are double-layered, re-usable, washable and made from good cloth,” said Ganesh Shetty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/this-tailor-turns-to-stitching-masks-to-help-the-needy-make-ends-meet/articleshow/78817220.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Festive weekend and limited train services up inter-city bus bookings from Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Hit hard by the Covid-19 crisis, private bus operators are limping back to normalcy. Thanks to the festive season, inter-city bus bookings from Bengaluru have increased compared to the past few months. Limited availability of trains is also triggering the demand for bus travel. More people are likely to leave the city for their hometowns this extended weekend. According to redBus, an online bus booking site, routes from Bengaluru to Hyderabad, Vijayapura, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Hubballi, Bidar, Vijayawada, Mumbai and Goa are witnessing the highest bookings this festive season. An analysis by redBus has revealed that 81% of passengers from Bengaluru are travelling to tier-3 cities, 14% to tier-1 and 5% to tier-2. The number of people using buses to routes like Bengaluru-Bidar and Bengaluru-Kalaburagi has gone up due to the skeletal train services to North Karnataka from the city. Sandeep R, a marketing professional, is planning to visit Hyderabad. “Operators are running more buses and it’s a relief for inter-state passengers who don’t have their own vehicles.” RedBus said 71 bus operators from Bengaluru are now operating 462 daily services. Prakash Sangam, CEO, redBus, said: “Over 1.4 lakh seats have been booked to travel from Bengaluru to destinations within and outside the state for Dasara and we expect this to cross 2.6 lakh by October 25. The festive bustle is bringing a sense of ‘back to business’ in the bus industry.” S Nataraj Sharma, general secretary of Karnataka State Travel Operators, said: “Inter-state bus operations to Tamil Nadu are yet to resume. Kerala is also restricting buses. There was a demand for buses to Andhra Pradesh, but it has also reduced. Passenger movement is high on the Bengaluru-Belagavi and Bengaluru-Maharashtra routes. Inter-state transport will be back to normal only by April 2021.”  No halt in Tamil Nadu The TN government’s restriction on inter-state bus travel has affected operators and commuters. “Bus routes from Bengaluru to Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai were among the top 10 routes during Dasara last year. But the closed borders in TN are depriving people of the opportunity of travelling to their hometowns during Dasara,” said a redBus spokesperson. BT Prabhakar Reddy, chief traffic manager, KSRTC, said: “We have resumed operations to all southern states except TN, which is yet to give permission to operate services. Our buses to Kerala and Puducherry are passing through TN but we are not supposed to halt there,” he said. “In the past two weeks alone, 11,623 commuters had pre-registered for destinations in TN from Bengaluru. This shows the inherent demand for travel to TN during Dasara which is not being met due to the curbs,” said a redBus spokesperson. However, railways has resumed train services between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/festive-weekend-and-limited-train-services-up-inter-city-bus-bookings/articleshow/78816340.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Discontinue board exams: Manish Sisodia at NCERT meet||NEW DELHI: Introduce multi-year stage-wise classes and external assessment replacing the existing assessment and board exams for Classes X and XII, deputy chief minister and state education minister Manish Sisodia suggested on Thursday. At the 57th general council meeting of NCERT, Sisodia said: “Transformation in education should be holistic and not piecemeal. It is about time that we introduce muti-year stage-wise classes and external assessment at the end of each stage, and replace the existing year-wise classes and two board exams in Classes X and XII.” He pointed out that the new 5+3+3+4 model recommended in the National Education Policy could attain its full potential if the existing one year per grade system was removed. “Instead of existing system where all children of a class move together in all subjects despite being at different learning levels, multi-year stage will help child move as per their learning need in different subjects at their own pace. A stage-wise curriculum with a clearly stated learning goal in terms of knowledge, skills and values can be created,” the minister said. He stressed that the Class XII board exam should not be made a high-stake exam. “When the mandate of National Testing Agency is to conduct entrance exams for admissions in higher education institutions, there is no need for Class XII board exams,” he said. Sisodia also suggested to introduce changes in the current academic session, which has been affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Syllabus of all classes should be reduced to 50%. Next year’s entrance exams like JEE, NEET should also be based on this reduced syllabus. CBSE should not hold Class XII board exams before May 2021 so that students get some more time to study,” he said. The union education minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal “Nishank”, who chaired the online meeting, asked the officials to consider Sisodia’s suggestions. In the meeting, Sisodia called the teachers real heroes. “The teachers of Delhi played an important role during this extremely difficult period,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discontinue-board-exams-sisodia-at-ncert-meet/articleshow/78817238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Four held for stealing 143 tola gold washed away in rain water||HYDERABAD: Banjara Hills police on Thursday arrested four persons for theft and recovered 125 tolas of gold jewellery worth Rs 1 crore from their possession. The main accused who stay in huts on Road Number 3 Banjara Hills, stole the bag of a jewellery shop worker who was stuck in rain water flowing across the street on October 9. The accused are G Niranjan, 40, his son G Ranjit Kumar, 22, their relatives P Balapeer, 32, and M Venkataiah, 55. On October 9 evening, Pradeep Kumar Bodake, sales executive of VS Gold in Basheerbagh, picked up 143 tolas of gold jewellery from Krishna Jewellers Pearls and Gems in Jubilee Hills. When Pradeep was travelling to his office at Basheerbagh with the bag, the scooter got stuck in rain water flowing across the street at Kangaroo Kids School. The bag containing jewellery and his cell phone was lost in the water. Initially, police suspected Pradeep but later on October 12, they got a vital clue. “Pradeep’s cell phone which was in the bag was turned on for a brief moment on October 12. Its last active location was traced to Yellammabanda,” Hyderabad commissioner Anjani Kumar said. Police rushed to Yellammabanda and inquired at cell phone repair shops. “At one shop we found the cell phone. We analysed the CCTV camera footage of nearby places and identified Venkataiah, who gave it for repair. Based on the information given by him, we caught rest of the accused,” Banjara Hills DI Md Hafeezuddin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-held-for-stealing-143-tola-gold-washed-away-in-rain-water/articleshow/78817273.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Doll sellers in Bengaluru say business good, some seal deals via video calls||BENGALURU: Retailers say they’re seeing a rise in demand for the Ramayana and Mahabharata dolls this Dasara. While Karna Janana and Khaas Durbar are the new doll sets to hit the market this year, 33 new ones from Ramayana and 19 from Mahabharata are also drawing buyers, they point out. Jyothi K, owner of BR Dolls on Vani Vilas Road, who’s been in the business for over 20 years, says, “Several customers have been buying online. They make video calls to us and we show them the dolls. After they make the purchase, we get them delivered to their doorstep.” “Mysuru Palace and Mysuru Dasara sets are selling like hot cakes, probably because many people aren’t able to visit Mysuru for the festival this year,” she adds. Jyothi says one of her regular customers paid Rs 560 for transporting dolls that cost Rs 450. “That is the beauty of this tradition. Every year, a new set needs to be added to the existing one. People who are willing to follow it will somehow make a purchase,” she adds. Doll shop owners say they are pleasantly surprised by the festive spirit amid the pandemic gloom. “I have been in this business for over 10 years. Most of our regular customers have been turning up. Though the sales are not like last year’s, the situation is not as bad as we had thought. These are the times that makes us realise that no matter how modernised this city gets, it will stay connected to its roots,” explains the proprietor of Tirumala Dasara dolls near Yediyur Lake. The rising prices too are no deterrent for many. Chandra Babu, whose family has been selling Dasara Dolls for nearly 80 years in Malleswaram, says, “Nearly 60% of our customers visited us to make a purchase this year. This is very surprising in the midst of the pandemic. Besides, we increased our prices by 10% just like any other year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doll-sellers-say-biz-is-good-some-seal-deals-via-video-calls/articleshow/78816386.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||EC redraws state assembly segments in new districts||Chennai: The assembly constituencies have been redrawn in the bifurcated and trifurcated districts of Kancheepuram, Vellore, Villupuram and Tirunelveli. Meanwhile, it was announced that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone for Chengalpet (Rs 119 crore) and Kallakurichi (Rs 104 crore) district collectorates on Friday morning through video conferencing. The Ranipet collectorate would be inaugurated soon and Tenkasi in a few weeks’ time, officials said. Chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo on Thursday announced that Chengalpet would get seven segments, including Sholinganallur, Pallavaram, Tambaram, Chengalpet, Tiruporur, Cheyyur (SC) and Madurantakam (SC), while Alandur, Sirperumbudur (SC), Uthiramerur and Kancheepuram would continue to remain in Kancheepuram district. The trifurcated Vellore would get Katpadi, Vellore, Anaikattu, Kilvaithinakuppam (SC) and Gudiyatham (SC), while the newly constituted Ranipet would get Arakkonam (SC), Sholingur, Ranipet and Arcot segments. Tirupattur has Vaniyambadi, Ambur, Jolarpet and Tirupattur constituencies. Incidentally, there was no notification on the announcement. The  officials said the proposals were discussed in the districts, based on the electorate, electoral rolls and the size of the assembly constituencies, before finalising and informing the election commission. “Based on the norms laid down by EC, the proposals were sent by the districts to the chief electoral officer and the commission was informed later. It does not require notification from the commission,” said a senior election official. Mayiladuthurai carved out of Nagapattinam was not included since the district is still governed by a special officer and not by a district collector. Seven assembly segments — Gingee, Mailam, Tindivanam (SC), Vanur (SC), Villupuram, Vikravandi and Thirukoilur — continue to remain in Villupuram, while carved out Kallakurichi district gets Ulundurpet, Rishivandiyam, Sankarapuram, Kallakurichi (SC). Down south, Tiruneveli, Ambasamudram, Palayamkottai, Nanguneri and Radhapuram remain in Tirunelveli district, whereas Sankarankoil (SC), Vasudevanallur (SC), Kadayanallur, Tenkasi and Alangulam form part of newly created Tenkasi district. The district collectors of the respective districts were notified as district election officers last week, in what could be seen a preliminary exercise to commence election work. Minister D Jayakumar said the government had fulfilled the long pending demands of the locals by bifurcating and trifurcating the large districts. “The administration has come closer to the people and effective implementation of welfare schemes guaranteed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ec-redraws-state-assembly-segments-in-new-districts/articleshow/78817272.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Police officer’s ‘flood rescue’ videos triggers outrage||Kalaburagi: Mallanna S Yalagod, a police sub-inspector in Kalaburagi district, is at the receiving end of much criticism from social media users following the upload of four videos shot in a village reeling under flood. One of these videos has been proven to be doctored, further outraging residents and his seniors. Yalagod is the SI of Nelogi police station, and only three months earlier, he had been suspended after a video of his being anointed with milk by residents, with none of those participating in the function following any of the precautionary measures recommended for Covid-19 such as wearing of masks or keeping a safe distance. However, Yalagod appears not to have learnt any lesson. Of the four videos that have gone viral on social media portals thus far, the one that has been proven to be fake has Yalagod rescuing a lamb from a flooded Kudalagi village. Furthermore, the video also has some of the residents of the village praising Yalagod’s efforts. However, the videos that have provoked angry responses from social media users are those wherein Yalagod, seemingly insensitive to the plight of the victims of the flood, is seen jumping from a wall in slow motion; in another video, villagers rescued on a coracle are helping Yalagod stand upright on the vessel allegedly because he did not want to get his uniform wet. These videos have understandably distressed the people of Kalaburagi, who are upset with the cop’s craze for popularity, an obsession for which he is willing to exploit the plight of the flood victims. Kalaburagi district superintendent of police Simi Mariam George said that she had learnt of these stunts and doctored videos involving Yalagod only from the media. “I am probing this episode and we will certainly initiate action against Yalagod,” Simi told TOI. Yalagod joined the police force after retiring from the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-officers-flood-rescue-videos-triggers-outrage/articleshow/78814645.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
October 23, 2020||Trichy||2 more from Madurai held for theft of Shiva lingams from sage||Trichy: The idol wing CID of the Tamil Nadu police arrested two more men in connection with a theft case dating back to 2017, and recovered a 16.4kg white Shiva lingam that they had hidden in an ashram at Renigunta in Andhra Pradesh.The arrested duo have been identified as S Sivasankaran, 35, of Othakadai in Madurai and B Rajesh Kannan, 38 of Thiruvathavur in Madurai. So far, six members have been arrested in this case. They stole three Shiva lingams from a sage in Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh.On October 6, 2017, a road accident involving a bus and an SUV happened near Viralimalai in Pudukottai district. Inquiries with the four passengers in the SUV revealed that they had an emerald Shiva lingam with them. The Viralimalai police investigated and recovered the emerald Shiva lingam. Police submitted a chargesheet in the court saying that emerald idol was not stolen from any temple and the gang made such a one for the purpose of cheating. The four men were arrested.The idol wing CID found something fishy and took over the case recently. The wing launched a full-fledged investigation based on the order of Idol wing ADGP Abhay Kumar Singh, said the additional superintendent of police Rajaram.“The duo admitted to having stolen the three stone Shiva lingams from a sage in Varanasi. While two of them have been recovered so far, search is on to trace the third one,” he said.The idol and the accused will be produced in court in Kumbakonam, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-more-from-madurai-held-for-theft-of-shiva-lingams-from-sage/articleshow/78818424.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 23, 2020||Trichy||5 idols, utensils unearthed from agri land||Thanjavur: Five metal idols and more than 15 utensils were unearthed while a farmer was digging his land to plant saplings near Pattukottai in Thanjavur district on Thursday. The idols were handed over to the revenue officials, who have initiated the process of ascertaining the period of the items.According to sources, Lenin,63, a farmer from Athivetti village near Pattukottai in Thanjavur was preparing his land to plant a guava saplings, when he noticed a small idol inside while digging the earth. On digging further, he found four more idols and household utensils under the mud.There were three Vishnu, an Amman and one Azhwar idols measuring half-a-feet and 22 items including utensils like bowls, plates, jar. Subsequently, Lenin informed revenue officials in Pattukottai. A team rushed to the spot and inspected the idols and utensils. Then they took them to the office of tahsildar in Pattukottai. Only after a detailed verification, the period of the idols and utensils could be ascertained, revenue officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-idols-utensils-unearthed-from-agri-land/articleshow/78818422.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Patna||JD(U) releases ‘Saat Nischay 2.0’ in Bihar, harps on agriculture, healthcare||PATNA: JD (U) on Thursday released its ‘Saat Nischay 2.0’ manifesto reiterating CM Nitish Kumar’s promises of providing water to every agricultural farm in the state, skill development initiatives and healthcare for all in its manifesto for the Bihar assembly polls. The party also promised support programmes for women and agro-based industries under its manifesto. The Saat Nischay 2.0 or the second edition of Nitish’s envisages seven resolves — ‘Yuva Shakti- Bihar Ki Pragati’, ‘Sashakt Mahila- Saksham Mahila’, ‘Har Khet Tak Sichai Ka Pani’, Swachch Gaon- Samriddh Gaon’, ‘Swachch Shehar-Vikasit Shehar’, ‘Sulabh Samparkta’ and ‘Sabke Liye Atirikt Swastha Suvidha’. Releasing the manifesto at the JD (U) state headquarters, the party’s state president, Bashistha Narain Singh, said Saat Nischai would be the basis of governance for the next five years after JD (U) returns to power. “We believe in a minimum programme with maximum benefits. It is the second version of Saat Nischay, which is nearly complete and the work left will be completed in a month or two,” Singh said. Singh, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, used the platform to launch a frontal attack on Mahagathbandhan’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s announcement of providing 10 lakh government jobs. “Such announcements are only a bundle of lies as no government can implement such a proposal immediately after coming to power. Besides, they will need additional Rs58,000crore for executing this plan, and they should also explain the sources of creation of such massive funds. These are only bogus claims to seek votes by misleading people,” he said. Singh added, “The opposition has claimed that 4.5 lakh posts are vacant in the state government. However, a large number of vacancies have been filled and the process for appointment is underway for the remaining.” Other senior party leaders present were state working president Ashok Kumar Choudhary and Ajay Alok. JD (U) general secretary Sanjay Kumar Jha said in a statement issued on Thursday that the Nitish Kumar-led government will ensure empowerment and self-reliance of one person each from the state’s two crore households. “The state has been overhauled in the past 15 years. Road, electricity and law and order – everything has been streamlined. The focus now will be on empowering people in more ways than one so that Bihar emerges as a developed state. One person from two crore households will be empowered and made self-reliant during the next five years,” Jha said. He added that there is a blueprint in place under which job creation will be ensured. “There will be a holistic emphasis on the development of agro-based industries across the state, while there will be special campaigns for skill development of youths in all districts,” Jha said. Jha said a new skill development department will impart quality skills. “A mega skill centre will be set up in every district where those who want to set up units will be provided with loans and grants as well. A tool room will be set up at the division level where skill training will be provided using state-of-the-art machinery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-releases-saat-nischay-2-0-harps-on-agri-healthcare/articleshow/78818143.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Onion prices skyrocket during festive season||Hubballi: Prices of onions continued to shoot up across the state due to shortage of supply because of heavy rain and floods in North Karnataka, the region where it grows in abundance. Torrential rain and floods have also hampered transportation of onions from Maharashtra and other neighbouring states. Traders have predicted that prices may go up to Rs 100 per kg in Hubballi APMC in the next couple of days. The price of onions is hovering between Rs 80-90 per kg in the market now. Huge stocks of onion remained under water in most of the godowns, resulting in a rise in price. Abdul Wahab Mulla, secretary, Onion and Potato Traders Association, said that on normal days nearly 100 to 150 loads of onion used to be brought to the APMC, but now supply from Gadag, Haveri, Bagalkot and Dharwad has drastically reduced. However, thanks to supply from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra prices are still below Rs 100. In a couple of weeks, onions from Rajasthan are likely to arrive in Hubballi market. It will ease supply crunch further, said traders. Raju Teradal, a shopkeeper on station road, said, “Onions have become unaffordable during the festival season. When onion is an essentail vegetable, why can’t the government intervene and control its price?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/onion-prices-skyrocket-during-festive-season/articleshow/78813486.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 23, 2020||Pune||Dist admin to focus on behavioural change||Pune: The Pune district administration has decided to bring about a behavioural change in people through door-to-door campaigning by educating them on all safety measures, such as wearing masks, sanitising hands and maintaining social distancing to keep the virus at bay. Subhash Salunkhe, state task force expert and in-charge of Pune division, told TOI that the campaign in the district will focus on educating people on behavioural change. “We will reach out to various communities through their local leaders to encourage them to follow behavioural change,” he added. The state task force expert said that similar drives will be carried out across the state and it will be a sustained campaign. Another health department official said that while punitive actions were being implemented, behavioural change among people is the way forward. The Centre in its recent communication had asked all state government heads and local authorities to focus on behavioural change in the society.  Salunkhe further added that while the active case load in the state may have reduced, this is the time all authorities need to plan for a sustained campaign in order to make people aware of the preventive measures against Coronavirus. The aim is to reach out to every strata of the society be it rich or poor. “From a bus driver, to a corporate employee, to a businessman etc every person should be aware of the importance of following social distancing norms and encourage others to do so,” said a health official. Public health experts said that information campaigns are important in the backdrop of the festive season but may not make an ideal impact without reinforcement and role-modelling. The messaging should be tailored to work with specific communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dist-admin-to-focus-on-behavioural-change/articleshow/78817237.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nine arrested for property offences in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The city police arrested nine persons and apprehended a juvenile in five separate cases on Thursday for alleged involvement in property crimes and other offences. DCP (crimes) V Suresh Babu said that 20-year-old K Premchand of JNNURM Colony in Parwada was arrested along with the juvenile for alleged involvement in chain snatching. Around 12 grams of gold jewellery and a phone were seized. In another case, 22-year-old K Satyanarayana was arrested for allegedly stealing six grams of gold jewellery. In incidents related to theft and illegal trade in liquor, police nabbed five persons under Kancharapalem police station limits. According to the police, six accused gained entry to a bar at Kapparapada on September 18 and decamped with 126 bottles of liquor worth Rs 60,000. Police have nabbed five out of six members of the gang. In another case, cops nabbed one P Teja for alleged involvement in theft of liquor bottles worth Rs 50,000. Meanwhile, raids against illegal trade of tobacco products continued on Thursday. Police arrested N Venkata Suresh for storing more than 24,000 packets of gutka and khaini worth over Rs 3.6 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nine-arrested-for-property-offences/articleshow/78815234.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Telangana man held for posing as inspector, tonsuring youth||VISAKHAPATNAM: Anakapalle police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old from Telangana under charges of impersonating a police officer and forcing some youngsters to cut their hair or tonsuring their heads completely. The accused, Machukuri Pandari, was arrested when he was caught forcing a youth from Anakapalle to tonsure his head. Police said that, on October 18, they had received a complaint from a resident from Anakapalle Town stating that a person posing as an inspector forced him and his brother to tonsure their heads. He said that the caller had threatened to register cases against them under the IT Act and have them arrested. Scared, he obeyed but realised later that it was a hoax. Based on the plaint, police formed three teams and caught Pandari, a school drop-out working as a shepherd and having an aversion to men with long hair. Pandari recently bought a phone and was influenced by hairstyle videos on internet. He then started tracing numbers through social media, calling people, asking them to tonsure their heads, and send back pictures. He was arrested under IPC sections 419, 506, IT Act and remanded in judicial custody after being produced in court. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/t-man-held-for-posing-as-inspector-tonsuring-youth/articleshow/78815101.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Techie brings SPB songs alive with Dasara dolls||BENGALURU: Depicting evergreen film songs and their themes/scenes through dolls may be challenging. But a software engineer from Bengaluru has managed to do so. She’s used her Dasara doll display to pay a rich tribute to her favourite singer, the late SP Balasubrahmanyam. Seethalakshmi Rao, a resident of Classic Orchards on Bannerghatta Road, is known for her theme-based doll displays. This year, she chose two unique concepts. She picked 22 famous Kannada songs of 1970s and 1980s sung by SPB, who passed away recently, for the first theme, Tribute to SPB-Guess the songs. The other theme is based on the August 5 Ram Mandir bhoomi puja. She herself created most of the clay dolls, including that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 22 songs include Kannada Honnudi Deviyanu, Nodamma Hudugi Kelamma Sariyagi, Banna Nanna Olavina Banna, Kelade Nimageega, Belliya Raja Baro, Havina Dwesha Hanneradu Varusha, Akashadinda Dharegilda Rambhe, Teraneri Ambaradage and Nammuru Mysuru Nimmuru Yavuru among others. “It was difficult to depict romantic songs through clay dolls. In fact, I was not able to pick a couple of popular romantic songs sung by SPB,” she said, adding: “Another gombe (doll) theme was the bhoomi puja at Ayodhya.” “For 20 years, I have been putting together theme-based doll displays for Dasara. Last year, I chose Kannada proverbs. My mother Leelavati Gururaj encouraged me to take up SPB songs as the theme this time,” said Seethalakshmi. “The biggest challenge was choosing props and figurines. I didn’t have any dolls resembling any of the heroes or heroines to depict the scenes and make it easy to guess them. I made a few dolls using clay and bought only some online,” she said, adding that she’s continuing the tradition passed on from her parents and grandparents. Seethalakshmi, who worked as a software engineer for over 15 years, is now working with Karnataka History Academy and Dream Path Foundation. 102-yr history of Bengaluru Dasara According to historian Suresh Moona, Bengaluru Dasara is 102 years old. “Mysuru Dasara is famous everywhere. But Bengaluru Dasara also has an interesting history,” he said. “Bengaluru Dasara started in 1918 at Munireddy Palya in the Cantonment area after Mysore Lancers won the Battle of Haifa. The centenary of Bengaluru Dasara was celebrated two years ago,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/techie-brings-spb-songs-alive-with-dasara-dolls/articleshow/78816379.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Travelling in AC? Now, breathe easy on your voyage||VISAKHAPATNAM: The air inside AC coaches of running trains are now being changed 12 times per hour as against the six to eight times earlier. This, as per the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and Railways. The practice has been put in place so as to increase the volume of fresh air inside coaches thus clearing out any pathogens such as the novel coronavirus. “Almost all trains like the Godavari Express between Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad, AP Express between Visakhapatnam and New Delhi among others have this system of taking out the stale air from AC coaches and replacing with fresh air. This gives more relief and comfort to passengers travelling in AC coaches now,” said a senior railway official from East Coast Railway’s Waltair division. For this, all AC coaches were installed with Roof Mounted Modular AC Package Units (RMPU) which takes out stale air and replaces it with the fresh. As a safety precaution, linen is longer being provided to passengers and as such, the temperature of the an AC coach is being maintained at between 24 to 26 degrees Celsius using the microprocessor Controlled Unit. Several special trains introduced after unlock 4.0 and additional special trains now have more stoppages compared to trains that resumed operations in May and June. “Now, the number of stops have been increased. The passenger occupancy ratio also now reaching 100% as against 30% to 40% in May and June,” said the railway official. The quality of air inside the AC Coaches are is being sanitised with filters which are being more frequently cleaned. “These are cleaned during maintenance after every trip,” said senior divisional commercial manager, AK Tripathi. Only passengers with confirmed tickets and are asymptomatic are being allowed to travel. Thermal screening of passengers is done at entry points. Regular sanitisation of coaches, toilets are being carried out at maintenance depots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travelling-in-ac-now-breathe-easy-on-your-voyage/articleshow/78815054.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Small traders in Tirupati stare at uncertain future||TIRUPATI: While businesses are taking baby steps towards normalcy following a series of lockdown relaxations over the last couple of months, the streets leading to one of the busiest shrines in the country continue to bear a deserted look. For the thousands of small traders and hawkers in the temple town, the future looks bleak. Many people who made their living on small businesses dependent on tourism have lost their livelihoods over the last few months. While some have started to adapt their business to current demand, many are finding it difficult to afford two square meals for their families. 45-year-old Subramanyam used to work as a daily wage labourer at a shop in Tirumala. When the temple closed on March 20 following the Covid-19 outbreak, little did Subramanyam know that his own life was going to change forever. Out of work for months, Subramanyam now sells masks on the roadside. “I used to earn Rs 500 a day as a daily wager at a local shop in Tirumala. It has been nearly eight months, but the shop that I worked in has not reopened. I sell masks at Karkambadi road now to feed my family. Our future is extremely uncertain. Only God can save us,” said a rueful Subramanyam. Subramanyam is not alone. Many workers and even shopkeepers in Tirumala have had their lives thrown out of gear and have taken up selling fruits, vegetables on the streets. Many are selling masks and sanitizers to afford food for their families. Such locals can be seen all along Karakambadi road, Iskcon road and Avilala road. Before the outbreak, the temple town attracted nearly one lakh pilgrims a day. Now, owing to restrictions, the number of pilgrims has come down between 15,000 and 16,000. Shops, eateries and other tourist spots near Papavinasanam, Akasa Ganga dams, Srivari Padalu and Sila Thoranam continue to remain closed as pilgrim movement remains restricted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/small-traders-stare-at-uncertain-future/articleshow/78815064.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 23, 2020||Amaravati||Farmers take out 40-km protest march in Amaravati||AMARAVATI: On the anniversary of the foundation laying ceremony for the capital city in Amaravati, farmers held a protest rally to Uddandarayunipalem village where Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid foundation stone on October 22, 2015. The farmers raised slogans demanding the government retain Amaravati as the single capital city for Andhra Pradesh. Farmers and joint action committee (JAC) leaders started the near 40-kilometre-long padayatra from Mother Teresa statue in Guntur to the foundation site in Uddandarayunipalem. Workers from TDP, CPI and many realtors participated in the rally. Addressing the rally, former Tadikonda MLA and TDP Guntur president T Sravan Kumar blamed the YSRC government for allegedly ruining the state’s development. Kumar said that leaving the developmental projects launched in Amaravati without completion is a crime against people as the TDP government had nearly completed most of the big-ticket projects in the area. He said public money spent on buildings were going waste due to the government’s alleged indifference. Meanwhile, YSRC MP V Vijayasai Reddy said that Chandra Babu Naidu was unable to learn any lesson from 2019 election verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/farmers-take-out-40-km-protest-march/articleshow/78815122.cms||Samdani MN
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali Deputy Commissioner constitutes 5-member committee to redress grievances against promoters, builders||MOHALI: A five-member committee has been constituted in the district by deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan to redress the grievances against promoters and builders for non-provision of basic amenities. The committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of additional deputy commissioner (general), Mohali with superintendent of police (to be designated by the SSP), additional chief administrator, GMADA, municipal commissioner/EOs of the Municipal Committee (as the case may be) as members while assistant commissioner (grievances) will be the member secretary. The committee will meet every Wednesday at 3.30pm for resolution of pending grievances and, thereafter, as and when deemed fit by the chairperson. DC said with the rapid urbanisation, various real estate projects of residential and commercial nature have come up over the last few years in the district. “While they have enabled planned development and enhancement of housing capacity in the district, a lot of grievances have also been received against the promoters/builders regarding non-provision of basic amenities such as power, water supply, and other problems,” said Dayalan. In some cases, demonstrations pertaining to these grievances could have potentially turned into law and order situations, which have been averted with the effective intervention of the district administration, said he. “Timely and effective redressal of these grievances requires higher-level inter-departmental coordination, including that from departments of power, water supply, urban development and police in some cases. So it was deemed essential that a special committee be constituted to look into these cases,” said Dayalan. Dayalan said the deputy commissioners office was flooded with complaints against builders and promoters from those who invested money with them seeking solution to their problems. Taking cognizance of these complaints, the five-member committee has been constituted to redress the grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-dc-constitutes-5-member-committee-to-redress-grievances-against-promoters-builders/articleshow/78818898.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||2 held for woman’s death in Balanagar||HYDERABAD: Two persons were arrested by Balanagar police for being allegedly involved in a case of chain snatching which led to the death of a woman travelling on a bike. The snatching incident took place on October 8. The accused Balaji and Pochaiah during the investigation confessed of being involved in two more snatching cases. Officials said the two accused snatched gold chain from Pochamma, while she was travelling on a bike along with her husband in Balanagar. The accused Pochaiah was involved in similar offences after committing offence in Balanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-for-womans-death-in-balanagar/articleshow/78817309.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Trichy||Part of fossil tree, ammonite found in Perambalur||Trichy: A group of local archaeology and geology enthusiasts has claimed to have found a part of a fossil tree in a floodwater stream besides ammonite sediments in a tank, in Kunnam town in Perambalur district. The discovery comes in the wake of spherical sediments being recovered from a tank being desilted in Kunnam, which, according to social media posts, were claimed to be dinosaur eggs. The discovery came when a group of three archaeology and geology enthusiasts — Ramesh Karuppiah, A Anandhraj and A Prabudeva — went on an expedition through the path of Aanaivari floodwater stream in Kunnam. During the field visit, they spotted a fossil tree measuring 7 feet in length similar to the one being preserved at Sathanur fossil tree park. The actual length of the tree was estimated to be about 20 feet but the rest of the portion was washed away as there were imprints of the fossil deposited. “We have also identified ammonite sediments in Kunnam tank. Ammonite must have been trapped in the process of concretion for several million years, but it was often misconceived as dinosaur egg,” said Ramesh Karuppiah. Ammonite (ammonoids) were large and diverse group of marine species that arose during the Devonian period (around 416 million years ago). In a separate incident, around 20-25 spherical objects were identified by locals while desilting Venkatan tank for sourcing silt on Wednesday. Though these were claimed to be dinosaur eggs, experts said they were highly unlikely. “Looking at the alignment of the objects, they cannot be dinosaur eggs. Also, eggs cannot be in such a vast size. The objects could have been formed due to concretion,” a geology department professor said. Concretion (solid mass formed by the accumulation of matter) forms around the ammonite or any other object as a nucleus becomes a nodule. Small nodules formed due to concretion, unearthed in the district in the past decades, were addressed as Uttathur potatoes (named after a village). Experts said such concretions are too common in Ariyalur and Perambalur as the two districts were once a seabed. “Only palaeontologists can confirm if those objects were eggs,” a source in Geological Survey of India (GSI) said. Perambalur district administration sources said that Trichy museum management was urged to study the objects unearthed in Venkatan tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/part-of-fossil-tree-ammonite-found-in-perambalur/articleshow/78818433.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 23, 2020||Pune||Teacher held for possessing illegal firearm, live cartridges||Pune: A teacher of a government primary school was arrested on Wednesday after a country-made pistol and four live cartridges were recovered from his car at Kumbhargaon near Bhigwan, about 110km from the city. The Pune rural police said the arrested teacher, Dadasaheb Darade (50), had a side business of lending money. He told the police that he had procured the firearm for Rs40,000 from a local puncture shop owner, Mahadev Darade (35), for intimidating people during loan recovery. Mahadev has also been arrested. The police are probing from where he got the pistol. A magisterial court in Daund sent both in police remand till October 27, assistant inspector Jeevan Mane of the Bhigwan police said. Mane and his team intercepted Dadasaheb’s car at Kumbhargaon acting on a tip-off. During a search, they found the pistol and the four live cartridges in the vehicle. The police seized the vehicle with the firearm and the cartridges, totally valued at Rs5.51 lakh, and arrested the teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teacher-held-for-possessing-illegal-firearm-live-cartridges/articleshow/78817294.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Trichy||Salai Road RoB to be strengthened, not replaced with new structure||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has floated a tender to redevelop the damaged road over bridge at Salai Road, which is also called Maris theatre RoB at an estimated cost of Rs 2.82 crore under Smart City mission. However, the move has disappointed a section of locals, who were pitching for a new utilitarian RoB to replace the old RoB.In June 2020, a heavy spell of rain had washed away a portion of the supporting wall in the southern side of the RoB located over the railway tracks between Fort and Mutharasanallur railway stations. Since then, the corporation suspended the movement of heavy vehicles on the bridge. Sandbags were placed to strengthen the bridge from sliding further. After talks were initiated between state highways, district administration, southern railways and the urban local body to construct a new bridge, the civic body floated a tender to strengthen the existing RoB. The move has surprised locals who were batting for multi-arm new RoB on Salai Road to address growing traffic needs. The corporation will strengthen the RoB in three batches each at a cost of Rs 94 lakh. “While so many new bridges are coming up in the state, Salai Road RoB considering the future needs must be replaced. Spending huge sum in reconstructing a weak bridge is pointless,” N Manivannan, a resident of Palakkarai said.The civic body said that inordinate delay persists in coordination between the stakeholders to construct a new bridge. As a result, traffic congestion is getting worse. “We, too, hoped for a new bridge but since there is a delay in constructing a new bridge, we were pushed to the wall to repair the old bridge. We will construct RCC walls to strengthen the bridge,” an official source with the civic body said. The civic body said that the decision to strengthen the RoB was taken as a short-term measure to prevent traffic snarls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/salai-road-rob-to-be-strengthened-not-replaced-with-new-structure/articleshow/78818434.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Metro tracks ready in priority section, trials likely in November||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has finished laying tracks on 7.5km Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation-Dapodi priority stretch. Officials said installation of the overhead traction cable was in its final stages and would be completed within a month. Once that is complete, the Metro rakes will be operated till Dapodi on a trial basis. MahaMetro officials said two rakes have been mounted on the tracks near the Sant Tukaramnagar station. “We simultaneously undertook the work of laying the tracks and installing the overhead cables. We expect to finish installing the cables by next month,” an official said. An official said that they have a long list of various technical parameters to be checked — the alignment of the tracks, the gradient, the curves and identify technical snags, if any. “Some of the other key factors to be checked include the stopping of the rakes at the stations, their speed at certain spots and the functioning of the overhead cable network,” the official added. MahaMetro said the work was slated to finish last month, but the pandemic caused delays. “The work gathered pace a couple of months ago. We initially completed the viaduct near the Nashik Phata, which helped us speed up laying of the tracks,” the official added. Two stations on this route — Sant Tukaramnagar and Phugewadi — are being made operational in the first phase. The Sant Tukaramnagar station is expected to be ready by next month; MahaMetro said it has deployed maximum manpower to finish the work on a priority basis. This priority stretch is part of PCMC-Swargate Metro corridor. The stretch from PCMC to Range Hills is elevated with nine stations en route, while the Range Hills-Swargate section will be underground, with five stations including Shivajinagar and Swagate. Work on the underground section is moving at a fast clip. Recently, a tunnel boring machine completed digging a tunnel from College of Agriculture to the Civil Court in Shivajinagar. The excavatation had begun in December last year. MahaMetro is developing another priority section — the 5km elevated portion between Vanaz in Kothrud and Abasaheb Garware College in Deccan. This section is part of the other corridor coming up in Pune city — the Vanaz-Ramwadi elevated line. Earlier this month, TOI had reported that a long pending proposal to relocate 70 shops in the Mandai area to make way for the underground Metro station work has gained pace. The affected shops — operated by fruit, vegetable vendors and grocers — would be moved on a temporary basis to a nearby location. The vendors would be rehabilitated back in the Mandai area once the work is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/metro-tracks-ready-in-priority-section-trials-likely-in-nov/articleshow/78817276.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 23, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: New cases under 100 on third consecutive day||VADODARA: The number of new Covid-19 cases in the city and district remained under 100 for the third consecutive day on Thursday. Vadodara saw 96 new cases being reported in the city during the 24 hours ending on Thursday evening. Besides remaining in double digits since Tuesday, the number of new Covid-19 cases has been on a decline since about a month now. Off late, the number of discharged patients has increased significantly. This has led to the number of persons in hospitals declining steadily. On Thursday, 1,587 persons were under treatment including those in hospitals and others in home isolation. As many as 57 of these were on ventilators or BIPAP machines while another 160 were on oxygen support. The death toll due to the pandemic remained at 209 with VMC confirming no more deaths in the city or district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-under-100-on-third-consecutive-day/articleshow/78815742.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Trichy||Onions at Rs 45/kg sold out at farm fresh outlets in Trichy||Trichy: The co-operative department has started sale of onions for Rs 45 per kg at 13 farm fresh outlets functioning in Trichy city limits and two tonnes of onions were sold out on Thursday. Shallots and onions are being sold at Rs 130/kg and Rs 100/kg in the retail market.Onion prices has shot up due to rain and poor arrival from Maharastra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Co-operative minister Sellur K Raju announced that Bellary onions would be sold at farm fresh outlets by the co-operative department at a subsidized price of Rs 45 per kg. The minister inaugurated the sales at Chennai on Wednesday. A senior official told TOI that they have placed an order through Tamil Nadu Cooperative Marketing Federation (Tanfed) to procure Bellary. It has been also been decided to sell onions through ration shops soon.“During the first day, we procured only two tonnes of onions for sales. The entire stock was sold out from all the 13 farm fresh outlets. We have ordered for the veggie from Maharashtra. Once the stock from the state starts arriving the city, we will able to sell up to 20 tonnes per day”, cooperative department joint registrar K P Arularasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/onions-at-rs-45/kg-sold-out-at-farm-fresh-outlets-in-trichy/articleshow/78818435.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Salary dues: Resident docs of N corpn hospitals stage another protest||New Delhi: Resident doctors of three North Delhi Municipal Corporation hospitals held another protest against non-payment of pending salaries and other dues, at Jantar Mantar on Thursday morning. This was their second protest in the past seven days. The resident doctors of Hindu Rao, Kasturba Gandhi and Rajan Babu hospitals shouted slogans against the civic body for being unable to find any concrete solutions to the salary crisis. They were also accompanied by paramedical staff from the three hospitals. The resident doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital are on strike since October 10 against non-payment of salaries for three months. They were later joined by the doctors from Kasturba and RBTB hospitals. The civic body had last week claimed to have issued one-month salary (for July) to the doctors of the three hospitals and paramedical staff of Hindu Rao. But this move didn’t encourage the agitating doctors to take back their protest. On Thursday, they even warned of a relay hunger strike. “We were on partial strike because we didn’t want patients to suffer. Though no decision has been taken on hunger or complete strike yet, we request authorities to find a solution. Despite risking our lives on Covid 19 duties, we are not being paid regularly,” said Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, president of Hindu Rao RDA. Dr Abhiman Chauhan of Kasturba Hospital said that not just salaries, other dues were also pending. “The civic body has not even paid arrears as per the Seventh Central Pay Commission as well as dearness allowance since 2016. The Centre is announcing bonus to its employees, while we are not even getting our salaries,” he rued. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/salary-dues-resident-docs-of-n-corpn-hospitals-stage-another-protest/articleshow/78817287.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Rare chest surgery performed in Hyderabad hospital||HYDERABAD: Doctors of a city-based private hospital performed a rare chest surgery on a 61-year-old patient for treating a long-standing leak of the air-pipe that was a life-threatening condition. The patient had been suffering from a leak in the lung for the last 12-13 years and had been living with a chest-tube for draining air and fluid. Since one lung of the patient was already removed, the surgery was a complex one. Several experts had even advised against the surgery. The six-hour surgery was performed by a team of specialists led by senior cardiothoracic surgeon Dr Avinash Dal. “The team operated the patient through the trans-sternal trans-pericardial approach,” says a statement from Virinchi Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rare-chest-surgery-performed-in-city-hosp/articleshow/78817332.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||MoU signed for Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor project||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has signed an agreement with the national industrial corridor development and implementation trust (NICDIT) for the setting up of Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor. NICDIT is the agency designated by the Union government for the implementation of the project that is expected to bring about drastic developments in the commercial and industrial sectors. Kinfra is the state government-designated nodal agency for the project. The agreement signed on Thursday pertains to the specific roles to be played by the Centre and state government in developing the corridor and connected projects. NICDIT chief executive officer K Sanjai Moorthy and additional chief secretary Alkesh Kumar Sharma and Kinfra M D Santhosh Koshy signed the agreement in the presence of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. A special purpose vehicle would be formed for detailed planning, design, implementation and maintenance of the corridor. The state and central governments would have equal holdings and representatives in the SPV board. The chief minister said the project would become a milestone in the future economic development of Kerala. “A large number of job opportunities would be generated as agriculture processing units and export oriented industrial units come up. The industrial corridor would spur skill development and modernisation of industries to a large extend. The corridor would help to establish high quality modern infrastructure development,” he said. The Kochi-Palakkad stretch of the corridor would be the first to be developed. The project proposed in Palakkad would come up in 1,800 acres and it is expected to attract investment worth Rs 10,000 crore. As per the estimate, the facilities would trigger 22,000 direct employments and 80,000 indirect job opportunities over a period of five years. An official statement claimed the investment of medium-small scale industries would be Rs 3,000 crore and the tax revenue to the state could be Rs 585 crore. An integrated manufacturing cluster is planned in the initial phase for electronics, IT, biotechnology and life science sectors in Palakkad, Thrisssur and Ernakulam districts. Kannur, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts would benefit from the second reach of the project. The first project to be developed is a Kochi Global Industrial Finance and Trading City proposed in Ayyampuzha village in Aluva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mou-signed-for-kochi-bluru-industrial-corridor-project/articleshow/78814640.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||Driver helps police nab man stealing hired cab||Pune: The Wakad police on Wednesday arrested a man, who was driving away in a cab that he had hired from Panvel on Monday night. A police team, led by sub-inspector Pranil Chougale, arrested the man Rajesh Khandare (32), a resident of JNPT road in Navi Mumbai, before he could escape with the stolen cab. The car owner Salim Shaikh (30) from Mumbai lodged a first information report (FIR) with the Wakad police station. Shaikh had recently started working with a cab aggregator company. On Monday night, he picked up the passenger from Panvel circle and reached near Bhumkar chowk around 11.30pm. “Shaikh had stopped the cab along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass to answer nature’s call. When he got down, the passenger started the vehicle and drove away,” the officer said. Shaikh was carrying two cellphones and one of the devices was inside the car. He contacted the police control room. “We traced the cab and took Khandare into custody before he could escape,” Chougale said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/driver-helps-police-nab-man-stealing-hired-cab/articleshow/78817314.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Trichy||Stone for river linking in Jan: CM||Trichy: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone for the Cauvery-Vaigai-Guntar river linking project in January. He said it will be a dream project of Pudukottai farmers to be implemented by his government in the absence of any major water source. Pudukottai will benefit the most from the project as a 119km-long canal will connect Cauvery with south Vellar estuary bringing water to 760 tanks in the district. It will help irrigate 20,249 hectares of agriculture land and also meet the drinking water needs of over 100 villages in 12 taluks of the district. The state government has already allocated Rs 700crore for the first phase of the project in February this year and land acquisition is under way, said the CM.Pudukottai district administration had appointed a district revenue officer to oversee land acquisition process in May. The link canal under the project will run through the districts of Karur, Pudukottai, Trichy, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar. Gundar river flows in Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts. Under the project, 8.5tmcfeet of surplus water from Cauvery near Mayanur barrage in Karur will be diverted to Vaigai river in Madurai and further to Gundar via channels. Desilting of canals in Pudukottai and delta region through kudimaramath scheme has ensured that water reaches the fag end of the canals, he said. This has reflected in the bumper harvest this year and the government could procure 31lakh metric tonnes of paddy against the 23lakh metric tonnes last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stone-for-river-linking-in-jan-cm/articleshow/78818438.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||Bizman goes missing, family files complaint||Pune: A 65-year-old businessman, a resident of an upscale society on Ganeshkhind Road, was reported missing by his family members on Thursday evening. A missing person’s complaint has been registered with the Shivajinagar police. The businessman has several automobile showrooms and a fuel station, besides other businesses. The police said he had gone o his fuel station on Solapur highway in the afternoon. Then he spent some time in his Shivajinagar office and walked away. He was not seen again. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-goes-missing-family-files-complaint/articleshow/78817330.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Spurt of excitement at Delhi's Nehru Park||NEW DELHI: Gate number 3 at Nehru Park is suddenly seeing more people passing through it. It leads to the revived lake at the park, and enthusiastic visitors are all intent on taking selfies or watching the beautiful fountain surrounded by the aura of colourful lights. The project was part of New Delhi Municipal Council’s effort to give the park a facelift after developing a portion of it into a cultural spot. The highlight of this is the stage constructed in the middle of the water body for organising cultural events. Once inaugurated, NDMC will allow events too on the stage. “As of now, we are testing the site and people can visit it between 7 and 10.30 in the mornings and 5.30 and 7:30 in the evening,” said an NDMC official. “We have installed 12 benches on the fountain side for visitors. But considering the footfall, we are mulling an amphitheatre or sitting tiers.” This spark segment was unused for several years and work started only last year after waterproofing of the area. “The water holding capacity of the waterbody was poor, so we had to rectify this,” said another NDMC official. “We have arranged for the supply of treated water from a nearby Central Public Works Department’s line. This water will be treated further using tertiary waste water technology before discharging it into the lake.” The tertiary wastewater technology, being used for the first time in Lutyens’ Delhi, involves removing inorganic compounds, residual suspended matter, fine particulates and relatively high levels of nutrients. No chemical is used in the process. Nehru Park was established in 1969 and its 80 acres of greenery provides a popular gathering place for citizens living in central Delhi. The current revamp incudes making a 3-kilometre-long, 3-metre-wide walking track. “We will create the synthetic track on a portion of the area near the fountain and are waiting for feedback from people. We will go ahead with the project after Diwali,” the official said, adding that the track has been appreciated by people for the comfort it provided for walking. Intensive planting work has also been carried out in the recent past. “In other countries, the concept of intensive plantation has proved beneficial, and we attempted to replicate the same in Delhi,” revealed the official. “In winters, the park is frequently visited by tourists who want to enjoy the garden area, which is abloom with indigenous species of flowering plants as well as exotic ones that impart a European look to Lutyens’ Delhi.” For children and senior citizens, NDMC has developed separate zones that are suitable for appropriate recreational activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spurt-of-excitement-at-nehru-park-fountains-draw-crowd-cultural-events-to-be-hosted-after-inauguration/articleshow/78818440.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 23, 2020||Pune||Crook creates Pimpri Chinchwad top cop’s fake profile on site||PUNE: A cybercrook created a fake profile of the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, on a social media website and demanded money from some of the contacts on his account. Krishna Prakash has made an appeal to people that they should not fall prey to such frauds. The fake profile has been removed from the social networking website. The Pimpri Chinchwad police have launched a probe. “We shall soon get a breakthrough in the case,” a senior officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said. The officer said some contacts of the commissioner of police (CP) informed the latter about his fake profile on the social media website and money being demanded in his name. “The fraudster created the profile with the CP’s photograph,” the officer said. He said the fraudster demanded Rs10,000 from one of contacts on his list. The crook had requested the contact to transfer the money through an e-wallet and mentioned a cellphone number for transferring the money, the officer said. Another officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police said, “Senior police and army officers are targets of cybercrooks because people believe in them, and the fraudsters find it easy to cheat people using their names.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crook-creates-top-cops-fake-profile-on-site/articleshow/78817311.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Accused familiar with investigation methods||HYDERABAD: Prime accused Manga Sagar, who allegedly killed nine-year-old Deekshith Reddy, gave police a tough time for four days as he was familiar with their investigation methods. He used voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) to avoid getting tracked since he had earlier worked as a driver for police department. During his conversation with Deekshith’s mother Vasantha, he directed her to videograph Rs 45 lakh cash (ransom) arranged and directed her to upload it on Facebook page of Manoj Reddy, Deekshith’s father Ranjith Reddy’s cousin. Police quizzed Manoj, but he claimed innocence. The accused, a follower of Manoj, verified the account. After getting confirmation, he asked family members to leave the cash bag at a particular place in Mahabubabad. “He worked as a contract driver in police department till recently. Later, he became a mechanic. So, he is aware about how accused generally make mistakes and get caught,’’ Mahabubabad police told TOI. Police sent a family member to the mentioned location, but he left the place after sensing unusual movement of people on Wednesday. He later called the victim’s family and threatened to kill Deekshith if they mess with him. Later, he changed the venue and asked Ranjith’s family to come to another place. However, it was late in the night by then. It is learnt that police caught him at that location. Police by then had analysed who all had seen the video on Manoj’s Facebook wall and started to zero in on the suspects. “In the last four days, police had questioned over 20 persons. Sagar, who was suspect number 25, wilted under intense quizzing and confessed to the crime,’’ sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accused-familiar-with-investigation-methods/articleshow/78817345.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Will summon chief secretary, warns HC||KOCHI: The high court said in an order that it is inclined to summon the chief secretary for the disrespectful statements being repeatedly made by government officials in service cases. Stating that it is a “very distressing trend”, the court directed for issuing contempt of court notices to the officers. A division bench comprising Justice K Vinod Chandran and Justice VG Arun expressed displeasure over repeated non-implementation of the court’s orders and contemptuous remarks being made by government officials in affidavits filed before the court while considering a batch of contempt of court petitions filed through senior advocate K Jaju Babu. The court said it is appalled by the reason cited by a government official that implementation of the high court’s judgment would result in similar cases being filed in the future. In some cases, officials had sought concurrence from other departments for implementing the high court’s judgment whereas in others, permission from the government was sought. Contemptuous portions of the affidavits were reproduced by the court in the interim order. In the order, the division bench said, “We cannot but find that the contempt is not only in the directions being not complied with but the statements extracted above, which are per se disrespectful and demeaning the authority of this court. We deem it appropriate that the respondent contemnors be issued with notices. This is not the first time we come across such irresponsible statements being made on affidavit, often affirmed by government pleaders. We hence are inclined to summon the chief secretary to appear before this court to appraise us as to how his officers understand the judgments of this Court.” However, an additional advocate general requested breathing time to get further instructions in the cases and to make amends. Following this, the court posted the case for hearing on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/will-summon-chief-secretary-warns-hc/articleshow/78814655.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Soaring onion price brings tears||KOCHI: A kg of onion which used to cost Rs 14.90 couple of months ago has now touched Rs 85 bringing tears to the eyes of consumers and traders alike. According to market dealers, price had been slowly shooting up and doubled in the past one week from around Rs 40 per kg. “These onions come from Pune and hence, are of very good quality and have better shelf life. We understand that the production has come down in the past few months. Government is trying to fix the market rates and hopefully that will help us as well as customers,” said K K Asharaf, joint secretary, Ernakulam market owners’ association. Vendors say the jump has been so steep that those who used to buy two-three kilograms are now buying just one. “We have not felt the shortage as such, but we will decide on how much to stock based on the demand from customers,” said K T Siddique, vegetable vendor. Meanwhile, wholesalers say Pune variety of onions are preferred compared to those coming from neighbouring states. “They don’t last long. So we can’t have stocks for several days if the prices go up at this rate. There definitely is an uncertainty with this situation. We don’t expect it to come down so easily,” said Ashraf. It has come as a shocker for households as onions were some of the cheapest vegetables available in the market in July-August. “Since most of us are at home, cooking has become a near full-time activity. Onion is one ingredient that goes into almost every non-sweet recipe. I will have to cut down and start looking for replacements that we used during an earlier hike, some time last year,” said Deepa Mohanan, a housewife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/soaring-onion-price-brings-tears/articleshow/78814662.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farm fire count at season’s high, wind saves the day||NEW DELHI: This season’s highest single-day fire count was recorded on Wednesday with 1,428 incidents of stubble burning taking place in Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions. The fire count was 849 on Tuesday. However, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration reduced to 9% on Thursday from 15% a day earlier due to change in wind direction. Prior to this, the highest single-day fire count this season was 1,230 on October 17. Last year, over 2,700 fires were recorded in a single day on October 27, which was the highest count in 2019. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, an increase in stubble fire count was observed in Haryana, Punjab and neighbouring regions. “The boundary layer wind direction is not fully favourable for transport of pollutants towards Delhi. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 is 9% for Thursday,” it added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Calm winds prevailed over Delhi region on Wednesday night. The wind direction was southerly on Wednesday morning and changed in the evening to northwesterly, which carry pollutants from Punjab and Haryana towards Delhi.” “However, the wind direction again changed to easterly on Thursday morning. As southerly winds come to Delhi from Rajasthan and easterly from Uttar Pradesh, the transfer of pollutants from Punjab and Haryana was minimal. Local factors, however, impacted the air quality,” added Srivastava. LS Kurinji, research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “The contribution of farm fires to Delhi's air quality was 9% on Thursday, relatively lower compared with 15% on Wednesday, as surface winds were primarily blowing from the southeast and northeast directions.” Dipankar Saha, former head of Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory, said, “Increased stubble burning cannot be directly correlated with PM2.5 as movement of pollutants from such activities depends on wind and duration. Most pollutants stay in the atmosphere, while micro-pollutants convert into secondary aerosols. The current situation in northern India and Delhi-NCR is due to low atmospheric boundary layers coupled with very low wind speed, which has resulted in poor ventilation coefficients.” SAFAR said that incidents of stubble burning in the neighbouring states had been decreasing since Sunday, but suddenly shot up on Wednesday. Farm fires reduced from Saturday’s 1,230 to 1,090 on Sunday, 1,017 on Monday and 849 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fire-count-at-seasons-high-wind-saves-the-day-/articleshow/78817403.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pregnant techie ends life due to dowry harassment||HYDERABAD: A software engineer ended her life due to alleged dowry harassment at her house in Jagadgirigutta on Wednesday night. The victim was five months pregnant and police registered a dowry death case. The victim, Krishna Priya, 24, from Dilsukhnagar, had married her relative, Sravan Kumar, in June 2020. Sravan Kumar runs a gym at IDPL Colony and, according to Jagadgirigutta police, he and Krishna Priya were in love for the past several years. In 2016, Krishna Priya, however, married another man, but after six months, she divorced him. Subsequently, she became close to Sravan and they got married in June, Jagadgirigutta inspector A Ganga Reddy said. The couple along with Sravan’s parents have been staying at Papi Reddy Nagar of Jagadgirigutta. Around 9.30pm on Wednesday, Krishna Priya locked herself in the bedroom. A little later, her in-law’s grew suspicious as she did not respond to their calls. They forcibly opened the door and found her hanging from the ceiling fan with a stole, the inspector said. There was no suicide note and in her complaint, Krishna Priya’s mother, Neela, alleged that she committed suicide due to dowry harassment from Sravan and his mother Meena. “The complainant alleged that at the time of wedding, they gave Rs 2 lakh cash and 12 tola gold as dowry. Sravan and his mother had been harassing Krishna Priya for Rs 5 lakh additional dowry,” the inspector said. Based on the complaint, a dowry death case was registered under Section 304-B of the IPC. After the inquest and post-mortem examination, the body was handed over to her family members. No arrests have been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-techie-ends-life-due-to-dowry-harassment/articleshow/78817346.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala governor seeks report from Calicut University over dean selection||KOZHIKODE: Governor and chancellor, Arif Mohammed Khan has sought a report from Calicut University on the recent decision by the varsity syndicate to make appointment to the post of dean of students welfare on its own without reporting the vacancy to Kerala Public Service Commission. The recent decision by the syndicate to notify the vacancy had sparked off a controversy as according to the Calicut University First Ordinance, it’s a non-teaching post with a UGC scale of pay. The chancellor made the intervention on the basis of petition against the move by UDF- affiliated syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed P. The post is set to fall vacant on October 31. “The syndicate, by resolving to issue a notification to fill the vacancy of a non-teaching post, has violated the provision of 2 (a) of Kerala Public Service Commission (Additional Functions as Respects the Service Under the Universities) Act, 2015, by which the university has to consult the PSC on all matters relating to the method of recruitment of the non-teaching staff of the university,” the memorandum had said. The UDF affiliated syndicate member had urged the governor to annul the resolution of the syndicate as per provision 7(3) of the Calicut University Act 1975 as it is against the Act. In a letter to the vice-chancellor, the principal secretary to the governor has asked the Calicut University to take appropriate action on the matter and report it for submission to the chancellor. Meanwhile, syndicate member K K Haneefa said that the varsity is considering the post of Dean of Students Welfare as a teaching post as the post had eligibility of 10 years teaching experience and five years administrative experience. He added that the varsity will write to the state government about its decision to notify the post will act accordingly as per the directions received from the state .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/guv-seeks-report-fromcu-over-dean-selection/articleshow/78814670.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Four inter-state chainsnatchers arrested||Mangaluru: The Udupi district police arrested four members of an inter-state gang of chainsnatchers near the Udupi Mutt parking lot recently. The arrested accused are Zakir Hussain, 26, Kambar Rahim, Akshay Sanjay Gosavi, 22, and Kambar Rahim, 32, who are residents of Maharashtra. Police have seized a car, motorbike and valuables worth Rs 7 lakh from the accused. Police said that the gang used to divert the attention of victims and take away their valuables. The gang posed as police personnel and targeted people who were walking alone on the road. After approaching the person, they would claim that they are police personnel, and tell them there is a fight going on ahead on the road. They used to trick the person and ask him for his jewellery for safe-keeping. They used to then flee from the spot with the jewellery. According to police, the gang used the same trick and conned victims in Delhi, Maharashtra and Karnataka. In Karnataka, they have cases lodged against them in Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Vijayapura and Dakshina Kannada. Police have also seized 65 grams of gold from Maharashtra, where they used to sell it. 3 arrested for theftThe Udupi district police arrested three women who stole the belongings of a woman near the Udupi city bus stand recently. The arrested women were part of a notorious inter-district gang of pickpockets. The arrested accused are Kavita, 33,Sabita, 35, and Latha, 25, who are all residents of Ballari district. Police said that the trio, while travelling in a bus from the Udupi city bus stand towards Kadiyali, had stolen 4 ATM cards, Rs 5,000 and documents from Archana Rao. They later used the ATM cards to siphon off Rs 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-inter-state-chainsnatchers-arrested/articleshow/78813979.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||PNGRB’s tariff determination proposal for open access in gas networks opposed||Ahmedabad: The recently proposed mechanism for tariff determination of city gas distribution (CGD) networks by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has met with a stiff opposition from market experts and CGD companies like Gujarat Gas Ltd (GGL), Adani Gas Ltd (AGL), Indraprasth Gas Ltd (IGL), Mahanagar Gas Ltd (MGL) and GAIL (India) Ltd among others. They have pressed the panic button saying that the new move can hit investments badly in the country’s sunrise sector. Gujarat being the most developed market is likely to be hit the hardest in this case. The earnings of CGD companies can be impacted from 10-25%, according to the industry experts. The CGD stocks of CGD companies have performed well even in the last few months even amid Covid-19 crisis, but the share prices of companies like Gujarat, IGL and MGL have taken a hit in the range of 10-30% in the last two months. While the draft proposal PNGRB (Determination of transportation rate for CGD and CNG) Regulations, 2020 was made public by the natural gas regulator in the last week of September, the market seemed to have already factored in the negative impact of the decision a month ahead in anticipation, according to stock market experts. Experts and industry watchers feel it’s too early to bring in competition as India has only 6% of its geographical area covered under the CGD network. Of this, Gujarat contributes almost 80% of the infrastructure network. Morgan Stanley raised concerns about bringing the open-access regulation too early and that a similar regulation in case of transmission pipeline had dried up investments in the sector. The New York-headquartered financial services firm along with other CGD companies raised their issues at the open house held by the PNGRB on October 16 on the draft tariff regulation pertaining to CGD open access.“Any regulation imposed that can impact the cash flows and restrict further investment should always be avoided. Competition is good in any sector but the timing does not seem right especially when CGD entities are expected to invest about Rs 80,000 crore over the next few years,” said Harsh Vardhan Dole, IIFL Securities. Some CGD incumbents have highlighted in their submissions at the open house that certain matters related to the regulation are sub-judice.The government, through the PNGRB, has licensed out more than 136 new geographies during the past few years to cover half of the country’s population in an attempt, among others, to alleviate India’s astronomical pollution. It is imperative that CGD companies are offered a reasonable return, failing which nearly Rs 1 trillion of upcoming CGD infra investments would not materialize, according to a recent report by Edelweiss titled ‘Moving towards CGD deregulation’.Adani Gas Ltd has sought 14% return on capital investment instead of the 12% proposed in the draft policy. “In the CGD business, there are no long term contracts. There is extra effort required to take care of receivables. There is additional long term commitment made for connecting maximum domestic PNG customers and establishing network in all charge areas. Customer contracts may not have Minimum Guaranteed Offtake (MGO) provision and there is always the dynamics of competition from the emerging fuels as well as alternative fuels,” the company gave this rationale in its submission to the PNGRB. Mahanagar Gas Ltd has, in its submission, questioned the powers of the PNGRB to determine such a tariff in view of a past Supreme Court judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pngrbs-tariff-determination-proposal-for-open-access-in-gas-networks-opposed/articleshow/78940741.cms||Maulik Pathak
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Convene special session on farm laws: Congress||HYDERABAD: Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee has shot off a letter to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to convene a special assembly session to resolve against the new farm laws enacted by the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/convene-spl-session-on-farm-laws-cong/articleshow/78817379.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||No contest in IPS association poll for secretary||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: IPS association in the state is set to elect a secretary for it without voting, despite the new set of bylaws allowing the association to select a secretary through election.  As per the bylaw, an officer of the rank of an IG, DIG or a senior SP (with at least nine years of service) can contest for the post. It is learned that till the last moment on the last day of filing nominations, none turned up. Later, one of the officers nominated the name of IG (south zone) Harshitha Attalluri, whose nomination was then supported by several other officers. Interestingly, no one else expressed willingness to contest for the post. The voting has been scheduled for Friday, which will now be insignificant. As per the bylaw, the president of the association will be the senior-most willing member in the service (excepting the state police chief). At present, the senior-most serving member is prisons DGP Rishi Raj Singh. As per the new bylaw, the association will have to meet once in every two months. There would also be an executive committee in which one representative each of ADGPs, IGs, DIGs and SPs and two representatives of ASPs will be present. According to sources, the bylaw was drafted as there were several issues relating to IPS officers that needed to be taken up with the government. One of the issues being cited is regarding the appointment of inquiry officers and presenting officers in the case of departmental inquiry against IPS officers. When the disciplinary proceedings were initiated against former Idukki SP K B Venugopal, the government had appointed two IAS officers as the inquiry officer and presenting officer. In another case against present ADGP (coastal security) E J Jayaraj, the government had appointed an IAS officer as the inquiry officer, the decision came in favour of Jayaraj. Also, IPS officers have the contention that there is an increasing trend of not posting young IPS officers as ASPs in sub-divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-contest-in-ips-assn-poll-for-secy/articleshow/78814684.cms||KP Saikiran
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Popular courses may be elusive in Delhi University third round||NEW DELHI: Following admissions under the second cutoff list at Delhi University, over 75% of the seats have been filled. Most colleges saw a smoother admission process in the second round compared with the first cutoff list. They claim that there will be fewer withdrawals now and more popular courses will likely be beyond the reach of applicants looking to apply to the colleges in the third list. At Miranda House College, as many as 787 admissions have been approved. The principal, Bijaylaxmi Nanda, said: “After the second cutoff list, we have over 70% of our seats filled. We have only around 1,100 seats.” The principal added that the college had been measured in fixing their cutoffs and hence received good response from the aspirants. The number of admissions at the college has already exceeded in political science, sociology and geography courses in the unreserved category. “We have very few seats left in our English and BA programme courses. There may be some withdrawals as students also look at their entrance test results and then withdraw,” Nanda said. At Aryabhatta College, “there were more admissions in the second cutoff list,” said professor Rajesh Dwivedi. He explained that the increase in numbers was because most “applicants often take their time and apply more during the admissions in the second cutoff list as they want to avoid withdrawing from colleges and to be sure of their choices.” While political science seats are filled already, only a handful of seats are left in psychology, Dwivedi added. At South Campus’s Sri Venkateswara College, principal Venkat Kumar said that “while the college saw a high number of cancellations, we still managed to get a good response. The college has already witnessed an exceeded number of admissions.” Manoj Khanna of Ramjas College said that there was less rush in the second cutoff list and so the admission process was smoother than usual. “Now, the colleges have got the hang of the admission process,” he added. “Most popular courses will be unavailable from the third cutoff list due to the response from the applicants in the second round.” While DU did not release the cumulative data on October 22, the data till 8.30pm on October 21 suggested that over 15,698 applicants had paid their admission fees while 7,546 admissions were approved by the colleges. The third cutoff list will be out by Saturday, October 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/popular-courses-may-be-elusive-in-du-3rd-round/articleshow/78818466.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Strict measures in place against polluters, Delhi HC told||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) informed Delhi High Court on Thursday that it has issued directions to all the agencies, including state pollution control boards, construction agencies, municipal corporations, traffic police and transport departments of Delhi-NCR, to take strict action against activities causing air pollution. In a report filed in connection with steps taken against stubble burning in neighbouring states, CPCB said there was restriction on the use of pet-coke and furnace oil in industry, and directions for the conversion of brick kilns to zig-zag technology had been given, which might have a positive impact on the ambient air quality. Track the pollution level in your cityA bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan took note of CPCB’s stand and disposed of a plea seeking directions to authorities to take immediate steps to prevent stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in the view of the rising air pollution and Covid-19 situation. The court pointed out that the Supreme Court was already taking action to deal with stubble burning, and now the Centre and the state governments had to do their bit, while declining to issue directions on the plea. The high court underlined that the apex court on October 16 had also constituted a committee headed by its former judge, Justice M B Lokur, to monitor the steps taken by the states to prevent stubble burning, and if the high court also took up the same issue, there would be a danger of contradictory orders being passed. With the observation, the bench disposed of the application, which was moved by Sudhir Mishra, an advocate, in his main PIL filed in 2015 seeking directions to the Centre to take immediate steps to control air pollution in the capital. In view of the pandemic, the application contended that stubble burning would increase air pollution drastically and could further aggravate health problems in the city. During the hearing, additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma said the sun was not visible on Thursday and it was an emergency-like situation in Delhi due to the poor air quality. Sharma also referred to the news reports highlighting that, as the air quality worsened in NCR, people who had recovered from Covid-19 were facing respiratory problems and flocking to the hospitals. The court, however, reminded the stakeholders that “it is for the Union and the states to take steps to address the issue of stubble burning and poor air quality”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/strict-measures-in-place-against-polluters-hc-told/articleshow/78817432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Fewer, more severe accidents in Guj’||Ahmedabad: In 2019, Gujarat recorded one road traffic accident every 30 minutes while five persons died in road accidents every six hours, according to ‘Road Accidents in India 2019’, a report by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). The report stated that in the past four years, fatal road accidents in Gujarat went down by 9.2%. On the flip side, accident fatality or severity (deaths per 100 accidents) rose by 6.2% from 2016 to 2019. In terms of number of accidents, Gujarat ranked 10th (first is worst) among Indian states, whereas it ranked 8th in road accident fatalities. Compared to 2018, accidents in the state fell by 9.2% whereas fatality was down by 7.6%. The state stood fourth and third respectively in reducing road accidents and fatalities compared to 2018. The report stated that traffic control measures such as signals and the presence of police personnel helped reduce fatalities. In 2019, 46 deaths took place at crossroads with traffic signals, 141 where police were present, 54 due to jumped red lights and 22 due to jumped yellow lights. Fatalities due to violations fell, as in 2018 123 had died due to jumped red lights and 131 due to jumped yellow lights. Amit Khatri, a city-based road safety expert, said the e-challan initiative may be one of the reasons for fewer road traffic accidents in city areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fewer-more-severe-accidents-in-guj/articleshow/78817514.cms||Parth Shastri
October 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Covid tally nears 8 lakh with 3,600 new cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Thursday reported 3,620 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,96,919. The state also registered 16 deaths as the toll has increased to 6,524. As many as 76,726 samples were tested on Thursday, taking the total number of tests to 73,47,776. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has gone up to 7,58,138 after 3,723 were declared cured on Thursday. The state now has 32,257 active cases. The overall infection positivity rate decreased further to 10.85% on Thursday, though it is still higher than the national average of 7.81%. Six out of 13 districts reported less than 200 fresh cases each on Thursday, with Kurnool adding just 66 to its tally. West Godavari district reported the highest number of 631 fresh cases while East Godavari added 492, Chittoor 412, Guntur 385, Krishna 370 and Prakasam 311 since Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-covid-tally-nears-8l-with-3-6k-new-cases/articleshow/78817419.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Agra||Termination orders withdrawn, AMU docs reinstated for a month||Agra: In the face of mounting pressure over the decision to terminate services of two casualty medical officers who had contradicted the police line on the alleged Hathras gang-rape, vice chancellor of Aligarh Muslim University Tariq Mansoor on Thursday withdrew the order. The tenure of the doctors has now been extended by a month till November. “Appointment orders of Dr Mohammad Azimuddin Malik and Dr Obaid Imtiazul Haque were issued upon the request of the hospital’s chief medical officer Dr SAH Zaidi, who is also in charge of casualty medical officers at the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College,” university spokesperson Shafey Kidwai told TOI. Zaidi had written about their appointment twice — a day before their services were terminated and a day after, citing their presence during medico-legal examination of cases like Hathras as reason for them to continue. “Both doctors are very sincere and hard-working. If someone goes on leave again, I will request the administration to appoint them,” he said on Thursday. Malik said he was grateful that he was back in service. “I hope this incident does not affect my profile if I apply for a permanent post at the hospital … The administration should consider the appointment on the basis of merit and sincerity, not petty matters.” Haque wanted a similar assurance: “I was called by the hospital for work and then kicked out for no reason.” Malik and Haque had been involved in the examination of the Hathras victim — Malik was present when she was admitted, gave her dying declaration and her medico-legal examination was done, while Haque attested the report. Malik had told the media that the forensic report, which found no semen and was cited by UP Police as evidence of no rape, did not hold any value because it was based on samples that were 11 days old. Haque’s name had come up on a news site about the medico-legal report, which had initially referred to penile penetration of the victim but later said there were “no signs” of vaginal or anal intercourse. The vice chancellor had denied this was why they had been asked not to continue. The hospital’s Resident Doctors Association had on Wednesday threatened to protest if the doctors were not reinstated. The Progressive Medicos and Scientific Forum from AIIMS had also written to the vice chancellor on Thursday morning, demanding “immediate revocation of the termination orders”, hours before it was.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/termination-orders-withdrawn-amu-docs-reinstated-for-a-month/articleshow/78815847.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Court tells APPSC to defer Gr 1 main exam||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Thursday directed the AP Public Service Commission (APPSC) to reconsider five questions from Group 1 preliminary examination paper and prepare a fresh merit list. Delivering its judgement in a batch of petitions raising objections over the preliminary exam, the HC asked APPSC to postpone the main examination scheduled for Nov 2. Following the judgement, the APPSC announced that the main examination scheduled to be held from Nov 2 to Nov 13 stands postponed and the revised schedule would be announced on Oct 29 after complying with the instructions of the high court. APPSC conducted the Group 1 preliminary examination on May 5, 2019. Soon after the exam, a batch of petitions were filed in the high court challenging the same on different grounds. The court heard all the matters at length and dismissed the petitions seeking cancellation of preliminary examination. Justice R Raghunandan Rao also dismissed the petitions seeking reservation in the preliminary merit list. It upheld the argument of the APPSC that there is no provision for applying reservations at the preliminary level. When it came to questions with translation errors in Telugu, the court asked APPSC to reconsider the five questions. The petitioners challenged 51 questions and the APPSC told the court that they have removed 25 questions. The court also directed APPSC to prepare a fresh merit list after reconsidering the five questions and asked it to postpone the main exam scheduled for Nov 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/court-tells-appsc-to-defer-gr-1-main-exam/articleshow/78817438.cms||Srikanth Aluri
October 23, 2020||Chennai||For Kollywood, Eelam scripts a no-go zone||From being cornered and warned to receiving rape threats to a family member, actor Vijay Sethupathi has faced it all within days of the release of the official motion poster of ‘800’, in which he was to don the role of Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan. He has since then pulled out of the biopic. What has emerged is an atmosphere where creative licence, debate and space for expression is muzzled. There is a sense of apprehension and Kollywood will shun any film that negatively impacts Tamil sentiment, say Tamil film industry insiders. But the industry is not virgin to Eelam scripts and ‘800’ is but the most recent in the series of films that have dabbled in Eelam and Sinhala themes and characters and given an insight into the human crisis. Read the full story on TOI+ Why Muralitharan biopic would’ve sailed through in an earlier time||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-kollywood-eelam-scripts-a-no-go-zone/articleshow/78819012.cms||Neeraja Ramesh
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man, wife fall to death off flyover at Perambur||CHENNAI: A man and his wife died after their bike slammed into the parapet of the Murasoli Maran flyover in Perambur on Thursday afternoon and plunged 30 ft to the road below. The deceased, identified as Balaji, 48 of Thiruvottiyur, was employed in the customs office at Chennai airport. His wife Usha, 44, was riding pillion. The incident, which occurred at 12.15 pm, shocked other motorists and bystanders who saw the couple falling from the 30ft high flyover and landing on the road below with a thud. Traffic on the stretch came to a standstill, witnesses said. The couple were returning home from Purasawalkam, police said. As they rode up the Murasoli Maran flyover from the Otteri-Jamalia side, Balaji was trying to negotiate a turn when he lost control of the bike and it smashed into the parapet. Some witnesses later told police that they saw Balaji struggling to bring the bike under control. Due to the impact of the collision, the couple were thrown away and they fell on the road from a height of about 30ft. While Usha died on the spot, bystanders rushed Balaji to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital, where he died without responding to treatment. Tirumangalam traffic investigation police have registered a case and have begun further inquiries with eye-witnesses. Police sources said that to prevent such accidents, the parapet’s height has to be increased and a warning board has to be placed. “Motorists should ensure they drive vehicles on a lower speed on this stretch,” said a traffic official. In May last year, an 18-year-old college student who was riding pillion on a two-wheeler on the Murasoli Maran flyover in Perambur was thrown off the structure after the speeding rider lost his balance and took the vehicle into a median. S Priya, 18 from Madhavaram Milk Colony, a second-year B-Com student at a private college in Perambur, was riding pillion on a bike ridden by A Abdul Malik, 19, from Madhavaram. Both sustained grievous injuries, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-wife-fall-to-death-off-flyover-at-perambur/articleshow/78817434.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Rehabilitation of residents from bank of Cooum river restarts after a month||CHENNAI: Work on rehabilitating slum dwellers from the Cooum river banks opposite Island Grounds off Anna Salai restarted on Thursday after a gap of almost a month. Corporation officials along with those from PWD and Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) jointly arrived at Sathyavani Muthu Nagar and explained the residents the need for rehabilitating them to TNSCB tenements in Perumbakkam near Sholinganallur. The rehabilitation work was started last month after the government relaxed lockdown norms. At that time, only a dozen families were rehabilitated to the new place. Since a section of residents refused to move out, the rehabilitation process had to be stopped. Some 429 families have to be shifted from the Cooum bank in the last leg of the rehabilatation project. A TNSCB source said that they have allocated two blocks in Perumbakkam following requests from families living along the Cooum. A senior PWD official said chief secretary K Shanmugam held a review meeting of the rehabilitation process a few days ago, in which he said that the rehabilitation process should be fast-tracked as heavy rains are expected during monsoon this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rehabilitation-of-residents-from-bank-of-cooum-river-restarts-after-a-month/articleshow/78817442.cms||P Oppili
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC grapples with 160 points prone to flooding in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: While urban flooding leaves a trail of destruction, constant waterlogging during rainy and non-rainy seasons in the city is always a cause of concern for the authorities. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) 2015 data revealed that there are as many as 160 waterlogging points in its limits. The highest number of waterlogging points is located in circle V along the northwestern parts of the city, which is characterised by hilly terrains as well as upscale locations. This circle constitutes nearly 25% of the total waterlogging points. The prime locations include parts of Jubilee Hills, Banjara hills and Tolichowki. Interestingly, the least number of waterlogging points are located in Hyderabad south, which includes the historic core of the city. Beyond the municipal corporation limits, in the peripheral areas of Greater Hyderabad, the highest number of waterlogging points is recorded in Secunderabad Cantonment area. “During non-rainy season, waterlogging occurrence is attributed to urban heat island effect. Geo-tagging of waterlogging points can be taken up so that they can be monitored on maps,” Venkateswarlu, who did research on water stagnation in the city, said. Experts said waterlogging is related to improper maintenance of stormwater drains, catch pits and faulty road engineering. “Unless these issues are addressed immediately, water stagnation will be a constant problem,” they said. In 2005, then Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) had come out with 30 reasons for rainwater stagnation in the city. In a study done by researchers, it was pointed out that the natural drainage will have to be linked with sewer flow at appropriate stages. It was also suggested a proper watershed management to ensure natural percolation of rainwater and improve recharge of groundwater. The researchers also harped on the need for an in-depth study of natural drainage path and improving its efficiency. They also proposed establishment of run-off gauging stations to provide continuous reading that can be used in designing stormwater drain capacity. Apart from setting up more catch pits, they suggested covering the stormwater drains wherever they are uncovered and construction of retention walls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-grapples-with-160-points-prone-to-flooding/articleshow/78817446.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Firm restrained from using ‘Adani’ trademark||AHMEDABAD: Acting on a complaint by a multinational conglomerate, a court at Mirzapur has temporarily restrained a local company from using trademark and tradename ‘Adani’ for sale of its products. S B Adani Family Trust, Adani Enterprise Ltd and its two other companies have sued a local company P V Adani Juggler Hawk Industries Pvt Ltd, accusing it of infringement on its trademark rights by ‘flagrantly and illegally’ using word Adani to sell fuels like bio-diesel, natural gas, LGP, lubricating oils and solar panels etc. The trust has urged the court to permanently restrain the later from using the trademark Adani, for it has been the trademark used by the multinational since 1998. The firm, which came into existence last year, has been temporarily ordered not to promote and market its business under Adani trademark on any internet-based platform. Adani Enterprise and the Trust contended that they are the registered proprietor of the trademark Adani in various classes of goods and services. The trademark is used by approximately 80 companies of Adani group. P V Adani Juggler Hawk Industries Pvt Ltd adopted the trademark for identical goods and it is a dishonest practice on its part to eat upon the goodwill and reputation by passing off its goods as that of Adani group’s. The plaintiff Adani Trust has also claimed that the defendant company has filed trademark application for registration of trademark with word Adani. However, the trademark registrar has raised objection because the trademark had already been registered in that particularly class. It was argued that the action is causing confusion and deception amongst traders and customers who would perceive the other group as one of the group companies of Adani. It was further submitted that the defendant company is also tagging social media page of Adani Solar on its Instagram posts to attract the followers of Adani Solar. It was highlighted how the trademark Adani has been written prominently whereas P V is mentioned in very small size in the name of the company. The Adani Trust and its companies have urged the court to restrain the defendant from using trademark Adani with any suffix or prefix. Additional sessions and district judge Amandeep Sibia observed that once the prior usage is established, the court must restrain the defendant from usurping the goodwill created by the plaintiff by long and consistent usage of the trade-mark in question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/firm-restrained-from-using-adani-trademark/articleshow/78817441.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||T man held for impersonating inspector, tonsuring youths||Visakhapatnam: Anakapalle police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old from Telangana under charges of impersonating a police officer and forcing youngsters to cut their hair or tonsuring their heads. The accused, Machukuri Pandari, was arrested when he was caught forcing a youth from Anakapalle to tonsure his head. Police said that, on October 18, they had received a complaint from a resident from Anakapalle Town stating that a person posing as an inspector forced him and his brother to tonsure their heads. He said that the caller had threatened to register cases against them under the IT Act and have them arrested. Scared, he obeyed but realised later that it was a hoax. Based on the plaint, police formed three teams and caught Pandari, a school drop-out working as a shepherd and having an aversion to men with long hair. Pandari had recently bought a phone and got influenced by hairstyle videos on the internet. He then started tracing numbers through social media, calling people, asking them to tonsure their heads and send back pictures of themselves. He was arrested under IPC sections 419, 506, IT Act and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-man-held-for-impersonating-inspector-tonsuring-youths/articleshow/78817456.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University VC on leave, his appointments are invalid: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Union ministry of education waded into the tussle between Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and pro-VC P C Joshi late on Thursday night to spell out that the appointments made by the VC were not “valid” since he is on leave and should not be acted upon. The ministry is also learnt to have written to the President of India, who is the visitor, apprising him of the “crisis situation” in the varsity. According to an official in the ministry, the letter contains some recommendations and the visitor may convey his decision on Friday. Earlier in the day, Tyagi had removed Joshi from the position of pro-VC and appointed Geeta Bhatt in his place. Joshi had, meanwhile, notified the appointment of a new registrar, Vikas Gupta, whose interview had been completed and appointment cleared by the executive council on Wednesday. Earlier on Wednesday, Tyagi had approved and got notified the appointment of P C Jha as acting registrar and director, South Campus. The letter from the ministry, however, was addressed to Gupta, giving him legitimacy for now. This was in response to a communication sent by Joshi on Wednesday stating that Tyagi was not discharging his duties and that he had not joined with a medical fitness certificate yet. “It has been brought to our notice that a notification of charge of registrar was issued on October 21 morning, even before the working hours of the university, without active knowledge of PC Joshi who is the pro-vice-chancellor, having charge of vice-chancellor at present as per the statue of the university, and an attempt was made to block the conduct of the executive council meeting scheduled on October 21 by the acting registrar appointed by Professor Yogesh Tyagi who is on leave,” said the letter, signed by Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary. The ministry has conveyed that if Tyagi wants to join office, he has to submit a medical fitness certificate. The letter reiterates that as Joshi will act as vice-chancellor, all orders issued with the approval of the vice-chancellor should also have approval of Joshi. The university had on Wednesday night declared the executive council meeting chaired by Joshi illegal. Jha, the VC’s choice for registrar, had at night sealed the office at Viceregal Lodge. “In the morning, the other group came along with Gupta and put an additional lock on the office. Once the new pro-VC, Bhatt, was appointed and she took charge, they went away. Now all the newly-appointed officials have taken charge,” said Jha, refusing to comment on the ministry’s letter. Bhatt is also the director of Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board. Meanwhile, the Joshi camp circulated a letter issued by the ministry of education on August 31, 2020, which mentioned Joshi being given charge of the post of vice-chancellor during Tyagi’s absence on medical grounds and till he resumed duty. The letter, signed by under-secretary P K Singh, read: “The posts of registrar and finance officers of DU are lying vacant for the last few months. It is understood that the interviews for these posts were scheduled last month but could not be held in the absence of Yogesh Tyagi, who was hospitalised. Now that PC Joshi has been given the charge of VC during the absence of Tyagi, he should fix the date for the interviews.” Joshi was authorised to preside over the selection committee if by then the VC was not back in office. AK Bhagi, president of the BJP-affiliated teachers’ group, National Democratic Front, came out in support of Joshi. “As per the order of the ministry, Joshi has been working as an acting vice-chancellor and the letter said that the VC will join upon intimation. Now, he has not joined after medical leave. Can he issue such orders from his home? According to us, all the communication coming from Yogesh Tyagi has no validity unless he is medically fit.” Bhatt, who belongs to the same group and has been appointed as pro-VC by Tyagi, refused to comment on the matter. "I have taken charge as pro-VC and am focusing on the new responsibility," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vc-still-on-leave-sogovt-backs-deputy/articleshow/78817459.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Audio clip claiming responsibility for actor’s murder goes viral||Mangaluru: As police intensify the investigation into the brutal murder of Coastalwood actor and rowdy-sheeter Surendra Bantwal, 39, an audio clip claiming responsibility for the murder has gone viral. In the voice message, a man owned up responsibility for the murder, saying that it was in retaliation for the recent murder of Kishan Hegde. A close associate of the murder victim, Sathish, has claimed responsibility for the murder, and stated that he was aware of all financial dealings, and was upset with Surendra due to his dealings with another rowdy-sheeter. He also said that he would surrender before the police in the clip. However, the voice clip is yet to be verified by the authorities. Surendra was brutally murdered inside his apartment in Bantwal taluk, and the incident came to light on Wednesday. Bantwal town inspector and investigating officer T D Nagaraj told TOI that they were probing the murder from all angles. “CCTV footage and other evidence are being gathered and verified. At least eight people have been interrogated with regard to the murder, and the police are reaching out to all his acquaintances. We are also on the lookout for Sathish,” he said. The truth will emerge only after more arrests are made, he said. Meanwhile, it is learnt that Sathish had visited Surendra on the day that he was murdered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/audio-clip-claiming-responsibility-for-actors-murder-goes-viral/articleshow/78813959.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Road over Yellama Cheruvu angers locals||HYDERABAD: A road, which is being laid over the Yellama Cheruvu in Kukatpally, has angered locals, who say this is against the High Court order regarding the lake. “A road is being laid on the full tank level (FTL) of the Yellama Cheruvu. This is being done at the behest of corporator Venkatesh Goud,” said Balaswamy Gurram, convenor, Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL). Gurram said that a 2011 High Court order was being violated. The order states that no part of the tank be filled either by private individuals or by any agreement of the government. Krishna Rao, a local, said, “The encroachment has meant frequent flooding for residents nearby.” Corporator Venkatesh Goud said that the work was not new. “The villagers nearby complained that they were not being able to travel across it. For their convenience, an earthmover was used to clear the muck.” Gurram, refuted claims and said, “There have been several attempts to lay this road before. There are vested interests who are involved behind this. They will reap the commercial benefit of a road coming up in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-over-yellama-cheruvu-angers-locals/articleshow/78817491.cms||Uttara Varma
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Ineffective handling of flood exposes BSY govt, says HK Patil||Hubballi: Ineffective handling of the flood situation in North Karnataka has further exposed the inefficiency of the Yeddiyurappa government, alleged former minister and AICC working committee member HK Patil here on Thursday. “Kalyana Karnataka region has been staring at the worst flood in the recent past and North Karnataka was battered by floods due to unexpected downpour in the past two months. But the state government is in deep slumber and the local administrations have not taken any relief and rehabilitation measures except opening gruel centres,” he said. “As a rough estimate, around 10,000 families were stranded in flood water, over 1 lakh houses have collapsed and crops on 10 lakh hectares are inundated leading to crop loss of Rs 35,000 crore. Despite such a heavy loss, neither the chief minister nor his cabinet colleagues have shown concern. After two months Yediyurappa has conducted an aerial survey,” he charged. Stating that the government was unprepared despite getting forecasts from the Meteorological Department over possible heavy downpour, Patil said a plan should be chalked out on how to tackle situations arising out of floods and seek legitimate help from the Central government. He also appealed to the Narendra Modi government to respond positively. Patil expressed concern over the recent statement of Union minister for Jalashakati Gajendra Shekhawat over the sharing of Krishna river water and said the minister should clarify that the dispute was between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and it should be addressed within the share apportioned to undivided Andhra Pradesh and that it has nothing to do with Karnataka’s share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ineffective-handling-of-flood-exposes-bsy-govt-says-hk-patil/articleshow/78813456.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: A circular soon to omit ‘smelled mouth’ from boozing FIRs||AHMEDABAD: When it comes to nabbing drunk people, cops usually follow their thumb-rule of smelling the suspect’s mouth to decide whether he has consumed alcohol. But, senior police officials claim that the rule is followed only on paper. Given the Covid-19 situation, ‘smelling the mouth’ carries dangerous connotations of breaching social distancing and putting the suspect in a vulnerable position and promoting spread of disease — as the coronavirus attacks and resides in the respiratory tract. Now, police are bringing out a circular which will require reliance on other attributes to justify whether someone was inebriated, rather then mention the fact of ‘smelling the mouth.’ “There are many attributes which one can use to describe a drunk man such as his inability to stand properly, unstable movement, slurred speech, etc, to justify taking the suspect for medical check-up to a hospital to confirm whether he is drunk or not,” said a senior police official. He confirmed that a circular in this regard will be issued soon. The sniffing rule has been traditionally used to detect those who break prohibition laws. But senior cops believe it has become a fixed format of the FIR, when it comes to catching drunk people, and it is mentioned on paper, even if nobody had smelled the mouth of a suspect. In a recently registered FIR, it was mentioned that during patrolling police came across a man who was not stable on his feet and seemed to be drunk. “The cops called two panch witnesses and then wrote in the FIR, that they themselves first smelt the mouth of the suspect and them made the panch witnesses smell the mouth to ascertain that the suspect is drunk,” said a police official. “Mostly in all the FIRs registered against an inebriated person, ‘smelling of the mouth’ is mentioned and that phrase will be removed,” said a top Gujarat police official. He said before the outbreak of Covid-19 police used to go close to the suspect but now they maintain a certain distance and check his eyes and his ability to speak and stand in proper manner. “The phrase gives a wrong impression to the public, especially when we are fighting a war against a pandemic,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/circular-soon-omit-smelled-mouth-from-boozing-firs/articleshow/78817505.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Congressmen heckled by MIM workers in Afzal Sagar||HYDERABAD: Mild tension prevailed in Afzal Sagar on Thursday after Congress leader Feroz Khan and his followers were allegedly heckled by AIMIM party workers. Following complaints that the Rs 10,000 instant relief promised by the government was not received by some locals, Feroz Khan and a group of Congress workers visited that area. While they were interacting with the residents, a group of men from AIMIM obstructed them and told them to leave the area. However, as Congressmen refused to leave, the MIM workers allegedly heckled them. “Though we want to help the rain-affected families, we are being targeted everywhere in the city. MIM workers are stopping us from doing the good work,” Feroz Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congressmen-heckled-by-mim-workers/articleshow/78817462.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kolkata||As Puja mood kicks in, clubs toggle between customs, technology & Calcutta high court||KOLKATA: The pandemic and the Calcutta high court restrictions have prompted puja committees across the city to innovate and move on as per the new guidelines while setting in the celebratory mood on Sasthi. While some continued with their traditions involving fewer people and with enough safeguards, several others fell back on technology — resorting to live-streaming — to reach out to pandal-hoppers stuck at home. Vivekananda Sporting Club in Girish park maintained its ritual of welcoming the deity with a dandiya dance performed by local women. The club continued the ritual even on Thursday with only eight women, all clad in PPE. “We respect the court order but didn’t want to break the tradition. Hence, sticking to the court guideline, fewer women participated in the programme and all of them wore PPE,” said Goutam Bose, the club secretary. Even before the court order, Chetla Agrani had made all the changes to ensure minimal crowding at the pandal that has been kept open on three sides, visible even to those travelling in a car along the road. Post the order, they have shut down the park gate and limited entry for club members, too. “In earlier years, several people used to complaint that they couldn’t see our idol because of the crowd. This year, even we don’t want crowding and have made the pandal in such a way that its visible for everyone,” said Babu Samanta, the club treasurer. Partho Ghosh of Sib Mandir on Lake Temple Road said this was a new puja experience. “But for me, it is evoking nostalgia, almost a journey back in time to the 1970s and 1980s when life during the festival was less stressful. I am spending time with my family. In the afternoon and again in the evening, there are adda sessions lined up among club members. For the past three decades, this has been unthinkable. Police have taken on the responsibility of enforcing Covid protocols.” Even for celebrities, who generally have a hectic schedule during the Pujas, this is a welcome change. “For the first time in many years, I am being able to spend the puja with my family and my two pet dogs. I miss the grandeur but I couldn’t have asked for a better time to be with the family,” said Mimi Chakraborty, actor and Jadavpur MP. Percussionist Bickram Ghosh, who judges multiple puja contests and takes part in inaugurations every year, is also spending time at home with his wife and kids. “I have sorted out the books I am going to finish in these festive days and catch up on some much-needed sleep,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/as-puja-mood-kicks-in-clubs-toggle-between-customs-tech-hc-order/articleshow/78815879.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 23, 2020||Agra||Global journo bodies write to PM on Kerala reporter arrested in Hathras||Agra: Two international journalist bodies have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to secure the release of Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan who was arrested in UP when he was on his way to meet the Hathras victim's family.The International Press Institute, an Austria-based umbrella body of journalists, and the International Federation of Journalists, headquartered in Belgium, have urged Modi to “take immediate steps to ensure that journalists work without any harassment and fear of reprisal from the government.” Citing Kappan’s case among others as "evidence of growing pressure", their letter said, "The use of sedition laws to harass independent, critical journalists is not only a gross violation of the country’s international commitments...Journalistic work cannot be equated to sedition or undermining security."The four men — Kappan, Masood Ahmad, Atikur Rahman and Mohammad Aalam — have been charged with sedition in two separate cases by Mathura Police and Hathras Police and accused of conspiring to instigate caste riots. Their bail pleas have not moved ahead — that of the driver Aalam did not go through on Thursday when a local court in Mathura adjourned the hearing on the bail petition to next week.“Because the case has recently been transferred to the Special Task Force in Lucknow, 15 days were sought from the court to complete the process of appointing an investigating officer, preparing an inquiry report. However, the court gave us a week’s time. The next hearing is on October 29,” additional district government counsel Narendra Kumar Sharma told TOI.Ahmad’s bail hearing had also been adjourned earlier till October 28, district government counsel Shivram Singh Tarkar said. Rehman’s bail plea has not been processed so far because some documents were missing, his lawyer said.Kappan’s case is more complex. Since the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, of which he is general secretary, had earlier moved a habeas corpus petition in the Supreme Court, it would have to be amended before a bail plea can be filed. For that, Kappan’s signature would be needed and the journalists’ body had last week sought permission to meet him. But the chief judicial magistrate’s court had rejected that application. Kappan’s lawyer Wills Mathews told TOI they would approach the Supreme Court again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/global-journo-bodies-write-to-pm-on-kerala-reporter-arrested-in-hathras/articleshow/78815863.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||ACB raids offices, residences of 3 officers||Hubballi: The Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths raided offices and residence of two officials on Thursday. ACB police attached to Bagalkot raided the office and residence of Ashok Shankarappa Topalkatti, an assistant engineer-2 in the department of rural drinking water supply and santization sub division in Bagalkot. They also raided a gas agency in his wife Jayalaxmi’s name in Bagalkot’s Navanagar Sector 17 and the the residence in Vidyagiri 8th Cross in Bagalkot, said BS Nemagouda, Superintendent of Police Northern Range. The Gadag ACB police raided the office and residence of SS Rudresh, project director in Gadag City Urban Development Authority. The team raided his residence in revenue department quarters on Mulgund Road, his office in district administration premises. They also raided his brother SN Mallik’s house in Kodagavalli village in Chitradurga. Both raids were conducted following complaints that these officials have accumulated wealth more than their known source income. On Wednesday, the ACB raided the house of Harish alias Huchhappa Kamanna Halepet, assistant secretary, KIADB. They also raided the house of Harish’s friend Pramod Savanur. Based on a tip-off that Harish owned assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, ACB officials investigated his house at Shambhavi Layout in Keteshwar Nagar, Hubballi. Harish works at the KIADB in Bengaluru. “Another house belonging to his friend Pramod at Medar Oni in Old Hubballi was also raided. Our teams have continued the search,” said BS Nemagouda, superintendent of police, ACB northern range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/acb-raids-offices-residences-of-3-officers/articleshow/78813348.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Prices of onions breach Rs 100 per kg||Chennai: Wholesale onion prices continue to hover around Rs 90 per kg at the Koyambedu market, but have breached Rs 100 a kg in neighbourhood markets. Imported onion have come to the rescue of consumers due to a dip in onions sourced from other states. But consumers may not get relief from the high onion prices till the next few weeks, according to market experts, who are attributing the dip in arrivals to heavy rain in key onion supplying states such as Karnataka and Maharashtra. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said onion prices will spike further as the state government has started selling the commodity at reasonable prices through cooperative stores. “We are witnessing a plunge in the volume of trucks ferrying onions, which is less by four tonne per vehicle. It is being compensated by imported onions since Wednesday,” he said. The imported onions account for 20%of the supply to the market. Only a week ago, onions were selling for Rs 50 per kg. Its prices have been fluctuating for the past two months due to multiple reasons, primarily due to incessant rain damaging crops in source states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/prices-of-onions-breach-rs-100-per-kg/articleshow/78817504.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Clear Rs 1.27 crore dues first or else no buses for bypoll duty||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh Private Bus Operators Association has demanded payment of dues to the tune of several crores spent on various government events, including elections in the period between 2016 to 2018. Association president Gobind Sharma demanded that the fares be increased by 50%. Sharma alleged that a whopping Rs 1.27 crore is yet to be paid to 136 buses — a majority from Indore — that were engaged in the 2018 assembly elections. “Police administration took over these vehicles and sent them to Balaghat for 15 days,” alleged Sharma. He added: “Under the order dated October 6, 2018, of the MP transport department, the fare of 35-seater bus and above was Rs 35 per km and Rs 45 per km. In all, 136 buses were sent by the district administration to Balaghat whose bill of Rs 1.27 crore was sent to Balaghat, but the administration sent the bill for payment on the basis of Rs 1,250 per day, which the motor owners did not accept.” Sharma said that if the district administration did not pay the dues of the assembly elections, the bus owners would not give their buses in the upcoming by-elections. Similarly, during the year 2016 to 2018, due to various types of conferences organized by the Madhya Pradesh government, the outstanding payment of Rs 1.7 cr of 4,976 buses was not paid by the state government, which has angered the bus owners About the increase in fare, Sharma said, “We are demanding from the government that 50% fare should be increased immediately. On this, a consensus has been reached with our meeting with the government, but the government does not pay any attention to the present. The running buses have to bear the heavy loss as passengers are not available.” He claimed that if the government does not take a decision soon, the operation of buses running in the state can be stopped due to continuous losses. He claimed that 90% of the buses had stopped operating due to lack of traffic. “Besides, the government should also waive-off the tax till February 2021,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/clear-rs-1-27-crore-dues-first-or-else-no-buses-for-bypoll-duty-bus-operators-body/articleshow/78815907.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools, students lend helping hand to flood-hit in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: School managements, students and their parents are doing their bit for flood victims in the city by distributing food, bottled water and other essentials to those stuck in colonies flooded by storm water. “Today, we distributed over 2,000 packets of vegetable biryani, over 10,000 biscuit packets, water bottles among other items at different locations in Nacharam and Malakpet,” said V Amarnath, director, Slate Schools. Likewise, Shiva Rama Krishna, correspondent, St Sai School, Krishna Nagar, said they distributed cooked food and ration to victims in Begumpet and Kavadiguda. “We went to Begumpet. But, after going there, we distributed food to all in the locality,” Krishna said, adding that the relief work was carried with e help of correspondents of St Joan’s High School, Begumpet, and Shireen School on behalf of Telangana Recognised School Management Association (TRSMA), Secunderabad mandal. “Individual school managements are reaching out to people in different locations,” TRSMA president Shekar Rao said. “We also helped in rescue operations by moving people to safe areas with the help of tubes,” National Students Union of India state president Venkat Balmoori said. With the help of parents and staff, schools have also distributed biscuit packets, fruits and milk packets to needy. Student leaders said there were also pitching in to help flood victims||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-students-lend-helping-hand-to-flood-hit/articleshow/78817530.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Tweet to Vijay Sethupathi’s daughter traced to Sri Lanka||CHENNAI: The person who issued a rape threat on Twitter to the daughter of actor Vijay Sethupathi is said to be hiding in Sri Lanka, police said. The city cyber crime police received a reply on the location of the accused from Twitter’s head office a few days ago. Following this, the cybercrime police will dispatch a police team to the island nation to detain and inquire the suspect. Interpol authorities have already issued a ‘blue corner notice’ against the suspect. The blue corner notice would help the cybercrime police from Chennai to locate, identify or obtain information on the suspect without any hindrance. An officer said, “If the suspect confesses to have posted the derogatory statement against Vijay Sethupathi’s daughter, we would initiate his apprehension.” Police are planning to send a letters rogatory (formal request from a court to a foreign court for judicial assistance) to the Sri Lankan government to help bring the suspect to Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tweet-to-vijay-sethupathis-daughter-traced-to-sl/articleshow/78817557.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Collector gives Rs11.7cr for 400 more Covid beds in GMCH||Nagpur: The district administration on Thursday released Rs11.72 crore for the development of additional 400-bed Covid-19 facility in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). This facility is being established in view of the possible second surge of Covid-19 cases expected in November-December.“After the addition of 400 beds, GMCH will have 1,000 beds dedicated for Covid-19 patients. Out of the 400 new beds, 350 will be high dependency unit (HDU) beds, and 50 intensive care unit (ICU) beds,” said Dr Sajal Mitra, dean of GMCH. Initial work of development of the facility has already started. With funds allocated now, the work is set to complete soon.GMCH management has vacated 10 wards for the establishment of additional 400 beds. Ward nos. 7 to 11, ward no. 14 and ward nos. 17 to 20 on first and second floor of the GMCH building will be utilized for this. Each ward will have 40 beds. Oxygen pipeline-laying work is underway in full swing in these wards.Total Covid-19 cases in Nagpur district are over 92,000, but patients under treatment are less than 6,000. During his visit to the GMCH in September, state health minister Rajesh Tope had ordered to increase 400 beds urgently in the GMCH. After this, the dean had constituted a seven-member committee headed by Dr Sudhir Gupta. This panel suggested infrastructure development as well as appointment of skilled manpower for additional beds. According to the panel report, GMCH needs 200 more doctors, 200 nursing staff, 100 assistant staff and some equipment. District collector Ravindra Thakare accepted this proposal and allocated Rs11.72 crore for the same on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-gives-rs11-7cr-for-400-more-covid-beds-in-gmch/articleshow/78815892.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||Police inspector shifted for ‘misbehaving’ with BJP functionary||Pilibhit: An inspector, crime, was removed from Pilibhit Kotwali police station late on Wednesday night and attached to the reserve police lines for allegedly "misbehaving" with BJP city unit president, Nishant Pratap Singh.According to sources, inspector Mukesh Kumar had stopped and seized the BJP functionary's bike for triple riding on Wednesday.Later, BJP workers and office-bearers blocked Loha Bazar road at 8 pm and then, staged a dharna outside the office of circle officer, city, Virendra Vikram. It which continued till 11 pm.Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, said the inspector was removed for allegedly misbehaving with Singh during the seizure of his bike.“An inquiry in the matter has been marked to the CO, city to find out the actual facts. The bike had also been released by the police,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-inspector-shifted-for-misbehaving-with-bjp-functionary/articleshow/78812794.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Onion and potato prices hit the roof in festive season||NEW DELHI: Despite being the Navaratra season, onion prices have gone up to Rs 70 per kg in the retail market. The price of potato is also increasing. It is being sold at Rs 50-60 per kg in retail. The supply of onions at the Azadpur wholesale market has been hit because of the rain in the areas where they are produced, including south India. The wholesale prices of onions have increased from Rs 20-30 to Rs 45-55 of late. Srikant Mishra of Azadpur Union Traders Association said the supply of onions at the wholesale market had come down to almost half and there was no immediate hope of it improving. “On Thursday, the wholesale rate of onion ranged from Rs 40-60 per kg, which was Rs 25-40 per kg over a week ago,” said Mishra. Currently, only around 25 trucks of onions are being supplied to the Azadpur market every day, which was 50 to 60 trucks 10 days ago. A trader said the supply started drying up due to unseasonal rains in Maharashtra and Karnataka, which damaged the onion crops and affected supply. In September-October, fresh stocks of onions usually start arriving from Karnataka and Maharashtra, which has not been possible this year. “The supply of onions from Alwar will start soon but that will not be adequate to meet the huge demands. The prices of onions may remain high for some time,” said Mishra. The onions from Palwal, the supply of which has been delayed, will also start arriving soon. The hike in wholesale prices is having ripple effects across the retail markets in Delhi and NCR. On Thursday, various markets in Rohini, Vasant Kunj, East Delhi, Dwarka and other areas saw onions being sold at Rs 60-70 per kg. “Navaratra is a period when demand of onions dips because many families avoid eating onions during the nine days festival. Despite that, better-quality onions are being sold at Rs 70 and above. It may increase further,” said Md Firoz, a retailer in Laxmi Nagar. Meanwhile, traders said the wholesale prices of potatoes that ranged from Rs 25-35 per kg 10 days ago, had gone up to Rs 40-50 per kg. “The supply of potatoes from Karnataka, which usually starts early October, has been hit this year due to unseasonal rains. The potato stocks were low due to rains in March-April in Punjab,” a trader said. A decline in potato prices is expected in a couple of weeks when its supply from Punjab starts during Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/onion-and-potato-prices-hit-the-roof-in-festive-season/articleshow/78817559.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Samaritans team up to help needy||HYDERABAD: Heavy rains that led to massive destruction across the city has brought together good Samaritans, who are now helping flood-affected families rebuild their lives from scratch. Although the rainfall activity has subsided across the city, thousands are yet to recover from the losses caused by the rains. As per the Telangana government, close to 35,000 families were affected by the floods. Hyderabad Flash Floods, a coalition of 15 non-government organisations, is among many such volunteering teams that are extending help to flood-affected families with clothes, utensils, toiletries, dry ration etc. Formed merely a week ago, the coalition has now received thousands of calls for help, from areas such as Baba Nagar, Chandrayangutta, Ramanthapur, Uppal, Falaknuma. “There are many people in these areas who are wearing the same clothes for the last 7-10 days and have lost everything. Initially, we were expecting to extend help to 200-300 families. Looking at the overwhelming response that we have received from donors, we now hope to help at least 10,000 families,” said Feroz Baig, program coordinator of Hyderabad Flash Floods Coalition, which is set to commence disbursement of relief material to flood-affected areas from Friday. Apart from helping with relief material, some volunteering groups are also helping people clean their houses and surrounding areas.  “We are arranging earthmovers and tippers for flood-affected families to clear debris of their broken houses. Not just that, we are also helping them clean their premises,” said Mohammed Hussain, city coordinator, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, a socio-religious group engaged in relief work in Old City areas.  “Families are already going through a tough time with the pandemic. Today, the flood has thrown their lives out of balance and has wreaked havoc on their homes. You can help them by donating a grocery kit. Donate now to help the victims of Hyderabad floods get through this crisis,” read an online fundraising campaign by V-Care, an NGO, that is seeking Rs 700 from each donor towards the grocery kits of 14 essential household items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/good-samaritans-team-up-to-help-needy/articleshow/78817519.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh court tells woman to pay Rs 2k monthly alimony to estranged husband||MUZAFFARNAGAR: After over seven years of trial, a court in UP’s Muzaffarnagar district has directed a woman, 58, to pay monthly alimony of Rs 2,000 to her estranged husband who doesn’t have a permanent source of income. Kishori Lal Sohankar, now 62 years old, runs a tea stall in Muzaffarnagar’s Khatauli town. And his former wife, Munni Devi, recently retired from the Army, where she worked as a class IV employee. She gets Rs 12,000 as pension, sources said. They parted ways in 2013, about 23 years after tying the nuptial knot. And a son from the marriage lives with the mother in Kanpur. “Initially Sohankar filed a case in the family court seeking directions to bring home his wife. But she refused to stay with him. It was then that he approached the court seeking monthly maintenance from her,” said BK Tayal, the lawyer who represented Sohankar in the court. But it took Tayal a while to convince the court as examples of women paying alimony to their estranged husbands are rare in the country. And in Muzaffarnagar, it was never heard of, he said. The phenomenon is on the rise in the US and in European nations. “There is a section in Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 which says that a woman can give maintenance allowance to the separated husband. Based on this section and other evidence, the family court judge Tripta Chaudhary ordered Munni Devi to pay Rs 2,000 maintenance allowance to her husband,” Tayal told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-court-tells-woman-to-pay-rs-2k-monthly-alimony-to-estranged-husband/articleshow/78814765.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 23, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Congress & SP sympathizing with rioters, says Yogi Adityanath||MEERUT/AGRA: Launching the BJP’s by-election campaign from Bulandshahr, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday attacked the Congress and other opposition parties, alleging that they play “politics of caste” and “sympathize with rioters”. The attack comes days after massive protests erupted over the alleged gang-rape and murder of a Dalit girl in Hathras and arrest of four persons with alleged link with PFI. “A Congress leader and its former president went to meet a PFI leader in Kerala. Congress has been sympathizing with the organization which has been actively contributing in creating tension in the country,” the CM said. Seven assembly seats in the state are going to polls on November 3. CM Yogi addressed three consecutive rallies in Bulandshahr, Amroha and Tundla on Thursday. “Those who play politics of caste, show them the mirror and tell them that their slogans will not work in western UP. Only BJP’s developmental and nationalism slogans will work,” he said. Referring to the new university coming up in the name of Maharaja Mahendra Pratap in Aligarh, the CM said the king was “denied” his due credit for donating his property to Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). “Maharaja Mahendra Pratap had donated his entire property for establishing AMU, but there is not a single commemorative slab in the university in his honour,” he said. “Then the BJP came to power in the state, and a new university in the name of the Maharaja is being set up by the government in the same Aligarh,” he said. Addressing another rally in Tundla, the chief minister targeted the Samajwadi Party for playing “dirty politics”. Addressing the rally at Beeri Singh College ground, CM Yogi said, “Samajwadi Party has no shame. They are playing with the security of women by giving ticket to a family member of a gang-rape accused who is in jail since last nine months.” BJP candidate on Tundla (SC) seat, Prempal Dhangar, is up against Samajwadi Party candidate Maharaj Singh Dhangar whose son is facing gang rape charges. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cong-sp-sympathizing-with-rioters-says-up-cm-yogi/articleshow/78814758.cms||Piyush Rai
October 23, 2020||Meerut||Protest in Baghpat against police 'inaction' in trader’s murder||MEERUT: Activists from several social organisations on Thursday held a sit-in protest at tehsil premises here in Baghpat district alleging police inaction in the murder of a trader 13 days ago. Local trader Pradeep Atreya was shot dead on October 9. The protesters have given an ultimatum of three days to police to work out the case, after which they have “will launch a bigger agitation”. They have also demanded compensation for the family of the deceased. “It has been 13 days since the murder took place, and police is yet to land a breakthrough in the case. Our demand is that the killer should be arrested and no innocent is framed,” a protester said. On his part, Baghpat’s additional superintendent of police Manish Mishra said, “We have some vital clues and will soon crack the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/protest-in-baghpat-against-police-inaction-in-traders-murder/articleshow/78814759.cms||Piyush Rai
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalas encroached: Locals fear more floods, reach out for help||HYDERABAD: Perturbed after their repeated attempts to clear encroachments on the nala and strengthen its weak retaining wall failed, residents of Ashok Nagar in the Khairatabad zone approached TOI for help. Concerned with the prevalent precarious situation, the residents want the wall to be strengthened and protected on both sides. “I approached the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials several times. Though we had to run from pillar to post, there is no response from the concerned officials. Instead of solving the problems, the civic officials pass the buck to other departments,” said a resident of Ashok Nagar on condition of anonymity. When TOI visited the place, it noticed commercial establishments as well as residential properties on the nala. One structure was exactly on the edge of the nala. However, GHMC officials claimed that even after the nala was cleaned, garbage was dumped again. “After the nala was cleaned by our staff, some people might have dumped the garbage again. I will inspect that place and do the needful,” said Hemalatha, GHMC assistant medical officer for health, Amberpet circle. “All the complaints raised were attended promptly. These allegations are false,” she said. She also asked TOI to provide the details of the complaints so that they can solve the problems. T Satyanarayanamma, circle manager of GHMC urban biodiversity wing, Amberpet, denied the allegations as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalas-encroached-locals-fear-more-floods-reach-out-for-help/articleshow/78817553.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC to consider replacing legal size papers with A4 in courts||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has disposed of a PIL by directing its registry to place the issue before the chief justice for consideration on administrative side about doing away with the legal size papers in court cases and replace them with A4 size. The HC sent the issue for consideration in response to the PIL filed by a law student Jaydeep Patel, who had sought directions that A4 size paper, with printing on both sides of the paper, instead of legal size paper with one side printing, should be used for all court proceedings. This is with a view to bring uniformity about the use of paper and printing thereon and to minimize consumption of paper, including the costs of the proceedings and consequently to save the environment. The student had contended that if by altering rules the change can be brought into practice, it would save people’s money and spare them of great inconvenience. The HC also acknowledged the petitioner’s endeavour to highlight that there should be minimum use of paper to prevent ecological imbalance. The high court agreed with the student’s request of considering on administrative side about amending the rules regarding documents and copies to be supplied by advocates and printing paper-books on both the sides of A4 size paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-to-consider-replacing-legal-size-papers-with-a4-in-courts/articleshow/78817585.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Despite ICMR fears, plasma therapy clinical trials to continue in state||Nagpur: The ongoing plasma trials and off-label use of plasma face major obstacles after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) stated a day ago that plasma therapy may be deleted from the national clinical protocols for management of Covid-19. Project Platina, the world’s biggest clinical trial of plasma therapy, is under way in Maharashtra. Nagpur’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) is leading the trial that aims to assess the efficacy of plasma therapy to treat severely ill Covid-19 patients. If ICMR removes plasma therapy from national health clinical protocol, it will be a big blow to this trial. But officials here are hopeful of continuing with it under any situation. “We can continue the clinical trial which is purely a scientific and research activity. We may have to stop the off-label use of plasma which was just another wing of the project and not complete project,” said Dr Mohammad Faizal, state coordinator of Project Platina.“ICMR’s recent statement on plasma therapy is based on the findings of PLACID trial. We can continue our research. If our results are desirable, Project Platina can make ICMR reconsider the use of plasma,” he said.According to investigators associated with Project Platina, results of these trials can be turning point for Covid-19 treatment in India.“Based on our results, ICMR may revise national guidelines for plasma therapy and bring relief to patients,” said a senior doctor in one of the GMCs in Maharashtra. All 23 GMCs and corporation hospitals in the state are part of this trial which will be conducted on 500+ patients having severe infection.Private plasma banks, those supplying plasma to needy patients under ‘emergency use authorization’ are shocked after the ICMR’s statement. “ICMR must reconsider before taking such drastic step in this difficult times,” said Dr Harish Warbhe who heads India’s first plasma bank with RBD antibody testing facility in Nagpur.“We should not take critical decisions based upon the findings of one study which is yet to peer-reviewed and published in any reputed journal. The PLACID trial design might have been right at that time, but with better understanding of immuno-dynamics of virus and disease dynamics, we now find many shortcomings in it,” said Dr Warbhe.An expert group of treating clinicians and transfusion specialists has written to ICMR in this regard. The group has given a long list of limitations of PLACID trial and gave recommendations for effective use of plasma.“Our national guidelines are older and need immediate revision based on scientific evidence,” said Dr Warbhe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-icmr-fears-plasma-therapy-clinical-trials-to-continue-in-state/articleshow/78815931.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||14-yr-old lured into sexting by minor, later blackmailed||Bhopal: A 14-year-old girl was befriended by her schoolmate in August last year, after which both started chatting on social media platforms. During this period, the accused boy allegedly emotionally blackmailed the girl and got her involved in sexting. After getting her intimate photographs, he and his elder brother started blackmailing her. When the girl refused to toe the line, the accused shared her obscene photographs on Instagram. The girl’s maternal uncle alleged that the girl came in contact with the accused minor boy, who studies in the same school, in August 2019. On January 30, this year the accused minor boy claimed that it was his birthday and emotionally blackmailed the girl. He demanded her intimate photographs and threatened that if she will not send the photos, he would commit suicide. The girl got carried away and sent her photos. During lockdown the accused talked to the girl over phone and promised to marry her. The girl’s uncle said that in June, the accused introduced the girl to his elder brother. In July, threatened the girl that if she would not send her nude photographs, he would share her obscene photographs on social media. When the girl did as he said he shared her photographs with his elder brother and friends. They too started blackmailing her. The accused minor boy then started making video calls to the girl and forced her to talk to him on video. The girl got depressed when the accused forced her to call him from the washroom and refused to talk to him. The accused got angry and shared the girl’s photographs on social media after making a fake profile in her name. He made three fake Instagram profiles in her name and shared her obscene photos. The girl’s uncle said, initially the girl kept mum. She remained depressed after which her mother counselled her and she revealed the incident to her. Subsequently, they filed a complaint with the Cyber Crime branch. Initially the police did not register a case and said that the matter was under investigations. But when the girl’s family members approached DIG Irshad Wali and narrated the incident to him, he instructed to file an FIR in the matter. Subsequently, a molestation case was registered in the matter at the crime branch police station on October 12 under relevant sections of IPC and POCSO Act. DSP Neetu Thakur said that the accused minor boy has been arrested while his elder brother is on the run. The accused minor has been sent to juvenile home. Investigations are on in the case and as police get evidence, the number of accused in the case may rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/14-yr-old-lured-into-sexting-by-minor-later-blackmailed/articleshow/78815929.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Court junks case relating to lockdown violation in Bopal||AHMEDABAD: A local court has junked a Covid-19 lockdown violation case by rejecting a chargesheet filed by Bopal police against two persons who were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Earlier, courts in Vadodara and Mansa have rejected numerous chargesheets filed by the police in lockdown violation cases on the ground that Section 195 of the CrPC bars the court from taking cognizance of an offence registered under Section 188 of IPC. The beneficiaries of the court order junking the police chargesheet are two brothers-in-law, Yogesh Patel and Parth Patel, who were spotted in CCTV footage riding on their scooter in Bopal area on May 20. Police summoned the vehicle owner the next day, and he identified that the persons seated on the vehicle were his son and son-in-law. Bopal police registered an FIR not only under Section 188, but also under Section 269 of IPC for their negligent act which was likely to spread Covid-19 infection. The judicial magistrate first class at the Mirzapur rural court campus, Prithu Sharma noticed that the police personnel had not filed a private complaint in this case under Section 2(d) of the CrPC, but instead filed a report under Section 173 of the CrPC, which is a chargesheet. The court can take cognizance only upon the private complaint in writing of the public servant concerned or some other public servant to whom he is administratively subordinate. The court was critical of the police for invoking Section 269 of IPC and other charges under the Gujarat Police Act by citing the Epidemic Diseases Act and the National Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-junks-case-relating-to-lockdown-violation-in-bopal/articleshow/78817582.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Coronavirus takes bite out of festival tradition of bhandaras||NEW DELHI: The bhandaras, or the community meals that mark the beginning of Navratra and hundreds of poor people are fed, are mostly missing this year. With the norms for organising religious events and allied gatherings tightened to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, most traders’ associations and citizen groups have decided to skip the meals. In south Delhi, the municipal corporation claimed not to given even a single permission for the organisation of Navratri bhandaras so far. In fact, the civic body has formed teams to keep any eye on such activities that put people at Covid risk. “Unlike last year, when the local police or South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s permission was enough to organise a bhandara, this year’s norms issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority requires organisers to apply to the office of the sub-divisional magistrate after which a team comprising the area SHO and municipal licensing officer visit the venues to ascertain the ground situation there,” an SDMC official said. “The SDM’s office will give its nod based on their report. A day before the event, the organiser needs to inform the corporation again.” The civic official said that all applications received by SDMC had been forwarded to the SDM’s office. The municipal corporations in east and north Delhi have similar arrangements. “To deter people from congregating at one place, say, a community hall, we are carrying out random checks,” said an EDMC official. “For any gathering of over 100 people, it is a must to have the permission of the district magistrate or the SDM, deputy commissioner of police and the municipal corporation. Those who had applied are still to get permission for bhandaras.” The official said that the capacity allowed for these gatherings is decided on the basis of venue space and social distancing norms specified by the Union home ministry. The applicant is required to ensure safety protocols, including physical distancing, use of face masks and hand sanitisers and prohibiting of standing or squatting by visitors. “These norms are meant for events organised in the open, such as in market areas. But fair and melas and food stalls are not allowed at all,” added the official. Given the strictures, the market associations of Lajpat Nagar, Green Park Extension and Green Park are avoiding the community meals. “We have been organising bhandaras every year, but this year there was reluctance due to the difficulty of enforcing social distance or making sure people face masks at the event,” said Ashwini Marwah of Traders' Association of Lajpat Nagar. Others too spoke of why it was not easy to take a chance and distribute free meals. Rajiv Gupta of Green Park Extension Market Association said, “Traders in our market, including the association president, were keen to organise bhandaras, but they themselves are only coming to the shops occasionally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronavirus-takes-bite-out-of-festival-tradition-of-bhandaras/articleshow/78817589.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Covid-19 hurt early diagnosis of breast cancer’||AHMEDABAD: Anita (name changed), 46, a resident of Vejalpur, approached a city hospital when she felt her breast was swollen. “She had the issue for a month, but initially decided to treat it with home remedies. A mammography revealed it to be a cancerous growth and treatment was initiated immediately,” said Dr Shefali Desai, a consultant breast surgeon. “Covid-19 has affected early diagnosis of breast cancer. We advise women to approach experts with initial signs of abnormalities.” As October is observed as World Breast Cancer Awareness Month by the World Health Organization (WHO), for the year 2020, experts are focusing on early diagnosis and remote treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-hurt-early-diagnosis-of-breast-cancer/articleshow/78817590.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 3,674 physiotherapy, nursing seats empty||AHMEDABAD: The admission committee has so far allocated 13,910 seats for physiotherapy and nursing courses on the basis of the choice filling by the candidates. In all, the committee has initiated the process to fill 17,584 seats. As a result, 3,674 seats are currently empty after conducting first round of admission, said sources in the admission committee. The committee had initially initiated the process for 20,633 seats of 518 colleges. The candidates were given three opportunities for registration following which a merit list of 33,615 candidates was drawn. But, 3,049 seats of 73 colleges are yet to be approved. “The merit list included 33,615 students out of which 26,093 participated in the choice filling. There are 7,523 students who have not participated in the selection filling process,” said sources. The college will be allotted on November 2 on the basis of choice filling by students in the first round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3674-physiotherapy-nursing-seats-empty/articleshow/78817597.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Revaluation: HC comes to student’s aid, calls for answer sheet copy||Madurai: Granting relief to a Class XI student who sought re-evaluation of his economics paper, the Madras high court has directed the authorities to furnish the scanned copy of his answer sheet within 10 days, and re-evaluate the same. The court was hearing a petition filed by G Ramesh, on behalf of his son G R Balaji. Balaji, who had taken commerce group appeared for the Class XI exam in March. He had scored 506 marks out of 600, however, he was awarded only 55 marks out of 100 in economics. The petitioner had submitted an application seeking the scanned copy of his son’s economics answer sheet within the time prescribed, however, the school in which he was studying in Madurai, was unable to upload the application due to connectivity issues. The petitioner stated that his son is a bright student and his future should not be affected on account of not revaluation because of the fault on part of the school. The authorities in their counter stated that a GO was passed in 2001, stating that if there is a delay in making a request for a scanned copy of the answer sheet, it shall not be entertained. Justice S Vaidyanathan observed that when there is no fault on part of the student or the petitioner and that the request has been made on time and that there was a connectivity problem, there is no justification on part of the authorities in depriving the student by refusing to provide a scanned copy. The judge observed that if revaluation is done, it will give full mental satisfaction to the student and the parent. The judge also noted that no prejudice is going to be caused to the authorities if the petitioner’s request is considered and the request cannot be thrown to winds on technical grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/revaluation-hc-comes-to-students-aid-calls-for-answer-sheet-copy/articleshow/78818493.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Agra||Student leaders form ‘AMU bachao morcha’ to fight for SC/ST students’ rights||AGRA: To raise the issue of extending reservation of SC and ST aspirants for admission in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), student leaders of Dev Samaj College have formed ‘AMU Bachao Morcha’ to fight for their rights. Over 10K students will go to AMU on Friday to give a memorandum to the VC in this regard. Earlier, the Uttar Pradesh Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Commission had issued a notice to AMU for ‘violating constitutional provisions’ by not extending reservation to SC and ST aspirants in admissions and appointments. In 2018, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also stated that AMU and Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi, will have to grant quotas to SCs and STs. BJP MP from Aligarh Satish Gautam had also raised the issue with the AMU VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/student-leaders-form-amu-bachao-morcha-to-fight-for-sc/st-students-rights/articleshow/78815940.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown blues drive kids back to gaming addiction||As the pandemic forces everyone to stay indoors, a lot of children have got hooked to video games. Consoles like X Box and Playstations are flying off the shelves as parents bow to the demands of children. T Sankaran Ganesh, who bought a `49,000 PS4 Pro console for his 10-year son, says it has been challenging to keep children engaged, especially those in independent houses. "After a six hour online class, we need to find some activity for our kids, especially since visiting friends or going to playgrounds is not feasible." With little option for outdoor activities or sports, sales of gaming consoles and PC gaming have been scaling new highs since April, some of them reporting highest-ever growth. Retailer Croma has seen a more than 70% growth in PC gaming, which requires a personal computer, and 2x growth in sales of gaming consoles like Playstation between April and September 2020 compared to the against last year. "Demand for high graphic plates used in PC gaming has driven growth in this sector. The high demand is due to people having suddenly found themselves with extra time on their hands during lockdown," said Mahesh Raamaswamy, head of digital products, Croma. Prosenjit Ghosh, head of PlayStation business at Sony India, says sales of PS4 from April to September 2020 have been the highest ever since the product was launched in the country. "We see new trends where people are beginning to see gaming take a position alongside other mainstream popular entertainment options like movies or cricket. There is an increasing acceptance of gaming from a ‘gamer only’ option to a more family-inclusive ‘center of the living room’ phenomenon. Most of the purchases are being done online, with leading e-commerce platform Amazon India reporting a 3.5x increase in unit sales of video game consoles over the last few months, compared to last year. Popular products such as Sony PS4, Xbox and Nintendo have seen a considerable uptake amongst customers. An Amazon spokesperson said that in September 2020, the newly launched Xbox Series X was sold out within 15 minutes of going live. "Interestingly, customers are also searching for accessories like headsets & controllers, which indicates that they are looking to create more immersive and holistic gaming experience at home," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-blues-drive-kids-back-to-gaming-addiction/articleshow/78817600.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Kids below 10 yrs, six of a family allowed in Tadoba||Nagpur: In a welcome decision, forest department has allowed entry of children below 10 years for a safari in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) if they are along with family members. Also, a maximum of 6 members of the same family are now allowed to travel in a Gypsy. When the forests opened on October 1, only four per Gypsy were permitted.A notification for these two changes was issued by principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF).No decision has been taken on allowing entry to citizens above 65 years and pregnant women.Earlier, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had restricted entry of such children, senior citizens and pregnant women in reserved forests and safaris in view of coronavirus.Following a proposal by forest officials after the state government lifted several curbs as part of the mission begin again, acting PCCF MK Rao issued the order allowing children below 10 to accompany the family. Forest officials, in their proposal, had underlined the fact that government has already allowed citizens to visit hotels, restaurants and such places with 50% occupancy. Foresters pointed out that safaris are conducted in open vehicles and there would be no harm in allowing kids as there will be no risk of Covid-19 virus transmission.In Madhya Pradesh, entry of children, senior citizens and pregnant women in reserve forests and safaris has already been allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kids-below-10-yrs-six-of-a-family-allowed-in-tadoba/articleshow/78815937.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||More recoveries than new cases; deaths reduce to 30||Nagpur: After reporting more new cases than number of recovered patients for a day on Wednesday, Covid-19 situation in Vidarbha came back to its normal trend of October on Thursday. Against 1,466 new cases, 1,580 recovered in a day. Total case count reached 1,82,568 with 1,61,671 of them recovered. Recovery rate also followed the upward trend and reached 88.55%. Most importantly, number of Covid-19 deaths in a day reduced to 30 on Thursday.Deaths were reported from 10 out of 11 districts, which indicates the infection is still widespread and serious patients are present in all parts. With Nagpur (14), Yavatmal (4), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (2), Washim (2), Bhandara (1), Wardha (1), Akola (1), and Amravati (1), Vidarbha’s total toll reached 4,948. Case fatality rate is 2.71%, which is still constant.Gadchiroli: The district reported two deaths for the second day in a row. This took Gadchiroli’s toll to 43. The district reported 108 new cases while 140 patients recovered. Gadchiroli now has 4,973 cases, 4,124 recoveries.Gondia: With the detection of 81 new cases on Thursday, Gondia district breached 9,000-mark with a total of 9,049 cases so far. The day also saw recovery of 118 patients. The district now has 1,050 under treatment.Washim: Deaths of two patients were reported from Washim on Thursday taking toll to 121. With 61 more cases, Washim’s total caseload reached 5,531. On the other hand, 45 patients recovered, taking their number to 4,747. Now, 663 patients are under treatment.Bhandara: This was one of the four districts in Vidarbha where more than 100 new cases were reported on Thursday. With 112 new cases, total cases reached 7,787. Total 91 patients recovered. Akola: The district reported 33 new cases, while 16 recovered in a day. Now, out of 8,178 patients, 7,432 have recovered and 479 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Testing has been ramped up in Buldhana over last two days. After receiving more than 900 reports in a day on Wednesday, more than 700 reports were received. Total 99 of them tested positive. Amravati: The district posted 139 recoveries to take the total recoveries to 14,371 for a percentage of 91.35. As against this, the district reported 47 new cases, taking the Covid caseload to 15,732. Thursday saw one Covid death that took the toll to 355. Chandrapur: The district crossed 14,000 cases with the detection of 212 new Covid patients. Thus, the total Covid count climbed to 14,202 on Thursday. The day also witnessed discharge of 153 patients and two Covid deaths. The district’s Covid toll now stands at 211.Wardha: Out of 614 test reports received on Thursday, 47 were positive. The caseload of district reached 5,976 and total Covid recoveries climbed to 5,145. Deaths due to Covid-19 now stand at 192 after a death on Thursday. Yavatmal: The Yavatmal district recorded 4 Covid deaths on Thursday. Also, 606 test reports were received in the last 24 hours on Thursday of which 64 were Covid positive. As on date, the district has 520 patients, including 152 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-recoveries-than-new-cases-deaths-reduce-to-30/articleshow/78815945.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Woman arrested, loot worth Rs 3.2 lakh recovered||Haveri: Haveri police arrested a woman thief allegedly involved in housebreak thefts in Haveri city on Wednesday evening. Rs 20,000 cash, jewellery worth Rs 3.15 lakh and silver articles worth Rs 27,500 have been recovered from Jayashri Kanvar Upadya, the accused. SP K G Devaraj said Jayashri, a native of Kalaburagi city, has targeted several locked houses during daytime. She was caught at Shivaji Nagar I Cross while she was doing a recce on the prext of collecting plastic from roadsides. She carrying an iron rod made the police suspicious and upon interrogation, she spilled beans on her crime history. The SP said she has targeted many houses in Haveri and other cities. After further inquiry, she will be produced before the court, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/woman-arrested-loot-worth-rs-3-2-lakh-recovered/articleshow/78813564.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mysuru||Century-old govt school gets new lease of life||Mysuru: Here is an example for how government run schools can help the poor in the hour of crisis. The century old New Type Model School (NTMS) in the city, which was once facing the threat of closure due to lack of student strength, and a demand from an ashram to hand over the school to build a memorial, has witnessed a surge in demand this year. Most of the new admissions here are from people of disadvantaged sections of society who migrated to Mysuru from distant places like Tumakuru, Sakaleshapur, Nanjangud, Hassan among others in search of jobs. According to available data, in the academic year 2018-19, the school’s strength was 28. It touched 50 in 2019-20. By the end of the academic year, seven students who were promoted to class VIII moved out as the school has classes only till VII. For 2020-21, 31 students have joined the school. Among them, 11 have already completed the admission process. While 20 students who have enrolled, are yet to get transfer certificate from their previous schools. With this, the school’s strength has touched 74. “When the offline classes start, I am confident that this number will cross 100 as many students have still not been admitted to any school. Our request to all: please adopt our school and help children from poor families pursue quality education,” said headmaster Srinivas RK. According to authorities, the school has just three teachers to hold classes for students between Class I and VII. “Compared to many schools, it is located in a good place and has all facilities. If more facilities are provided, it can be converted into a model school. Any NGO or donors can play a big role in further improving the school and ensure it helps children from poor families to pursue good education for free,” said education department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/century-old-govt-school-gets-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/78814412.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru City Corporation plans to open dry waste collection centres in city||Mangaluru: In a bid to manage solid waste more efficiently, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) will open four dry waste collection centres in the city. MCC, which has been striving to achieve 100% waste segregation, will join hands with NGOs to open dry waste collection centres under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Ullal city municipality, in association with Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation, had recently signed a memorandum of understanding for setting up the district’s first dry waste collection centre at Ullal town. Every day, Ullal generates over 18 tonnes of waste, of which about 4-5 tonnes is dry. As per the MoU, Ullal city municipality will provide the physical infrastructure for collection, processing and storage of recyclable dry waste. Hasiru Dala and APD Foundation will provide technical knowhow and undertake training and monitoring of the venture. “MCC authorities also have plans to set up four similar units in Mangaluru city limits,” said MCC environment engineer Madhu Manohar. Some NGOs have shown interest to set up dry waste collection centres in the city, he told TOI. “We will float tenders to invite bidders who are interested to open dry waste collection centres. Selected agencies will collect, separate and dispose the dry waste. The city generates an average of 276 tonnes of dry and wet waste per day at present. It was 330 tonnes of waste per day prior to Covid-19 lockdown,” he said. The waste processing capacity of MCC’s landfill site at Pachanady is 200 tonnes per day, and it will be increased under the Swachh Bharat Mission. “MCC also has plans to set up biogas plants to process waste in the city,” he said, adding that only one plant is functioning at Urwa Market at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-city-corporation-plans-to-open-dry-waste-collection-centres-in-city/articleshow/78813998.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||MAT quashes transfer of 13 tehsildars, revenue officers||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of ten tehsildars and three deputy revenue officers from Vidarbha, the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) quashed and set aside their transfers of October 1, terming them as “illegal”.All 13 applicants approached the tribunal contending their tenures were yet to be completed but they were shifted to allegedly benefit some vested interests who wanted those postings.Defending the move, the government said those were carried out in consultation with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat.“The material is sufficient to exhibit that only for giving convenient postings to private individuals and disregarding the revenue department and civil services board’s opinion, the decision was taken to appoint these individuals in place of applicants. It’s done without recording exceptional circumstances or special reasons. So, all transfer orders are not legally sound,” judicial member Anand Karanjkar said.The judge added that the government was bound to show that transfers were legal exercise of power by competent authority. “In this case when it’s conceded by the government that no special reasons are recorded or no exceptional circumstances were shown to have been in existence for transferring all applicants at a premature stage, then it’s not possible to accept that all these transfer orders are legal,” he said.According to him, the legal position is very much settled that power is conferred by statute on the government/transferring authority to transfer its servant before completion of normal tenure. “The authority is, however, bound to record which were exceptional circumstances or special reasons for premature transfers. In this case, the present case after perusing the material, I am compelled to say that no special reasons or exceptional circumstances were shown to be in existence,” Karanjkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mat-quashes-transfer-of-13-tehsildars-revenue-officers/articleshow/78815969.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH taking bulk of Covid, non-Covid load in city||Nagpur: Even as private hospitals have demanded that all Covid patients be treated in medical colleges only, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) seems to be handling most of the Covid and non-Covid caseload in the city.As on date, the GMCH has 300 moderate and critical Covid patients, while its non-Covid load too has suddenly shot up. Since October 1, the tertiary care public hospital has catered to 9,734 non-Covid outpatients for cardiology, skin diseases, pulmonary embolism, diabetes, general medicine, casualty, paediatric surgery, casualty surgery, radiation therapy and oncology, ophthalmology, physiotherapy and even post-Covid pulmonary conditions among several other categories. The non-Covid inpatient department is treating 838 people in obstetrics and gynaecology, general medicine, paediatric medicine and other departments. Close to 250 surgeries in emergency OT, trauma, other major and minor cases too have been dealt with here in the last 22 days.In contrast to this, Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) has 62 Covid patients and reportedly it had already stopped major non-Covid treatments after converting its surgical complex into a Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH).Officials said as Covid cases are now dipping and many beds are vacant in the DCH, the IGGMCH administration is planning to start two wards having 80 beds for non-Covid patients. They claimed that surgeries were being conducted, though no data regarding OPD, IPD and surgeries for non-Covid patients was made available.The GMCH had shifted its trauma centre to two ordinary buildings after converting the facility into DCH in June. However, as unlock process started, the number of accident, snakebite, surgeries, and other critically ill patients has drastically surged to pre-Covid level.GMCH officials said they have started feeling harassed as a lot is being expected from them alone. “Despite the medical college committing 600 beds exclusively for Covid patients by stopping the most important trauma centre, all additional tasks in health care continue to be pushed on us. How far can GMCH stretch its limit? The administration and people are expecting us to take care of Covid-19 and non-Covid too beside setting up 400 more Covid beds,” rued the officials.The same staff is busy handling both Covid and non-Covid patients, they said, pointing out that fatigue factor is not being considered for GMCH staffers.quoteDespite the medical college committing 600 beds exclusively for Covid patients by stopping the most important trauma centre, all additional tasks in health care continue to be pushed on us— GMCH officialsInfoGMCHCovidAdmission | 300 patientsOPD | 100Non-Covid (From Oct 1 to 22)OPD | 9,734IPD | 838Surgeries | 244IGGMCHCovid | 62OPD | NANon-Covid | NA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-taking-bulk-of-covid-non-covid-load-in-city/articleshow/78815950.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 23, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar DC sets up library at Covid care centre||Mysuru: In a bid to provide Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at one of the district’s healthcare institutions a better way of spending their time rather than spending entire days hooked to smartphones, officials of the Chamarajanagar administration opened a library at the Santemarahalli Covid hospital. The library boasts a collection of 700 books, and was started with the idea of cultivating among the patients housed at the hospital. The encouraging response to the library at the Santemarahalli hospital inspired the district administration to set up a second such library at yet another Covid Care Centre that is operating out of an engineering college on the outskirts of Chamarajanagar town. The Santemarahalli hospital can house up to 80 patients, including 10 in its intensive care unit (ICU). Of the remaining 70 beds, oxygen is supplied to 60. The hospital was turned into a CCC to treat patients from Kollegal and Hanur taluks exhibiting mild to moderate symptoms of the infection. The library at the hospital was opened a week ago. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi said that, on a recent visit to the Santemarahalli hospital, he had been distressed to see the amount of time most patients spent glued to the screen of their smartphones. “Very few patients were reading newspapers. So, I decided to set up a library to instil the habit of reading among the patients. Officials of the health department, along with those from the department of public works helped set up the library without delay. There are biographies, novels and other works housed in the library,” said Ravi. The library proposed at the CCC at the Chamarajanagar Engineering College, set up exclusively to treat asymptomatic patients, too will have 700 books, the DC said. “Many of the patients who we admitted were found to behave rudely. Reading will help them stay calm and keep emotions in check,” said the Chamarajanagar DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-dc-sets-up-library-at-covid-care-centre/articleshow/78814287.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||4 of family killed in road accident near Palani||Madurai: Four members of a family were killed in a road accident near Palani in Dindigul district on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as N Manivel, 30, his father Nataraj, his grandparents Karupanan and Muthammal from Athappakavundanpudur near Oddanchatram. Police sources said that Manivel, his family members and relatives were on their way to Pappampatti near Palani to visit somebody for a marriage alliance for Manivel. They were travelling in two cars, one of which was driven by Manivel. Manivel lost control of the vehicle, while crossing Karadikootam village. The vehicle hit a roadside tree killing all the four on the spot. Manivel’s relative Muthammal was injured in the incident and was shifted to Palani government hospital for treatment. On being alerted, a police team from the Palani rural police station reached the spot and recovered the dead bodies. Based on a complaint, a case was registered. Police said that Manivel could have lost control due to tyre burst. A detailed inquiry is underway to find out the cause of the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-of-family-killed-in-road-accident-near-palani/articleshow/78818511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Plea in HC against lamp posts in Rockfort St||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea which sought the Trichy Corporation not to erect high-mast LED lamp posts at the narrow North Rockfort Street in Trichy district as it would result in shrinking the road space further. A division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and Abdul Quddhose ordered notice on the petition filed by R Sundararajan, secretary of the Rockfort Welfare Association. The petitioner stated that under the heritage tourism development project proposed under the smart cities mission, the corporation had identified Rockfort hillock as one of the sites for beautification in 2018. He stated that the authorities would be erecting lamp posts in narrow streets including the North Rockfort street. If the posts are erected then the street would become narrower from 12ft to 8ft. It would be difficult for vehicles, especially emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire engines, to enter the street. He also stated that temple cars would also not be able to enter the street during festivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-against-lamp-posts-in-rockfort-st/articleshow/78818494.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||3 get 10 years jail for possessing ganja||Madurai: The Madurai district and sessions court on Thursday convicted and sentenced three people to undergo 10 year imprisonment for possessing 150kg ganja. According to sources, the officials from the Narcotics Control Bureau received a tip-off about ganja being smuggled in a car from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh to Madurai district. During the search based on the tip-off near Mattuthavani, the officials found 150kg of ganja inside a car on June 23, 2017. The officials arrested three people - K Paraman, 40, M Pandian, 29, and Shaik Alauddin, 30 and were booked under sections of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. On Thursday, judge V Padmanabhan convicted and sentenced the trio to undergo rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 1lakh each. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-get-10-years-jail-for-possessing-ganja/articleshow/78818496.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Mayor bans sale of meat from other districts, states in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Mangaluru mayor Divakar has directed all the 20 meat stalls in Mangaluru city not to procure meat from other districts or states. He said that all the stalls in the city should procure meat from the slaughterhouse authorised by the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC), in the city only. The mayor warned cancellation of licence if stalls are found procuring meat from other districts or states. “We have received several complaints regarding meat being brought from other states and districts, which are sold in the Mangaluru city limits. Hence, we have directed all the meat stalls in the city not to sell meat that was procured from other districts or states. We will cancel the licences of meat stalls if they sell meat procured from places other than authorised source,” Divakar said. “All the meat stalls in the city should procure meat from the MCC slaughterhouse only. Meanwhile, beef stalls in the city should compulsorily keep their purchase bills with them. Similarly, cattle should be transported to the slaughterhouse in vehicles that have special permission from the RTO,” the mayor said. Recently, a team of officials from the MCC led by the mayor and corporators from the BJP had conducted an inspection of meat stalls and the slaughterhouse of the MCC in the city. The mayor had warned against mixing beef with mutton on the occasion. It may be recalled that the Mangaluru city police, on a tip-off, had intercepted a goods transport truck and seized 2,500 kg of beef that was being transported illegally, on Sunday. Police had nabbed two accused who were transporting the meat, ostensibly from Hubballi to the city. Earlier, police had seized beef, which was being transported to Mangaluru city from Hassan in a milk delivery van. Similarly, many such instances of illegal transportation of cattle were reported recently. The ruling BJP in the MCC council led by Mayor Divakar has decided to act tough against all such illegal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mayor-bans-sale-of-meat-from-other-districts-states-in-mangaluru/articleshow/78814131.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Health department sounds alert, asks hospitals to set up fever desk||MEERUT: After instructions of the UP health department, Meerut authorities have sounded alert and asked the hospitals to set up fever desks as dengue, malaria and viral cases are on the rise. The health staff will be trained to ensure that people complaining of fever are tested for all the diseases in order to curb the spread of virus. Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “All the hospitals in Meerut have been asked to set up fever desks so that fever associated diseases can be differentiated and treated accordingly.” The medical staff will be trained and provided with infrared thermometers and pulse oxymeters. Meanwhile, fogging and anti-larva spraying activities are being conducted in various parts of the district to keep a check on mosquito-borne diseases like malaria and dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/health-dept-sounds-alert-asks-hosps-to-set-up-fever-desk/articleshow/78814811.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||Man gets life term for raping minor in Bareilly||Bareilly: A special court for trial of cases under POCSO Act in Bareilly on Thursday awarded life imprisonment to a man for raping a girl in March 2015. The girl was a minor. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 30,000 on the accused. Sonu of Thakurdwara, Fatehganj West, was found guilty under section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO Act and section 376 (punishment for rape) of IPC. The rape survivor was six-year-old when the crime occured in Bareilly's Fatehganj West. The court has also directed the convict to pay Rs 50,000 for the survivor's medical treatment, who spent several days in hospital. According to the verdict, the medical examination, blood samples collected from the clothes of the survivor and the accused, established the crime. “The court has found the accused guilty. He has been sentenced with rigorous life imprisonment,” additional district and sessions judge, Bareilly, Anil Kumar Seth said. On March 12, 2015, the girl was abducted and raped by Sonu, while she was playing outside her house near the farm fields in Bareilly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor-in-bareilly/articleshow/78813859.cms||Maria Khan
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Cases against MLAs, cadres for defying norms||Tuticorin: The Vilathikulam police on Thursday registered cases against nearly 750 people, including two sitting MLAs – one each from the AIADMK and DMK for organising flag-hoisting events near the Vilathikulam bus stand on Wednesday evening by defying Covid-19 restrictions. Police registered cases against 250 AIADMK functionaries, including Vilathikulam MLA P Chinnappan and 500 cases DMK functionaries including Tuticorin MLA and DMK’s Tuticorin north district secretary P Geetha Jeevan and former Vilathikulam MLA, G V Markandayan. Police said that the DMK had sought permission for the event on Wednesday evening, while the AIADMK sought permission for their event at the same place and time, due to which it was denied for the latter. There was a scuffle between the police and the AIADMK cadres when police tried to stop them. Led by Chinnappan, the AIADMK staged a road blockade near the Vilathikulam bus stand for nearly 30 minutes, before they were pacified by the deputy inspector general of police for Tirunelveli range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu. Police booked the cases under sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-against-mlas-cadres-for-defying-norms/articleshow/78818513.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||All assembly segments may get animal ambulance: Min||Tuticorin: The state may soon have one or more Amma ambulances (Animal Medical Mobile Ambulance) in every assembly segment, animal husbandry minister K Radhakrishnan said. Talking to reporters at Tiruchendur and Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district on Thursday, he said that he has made a recommendation in this connection to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and the matter is under his consideration.The minister said that an assembly segment may get more than one ambulances based on the requirement as a reflection of the cattle population in the region. Stating that this is necessary as the state is adding a few thousand cows and a few lakh goats every year through the free cattle schemes he added that the government is also in the process of appointing 1,154 veterinarians to meet the growing requirement.“Filling up the vacancies is being done through the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission. Verification of applications is underway and they will soon be inducted into service,” he said. The minister said that 15,522 applications have been received for the 480 bachelor of veterinary science seats in the state. “Preparation of the rank list is underway and will soon be released,” he said.Radhakrishnan, who is also chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation Limited (TACTV), said that 30 lakh set-top boxes are operational under the corporation and that tender has been floated for procurement of 10 lakh more boxes. This he said in response to a question on efforts to revive the services that saw a lull in the recent days. He said that the slowdown was due to the centre’s efforts to bring fibre net to the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/all-assembly-segments-may-get-animal-ambulance-min/articleshow/78818512.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH’s additional 400-bed setup may miss HC deadline||Nagpur: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Thursday re-tendered its requirement for portable X-ray machines, jumbo oxygen cylinders, patient communication systems and other medical equipment after its first tender failed to evoke desirable response from bidders.Based on a suo motu PIL following a TOI report, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court had asked the medical college to set up additional 400-bed facility to treat Covid patients. In an affidavit, district collector had informed the court that directives were issued to stakeholders for procuring equipment for the set-up via short term e-tendering. As per the HC directive, GMCH had to augment its capacity by October 28.“We will have to seek extension now,” said a top official.In line with the HC order, GMCH dean had, on October 11, invited bids to purchase necessary medical gear required for the additional Covid beds. The requirement included bedside lockers, IV stands, trolleys, portable X-ray machines, high flow nasal oxygen devices with consumables, pulse oxymeters etc.The top official said no authorized manufacturer, dealer or supplier submitted any bid in the first attempt for the key equipments. “Hence, fresh tenders have been floated,” said the official. Medical gas pipeline system distributor Munna Dhamani said the demand is huge while manufacturing is not in sync. “I have declined request from the government to supply jumbo cylinders as these were needed within a set deadline. We can supply, but it will take at least a month,” he said.Dhamani said the demand for oxygen, pipeline and copper pipe set-ups is very high in both private and government hospitals.An equipment purchase in-charge at a private hospital said waiting period for jumbo cylinders, ventilators and other gear needed to fight Covid is quite high.As per industry observers, where the equipments have been manufactured is also hindering the process.A medical equipment dealer said Chinese machines and products are easily available, while European products are in short supply. “Possibly, the government may not opt for Chinese products,” said the dealer.A government contractor said some dealers are clueless about bidding. “Generally, medical colleges upload tenders on Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) website. Some dealers complained these GMCH tenders were not visible this time,” said the contractor.As the project is funded locally through the district collector, the tenders have been put up on state government portal.Some private hospitals said dealers/manufacturers may have kept away from the tendering process as there is no guarantee of timely payment while the demand is high due to Covid pandemic.What Is NeededPortable X-ray machine | 5ABG machine with card | 3Patient communication system | 10Jumbo oxygen cylinders | 500High flow nasal oxygen device with consumables | 15Pulse oxymeter | 100Stretcher trolley | 10IV stand | 400Bedside locker with top | 400Over bed trolley | 400||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmchs-additional-400-bed-setup-may-miss-hc-deadline/articleshow/78816040.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: With baby’s head visible, woman rushed 60km for delivery||NAGPUR: Sarojana Budha, 20, from Raspalli village in remote Gadchiroli district had no idea her first delivery would turn into a real life drama with life and death consequences. On Tuesday, she had to be rushed 60km in an ambulance to a hospital with the baby visible outside her body but stuck. The bumpy ride was necessitated after the lone nurse at Jimulgatta PHC of Aheri taluka where Sarojana had reached tried to deliver the baby for hours but failed. Her story illustrates the kind of challenges people and healthcare workers in rural areas still face. The nurse at Jimulgatta PHC began trying since 1 pm when Sarojana reached there and finally decided to shift her to Aheri sub-district hospital at 10 pm. She was alone at the PHC as the medical officer had isolated herself after the senior nurse had tested Covid positive some days ago. When she found something was obstructing the baby’s path she, Sarojana and her family rushed out in an ambulance. They took the roller-coaster ride from Jimulgatta to Aheri at top speed on pot-holed Sironcha road to ensure mother and baby’s lives were saved. Budha’s relatives had their hearts in their mouth before she gave birth to her first child at Aheri hospital under medical supervision. The family was relieved after the baby was born at 11.55 pm but it had to be kept in ICU. Budha’s brother Dhammapal Durke said around a sixth of the baby’s head was out when she was brought from PHC to Aheri’s hospital. “The baby was stuck. It had remained like that for several hours as the nurse at PHC kept on trying to deliver. The delay could have proved costly,” said Durke. “When she finally decided , there was hardly any time left and we had to rush. The road was pathetic and travelling that far on it could have been fatal,” he said. District health officer Dr Shashikant Shambarkar said the decision to shift the pregnant woman was taken due to obstruction in the delivery. “Our nurse was accompanying the woman in the ambulance. She had herself tried for the delivery but decided to shift after realizing the obstruction may need higher level of medical attention,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-babys-head-visible-woman-rushed-60km-for-delivery/articleshow/78816020.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 23, 2020||Agra||Over 20 inmates of old age home test Covid +ve||AGRA: At least 24 inmates of the state government's old age home located in Keetham village of Agra district have tested positive for Covid-19. The patients are in the age group 60 to 80 years. Majority of them are symptomatic and were admitted at the SN Medical College. On Thursday, a 75-year-old man died during treatment at the SNMC. The Dayalbagh locality resident was suffering from diabetes, pneumonia and respiratory ailment. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 140 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. At least 40 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 6,899. Also, 52 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 6,899 cases reported in the district, 6,312 (91.4%) have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases is the district has decreased from 460 on Wednesday, to 446 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-20-inmates-of-old-age-home-test-covid-ve/articleshow/78816035.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||Scindia is getting familiar with BJP’s ideology: Tomar||Bhopal: Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia is getting familiar with the traditions of the saffron party. “The process of personality-building is always slow. Scindia has joined BJP and he is welcome. BJP is an ideology-based and cadre-based political party. He is getting familiar with the traditions, processes, methodologies and I am hopeful that he will bring harmony into the party and become BJP’s strength,” Tomar told the media. Scindia, during a recent rally in Bamori assembly constituency in Guna district had said that the upcoming bypolls in the Gwalior-Chambal region is an issue of prestige for his family. “This bypoll is not an election for only BJP or its candidate but an election for the honour and prestige of the Scindia family,” he was heard saying in a video which went viral on social media platforms. Tomar and Scindia are tall leaders of the Gwalior-Chambal region and had always been adversaries throughout their decades-long political life. Like Tomar, other BJP leaders of the region, including Prabhat Jha, Narottam Mishra and Jaibhan Singh Pawaiya have risen up the party ranks by taking on the Scindia dynasty and have firmly established themselves as regional satraps in the process. However, after joining BJP, Scindia is no more an adversary now and all these leaders will have to start looking for new enemies in Congress and other regional parties to prove themselves. Tomar being the only Union minister from the region faces a new challenge if Scindia gets elevated to the post of a Central minister. Amid the changing equations in the political scenario, BJP leaders seem to be in a dilemma as Scindia loyalists have posed a big challenge to them in the region after joining the saffron party. A big question in front of these leaders is how to establish their bloodline. However, the BJP high command has strictly instructed all party leaders to provide full support to Scindia and his supporters, also hinting stringent action against any resentment involving the Rajya Sabha MP. Tomar had earlier made similar remarks involving Scindia during a ‘poster war’ in Gwalior but after questions were raised, he held Congress responsible for cheap propaganda. “Congress is trying to bring the discourse down through cheap statements. This is because it has no achievements to show during its 15-month rule in Madhya Pradesh and 10-year rule at the Centre. Empty mind is the house of the devil. Congress is trying to sensationalise the bypolls by talking irrelevant things”, he said. BJP leaders, however, termed the statement as a positive approach towards Scindia. “What Tomar has said is shows a positive approach of BJP leaders towards Scindia. Tomar was asked about Scindia’s speech and he said that Scindia is getting familiar with the party traditions and would emerge as a big strength. It is a big appreciation and shows that Scindia has been accepted in the party,” said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal. Congress responded to Tomar’s remarks and said differences are cropping up in the ruling party. “Scindia is claiming that the election is his prestige issue and BJP is secondary. Whereas BJP leaders who had been enjoying their sway among voters feel insecure about their political future. This is the beginning of BJP’s rout in the state,” said Congress state spokesperson K K Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-is-getting-familiar-with-bjps-ideology-tomar/articleshow/78816055.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Schools don’t want responsibility for infection||AHMEDABAD: School managements, who are in talks with the state government to explore possibilities of reopening schools after the Diwali vacation, say they are open to the idea of resuming education on their campuses, but they should not be held accountable if students get infected by coronavirus. Schools also contend that there is no logic in having a fixed set of guidelines for all schools, as some are small, while others are very big.  Jatin Bharad, vice-president, Self-Financed School Management Association, said that the association has made it clear to the government that the same set of rules cannot be applied to all schools across the state. “Also, we represented that schools cannot be held accountable if students get infected by coronavirus. The students travel to school and back by autos, vans and other modes. Also, schools cannot monitor their activities while they are not in school,” Bharad said.  Manan Choksi, president of Ahmedabad Progressive Schools Management Association said a survey shows that 80% of students are in favour of online education and 44% parents said they will prefer not to send students to school amid the pandemic. “If schools reopen, there could be several operational issues,” he said. President of Gujarat Rajya Shala Sanchalak Mahamandal, Bhasker Patel, said there ought to be a separate set of rules for schools in cities and rural areas. School managements agreed with the proposal that to begin with, schools should be reopened only for students from Class IX to XII. (With inputs from Ragini Bharadwaj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-dont-want-responsibility-for-infection/articleshow/78817666.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 23, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar POCSO court sentences child rapist to 15 years in jail||MUZAFFARNAGAR: POCSO court of special additional sessions judge Sanjeev Kumar Tiwari awarded 15 years of imprisonment to a man for raping a nine-year-old girl in 2016. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on him, which will be handed over to the survivor. "We provided enough evidence and facts, including 10 witnesses, before the court and the accused got the sentence," Dinesh Sharma, special public prosecutor said here on Thursday. According to sources, Shahanshah kidnapped the minor girl while she was going to a shop to buy a pencil for her brother. He took her to an empty house, raped her and fled. She was later found there in a bad condition. Shahanshah was arrested and sent to jail. He has been in jail since he committed the crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mngr-pocso-court-sentences-child-rapist-to-15-years-in-jail/articleshow/78814837.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Festival spl train between Tirunelveli, Gandhidham||Madurai: Railways have announced a festival special superfast service between Gandhidham and Tirunelveli through Madgaon, Ernakulam Junction, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Nagercoil Town to facilitate convenient travel during the festive season. The train will run to the timings of train no. 19424/19423 Gandhidham – Tirunelveli – Gandhidham Humsafar Express in both directions. Train no. 09424 Gandhidham – Tirunelveli weekly festival special will leave at 2pm on Mondays – October 26 and November 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30 and reach Tirunelveli at 11.30am on the third day. In the return direction, train no. 09423 Tirunelveli – Gandhidham weekly festival special will leave at 7.45am on Thursdays – October 29 and November 5, 12, 19 and 26 and December 3 – and reach Gandhidham at 4.30am on the third day. The train leaving Tirunelveli on October 29 will reach Gandhidham at 6.40 hrs due to prevailing monsoon time table timings via Konkan Railway. The trains will have stoppages at Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Vasai Road, Panvel , Ratnagiri, Madgaon, Karwar, Mangalore Junction, Kozhikode, Shoranur Junction, Thrissur, Ernakulam Junction, Kayankulam Junction, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Nagercoil Town. The coach composition is one AC 2-tier, five AC 3-tier, 10 sleeper class, four general second class and two luggage cum brake van coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/festival-spl-train-between-tirunelveli-gandhidham/articleshow/78818516.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||267 new cases in south Tamil Nadu, 302 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: For the second day in succession, the southern districts of the state recorded less than 300 fresh Covid-19 cases, 267, while the central region registered 302 cases on Thursday. Two deaths were recorded in the southern region, a 53-year-old man from Madurai and a 54-year-old man from Theni, while six deaths were recorded in the central districts, all aged above 60. Madurai (57) was the only district in south TN to record more than 50 fresh cases while the nine other districts recorded lesser. Tuticorin (40) had the second highest followed by Kanyakumari (36), Virudhunagar (30), Dindigul (28), Tirunelveli (26), Theni (22) and Sivaganga (14). Tenkasi (5) and Ramanathapuram (9) had less than 10 fresh cases. Active cases in the region dropped to below 3,500 on Thursday. Of the 3,478 active cases, Madurai (742), Kanyakumari (630) and Tuticorin (502) have the highest. Tirunelveli became the sixth district in the region to cross 14,000 cases till date. While 437 cases are active, as many as 13,358 people have recovered and got discharged in the district which also has 207 deaths. Covid-19 cases so far in the central region crossed the 63,000 mark to reach 63,196 on Thursday while fresh cases increased by 20. Active cases in the region slipped further to 2,837 with already 59,526 cases being discharged. The lowest number of active cases in the region was 82, reported in Perambalur, and the highest of 587 in Trichy. Thanjavur recorded 72 more fresh cases making its tally 14,790 followed by Tiruvarur (62). Trichy saw its tally increasing by 55 to 12,097. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded the lowest fresh cases of seven each. With three deaths in Trichy, two in Thanjavur and one in Nagappattinam , the death toll in the region touched 833. Three of them died at private hospitals while the other three died at government hospitals during the treatment for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/267-new-cases-in-south-tamil-nadu-302-in-central-districts/articleshow/78818514.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Boxes shortage punches exporters||RAJKOT: Severe shortage of containers due to the Covid-induced import-export imbalance has badly hit exporters, who are seeing goods piling up in their godowns despite being flushed with overseas orders. Due to shortage, the freight charges of containers have also increased drastically. Industry sources said even as the freight for container shipment to Dubai has gone up from $30 to $300 over the last few months, exporters have to wait for at least two to three weeks to get the boxes. In Saurashtra, the two famed industries - engineering goods of Rajkot and ceramics in Morbi - are bearing the brunt. Velji Patel. a ceramic exporter in Morbi said, “The cargo of nearly 200 containers is laying at my factory. In normal circumstances, we have goods in around 30 containers stacked in our godown. The shortage is also resulting in cancellation of overseas orders.” According to a rough estimate, there are nearly 5.50 lakh twenty foot equivalent (TEUs, the standard size of containers) handled per month from three ports - Mundra, Kandla and Pipavav. Experts also attribute this extraordinary situation to the lockdown imposed in later stages compared to India, which shutdown in March. When manufacturing was on in China, there was a lockdown in India which resulted in so import drastically reducing due to poor demand. When India started unlocking, there was a spurt in demand from some developed countries, but there were no incoming containers. Anil Devli, chief executive officer (CEO) of Indian National Shipowners Association (INSA) explained: “Basically, this issue happened because several shipping lines didn’t have cargo and they were doing blank sailing during the lockdown period.” INSA is the representative body of shipping companies. “Suppose there are 10 buses running between Ahmedabad and Mumbai carrying 100 passengers daily, but when there are only 40 passengers, the operators will obviously reduce the number of buses. Similarly, shipping lines reduced the containers, but now there is more demand from exporters.” Devli said it will take one to two months for the things to get back in order. Saurashtra is the hub of export of auto parts, agriculture equipment, ceramic and brass parts and the industries were fully dependent on the export market during lockdown. Aashish Joshi, secretary, Gandhidham Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who is also a shipping agent and a freight forwarder said, “The problem is the imbalance between export and import. For example, one container goes to an African country but there is no cargo coming to India from there. The container has to be diverted to the nearest port where there is demand. The container is sailing empty to satisfy the need of export in India and that has added into the freight hike.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boxes-shortage-punches-exporters/articleshow/78814859.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||VHP gives ultimatum to cops to 'recover' Sikh girl||Bareilly: Two days after vandalizing a police station in Bareilly, activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) have now given an ultimatum to Shahjahanpur police to recover a "minor" Sikh girl who had allegedly eloped with a youth belonging to another community in Nigohi on October 15. The district president of VHP and Bajrang Dal Rajesh Awasthi along with local representative of the Sikh community VP Singh and several other members have given a memorandum to ADM Girijesh Chaudhary on Thursday. Rajesh Awasthi told TOI, “People of a community are targeting our daughters, converting them and forcefully marrying them. A 17-year-old girl belonging to Sikh community is the latest victim of ‘love jihad’, but we won’t allow this to happen. We have given 24 hours to the police and the district administration to recover the girl. If they fail to do so, then we will protest at Nigohi police station until the cops take action.” Sikh community member VP Singh said, “We are concerned about the girl's safety as police didn’t take action despite the complaint that was lodged last week.” However, the ADM said, “The grievances of the protesters were shared with police and we have ensured swift action in the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/vhp-gives-ultimatum-to-cops-to-recover-sikh-girl/articleshow/78812930.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Pricey onion leaves omelette lovers in tears||Madurai: The high price of onion has cast its shadow on the menu of eateries, especially dishes like omelette which get enough value addition with onion. Some restaurants have been making the egg dish without onion while a few have brought in minced cabbage as substitute. Others have either hiked its price or removed the dish altogether from the menu. Some hotels have increased the price of an omelette from Rs 15 to Rs 20 as they don’t want to disappoint their regular customers. Onion price had touched Rs 100/kg on Tuesday in Madurai markets while in retail shops it is sold for up to Rs 140/kg. Wholesalers say the price has come down to Rs 80 in the market on Thursday though it is yet to reflect in the retail shops. P Selvaraj, a restaurant owner in Anna Nagar, said, “We have stopped supplying omelette for now and kept a board in front of the eatery. We are explaining the situation to the customers and they understand the issue well,” he said. K L Kumar, president of Madurai district hoteliers association, said that some of the hotels continue to supply omelette bearing the loss while some have increased the price. But the time is not favourable to raise the price of any food item either since sales are just about picking up after the lockdown and yet to reach pre-Covid level. “Some hoteliers are using minced cabbage instead of onion, but not all customers would like it. It would be viable only if onion price comes down to less than Rs 30/kg,” he said. Praveen Kumar, a customer, said hotels have started using cucumber in onion raita. Many don’t raise any objection considering the situation. At a time when households are using onions frugally, there is nothing wrong in cost reduction measures being taken up by hotels, he said. Meanwhile, members of All India Democratic Women’s Association, carried out a protest on 7th Street in Anna Nagar in Tuticorin wearing onion garlands condemning the state and central governments for failing to control prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pricey-onion-leaves-omelette-lovers-in-tears/articleshow/78818519.cms||V Devanathan
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||No ‘Ravan dahan’ at KP this year||Nagpur: ‘Ravan dahan’, the biggest and most popular event being organized on the occasion of Dussehra every year at Kasturchand Park (KP), has been cancelled. Prannath Sahni, president of Sanatan Dharma Youth Assembly, and general secretary Sanjeev Kapoor said that following the government guidelines over Covid-19, the celebrations have been cancelled for the first time in 68 years.The Dussehra special issue of Sanatan Samachar, a magazine being published by the organization, has also been cancelled, said its board members Umesh Sharma, Narendra Satija and Sapan Nehrotra.Giant effigies of Ravan, Kumbhakaran and Meghnad were burnt at the ground with panoramic fireworks and colourful cultural programmes being the centre of attraction every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-ravan-dahan-at-kp-this-year/articleshow/78816098.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Class 12 supplementary exam results for general stream on October 24||AHMEDABAD: The results of supplementary exams for class 12 general stream exams will be announced on Saturday. The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has for the first time conducted supplementary exams for candidates who failed in two subjects. As many as 1.22 lakh students had registered for the exams of which 1.03 lakh candidates took the test. The results have been prepared by the board in a short span of 18 days after taking the supplementary test. GSHSEB had earlier announced to conduct exams for candidates who had failed in one subject. The exams were to be conducted along with class 10 and class 12 supplementary tests. The board however revisited its decision and this led to reshuffling of the exam dates. The exams were held from September 28 to October 6. The results will be announced on October 24 and candidates will have to obtain marksheets from the designated distribution points in the district between 9am and 5pm on the same date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/class-12-supplementary-exam-results-for-general-stream-on-october-24/articleshow/78817732.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||No need to ‘fight’, will get quota: Min||Tuticorin: There is no need to fight for the 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical admission, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju. He was responding to media persons at Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district on Thursday when asked about DMK president M K Stalin coming forward to ‘fight’ along with the AIADMK government for the quota. “The quota was approved by the assembly and appreciated by all political parties as no other government has introduced such a reservation for MBBS aspirants from government schools. The chief minister met the governor recently (on this subject). It will soon be approved. The Amma government has not allowed a situation where there is a need to fight for it,” the minister said. The minister said that the CM Edappadi K Palaniswami will conduct a review of the Covid-19 situation and progress of various development projects in Tuticorin district on October 29. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-need-to-fight-will-get-quota-min/articleshow/78818523.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Youth thrashed over affair, four held||Jaisalmer: Police arrested four persons here on Thursday after a video went viral showing a group of people thrashing and humiliating a youth after tying his hands and legs. The youth had come to meet his lover at Khabia village under Khuhadi police station area in Jaisalmer. The video of the incident had gone viral two days ago after which police sprang into action and arrested the accused. On the other hand, the brother of the girl has lodged a case of rape against the youth. Two more accused in the matter are absconding. After the video went viral and police sprang into action, both parties have lodged cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-thrashed-over-affair-four-held/articleshow/78817737.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Farmers, traders ecstatic as price of jasmine soars||Madurai: After nearly six months, flowers are back in demand as the festive season has brought cheers to traders at the Madurai flower market. The price of flowers like jasmine has gone up to Rs 1,000 a kilogram and is expected to increase further in the next two days. One of the worst affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown were the cultivators of jasmine in and around Madurai. The famous Madurai malli took a hit until the Madurai district collector took an initiative to send some flowers to the perfume factories in Dindigul and Coimbatore as markets were closed. P Thirupathi, a farmer, said that it was heartbreaking to see his flowers withering on the plants as there was no way to pick or sell them. “It requires about six to eight people to pick the flowers in one acre of land during the peak season —from April to Aug, but this year we could not afford workers as sales were affected,” he said. Coordinator of the Federation of Madurai Flower Market Associations, S Ramachandran says temporary markets had come as a relief, but the real sales started when the district administration allowed them to move back to the flower market at Mattuthavani. It was only after the temples reopened on September 1 flower sales picked up. Now, with further lockdown relaxations, traders and farmers said that this festive season may help them to some extent. “Nature has been kind and timely rains have resulted in the market receiving fairly good quality buds from the farmers. The price of jasmine was Rs 1000 on Thursday. It would further go up in the next few days with ayudhapuja and auspicious days for weddings around the corner,” he said. The market is receiving about one tonne jasmine for the past two weeks and is fetching a good price, he added. However, in the retail market the vendors are selling the a strand of 100 buds for Rs 20, making it expensive. The district administration has also given them permission to operate till late during the festive season, so that they can make the best of it. Sundaramoorthy a farmer says that jasmine price has brought happiness to the farmers after nearly six months of desperation. “This will help us as the production will go down during the winter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-traders-ecstatic-as-price-of-jasmine-soars/articleshow/78818522.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||Nath has insulted Chambal: Shivraj||Bhopal: The focus of BJP poll campaign in Gwalior-Chambal region seems to have shifted from development to personal remarks against political rivals. At poll rallies in Gwalior on Thursday, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that Congress leader Kamal Nath has insulted Imarti Devi and this is also an insult to the land of Chambal. Chouhan also appealed to voters to avenge the insult of Imarti Devi by voting in favour of BJP in bypolls. “Chambal will not tolerate insult of mothers, sisters and daughters. Kamal Nath has insulted Imarti Devi as well as Chambal. This will not be tolerated at any cost. Even Ravana had insulted Sita Mata and as a result, there was no name left to the lineage of the demon King. Similarly, Rahul Gandhi tried to persuade Kamal Nath to apologise but he is adamant and does not regret his remarks,” said Chouhan while addressing a poll rally at Tekanpur in Dabra assembly constituency. During the chief minister’s speech, cabinet minister Imarti Devi stood in silence on the dias and was nearly in tears when Chouhan told people about the unsavory remark made by Nath. The chief minister also hit out Congress for its failure to fulfill its promises. Chouhan said that the fate of Madhya Pradesh was the same during Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh’s rule. During 15-month rule, the Congress government turned the secretariat into a den of corruption and turned the state into an underdeveloped region. “Kamal Nath always used to cry hoarse about paucity of funds. All the development works were stalled and ministers-legislators used to sit for hours to get their works approved. the BJP later resumed all development projects,” he said. Chouhan said that BJP is a cadre based party while the Congress has turned into factions. “There is a Congress in Delhi led by Sonia Gandhi, another by Rahul Gandhi and in Madhya Pradesh, by Kamal Nath. He is the only head, the state president, leader of opposition, star campaigner and what not. Nakul Nath is the youth leader while the remaining Congress is an orphan,” he said. Addressing the public in Gwalior East assembly seat to support BJP candidate Munnalal Goyal, the chief minister said that Congress resorted to personal attacks after the party leaders failed to promote the `traitor' jibe. "They targeted me and said that I am getting down to knees to pray for votes. Congress has a mentality to crush voters and do not understand that voters are god. They also mocked me on inaugurations of development works and called me `hungry and naked'. The old party will get a befitting reply from the public," said Chouhan. Chief minister was to address four rallies on Thursday however, after High Court directives, he decided to skip two poll meetings, in Shadora in Ashoknagar assembly seat and in Bhander in Datia assembly constituency. Chouhan though, will continue poll rallies on Friday in the Gwalior-Chambal region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-has-insulted-chambal-shivraj/articleshow/78816142.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Final tests of Nag missile completed successfully||Jaisalmer: The final day and night testing of the fire and forget third generation anti-tank guided missile ‘Nag’ was completed successfully at Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer district on Wednesday night & Thursday morning. The missile with warheads was tested in presence of DRDO and army officers. In all, three trials were conducted — two on Wednesday night and one on Thursday morning. The missile was incorporated with many advanced technologies including imaging infrared seeker with integrated avionics. In development trials, imaging infrared seekers were not able to differentiate between the target and surroundings in hot desert temperatures. Now, highly sensitive detectors have been put for sensing heat or infrared signals. The indigenous missile can take down enemy tanks and armoured vehicles. The defence ministry has placed orders to purchase 300 Nag missiles and 25 Namica carriers for army. In the improved version of Nag, infrared system has been fitted which helps to easily identify targets. The missile has capability to hit targets 4 to 7 km away and can carry 8kg warheads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/final-tests-of-nag-missile-completed-successfully/articleshow/78817714.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Class 12 topper lives her dream, turns DM for 2 hours||RAMPUR: Iqra Bi, 16, lived her dream on Thursday morning. As soon as she brushed her teeth and got ready, a fleet of government vehicles arrived at her doorstep. A driver, wearing a crisp white uniform, gave her a salute as she gingerly boarded a white SUV bearing a nameplate -- district magistrate Iqra Bi. At the DM office too, a host of government officials and complainants were vying for her attention. The Class XII topper of Rampur district was made DM for two hours. She always aspired to become an IAS officer and sit on the seat, “for real”. For the next two hours, as the Rampur DM Aunjaneya Kumar Singh sat beside her, Iqra cleared several files and the officials followed the protocol. She didn’t stop at it. The designated DM also conducted a surprise inspection of the entire Collectorate premises. She was briefed about the various types of administrative functions. During the public hearing, she forwarded 30 complaints to officers concerned for quick disposal. “After completing software engineering, I want to become an IAS officer and serve the people,” a smiling Iqra said after “living her dream”. Just like Iqra, district’s Class X topper Priyanshi Sagar was also given a similar chance. She was made Rampur’s superintendent of police (SP) for two hours on Thursday. Sagar asked police officers to act swiftly on the public complaints. Both the girls were given the chance to lead the district as part of the government's Mission Shakti campaign. DM Singh, said, “The objective of assigning the responsibilities to the girls was to encourage and motivate them to achieve their goals. It will go a long way. And who knows they become DM and SP a few years from now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/class-xii-topper-in-ups-rampur-lives-her-dream-made-dm-for-2-hours/articleshow/78813908.cms||Nazar Abbas
October 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Haze on rescheduled flights keeps flyers on tenterhooks||PUNE: A majority of passengers booked in night flights from October 26 onwards from the city are confused about their rescheduled departure time after the flight operations are suspended between 8pm and 8am from the Lohegaon airport from next Monday because of the runway re-carpeting work. Travel agents have been getting several queries from passengers booked in night flights or planning to buy tickets. Some passengers claimed that their direct flights were being changed into connecting flights with long layover. Working professional Ayush Mathur booked a direct IndiGo flight from Pune to Jaipur for November 13, scheduled to take off at 10.50am. It has been changed into a connecting flight. TimesViewThe airlines should immediately clear the flyers’ doubts about the rescheduled timing of flights in the wake of restricted operations at the city airport from next week because of the runway re-carpeting work. The carriers should intimate passengers individually about the revised timings so that they can review their travel plan in the changed scenario. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) should step in if the airlines continue with their dilly-dallying tactics.“The flight will now take off from Pune at 10.10am and go to Delhi, where there is a layover for eight hours. The airline did not even bother to inform me. I shall cancel my ticket and go to Mumbai to catch a flight to Jaipur now,” he told TOI. Giving example of a friend planning to visit Jaipur for Diwali, Mathur said, “He had booked a direct SpiceJet flight to Jaipur, scheduled at 5am. It has become an afternoon flight with a layover of three-four hours in Ahmedabad.” There was no reply to e-mails sent to all airlines on Tuesday morning till the time of going to press. Airport director Kuldeep Singh refused to comment on the airlines’ rescheduling issue. Travel agents fear major problems in the coming days. “The airlines should have stopped the bookings immediately after knowing about the restrictions. Flight operations were completely shut during the lockdown period and all the necessary arrangements should have been made then. I had done a booking for a group of 60 people from Pune to Goa for January. Now, I shall have to look for other options,” said Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents’ Association of Pune (TAAP). Santosh Gupta, the owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays, said a lot of his international clientele would be affected. “There is no proper communication from the airlines until now. Business could get affected because of lack of clarity,” Gupta said. A travel agency source shared the revised schedule of SpiceJet, sent to him by the airline. Altogether, eight SpiceJet flights have been listed in the fresh schedule. According to it, a flight from Pune to Delhi (SG8937), which takes off at 6.55am, will depart at 8.05am from October 25. Its flight from Pune to Kolkata (SG275) will take off at 12.20pm. Sources in the travel sector confirmed that the fresh schedule of other airlines was awaited. “Do the airlines want us to wait to book tickets so that prices soar? Why are they still taking night flight bookings?” asked Rashmi Singh, confused about whether to book a ticket to Bengaluru next month or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haze-on-rescheduled-flights-continues-revised-timing-of-some-planes-shocks-flyers/articleshow/78818539.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 23, 2020||Pune||PMPML’s airport bus service ‘Abhi’ to start from Friday||Pune: Abhi, the airport bus service of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), will start from Friday.Regular passengers, who do not intend to go to the airport, can also travel on Abhi buses.“Pune MP Girish Bapat and airport director Kuldeep Singh will inaugurate the service at Pune airport on Friday morning. The buses, all electric-run vehicles, will operate on five routes from 6am till 10pm. Bapat will also launch a mobile application for the special service,” PMPML chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI.The fares of these buses will begin at Rs50 and the highest will be Rs180. “The buses will operate on five routes, namely, A1, A2, A3, A4 and A5. Each route will have stops at several establishments like hotels, hospitals etc. For example, one from the airport to Hadapsar has bus stops near the Hyatt hotel, Ibis Hotel, Eon IT gate, Radisson Hotel, Seasons Mall and Nobel hospital. Many airport passengers come from hotels and IT parks and we wanted to target them,” he said.Jagtap said that the bus service is open for regular passengers. “Once we receive funds from the Smart City authorities in two months, the buses will have additional features like LED screens showing the flight timings, space for luggage, among others,” he said.The mobile application has features such as route planner, grievance redressal etc. “The service will begin in a full-fledged manner from October 26,” Jagtap said. The airport authorities will make announcements informing flyers about the bus service once it starts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpmls-airport-bus-service-abhi-to-start-from-friday/articleshow/78818551.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Cinema halls in twin cities may not open in near future||Dharwad: Though the government has permitted reopening of cinema halls subject to certain conditions, owners of cinema halls here are in no mood to reopen them. “At a time when the numbers of Covid-19 cases are increasing, it will not be easy to follow all standard operating procedures prescribed by the government and we will be only taking risk by reopening cinema halls,” said Raju and Babanna Kulkarni, owners of Shrinivas and Padma theatres. Dharwad, which a few years ago, had seven cinema halls has now only four. While Modern Talkies has been converted into a marriage hall, the buildings housing Laxmi Talkies and Regal Talkies have been demolished. The government, while permitting the reopening of cinema halls, has imposed conditions that only 50% of the seating capacity should be allowed and all staff members should wear PPE kits. Besides, there are conditions that all those entering the movie hall should wear a mask and maintain social distance. It will be difficult to enforce the conditions on cinema viewers, the owners said. Babanna said the cinema halls were already reeling under loss even before Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown as people prefer to watch movies on TV, smart phones and computers. With the lockdown, things have only worsened, he said. “Theatre owners have paid salaries to employees during lockdown and by reopening there will be burden of paying salaries to the additional staff along with entertainment tax. The revenue earned does not make up for the expenditure and hence it is not financially viable to reopen cinema halls,” Kulkarni said. Meanwhile, the two multiplexes in Hubballi have decided to screen films only in one or two screens each. Urban Oasis Mall has five screens while Laxmi Mall has four. There will be only two shows per day. The managements of the two malls have already notified that there will be thermal screening for viewers and wearing face mask is compulsory. Besides these two malls, there are six cinema halls in Hubballi and they also will not be reopened. “The film exhibitors association has placed certain demands before the government and once these demands are fulfilled, we will reopen,” said a member of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cinema-halls-in-twin-cities-may-not-open-in-near-future/articleshow/78813412.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 23, 2020||Mysuru||Postal Week: Noted writers, artists in Mys gifted customised stamps||Mysuru: Philately, the king of hobbies, has not gone dull even during the pandemic, going by the how city-based philatelists are increasing their collection. The postal department celebrated Postal Week between October 9 and 15 by giving the hobby a push and by distributing My Stamp (personalised stamps of India Post) to writers S L Bhyrappa and Devanur Mahadeva and Ganjifa artist Raghupathi Bhat. The stamps had their photograph next the one of Mysuru Palace. A K Naik, senior superintendent of Mysuru postal division, visited the residences of the writers and the artist and handed them customised stamps on Philately Day (October 13). Assistant superintendent Rajukaleswar said that philately is still a king of hobbies. “Even during the pandemic, the hobby continues to thrive. Philatelists, like during pre-Covid period, are purchasing stamps as and when they are released by the department. There are around 1,000 philatelists in Mysuru. Every month, they buy newly released stamps,” he said, adding the stamps were issued to the writers and the artist as part of their activity to encourage the hobby. Philatelist Jayadev N Yarasi said that collectors have continued with their favourite hobby. “Before the Covid struck, we (philatelists) used to meet every month and discuss the latest releases and themes. Due to to the pandemic, the activities are now restricted. But philatelists continue to collect stamps,” Jayadev said. A postal department staffer explained that new stamps are dispatched to the addresses of customers who have recharged their philately account. Around 200 active philatelists regularly recharge their accounts. Under the My Stamp initiative, any individual can get personalised postage stamps (which will have their photograph) by paying Rs300 at the central post office in about 15 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/postal-week-noted-writers-artists-in-mys-gifted-customised-stamps/articleshow/78814588.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||RTO ‘issues’ fitness certificate for impounded truck by police, probe ordered||Bareilly: A probe was ordered after it came to light that the Moradabad Transport Office (RTO) had issued a fitness certificate for a truck that was impounded by the traffic police in June for not having the said document. Since then, it was parked in the police station compound. During an inspection in Galshaheed police station limits in Moradabad city in June, traffic police had impounded the truck after its driver failed to produce a fitness certificate of the vehicle. On Wednesday, the truck owner got the vehicle released after producing a fitness certificate allegedly issued by the RTO in court. It is suspected that touts had a hand in getting a fitness certificate issued from the RTO and the same was produced before the court to get the vehicle released. Moradabad district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the matter. RR Soni, regional transport officer, Moradabad, said, “The matter is being probed and based on the findings, legal action will be initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rto-issues-fitness-certificate-for-impounded-truck-by-police-probe-ordered/articleshow/78813927.cms||Maria Khan
October 23, 2020||Madurai||MLA equips urban PHCs with scan machines worth Rs 26L||Madurai: Heeding requests from the public for a doppler scan machine at local primary health centres, Madurai Central DMK MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan, has equipped urban PHCs in his constituency with scan machines worth Rs 26 lakh purchased from his MLA constituency development fund. While the urban PHC in ward 83 got an advanced machine worth Rs 16 lakh, wards 13 and nine got machines worth Rs 5 lakh each. The machines would be a boon to pregnant women who come to the PHCs. Speaking to reporters, Thiagarajan said the scan centres were closed as the machines were not in working condition. Party cadres and public had requested the machines to be repaired and brought back to operation. So, for the first time, the UPHCs have been equipped with latest technology machines. When asked about the lack of opportunities for students from Tamil Nadu to study medicine in the state, he said that Neet would spoil opportunities for those from very rural backgrounds. This is why the DMK was opposing Neet, he said. “Neet is beyond the scope of many students and the central government has no right to take away the rights of the students from Tamil Nadu to pursue their education in medical colleges established with the taxpayers’ money from the state,” Thiagarajan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mla-equips-urban-phcs-with-scan-machines-worth-rs-26l/articleshow/78818537.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Painter booked for impregnating girl, 11||Madurai: A 20-year-old man was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) for impregnating an 11-year-old girl in Alanganallur in Madurai district. The accused was identified as B Arunkumar of Kaliamman Kovil Street in Kulamangalam. Police said the incident came to light when the girl was taken to a government hospital for checkup. On being alerted by doctors, a police team led by Alanganallur station inspector Nirmala conducted an inquiry and registered a case. A police officer said the girl claimed she was an orphan who grew up in the street. The accused spotted her at the Periyar bus terminal, took her home and married her with the help of his parents six months ago. However, when quizzed by the district child welfare committee, the girl said she was a native of Theni district. Her aunt had admitted her to a home in Madurai where she studied up to class VI. It was her aunt who conducted the marriage with the accused. Additional deputy superintendent of police S Vanitha said since the girl claimed to be an orphan, a complaint was received from her. “We are planning to engage professionals to provide counselling to the girl. She will be taken care of by the district administration,” she said. Inspector Nirmala said that Arunkumar, a painter, left Madurai anticipating action. One Jeganathan has also been booked as he helped him leave the district by getting him work outside the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/painter-booked-for-impregnating-girl-11/articleshow/78818550.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||Chambal will never forgive bikau: Nath||Bhopal: Slamming the Centre’s three new anti-farmer bills, former chief minister Kamal Nath said that the will destroy the farming community as well as the mandis. Addressing public meetings on Thusday, he said that new legislation will slowly lead to privatisation of mandis. “We don’t accept these anti -farmer laws and if the Congress comes to power, we will not implement it,” he said. Nath said that if the party is back in power, the government will make a law which would not allow purchase of farmers’ produce at a price less than the support price and if any flouts the law, it would be treated as a crime. “This would increase the farmers’ income and their purchasing power,” he said. Nath addressed public meetings in Joura and Ambah constituencies to drum up support for party candidates Pankaj Uppadhaya and Satyaprakash Sakhwar respectively. “Shivraj speaks lies and makes false announcements, as he is a good actor. I cannot act like him. I am neither a son of a farmer, nor a mama. I am a simple Kamal Nath'', he said, adding that he respects the brave people of Gwalior and Chambal, who love to join the armed forces. “They can tolerate anything, but betrayal. I know they can never forgive a bikau. I know they will protect the legacy of the region in the coming bypolls”, he said. Referring to the by-elections, Nath said that Baba Saheb Amdedkar had never imagined that such polls would be held after MLAs are sold themselves to another party. “The BJP has tarnished the democracy in Madhya Pradesh, where 25 out of 28 by-elections are taking place just because MLAs switched parties. He said that the people voted Congress to power but the BJP formed its government with the help of “notes”(currency).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chambal-will-never-forgive-bikau-nath/articleshow/78816148.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mysuru||Cop builds home for two orphaned sisters; earns minister’s praise||Mysuru: After hearing of a gesture of kindness and generosity from a HD Kote assistant sub-inspector’s (ASI) generosity towards two orphan girls, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Thursday expressed his appreciation towards the cop. ASI Doreswamy had, on learning of the plight of two girls in Shiramahalli in the taluk, who lost their sole guardian in their grandmother a few days prior to the lockdown being enforced. The two sisters, the elder a student of I PUC and the younger a class IX student, had lost their parents eight years ago and the death of their grandmother brought the prospect of homelessness perilously close. However, they found an unlikely saviour in Doreswamy, who ensured that they received enough groceries for a few months free of cost. He also spent Rs 3 lakh from his own pocket on the construction of a home for them. In order to ensure that the sisters continued their education, the cop gifted them a smartphone so they could attend online classes. Suresh Kumar, on learning of Doreswamy’s gesture, uploaded a post on Facebook lauding his generosity. Kumar also called Doreswamy on the phone to express his appreciation, much to the latter’s pleasure. Doreswamy told TOI that he learnt of the sisters’ condition through a video a friend had shared. The ASI is contemplating voluntary retirement from service next year and dedicating himself to the development of a skill-development training school for girls from underprivileged sections of society, and unemployed youngsters. “I want to offer computer classes, train youngsters to repair TV and mobile handsets, impart tailoring lessons to girls at the centre,” Doreswamy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cop-builds-home-for-two-orphaned-sisters-earns-ministers-praise/articleshow/78814243.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Four thieves held, 50 motorbikes recovered||Hubballi: As many as 50 bikes cumulatively worth Rs 30 lakh were recovered and four thieves arrested by Talikote police in Vijayapura district on Thursday morning. Mounesh Badiger, Ninganna Pujari – both residents of Bilebhavi village in Talikote – and Meerasab Baligar and Mehaboob Baligar, residents of Kodekal village in Yadgir district were arrested on Thursday morning. Sub-inspectors Shivaji Pawar and GG Biradar led the operation that resulted in the arrest of the four thieves and recovery of the loot on Thursday. Three held for murder of security guard Nearly two months after the security guard of an ATM kiosk was killed in Vijayapura district, cops attached to the Sindagi police station on Thursday arrested two men and a minor in Kondaguli village in Yadrami taluk of Yadgir district. Anil Bargal, 28, Dayanand Hosani, 21 and a minor, all of whom are residents of Bableshwar village in Sindagi taluk, were arrested in connection with the murder on Thursday. The trio allegedly killed 24-year-old Rahul Rathod, a resident of Madhabhavi Tanda in Vijayapura district, on August 28. Rathod was reportedly killed when he was on duty at the ATM kiosk. Investigation into another crime in which Anil Bargal was a suspect led the cops on the trail of the trio. The three of them confessed to the murder under questioning. Duo held for string of burglariesFollowing complaints of a string of burglaries in the past few days Basavana Bagewadi town in Vijayapura district, cops arrested two youngsters – 21-year-old Sohail Inamdar and Akash Kolkar, 19 – in connection with the robberies on Thursday. The police team, led by SG Juttal, seized 40g of golden ornaments. 190g of silver articles, all of which are reportedly worth Rs 2.2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/four-thieves-held-50-motorbikes-recovered/articleshow/78813579.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan high court stays trial by CBI court in Laxmi Vilas Palace case||JODHPUR: Rajasthan high court has stayed the trial by the CBI court in Laxmi Vilas Palace disinvestment case on Thursday. The HC has called for the record of the matter from the trial court. The CBI court had held the then disinvestment minister Arun Shourie, the then secretary of the department Pradip Baijal, MD (Lazard India Limited) Ashish Guha, MD (Bharat Hotels Limited) Jyotsana Suri and owner of the valuation company Kantilal Vikamsey, guilty of conspiring to sell the hotel through a disinvestment process in 1999-2002 at a meagre price of Rs 7.52 crore, thereby causing a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. While hearing the criminal revision petition by all five accused, Justice Vijay Bishnoi has ordered the trial court not to proceed against the petitioners until further orders by the high court. Arguing his case himself while highlighting the process of disinvestment, Shourie stated that one individual had twice challenged the process before the division bench of this court in 2002 and 2006, both of which were dismissed with specific observations that no material had been placed that fixation of reserve price of shares was arbitrary. “The trial court, without providing opportunity of hearing to him, has made certain observations against him alleging that he is of dual character,” he argued adding that it was the duty of a subordinate court to follow the law laid down by the superior courts. Counsels also argued that the trial court grossly erred in passing the order as it could not be said on the basis of the material collected by the CBI during investigation that the petitioners were involved in commission of crime in any manner. Arguments of the ASG S V Raju also supported petitioners’ arguments who stated that the impugned order of the CBI court was not sustainable in the eyes of law. “The CBI has filed closure reports twice in the matter with detailed reasons that why no offence is made out against any of the persons named in the FIR but the trial court without considering the said reasons in right perspective has illegally passed the impugned order,” Raju argued. Hearing the arguments, which lasted for over an hour, Justice Bishnoi stayed the proceedings of the trial court in the matter till further order. Thirty five advocates, including Shourie, ASG S V Raju, participated in the process through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-stays-trial-by-cbi-court-in-laxmi-vilas-palace-case/articleshow/78820707.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court stays trial by CBI court in Laxmi Vilas Palace case||JODHPUR: Rajasthan high court has stayed the trial by the CBI court in Laxmi Vilas Palace disinvestment case on Thursday. The HC has called for the record of the matter from the trial court. The CBI court had held the then disinvestment minister Arun Shourie, the then secretary of the department Pradip Baijal, MD (Lazard India Limited) Ashish Guha, MD (Bharat Hotels Limited) Jyotsana Suri and owner of the valuation company Kantilal Vikamsey, guilty of conspiring to sell the hotel through a disinvestment process in 1999-2002 at a meagre price of Rs 7.52 crore, thereby causing a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. While hearing the criminal revision petition by all five accused, Justice Vijay Bishnoi has ordered the trial court not to proceed against the petitioners until further orders by the high court. Arguing his case himself while highlighting the process of disinvestment, Shourie stated that one individual had twice challenged the process before the division bench of this court in 2002 and 2006, both of which were dismissed with specific observations that no material had been placed that fixation of reserve price of shares was arbitrary. “The trial court, without providing opportunity of hearing to him, has made certain observations against him alleging that he is of dual character,” he argued adding that it was the duty of a subordinate court to follow the law laid down by the superior courts. Counsels also argued that the trial court grossly erred in passing the order as it could not be said on the basis of the material collected by the CBI during investigation that the petitioners were involved in commission of crime in any manner. Arguments of the ASG S V Raju also supported petitioners’ arguments who stated that the impugned order of the CBI court was not sustainable in the eyes of law. “The CBI has filed closure reports twice in the matter with detailed reasons that why no offence is made out against any of the persons named in the FIR but the trial court without considering the said reasons in right perspective has illegally passed the impugned order,” Raju argued. Hearing the arguments, which lasted for over an hour, Justice Bishnoi stayed the proceedings of the trial court in the matter till further order. Thirty five advocates, including Shourie, ASG S V Raju, participated in the process through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-trial-by-cbi-court-in-laxmi-vilas-palace-case/articleshow/78817738.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||Discovery of 2 species of scorpions in W Ghats has a mix of history & science||Pune: Two new species of scorpions have been discovered in Pune’s Varandha ghat, and Sangli's Amba ghat. Scientists from the Institute of Natural History Education and Research made the discovery which was published in the American science journal ‘Euscorpius’ in its October issue. 'Chiromachetes parakrami' was found in Pavankhind area in Panhala where Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s general, Baji Prabhu Deshpande, led a fierce battle against Siddhi Johar, the Bijapuri general. The other species, found near a cave associated with Sant Ramdas Swami, was named Chiromachetes ramdasswamii. Shauri Sulakhe, who led the two discoveries, said the scorpions found in the rocky regions change places slower than those found on trees or on the ground. “Since they stay in a single area for a very long time, the gradual changes in physical appearances are noticeable. These factors make these species highly vulnerable. They have to be conserved on priority,” she said. The researchers said the species from northern Western Ghats are found in roadside boulders along the ghat sections. Any attempt at road widening would threaten their survival, they added. “The place where we found the 'Parakrami' species has its own historical importance from the Varandha ghat to Pavankhind. The courageous battle led by Bajiprabhu Deshpande led us to name it 'Parakrami'. The other name came from the ancient cave at Shivthar Ghal where Sant Ramdas Swami would meditate, and we named it 'Ramdasswami',” they said. Sulakhe’s co-researcher Anand Padhye said the American journal team was curious about the names. “They looked it up on the web and read about how Bajiprabhu Deshpande and the Bandal Sena fought at Pavankhind. After reading it, they told us to write more about the region and its history in our paper,” he added. The researchers said the species in the genus chiromachetes have been poorly studied in India. Descriptions of previously known chiromachetes fergusoni and chiromachetes tirupati are both based on single specimens. The current study was perhaps the first effort to use integrated taxonomy for the description of new species in this genus highlighting the endemic and cryptic diversity in the northern Western Ghats. The team included Shubhankar Deshpande, Nikhil Dandekar, Makarand Ketkar, Gaurang Gowande and Deshabhushan Bastawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/discovery-of-2-species-of-scorpions-in-w-ghats-has-a-mix-of-history-science/articleshow/78818564.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 23, 2020||Madurai||CCTV helps solve murder of 62-year-old Madurai woman||Madurai: Three months after a 62-year-old woman was found murdered in Palanganatham, the Madurai city police have cracked the case by meticulously analyzing CCTV footages in various areas around the murder spot.Police said that the woman, T Panchavarnam, was murdered by K Palanikumar, a washerman from Anbu Nagar, for Rs 50,000 cash and 46g of gold jewellery. The accused had committed the murder for gain, as he was desperate for money to be paid to a person to whom he had lost Rs 70,000 in gambling.Panchavarnam was found dead with multiple cut injuries in her house in Nehru Nagar on July 17. The SS Colony police registered a case and conducted an inquiry. As there was no development, deputy commissioner (crime) K Palanikumar formed a special team to crack the case. With no clues left behind by the murderer, the team consisting of head constables Sundaram, Jagadeesan and constable Anbazhagan analysed the CCTV footages. They found a motorist passing through a shop in Madakulam Main Road wearing a T-shirt. While returning he was wearing a shirt. Growing suspicious, the man identified as Palanikumar was summoned for inquiry. He denied any role in the murder. He also told the police that he changed his clothes as he had vomited after consuming liquor.While he was let-off, police got vital clues from CCTV cameras from a shop in a street located some distance away from Palanikumar’s shop. The video showed he had changed his dress well before he went to his shop, where he is said to have consumed liquor. This time, Palanikumar confessed to the crime.He told the police that he owed Rs 70,000 to Kannan. A few days before the murder, he went to the woman’s home to borrow Rs 10,000. Since Kannan was urging him to pay the borrowed money immediately, he decided to approach the woman for an additional Rs 20,000, but she refused.The next day, he went to Panchavarnam’s house to murder her for money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cctv-helps-solve-murder-of-62-year-old-madurai-woman/articleshow/78818557.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||‘Delayed’ procedure brings normalcy to cancer survivor||Pune: Sunita was nursing her infant when she was diagnosed with cancer in her right breast five years ago. With no other option left, she underwent surgical removal of the right breast (mastectomy) and deferred breast reconstruction since then. Breast reconstruction is a surgical procedure that restores shape to the breast after a mastectomy. After five years, Sunita underwent ‘delayed breast reconstruction surgery’ with a free flap surgery technique, which involves taking a section of tissues from one area of the body — most often the abdomen — and relocating it to create a new breast mound. However, women like Sunita who are motivated to undergo ‘delayed reconstruction’ are few and far between. Most breast cancer survivors rarely come back for the reconstruction procedure mastectomy, experts said. “I realized that my upper body posture changed after the surgery. I would wear an external prosthesis but it wasn’t comfortable to keep on to it all the time,” Sunita said. She learned about the ‘delayed breast reconstruction’ at an event for breast cancer survivors, following which Sunita approached Jupiter hospital’s plastic surgeon Swapna Athavale, who advised her a Deep Inferior Epigastric Perforator (DIEP) flap to create a new breast using fat from the lower abdomen. The procedure required dissecting out the blood supply of the lower abdominal fat under a microscope and connecting it to small blood vessels at the chest. Reconstructive surgeon Amit Mulay said, “The DIEP flap procedure uses only fat and spares the abdominal muscles, so there is no core muscle weakness. Using the patient’s own tissues to sculpt the new breast mound, gives it a natural feel and droop that’s easier to match to the other breast.” “The procedure also gives a tummy tuck while creating a new breast, restoring the patient’s body self-image and confidence,” Athavale said. The surgery worked wonders for Sunita. “I am happy to get rid of the prosthesis, my body posture has improved and I feel more complete now,” she said. Breast cancer surgeon Pranjali Gadgil advised that women undergoing mastectomy should not delay breast reconstruction surgery. “A preferred approach is doing reconstruction in the same setting as the cancer operation. There are several advantages of immediate reconstruction over a delayed approach,” Gadgil said. Not only does the immediate reconstruction preserve the woman’s body and psychological wellbeing, but also avoids a second hospitalization and surgery. “When I am performing a mastectomy with immediate reconstruction, I can preserve the patient’s own skin envelope over the breast and often the skin of the nipple-areola as well. The patient’s own breast skin envelope is filled in with an implant or a tissue flap, to recreate the breast mound,” Gadgil said. The delayed reconstruction with DIEP is similar but also uses the skin over the abdominal fat to replace the breast skin that the surgeon removed during the mastectomy, she added. SURGERY USES ONLY THE FAT Deep Inferior Epigastric Perforator (DIEP) is a free flap procedure that uses only fat. So, there is no muscle weakness This becomes particularly important for young cancer patients who follow an active lifestyle Compared to implants, it uses the patient’s own tissues and gives a natural feel and droop to the breast There is a vast amount of evidence that reconstructions don’t increase the risk of cancer recurrence PROCEDURE LIMITATIONS The procedure is time- and resource-intensive It can only be done in a tertiary centre with a team experienced in microvascular surgery, special equipment like an operating microscope and microvascular instruments It needs a good postoperative care unit for flap monitoring BLURB Free flap is a term for a procedure, in which tissue and its blood supply (artery and vein) are surgically removed from one part of the body and transferred to another area for the purpose of reconstruction (Source: Breast Cancer Surgery department, Jupiter hospital, Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-years-after-removal-surgery-flap-procedure-helps-restore-breast-shape-in-cancer-survivor/articleshow/78818556.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 23, 2020||Delhi||Two couples lead fight to legalise gay marriage||At the end of September, Kavita Arora, a psychiatrist, and Ankita Khanna, a psychologist, who have been in a relationship and lived together for eight years, approached a marriage officer in Kalkaji to formalise their bond under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Their request was turned down. Earlier this month, they filed a petition in the Delhi high court on the grounds that this rejection was discriminatory and that the right to choose a marriage partner was enshrined under Article 21. The petition, to them, is an affirmation of the faith that they are equal Indian citizens. “Different (in that we are both women), but not less than any other couple. Equal, free to choose our partner in love and marriage, and live with dignity.” They’re hopeful for what is to come, as firm believers in the transformative power of the Indian Constitution. The couple met at work as part of a child & adolescent mental health team in Delhi-NCR. “In January 2012, Ankita entered Kavita’s office with a cup of tea saying, one of my New Year resolutions is for us to have a ‘better working relationship’. The conversation that started that day just never ended,” say the couple in an email interview with TOI. Also filing a petition, but in the context of the Foreign Marriage Act, are Vaibhav Jain and Parag Mehta, who did a court marriage in Washington DC in 2017 and, last year, a Jain ceremony with a sangeet and reception. However, they were not allowed to register the marriage in India by the Indian consulate. “We completed all the paperwork, went to the Indian consulate and asked them to register our US marriage. They denied us that option,” says Jain. “As a bi-national couple, we recognised that there are certain rights we enjoy in the US that we don’t have in India. For example, if Vaibhav were to fall ill and be hospitalised while we are visiting home, I would have no rights to make decisions about his health — even though I am his spouse and an overseas citizen of India,” Mehta argues. “It was necessary to get our marriage legally recognised in India. Marriage isn’t just a ceremony we perform, it confers rights and responsibilities.” Arora and Khanna say the pandemic has only made them more certain that they want to get married. “We realise how important it is to have a legitimate structure and ‘name’ to our relationship vis-à-vis the legal, as well as social sanction. For us, what has been very challenging is being able to get an address proof and other related documents for Ankita for this house that we have shared for the last eight years,” says Dr Arora, 47. Each time they tried to approach authorities for some joint paperwork, they hit a wall. “Even the thought of approaching yet another authority has often prevented us from looking at the possibility of doing things together, for example taking a joint loan, or smaller everyday things like requesting family memberships to our local swimming pool.” While Mehta and Jain’s parents are supportive of their petition, Jain’s parents were initially concerned about having their son take on the state. “When I helped them understand the enormous impact it can have on the lives of so many others, they understood,” says Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-couples-lead-fight-to-legalise-gay-marriage/articleshow/78819208.cms||Ketaki Desai
October 23, 2020||Surat||Navsari civil hospital nurse ends life, alleges harassment by seniors||SURAT: A 28-year-old nurse ended life by hanging herself at her residence at Vejalpore town in Navsari district early on Thursday morning allegedly due to harassment by her seniors. The deceased, Megha Acharya alias Megha Amit Khambhati, a resident of Moonlight apartment at Jalaram society was working as a staff nurse with the civil hospital in Navsari. Police said that Acharya had used her dupatta to hang herself with the ceiling fan at about 3 am. Sources said that Megha had got married one-and-a-half-year-ago with Amit Khambhati, a resident of Nanapondha village in Valsad’s Dharampur taluka. Khambhati is working in a private company and stays with his parent in the village, while Megha was living in a rented apartment in Vejalpore along with her mother. Police have recovered a four-and-a-half-page note from Acharya’s room. In the note, the deceased has levelled serious charges of harassment against her seniors at Navsari civil hospital. She has also named some of the staff in the note said police. Sources said that Acharya had rendered exemplary service as a corona warrior during the ongoing pandemic at the civil hospital. On Thursday, her family members refused to accept her body demanding justice and action against those responsible for forcing their daughter to take such an extreme step. Talking with media persons, mother of the deceased, Minaxi Acharya said, “For a long time now, my daughter would come home and cry a lot. She would complain about her seniors harassing her in the name of work at the hospital. She was getting calls and messages from her senior at night. She was posted at the Covid ward for a few months and then shifted to the general ward.” Deputy Superintendent of Police H K Rana told TOI, “We have recovered a suicide note from Acharya’s room. Prima facie it seems that the deceased was harassed at the workplace by her seniors. She has named few nurses in the note. Though her family life was disturbed, but there was no harassment from her in-laws.” Rana added, “We are yet to register an offence as both her mother and sister are yet to come to the police station for registering a complaint. Meanwhile, the investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/navsari-civil-hospital-nurse-ends-life-alleges-harassment-by-seniors/articleshow/78814960.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||Gift hampers set to replace sindoor khela on Vijayadashami this year in Pune||PUNE: Sindoor khela or the smearing of vermillion by married women on each other while bidding adieu to Goddess Durga will be missing from this year’s Puja celebrations, in keeping with the social distancing norms, but not its intent – that of wishing each other a blessed marital life. In order to keep the age-old tradition alive and also to wish each other a long married life, some Bengali women in the city and elsewhere have decided to send gift hampers consisting of vermillion, shakha-pola (white and red bangles) and sweets to each other. Shamoli Bannerjee, a member of a Bengali women’s group on Facebook, said, “We organise a get-together every year for sindoor khela, but this year we are not taking any risk. The ritual is also a celebration of womanhood. So, we have decided to send a small package consisting of sindoor box, a set of traditional shaka-pola (red and white bangles) and some dry Bengali Sandesh to each other.” Tanya Bose, a resident of Wanowrie, said, “We have many Bengali families in our society as well as in neighbouring residential complexes. We usually visit our local pandal for sindoor khela, but this year we have taken a different approach. It is not possible for a single person to send gifts to so many people in the neighbourhood. So, we have decided that each person will send a gift to another person. Luckily, we have an even number of ladies in our group. The cost per gift has been fixed at Rs200. We are sending packets of sindoor to symbolise the ritual, and some sweets, too.” Ishani Halder, from NIBM, said that her women friends have decided to hangout online, instead of playing with vermillion this year. “The buzz of Durga Puja has been almost non-existent. We have not got a chance to wear our new clothes and go for pandal hopping. Even though we will be at home, we will wear our red-bordered sarees and do our makeup for a Zoom call with other Bengali ladies. We also have a competition for best dressed woman.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gift-hampers-to-replace-sindoor-khela-this-year/articleshow/78818566.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Uncle gets life for raping, impregnating 15-year-old girl||TIRUNELVELI: A special Pocso court in Tirunelveli convicted the 34-year-old uncle of a minor girl and awarded him life imprisonment for raping her in 2017 that resulted in the girl delivering a baby. “The victim was 15 years old when the incident took place. DNA test of blood samples collected from the baby and the accused proved the crime,” public prosecutor Jebajeeva Raja, who appeared for the victim, said. Sessions court judge P Indirani also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on accused Sivan Perumal who was found guilty under section 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Charges against Perumal’s wife Jaya and his relatives could not be proved. The girl rolled tobacco leaves for a living along with her mother while her father worked in a hotel. The accused, who was related through her mother, lived close to their house. Perumal and Jaya who were married for ten years did not have children and desperately wanted a child. In her complaint, the girl alleged that Jaya who rolled tobacco leaves with her, invited her to their house on February 15, 2017, under the pretext of showing a new sari. She asked her to try out the sari but locked the house from outside with her husband inside the house. Raped by him, the uncle and aunt told her that they wanted to have a child through her and promised to get her married to him as his second wife. The accused raped her repeatedly and the girl became pregnant. On July 10, 2017, he asked her to wait at a bus stop and never returned. She alleged that the man along with his wife and relatives abused her and threatened her, following which she lodged a complaint with the Ambasamudram AWPS. Sivan Perumal was pronounced guilty on Wednesday and handed out life imprisonment on Thursday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/uncle-34-gets-life-for-raping-impregnating-15-year-old-girl/articleshow/78818567.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bareilly||Three Pilibhit paddy procurement officers in-charge jailed for negligence||PILIBHIT: Three officers, in charge of NAFED (National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Limited) in the state, were imprisoned on Thursday afternoon for their “negligence” in paddy procurement, following orders of district magistrate (DM) Pulkit Khare. With this, the number of officers in charge of procurement centres against whom punitive action has been taken has gone up to seven. Khare also said all procurement agencies had been strictly instructed not to close their centres under any condition without achieving their daily procurement targets. They had been warned that the paddy procurement was being closely reviewed by the administration from the district procurement control room, and no lapse by any agency at any stage would be tolerated. The DM said he had regularly received complaints about messy management and faulty practices of Layak Ram, Rajesh Kumar and Dharmendra Kumar, posted at procurement centres in Khat Deura and Sonupura under Kalinagar tehsil and Banjarganj under Puranpur tehsil, respectively. They had been issued repeated warnings of punitive action, yet had continued to neglect the functioning of their respective centres, failed to complete their daily assigned procurement targets, and to maintain transparency in dealings with farmers, Khare added. Eventually, action was taken against them after SDM Rajendra Prasad found all three officers in-charge absent during a surprise inspection visit, he further said. Puranpur Kotwali SHO, S K Singh, said police have invoked Section 151 of CrPC and sent the three defaulters to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-pilibhit-paddy-procurement-officers-in-charge-jailed-for-negligence/articleshow/78813940.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Mangaluru||For just Rs 1,999, own the entire cinema hall for the duration of film||Mangaluru: Ever dreamt of watching a movie in a theatre all alone or only with your loved ones? The pandemic has made this possible. To draw moviegoers, theatre owners are floating enticing offers. A multiplex is offering people the chance to own the screen for the duration of a film for a measly Rs 1,999. If that’s too heavy on the purse, the entire gold (premium) class can be had for just Rs 500. If that too is too expensive, one can watch a movie with 10 friends or family members for just Rs 50 per ticket. Big Cinemas in Mangaluru is hoping to drum up business with these offers. A spokesperson said the response to cinemas has been poor post-lockdown. “It’s a chicken-and-egg situation as the business thrives on new content,” he said. “With theatres in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Rajasthan still closed, there’s dearth of content since producers look to these states for revenue. Most movies that we are screening now are available on OTT platform. So, we are trying to incentivize moviegoers with these offers.” The only sore point is that only films listed are screened. The theatre has received about 35-40 inquiries so far. “We have to see how many of these inquiries are converted into transactions,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/for-just-1999-own-the-entire-cinema-hall-for-the-duration-of-film/articleshow/78816473.cms||Stanley Pinto
October 23, 2020||Udaipur||Woman, 2 kids found with throats slit in Banswara, hubby key suspect||UDAIPUR: A 37-year old woman, her daughter and son were found dead with their throats slit at their home in Raati Talai area under Kotwali police station limits of Banswara city on Thursday. The bodies of Neetu, her 15-year-old daughter Shweta and 12 year-old son Aryan were found lying in a pool of blood at their home located in one of the posh colonies. “Neetu's husband Devendra Sharma (40), a driver by profession, is absconding since morning and is the prime suspect. The family hails from Dholpur’s Sepau tehsil and lived here in a rented room. Devendra’s mobile phone is switched off. He was in the house last night but not seen since morning,” SP Kavendra Singh Sagar said. The incident came to light in the noon after relatives went to their home in the morning. He saw a huge clot of blood under the door and immediately informed police. The SP said the murder took place around 2 am and police was informed around 11am. The bodies were found in a pool of blood and its is a clear case of triple murder. Dog squad, FSL team and experts were pressed in to collect samples from the crime spot. According to police, Shweta was sleeping in a neighbour’s house since the woman was alone and had asked the girl to stay with her for the night. However, past midnight Devendra went to the neighbour’s home and brought his daughter back. Neighbours told police that the man was awake till late night as they saw lights switched on in their room. Police have sought footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area. Teams have been sent to find the suspect while the family's close acquaintances are being quizzed to know about the probable reason behind the murders. Neetu did stitching and tailoring work to support the family. “Prima Facie we are told by the family's contacts that Devendra was under depression since some time. He often quarreled with his wife. We are investigating from various angles too including financial or personal problems or marital discord,” Sagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/woman-2-kids-found-with-throats-slit-in-banswara-hubby-key-suspect/articleshow/78826259.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Several SCB colonies, apartments plunged in darkness||Secunderabad: For 10 days now, Model Tower apartments in Bowenpally’s Bapuji Nagar, has no power supply. With the cellar, which has the electrical board, still inundated, residents of the 24 flats here have been left struggling for basic necessities: food, water or even communicating with friends and family. While some are relying on inverters – even those they are using sparingly – and local curry points, some others have shifted out to relatives’ homes, to deal the crisis. “It seems like we have been cut off from the rest of the world. Since we can only run the inverters for a limited time, or mobiles are often completely discharged. We have barely managed to connect with our families,” said Sujatha S, who lives in the apartment complex. Though officials have been approached over the power crisis, they said it cannot be restored unless the water is entirely drained out. “Moreover, the stench from the cellar is unbearable,” added another resident of the building. In many other residential areas across the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) -- adversely affected by the recent rains – the situation is much the same. Locals of Saibaba Colony, adjacent to Ramanna Kunta, for instance are spending hundreds of rupees every day to buy water. The locality has no power supply for more than five days. “Not only is there no potable water, even the sumps in the locality are filled with sewerage water...So, buying water cans is our only option,” said a resident. Such is the crisis that R Jagannath, who lives in Ganesh Colony – it’s been without power supply for many days now – had to shift his daughter to a relative’s home in Begumpet. “She works for an MNC in Madhapur and cannot get leave for so many days. Initially, she worked using the inverter, but once that was discharged, she had no choice,” he said. According to official estimates, nearly 50 colonies, out of the 85 in the SCB’s ward no VI, are still reeling under the effects of inundation. When TOI contacted SCB senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender assured that sanitation workers were attending to the de-watering work. “We will clean the cellars soon so that power can be restored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/several-scb-colonies-apartments-plunged-in-darkness/articleshow/78817954.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 23, 2020||Pune||Technician held for theft of elevator control panels||Pune: The Pimpri police on Wednesday arrested a technician under the charges of theft after a private medical college complained that he stole the control panels of two elevators. Police said the technician, Bajirao Shirke (32) of Kalewadi, worked with a sub-contractor appointed to maintain the elevators in the college. “On October 18, two elevators stopped functioning. The management became suspicious as the suspect had visited the college the same day,” the officer said. They checked the CCTV footage noticed the suspect leave the premises carrying something in his bag. “They checked the elevators and found the control panels missing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/technician-held-for-theft-of-elevator-control-panels/articleshow/78818579.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Kamal Nath’s body would have gone back, says Giriraj Dandotia||BHOPAL: BJP minister Giriraj Dandotia — a Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalist — left many shocked on Thursday with a warning that former CM Kamal Nath’s “body would have gone back” from Dimani. Scindia was on stage when he made the remark. “If anybody insults our mothers and sisters in Chambal region, he would be murdered. Had Kamal Nath used the insulting language against our sister (Imarti Devi) in Dimani in place of Dabra, his body would have been back from here,” said Dandotia, who had quit Congress with Scindia and is seeking re-election from Dimani in Morena. “It’s good that Kamal Nath stayed in Dabra. She (Imarti) is a poor woman of Scheduled Caste. Any mother or sister belonging to any caste in our region is our prestige. It was good that this happened in Dabra or else there would have been bloodshed,” he said. However, slogans of ‘Jai Jai Kamal Nath’ were heard from the crowd during Dandotia’s speech. He also made personal remarks against Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh. Congress condemned Dandotia’s remarks and gathered at the collector's office to protest. “We have submitted a demand to the collector and SP for an FIR against Dandotia. We will also approach Election Commission,” party district president Deepak Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/naths-body-would-have-gone-back-says-dandotia/articleshow/78816280.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, 2 kids found with throats slit in Banswara, hubby key suspect||UDAIPUR: A 37-year old woman, her daughter and son were found dead with their throats slit at their home in Raati Talai area under Kotwali police station limits of Banswara city on Thursday. The bodies of Neetu, her 15-year-old daughter Shweta and 12 year-old son Aryan were found lying in a pool of blood at their home located in one of the posh colonies. “Neetu's husband Devendra Sharma (40), a driver by profession, is absconding since morning and is the prime suspect. The family hails from Dholpur’s Sepau tehsil and lived here in a rented room. Devendra’s mobile phone is switched off. He was in the house last night but not seen since morning,” SP Kavendra Singh Sagar said. The incident came to light in the noon after relatives went to their home in the morning. He saw a huge clot of blood under the door and immediately informed police. The SP said the murder took place around 2 am and police was informed around 11am. The bodies were found in a pool of blood and its is a clear case of triple murder. Dog squad, FSL team and experts were pressed in to collect samples from the crime spot. According to police, Shweta was sleeping in a neighbour’s house since the woman was alone and had asked the girl to stay with her for the night. However, past midnight Devendra went to the neighbour’s home and brought his daughter back. Neighbours told police that the man was awake till late night as they saw lights switched on in their room. Police have sought footage from CCTV cameras installed in the area. Teams have been sent to find the suspect while the family's close acquaintances are being quizzed to know about the probable reason behind the murders. Neetu did stitching and tailoring work to support the family. “Prima Facie we are told by the family's contacts that Devendra was under depression since some time. He often quarreled with his wife. We are investigating from various angles too including financial or personal problems or marital discord,” Sagar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-2-kids-found-with-throats-slit-in-banswara-hubby-key-suspect/articleshow/78817849.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||FDA fines 3 sweet shops for flouting directives||Pune: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has fined three sweet shops and served notices to 20 such outlets across the Pune district for failing to comply with the provisions prescribed by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The department has collected a penalty of Rs12,000 from the three shops operators as part of its prosecution measures initiated from October 1, in a bid to keep a check on adulterated and poor quality food items on sale during the festive season. The FDA officials said the inspection drive would be stricter in the coming days and fines would be imposed on the spot. “We have minimal workforce and, therefore, the process of serving notices to non-compliant food establishments is taking a while,” assistant commissioner of FDA Pune, Sampatrao Desai, said. Desai stated that as per the FSSAI guidelines issued on September 25, the sweet sellers were told to mandatorily print ‘best before date’ on the non-packaged or the loose sweets, either on its container or tray holdings, from October 1. “The guidelines recommended printing of ‘date of manufacturing’ on such items, though the final decision was left with the food business operators. The inspection drive revealed that several shops failed to comply with the FSSAI order,” Desai told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fda-fines-3-sweet-shops-for-flouting-directives/articleshow/78818571.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Contract worker electrocuted in Jhalawar||Kota: A 25-year-old contract worker with Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) was electrocuted to death when he was working at a 1,100 KV GSS at Harigarh under Panwar police station of Jhalawar district on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.The angry family members of the deceased worker, Shivraj Bheel, on Thursday morning refused to take down the body from the GSS until compensation was announced and staged a demonstration, however, they agreed by noon after assurance of a compensation of Rs 5 lakh and insurance amount as per the norms of the discom, Panwar SHO Jugdish Nagar said.Additional superintendent of police , tehsildar and JVVNL officials reached the spot on Thursday and spoke to the kin. Officials assured them of a compensation of Rs 5 lakh and insurance after which they agreed to take the body. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contract-worker-electrocuted-in-jhalawar/articleshow/78817824.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Registrations on for entrance test for PhD, MPhil courses in MKU||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University has begun online registration and submission of applications for the common entrance test for admissions to PhD and MPhil courses (full-time and part-time) from October 20. Online applications are open for students for programmes in 51 PhD and 48 M Phil subjects at the university. “The exam was supposed to be held in September but was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Previously, students are allowed to give the exams at centres. This time, arrangements have been made for students to write the exam from home by online mode. Measures have been taken to avoid malpractices,” said Dr VS Vasantha, MKU registrar (in charge). The registrar further said that mock tests will be held first so that students can get used to the system and then the actual online entrance exam will be likely held on November 22. More than 2,500 applications have been received so far with the last date for applying being October 23. For applying online, students can visit https://mkuniversity.ac.in/. For inquiries, students can contact toll number - 02261306262 or email the helpdesk at mkuphdmphilentrance2020@gmail.com. Meanwhile, in a statement, the university authorities said that spot admission is available for the academic year 2020-2021 for 24 postgraduate courses. Eligible candidates may contact the respective chairperson/ head/director of the school/ department/ centre with all original certificates immediately. The spot admission will be done on first come, first serve basis, with respect to the availability of seats against the sanctioned strength. The admissions for the same will be closed by October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/registrations-on-for-entrance-test-for-phd-mphil-courses-in-mku/articleshow/78818584.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Madurai||MP raises doubts on quota implementation in SBI recruitments||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to minister for social justice and empowerment Thawarchand Gehlot seeking transparency in the cut-off marks, reservation and recruitment pattern in State Bank of India (SBI), following the recent recruitment held for its clerical position in the rank of junior associates. The MP stated that the cut-off marks released on October 20 for shortlisted candidates for the preliminary examinations from Tamil Nadu raised suspicion with regard to the implementation of reservation. He said that cut-off for general category, OBC and Schedule Caste categories is 62%.He said the cut-off for general category, OBC and Schedule Caste categories is 62%. “While it stands at 59.5% for the Scheduled Tribes, it is 57.75% for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS). Since the cut off marks are not in consonance with social realities, the question arises naturally whether reservation has been implemented properly in declaration of results,” he added.Venkatesan said the details of the cut-off marks for all the candidates have not been published and this has led to no scope for conducting a social audit to monitor adherence to policy of reservation. Individuals only receive communication having details of their marks and cut-offs for different categories.The set of nine questions he raised to the minister includes lesser cut-off for EWS candidates compared to other categories and number of candidates from the EWS who took up the exam.He asked for maximum and minimum marks secured by candidates from each category and norms for treating candidates on the general list. Requesting the minister to go through the aspects, the MP asked details of the results to be published in the open to ensure public scrutiny and transparency for implementation of reservation policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-raises-doubts-on-quota-implementation-in-sbi-recruitments/articleshow/78818572.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Surat||I-T searches BJP leader’s Surat house, 10 premises||SURAT: The Income Tax (I-T) department conducted a search operation at the residence of city BJP vice-president, PVS Sarma on the early hours of Thursday. The action comes hours after Sarma alleged involvement of I-T officers, builders, jewellers, textile and diamond industrialists in the Rs 2,000 crore money laundering scam perpetrated at the time of demonetisation in November 2016. Simultaneous search operations were conducted out at about 10 locations in the city and four each in Mumbai and Thane to over suspicion of illicit transactions and disproportionate assets of Sarma and his close associates. Sources said that the I-T department had issued summons against Sarma regarding the suspicious transactions and his disproportionate assets on October 1. However, Sarma did not give a satisfactory reply. The I-T officials from Ahmedabad and Vadodara swooped down at the residence of Sarma at the posh Four Seasons apartment in Piplod at about 12:30 am. A team of 36 officers led by a joint commissioner of I-T from Ahmedabad had joined the operation on Thursday. Premises of a few prominent persons including realtors considered close to Sarma and his chartered accountant (CA), were searched by the I-T sleuths on Thursday. Sources said that the I-T sleuths have recovered incriminating documents related to the properties and investment along with Rs 3.5 lakh cash and information on 10 bank lockers owned by Sarma and his family members. Sources said that Sarma is earning Rs 1.5 lakh per month from Mumbai firm where he is posted as director and that he earned Rs 90 lakh as commission since 2011. Sarma is also a director in the city-based realty firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-t-searches-bjp-leaders-surat-house-10-premises/articleshow/78814977.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Anti-encroachment drive, Illegal structures in religious places razed||DEHRADUN: Anti-encroachment teams removed unauthorised constructions at mosques and temples in the city on Thursday. The encroachments were removed from two temples in Race Course and two more from Rajpur Road and Jakhan. While removing the encroachment outside a mosque near Keshav Nagar chowk, the officials had to face resistance from local leaders and residents. The matter was resolved after the officials explained to the people that the encroachment was being removed on the directions of the Uttarakhand high court. A total of 24 encroachments from religious places were removed. Out of the 34 total encroachment spots identified, 10 were removed by the people themselves. The drive was carried out at Race Course, Kargi Chowk, DL Road, Ring Road, Haridwar Road, Saharanpur Road and Malsi. The officials from the anti-encroachment team told TOI that “removing encroachment from religious places is a little tough as it has religious sentiments attached to it.” “When we explain to the people that we are not causing any damage to the structure and only the encroached portion is being removed they understand our side as well,” said an official who is part of the drive. A piquant situation arose when demolition teams broke the entry to houses situated on the first floor above some shops at Darshani gate. The residents had to ask for help from neighbours who placed ladders for the people to come down. Satish Ahuja, who owns a shop in a building which was partly demolished, said, “The municipal corporation had only constructed the gallery some years back. The residents, including me, had just one entry point in the front of the building which was demolished along with the portion that the officials claimed as encroachment. It has now become more risky in climbing ladders every time we have to go upstairs to our homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/anti-encroachment-drive-illegal-structures-in-religious-places-razed/articleshow/78814965.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Reimburse entire tuition fee: HC tells edu dept||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court recently directed the education department to reimburse entire tuition fee paid by the daughter of an aided high school teacher within 3 months. Khan Sana Tahedis (19) — daughter of Ajaz Ahmed Khan, a teacher with the Maulana Azad High School and Junior College — had approached the high court, seeking directions to the education department and authorities concerned for reimbursing the fee as only Rs 6,000 was sanctioned whereas the fee was Rs 1,09,091. The bench, comprising justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant D Kulkarni, observed: “Once the government has taken a policy decision to provide free education to the wards of full-time teachers teaching in private aided primary, secondary or higher secondary school then the authorities implementing the scheme cannot turn around and say that the reimbursement of tuition fees would be restricted to Rs 6,000 only because in the year when the policy was introduced, the tuition fees was Rs 6,000 per annum for the course — Bachelor in Physiotherapy. Such attitude would render the welfare policy of the government of giving free education to the wards of full time employees of aided primary, secondary and higher secondary school, nugatory.’’ Sana had approached the court through lawyer CV Dharurkar and Ajay S Deshpande, seeking reimbursement of entire tuition fees paid by her mother for the physiotherapy course in terms of the policy decision dated August 19, 1995 and subsequent government resolution dated January 29, 1997 and circulars dated February 25, 1997 and January 29, 1998. “It is not the case of the respondents that the government has disbanded the policy introduced under Government Resolution dated August 19, 1995. The said policy still exists. In that case, the respondents would be duty bound to reimburse the petitioner the full tuition fees applicable to the free seat,’’ the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/reimburse-entire-tuition-fee-hc-tells-edu-dept/articleshow/78795191.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||NHAI show cause to outer ring road contractor||Nagpur: The Rs1,170 crore Outer Ring Road will not be completed any time soon. The concessionaire Mumbai Entry Point (MEP) Infra is facing financial problems and progress on the project is very slow. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has served a show cause notice to the concessionaire for slow pace of work, said NL Yeotkar, project director, when asked about delay in completion of the project. Yeotkar further said the deadline for completing the project was October 2020. “However, we had to increase it by six months due to Covid pandemic. If the concessionaire is unable to complete the project by coming April, we will take action as per contract conditions,” he added. Action against the contractor seems inevitable as the first package of Outer Ring Road is only 53% ready while the second one is only 43% complete. It is not possible to complete the project in six months. This is bad news for Nagpurians as if the contract of MEP is terminated, NHAI will have to re-tender the project and the new contractor will complete the job. This will take two to three years. Work on Amravati-Akola highway is yet to start as the contractor ILFS’s contract was terminated midway. The work order for the 61-kilometre stretch of Outer Ring Road was issued in April 2016 and it was to be completed in April 2019. However, the contractor could not meet this deadline and it had to be extended because NHAI had not handed over 100% land to the company. The Outer Ring Road work was divided into packages. Package I was 33km-long — from Jamtha to Fetri via Gondkhairi, and package II was 28km-long — from Fetri to Pawangaon on Bhandara Road (beyond Kapsi). The cost of the first package was Rs531 crore, while that of the second was Rs649 crore. Both packages were awarded to MEP. The project is being executed under NHAI’s hybrid annuity system. NHAI will pay 40% of the total cost to contractor during the construction period and the remaining 60% will be paid to him over a period of 15 years after completion of work. NHAI will recover the cost of the project through toll tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nhai-show-cause-to-outer-ring-road-contractor/articleshow/78816276.cms||Ashish Roy
October 23, 2020||Pune||Constant rainfall hits marigold supply at APMC in Pune ahead of Dasara||PUNE: The supply of marigolds in the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) in Pune has been erratic due to heavy rainfall over the last few days. The short supply could lead to higher prices for the flowers during Dasara celebrations. APMC officials said that they usually record the arrival of over 60,000kg marigold on an average every day when Dasara is around the corner. This year, especially in the last two days, they have received a lot of damaged flowers due to rain. The officials added that, on October 19, 71,000kg marigold was brought to the APMC, while the very next day it was only 26,000kg. The average wholesale price for marigolds at Pune APMC on Thursday was Rs40, per kg, while the arrival was 45,000kg. The officials said that if damaged flowers continue to arrive in the market, the price of marigolds will rise due to the dip in the supply. Sagar Bhosale, coordinator at the flower market association in Pune, said that everyone is unsure about the supply and demand in the market this year. “From the last few days, damaged flowers fetched a price of around Rs5-10, per kg, in the wholesale market, while good quality marigolds were priced at Rs50-70, per kg. The price of the flowers for Dasara will be decided on the basis of arrival from Thursday night,” Bhosale said, adding that it is very difficult to assess the current situation. If the rainfall does not stop, the produce is expected to get damaged, reducing the quality and price. “Considering that temples are still closed and major companies are not working at full strength, the demand may take a hit this year,” Bhosale added. Babaji Ghadge, a farmer from Rajgurunagar, said that his marigold produce was wasted due to the rains. “I was expecting at least 2 tonne marigold harvest this year but the rain spoiled everything. I have only 10% flowers that can fetch a better price. I have suffered a heavy loss this year,” he said. He added that considering the current situation, good quality marigold flowers could fetch more than Rs100 per kg in the retail market. While the quantity of marigolds arriving at Pune APMC rose to 71,000kg on October 19, the number dipped to 45,000kg on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constant-rainfall-hits-marigold-supply-at-apmc-ahead-of-dasara/articleshow/78818595.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 12-year-old girl mauled to death by leopard, 5th victim in one month||DEHRADUN: A 12-year-old girl was mauled to death by a leopard, making her the fifth victim of leopard attack in this month alone in the state. The incident took place in Okhalkanda in Nainital on Wednesday evening when she had gone to a nearby forest to collect fodder with her family. The incident triggered a rage among the villagers who demanded the authorities to take effective steps to catch the animal. Responding to the growing pressure, the forest department on Thursday gave permission to “either trap or eliminate the man-eater leopard”. “We have installed two cages in Okhalkanda. We have been ordered to either trap or eliminate the leopard, but the stress is being laid on to save the leopard rather than killing it. So, our primary focus will be to rescue the animal,” said TR Bijulal, divisional forest officer (DFO), Nainital. Notably, the attempt to either trap or eliminate the leopard had proved futile in the past. The forest officials had secured permission to eliminate a leopard after it killed a 60-year-old woman in Manora forest range of Nanital forest division on July 11. But the shooters failed to either kill or trap the big cat. And eventually, after a month, the permission was ceased. Prior to the Wednesday attack, two people were killed by separate leopards in Pithoragarh forest division and two others in Narendera Nagar forest division. The Narendera Nagar leopard was caged by a team of forest officials and radio-collared. From January to October, this year, over 15 people have lost their lives to leopard attacks and over 50 people were severely injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12-year-old-girl-mauled-to-death-by-leopard-5th-victim-in-one-month/articleshow/78814984.cms||Shivani Azad
October 23, 2020||Madurai||Shut schools raise fears of rise in dropouts, child labourers||Madurai: Teachers in government schools have expressed concerns over possible rise in dropouts this year as schools have remained shut indefinitely due to Covid-19. Teachers and welfare activists say that many children may be forced into child labour or child marriage, especially poor families already struggling financially due to lockdown. “We are trying our best to call up parents and students to check on them. Though we insist on learning from home by watching videos and reading from textbooks, in reality we cannot monitor or ensure they follow it in any manner. Many children are accompanying their family members to work as they cannot be left at home alone. Some of those in higher classes are also working part time to earn extra income for the family,” said the headmaster of a government school. Teachers said that the longer children lose touch with studies, the more likely they are to dropout from school, especially girls. “There is not only the possibility of rise in dropouts, but child marriages and child labour could also increase. In areas like Kovilpatti and Sivakasi, where many families work in farms or cottage industry, the children, if they are unable to go to school, often accompany parents to work and hence subsequently may be forced into labour,” said Dr Chinnaraj Joseph, CEO, Centre for Education Development Action and Research (CEDAR), which works for the welfare of children and youth from marginalised communities. He added that the government is yet to bring out a clear plan or strategy for reopening of schools and education for children in various age groups in a post Covid-19 world. “Children, especially those in primary level are most affected. The longer they are out of touch, the more they may forget to even read and write. In government schools, as many parents also not educated, they may not be able help the child learn from home,” said Dr Chinnaraj. SFI district secretary S Vel Deva said that the state government must take note and look for possibility of reopening schools soon as possible. “At this rate, dropouts will increase since in many poor families getting income will be prioritised over studies and children may be forced to continue working instead. If schools are not reopened, alternate arrangements must be made,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shut-schools-raise-fears-of-rise-in-dropouts-child-labourers/articleshow/78818594.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Jewellery firm to sue PVS Sarma||SURAT: Owners of Kalamandir Jewellers Limited, a known name in the jewellery sector of Surat and south Gujarat, on Thursday said that they will be filing defamation case against city BJP vice-president PVS Sarma for making false allegation of money laundering against the firm. Sarma had tweeted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging Rs 2,000 crore money laundering scam by posting the I-T settlement commission’s document related to the Kalamandir Jewellers Limited. Sarma had stated that the jewellery firm sold gold worth Rs 110 crore in just few hours post announcement of demonitisation by the PM on November 8, 2016 and got away with the tax payment of just Rs 84 lakh. Sarma has also alleged that many jewellers, builders, textile and diamond industrialists, who turned their black money white by purchasing huge amount of gold from the jewellers on the night the PM made the announcement. Talking with TOI, Milan Shah, director of Kalamandir Jewellers Limited said, “The tax payers documents with I-T department are highly confidential and how can they be accessed by anyone? We are filing a complaint against Sarma for illegally obtaining the documents. Also, we will file a defamation suit against Sarma for tarnishing the reputation of our 30-year-old jewellery firm.” “All our records and filings are transparent with the Registrar of Companies (ROC). We are the highest tax payers in the jewellery sector in Gujarat. People like Sarma are without job or business and still they are living in a plush apartment worth crores of rupees and owns immovable property in and around Surat and Mumbai,” alleged Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jewellery-firm-to-file-defamation-suit-against-bjp-leader/articleshow/78814996.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||City cops parade Jodhpur accused||AHMEDABAD: About ten cops of Anandnagar police station paraded a man accused of molesting a woman in the Jodhpur area, on the pretext of taking the accused to the crime scene to carry out the panchnama. The cops claimed this was needed ‘to put psychological pressure’ on the accused and other persons. This is the first time that city cops have paraded a accused in the molestation case and have to taken him to the crime spot.  On Thursday afternoon, a team of Anandnagar police led Ashish Thakor by his handcuffs, to the road near Bandhan Party Plot in Jodhpur, where he had allegedly molested a 22-year-old woman who was on an evening walk. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 7, Premsukh Delu, said Thakor, who is 20, was taken there for the case panchanama. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police said they conducted the legal procedure to substantiate the case. He, however, added, “It was also done to put pressure on him and other persons to send out a message that such acts (molestation) cannot be tolerated.” Baloch said the accused was later produced before a court where he was given bail. Baloch said the accused had borrowed his friend’s scooter to deliver food in area. When he saw the woman walking, he went behind her on his scooter and molested her. “In such cases, women usually do not approach police but the complainant approached us and the accused was caught,” Baloch said. He said the complainant is has completed her graduation in architecture and is the daughter of a real estate developer. The accused is a Class X dropout and his father works for a security agency while his mother is a domestic worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-cops-parade-jodhpur-accused/articleshow/78816339.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Lucknow||Home guard commandant fudging muster rolls of jawans dismissed||LUCKNOW: Continuing crackdown on corrupt officials, the state government on Thursday dismissed district commandant of home guard, Kripa Shankar Pandey, for fudging of muster rolls of jawans. Pandey allegedly prepared fake attendance records of jawans after taking money from them. On October 19, another home guard commandant Mukesh Kumar was sacked for taking bribes from jawans. Both the officers were dismissed after approval from Chief Minister of UP Yogi Adityanath. Pandey was arrested by Gomtinagar police on November 21 last year for fraudulent withdrawal of wages by showing inflated figures of personnel deployed at two police stations of Lucknow, leading to a loss of Rs 10 lakh to the state exchequer. He was booked on charges of criminal breach of trust, dishonesty, forgery of valuable security, forgery for the purpose of cheating and use of forged documents as genuine. He was arrested after inconsistencies in disbursement of wages of home guards for the months of July and August last year surfaced at Gudamba and Vibhuti Khand police stations. “There were complaints from Gudamba police station that only eight home guards were attending duty while payment was done for 23. Subsequent probe found that fake muster rolls were prepared with inflated numbers and attendance of home guards was shown without the approval of the local station house officer, whose signatures were forged. Later, the papers were submitted to the department for release of wages,” a senior police officer said. Similarly, at Vibhuti Khand police station, 8-10 home guards reported for duty but attendance of 15 jawans was shown. Home guards do not get fixed monthly wages and are paid on the basis of the number of days they work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/home-guard-commandant-fudging-muster-rolls-of-jawans-dismissed/articleshow/78818606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Trivendra Singh Rawat meets Prakash Javadekar for CAMPA projects worth Rs 262 crore||DEHRADUN: In a meeting with Union environment and forest minister Prakash Javadekar in Delhi on Thursday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat raised the issues of human-animal conflicts and forest fires in the Himalayan state. The CM said that a proposal of additional fund of Rs 264 crore has been sent to the ministry of forests under Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) 2020-21 to check forest fires and human-animal conflicts. Rawat pointed out that a high number of human-animal conflict cases were reported each year in Uttarakhand and animals like monkeys, boars and nilgai damaged the crops. The CM added that wildlife rescue centres need to be set up in the hilly areas to prevent leopard attacks and to protect crops from wild animals. He said that these centres should be defined as forestry activities. Javadekar gave his in-principle approval at the request of the chief minister. “Besides, forest fire is another major issue, which needs to be dealt with immediately,” the CM said, adding, “to effectively curb human-animal conflict, protect crops from animals and check forest fires, I have requested the Union minister for the approval for budget.” CM Rawat informed Javadekar that lakhs of people have returned to Uttarakhand during the Covid-19 phase and the state had undertaken several measures to provide them with employment opportunities. He also mentioned that a plan has been prepared to provide job opportunities to 10,000 people under the CAMPA project. Meanwhile, the CM also inspected the under-construction Uttarakhand Niwas in Delhi. He directed authorities to ensure that the project was completed within the stipulated time span. The project in Gopinath Bordoloi Marg in Chanakyapuri area was started in June 2020. With three basements, it will be a seven-storeyed building. A 50KW solar plant will be installed in the building and the project is expected to be over by March 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-meets-javadekar-requests-approval-for-campa-projects-worth-rs-262-crore/articleshow/78815003.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||HC stays Maha min Thakur’s conviction in cop assault case||Nagpur: In a reprieve to state women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday stayed her conviction for purportedly manhandling and assaulting an on-duty police constable in Amravati eight years ago. On October 15, Amravati sessions court had found Thakur, a three-time Congress MLA from Tiwsa and currently the guardian minister of Amravati district, and three of her aides guilty under sections 353, 332 and 186 read with 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The court had sentenced them to three months of rigorous imprisonment. The sessions court judge Urmila Joshi had also directed all the convicts to pay a fine of Rs15,500 each or undergo additional one month in jail for default. The judge, however, granted bail to all the convicts to allow them to move HC. Thakur had challenged the sessions court verdict through senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari, Aniket Nigam and Kuldeep Mahalle. While admitting the appeal, Justice Vinay Joshi at the high court issued notices to the state government through Rajapeth police station in Amravati, where the offences were lodged against Thakur and three of her aides. Praying for quashing her sentencing, Thakur contended that perusal of evidence and testimony of witnesses clearly shows the sessions judge had committed error by convicting her and no case is made out against all four accused. “The petitioner is awarded three-month sentence. Having regard to the quantum of sentence, its execution needs to be suspended,” said Justice Joshi before adjourning the matter for further hearing on October 27. On March 24, 2012, constable Ulhas Rourale had lodged a complaint at Rajapeth police station against Thakur and her associates for allegedly manhandling him while he was discharging his duties. As per the complainant Rourale, he was deputed as a traffic police at Chuna Bhatti Square when a Tata Safari (MH-14-CC-405) was proceeding towards Gandhi Square, which was one-way. When he stopped the vehicle to inform the driver, Thakur got down and allegedly slapped him. Later her associates also manhandled and assaulted him, claimed the cop. After investigation, a charge sheet was filed against Thakur, her driver Sagar Khandekar, and party workers — Sharad Jawanjal and Raju Ingle. Besides IPC, the accused were also booked under sections 119 and 177 of Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-stays-maha-min-thakurs-conviction-in-cop-assault-case/articleshow/78816285.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Video shows Bisahulal Singh waving a gun, Congress goes to EC||BHOPAL: BJP minister and bypoll candidate Bisahulal Singh triggered another controversy on Thursday when a video went viral, showing him brandishing a revolver and allegedly threatening a man. The 70-year-old, who had quit Congress with Jyotiraditya Scindia, had sparked a row a couple of days ago by using a derogatory word for his Congress rival’s wife in Anuppur. A few days before that, a video had surfaced showing him handing out 100-rupee notes to kids in the constituency, which he claimed was from before the model code came into force. A few days before that, a video had surfaced showing Bisahulal handing out 100-rupee notes to kids in the constituency, which he claimed was from before the model code came into force. Battling complaints to the EC on both counts, he faces a third over the gun video. Congress took the 51-second clip to the poll panel, seeking legal action, and demanded that the minister be sacked from the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet. The video shows an argument between Bisahulal and a couple of men. One of them is heard saying, “Bandook na nikaliye, sahib (Don’t pull out the gun, sahib).” The minister is then seen waving a revolver and shouting angrily. “Bisahulal is also heard abusing in the video. This is highly objectionable and legal action should be initiated against him,” said PCC media coordinator Narendra Saluja. Two days ago, a case under IPC Sections 294 (obscene words in a public place) and 506 (criminal intimidation) had been registered against Bisahulal after a complaint filed by Rajwati Singh, wife of Congress candidate Vishwanath Singh. She had led hundreds of women in a protest outside Anuppur police station, demanding an FIR against him for making a derogatory remark. MP state women commission head Shobha Oza also asked CM Chouhan to act against Bisahulal. Saluja said the minister continues to violate the model code of conduct. He said that the home minister had “confirmed” the video was authentic but it was an eight-year-old incident. He said, “Even if it is eight years old, no one has the right to act in this manner and action should be initiated against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/video-shows-bisahulal-waving-a-gun-congress-goes-to-ec/articleshow/78816292.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Betting & hawala rackets are interlinked, say police||JAIPUR: A day after busting an inter-state betting racket and seizing more than Rs 4 crore, Jaipur police on Thursday said the punters, bookies and hawala traders were interlinked. While a bookie loses a bet from his counterpart based in some other city of Rajasthan, he would ensure that his hawala links will deliver the lost amount of money. This syndicated racket used to add people interested in betting over IPL cricket matches through WhatsApp groups created in the name of Hindu deities including — Salasar Hanumanji, Govinddevji, Khatushyamji and Radhakrishnaji. Not only this, those who were into placing their bets used to term Rs 1 lakh as 1 kg and Rs 1 crore as one chicken. TOI on Thursday spoke to the senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate and members of the team who had busted the racket and seized more than Rs 4 crore from a house situated in Kotwali police station area. “What we found in this particular case is that all the bookies involved in betting across Rajasthan and some other states were jointly into the betting racket. And most shockingly, the hawala traders were facilitating them in transferring money from one place to another. Suppose a bookie of Sikar loses his bet on a match and loses Rs 1 crore from a bookie based in Jaipur. In this case the bookie from Sikar will call up his hawala men in Jaipur to deliver the money,” Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime) told TOI. Police stated that they had a specific input on hawala money, which was collected from various places through cricket betting. “We have arrested two persons identified as Randhir Singh, a native of Gujarat and Kripal Singh, a native of Ajmer,” he said. Preliminary investigation suggested that they were into online betting and also placed bets through the WhatsApp group. “In order to mislead the police, they had created WhatsApp groups in the name of Hindu deities,” said an officer. The arrested members of the racket are associated with the bookies of Rajkot and other parts of Gujarat. “While placing a bet for Rs 1 lakh, the term was ‘1 kg’ and for Rs 1 crore, it was ‘One chicken’. Our team is also decoding other WhatsApp messages to make further arrests and recovery,” Lamba added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/betting-hawala-rackets-are-interlinked-say-police/articleshow/78817911.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Gang selling spurious ghee busted, six arrested||Jaipur: As a part of ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ campaign, Jaipur rural police on Thursday arrested six persons from Balaji market in Kothputli for allegedly selling spurious ghee and seized nearly 2.15 quintals of the product from their possession. The arrested are from Gujarat and were into selling ghee door-to-door in the area. According to police, locals informed them about some people are regularly visiting their area and are selling spurious ghee by claiming it to be genuine. SP Shankar Dutt Sharma formed a team which led to the arrests. “It was found that these persons were selling spurious ghee for Rs 200 per kg to Rs 300 per kg. Our team arrested them and seized the product,” ASP Kothputli Ram Kumar Kaswan said. The arrested confessed that they used to sell two quintals of ghee daily. “All of them are from Gujarat and used to tell their customers that they have excess cattle in their state and therefore the product was a bit cheaper compared to Rajasthan,” the additional SP said. The accused were identified as Aakash Ghadvi (24) Vikash Baghari (22), Jayanti (40), Bharat Bhai (27), Vilash (19) and Jayesh (19) from Sabarkantha and Arwal districts of Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gang-selling-spurious-ghee-busted-six-arrested/articleshow/78817891.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru doctors frown on hospitals pressing for flu shots, say it’s not for all||BENGALURU: Even while several private hospitals are promoting the influenza vaccine, commonly called flu shot and have even made it mandatory for all employees, doctors warn that is not for everybody and have cautioned the general public to take it only on the advice of a family doctor — or one familiar with the health history of the family. The vaccination, administered once a year, is said to be effective in preventing influenza A (H1N1) infections. Besides their employees, many hospitals are urging people to take the shot. Fear of Covid-19 is also prompting many to opt for the vaccine, although it does not prevent SARS-CoV2 infections. The shots cost between Rs 1,100-1500 and experts say one should exercise caution before paying up. “Several advertisements put out by private hospitals propagating flu shots are only misleading,” said a leading public health expert and pulmonologist in Bengaluru. “They are only trying to encash on pandemic fears. A flu shot is not a vaccine for Covid. It has nothing to do with Covid.” Dr Shashidhar Buggi, former director, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases, said he only prescribes shots for those who need it. “It is advised only for senior citizens who may have fragile immunity and often get fever. Pregnant women, those on dialysis and those with compromised lung capacity need it,” Dr Buggi, a leading cardio-thoracic surgeon, said. Dr Sunil Kumar K, consultant, interventional pulmonology, Aster CMI Hospital, said people suffering from structural lung disease, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), interstitial lung disease (ILD, which affects a part of the lungs and leads to breathing difficulty), cardiac failure, bronchitis and diabetes should consider getting flu shots as it increases the capacity to fight influenza. “It does not mean people who take the flu vaccine will never get the flu,” Dr Sunil said. “It’s just that the severity will be less. We also advise those above 65 years of age with respiratory infections, comorbidities or diabetes and those who have recovered from cardiac failure to take the shot.” He said the flu shot is recommended for children between six months and four years of age. “They are the ones who are most vulnerable to infections. For all others it’s only an option,” he said. However, Dr Satyanaraya Mysore, pulmonologist and member of the Covid-19 taskforce, said the flu vaccine reduces the burden of influenza and consequently the strain on the healthcare system. Resources, therefore, can be channelized to fight the pandemic. “However, flu shots must not be given to children younger than 6 months of age,” he said. “It should also not be given to people with severe, life-threatening allergies to the flu vaccine or any ingredient in the vaccine. This might include egg allergy, gelatin, antibiotics, or other ingredients.” He went on to say, “The influenza vaccine has its own benefits. It has shown that it can reduce the risk of contracting flu illness, hospitalization and even death. Getting a flu vaccine this fall is more important than ever, not only to reduce one’s risk from flu, but also to help conserve potentially scarce health care resources.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/docs-frown-on-hospitals-pressing-for-flu-shots-say-its-not-for-everyone/articleshow/78816482.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 23, 2020||Pune||Balasaheb Thorat hoping for land title bill approval in December session||PUNE: Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat is keen on clearance for the proposed land titling bill in the upcoming winter session of the state legislature. The MVA government had taken up the bill last December. He told TOI on Thursday that he had detailed discussions with the state settlement department. “The bill will benefit people and streamline the process of transactions,”the minister told TOI. The bill proposes to make all land records available in one office to give people easier access to information. The title registration officer would carry out the process of preparing, maintaining and updating the land title register. State settlement commissioner S Chockalingam told TOI that the bill was drafted in 2019, and if passed will be a boon for individual owners to have a clear title. “The proposed system of registration of transactions affecting title and rights on immovable properties will protect persons from being defrauded while dealing in a property,” he said. The bill proposes the introduction of a system of registration of land titles to ensure single-point availability of information including all encumbrances, related to a piece of land. The act should bring about optimum use of land with reduced litigation, ensure ease in land-based credit and would help boost economic growth. At present, a single act of transfer or property involves a minimum of four legislations, a minimum of two authorities which results in delays and cost escalation. Revenue officials said the act would enable ease of business and bring transparency to the process.  The change in regime in the state last year cast a shadow on the passage of the land titling bill, nearly cleared by the previous BJP-Sena government. Sources in the revenue department had then claimed that the entire process was likely to be delayed because the new government had yet to allot portfolios to ministers. The bill would have to be placed before the new government for its passage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thorat-hoping-for-land-title-bill-approval-in-dec-session/articleshow/78818609.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 402 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand on Thursday reported 402 Covid-19 positive cases and eight deaths, taking the death toll to 968 and the total number of infections to 59,508. The maximum Covid positive cases surfaced from Dehradun with 107 people testing positive followed by Pauri Garhwal with 48 and Nainital with 46 cases. Among the eight deceased were an 18-year-old man who died at Mahant Indiresh Hospital due to cardiopulmonary attack accompanied by Covid-19, and a 60-year-old man who died in Doon Medical College. Uttarakhand is among the few states whose death rate is greater than the national average. The Himalayan state’s death rate stands at 1.62% while the national average is 1.51%.The state’s death rate is worse than Jharkhand (0.87%) and Bihar (0.49%). Among the worst-affected districts include Dehradun which has recorded 553 deaths, followed by Nainital (140), Haridwar (120) and Udham Singh Nagar (85). Meanwhile, 568 people recuperated from the infection on Thursday, taking the overall tally of cured patients in Uttarakhand to 53,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-402-covid-19-cases-and-8-deaths/articleshow/78814990.cms||Shivani Azad
October 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Respite from daily snarls by June 2021||RAJKOT: The Laxminagar railway underpass, a veritable hell for commuters and residents of the area during monsoons, will be completed by June 2021. This assurance came after Rajkot Municipal Commissioner Udit Agarwal reviewed the ongoing construction work on Thursday. The other underpass under construction at Amrapali railway crossing will be completed by February 2021. Owing to its narrow passage, Laxminagar underpass becomes a nightmare for commuters while waterlogging makes life miserable for residents surrounding this area. After much discussions between railway authority and the RMC, construction work finally started on the project to come up at a cost of around Rs 20 crore. “The Laxminagar underpass is designed on the lines of Kalavad road under pass which will comprise a cycle track, pedestrian track, lighting and other facilities,” Agarwal told TOI. Amrapali railway crossing bridge on Raiya road being built at an approximate cost for this bridge is Rs 21 crore will join western part of the city to the central. It will have a 4.5m service road around this underpass and a 6.6m carriage way. The bridge will have roads leading to Vaishalinagar-1, Airport road, Kisanpara, Shreyash society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/laxminagar-underpass-to-be-completed-by-june-2021/articleshow/78815016.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||PMC initiates talks with Uruli residents to resolve garbage dumping issue||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will hold a detailed meeting with Uruli Devachi residents on Friday to resolve the issue of garbage dumping in their limits. The residents have prevented garbage carrying trucks from entering the garbage depot. They said that they do not want the civic body to dump garbage at the depot. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “The residents have raised some issues over garbage management at the depot. We held a discussion with them on Thursday. A detailed meeting on the issue will be held on Friday. We will discuss their demands and resolve the issue.” The administration on Thursday claimed that the garbage was being lifted from the city and collected at various ramps for processing. Also, the Ramtekdi waste processing plant, which was closed for maintenance, will resume operations from Friday. “We are also sending the garbage to other processing plants,” Kumar said. The Ramtekdi plant has a capacity to process around 300 tonnes of garbage. The administration is planning to operate other plants with additional capacity. Local elected representatives have opposed transportation of garbage to Ramtekdi. Local corporator Yogesh Sasane said, “The civic administration should not dump garbage at the site if the plant is not able to process the garbage. There are huge heaps of garbage accumulated at the shed. The administration should first clear it,” Sasane said. Bhagwan Bhadale, from Uruli Devachi ,said that local residents have been following up on the issue with the civic administration for long. “Every time we receive assurance from the authorities. The residents want a concrete solution to the garbage issue. Open dumping should not take place,” he added. The officials from the civic administration said that garbage was not being dumped in the open at the garbage depot. “The garbage is being processed,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-initiates-talks-with-uruli-residents-to-resolve-garbage-dumping-issue/articleshow/78818615.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Roll back hike in raw material rates: Bizmen||Ludhiana: With the farmers allowing goods trains to run till November 5, the Ludhiana industry has heaved a sigh of relief. But the businessmen are now demanding that manufacturing companies and traders of steel raw material reduce the rates that were hiked during the past one month ever since the farmers’ agitation started.The rates of raw material for bicycle, sewing machine industry and wire drawing had gone northwards. In some cases, an increase of Rs 8,000 per tonne was witnessed, causing huge resentment among businessmen. The suppliers of the raw material had been citing the rail roko andolan as one of the reasons for the hike as they had to use road transport, which is costlier.AD Miglani, president of Ludhiana Wire Manufacturers’ Association, said, “Ever since the start of the protest, engineering products’ industries have suffered a big blow as the steel raw material manufacturing companies and their suppliers had hiked the rates exorbitantly. In case of wire rod, which is our essential raw material, the rate was hiked five times by Re 1-kg each time, leading to an overall hike of Rs 5 per kg, which is unjustified. For this hike, we were told that since rail transportation was disrupted, the delivery of raw material was being done by surface transport. So going by this logic, the companies should reduce the rates by Rs 5 per kg now that the goods trains have been allowed to operate.”Jatinder Nagpal, finance secretary of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries’ Association, said, “The rate of pig iron has been hiked by Rs 8,000 per tonne by the companies and brokers on the pretext of rail roko agitation in Punjab. In reality, if the transportation of the raw material is done by road to Ludhiana, the hike will only be of Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 per tonne, but we are being fleeced. Now when the famers have allowed the passage of goods trains till November 5, the companies and brokers should reduce the rates immediately. We urge the state and the Centre to take note of the issue and order all steel manufacturing companies to reduce their rates.”Rajesh Bansal, president of All India Tiny and Small Manufacturers’ Association, said, “During the past one month, there has been a huge fluctuation in the rates of cold rolled sheet and cold rolled pipes, which are essential raw materials for the cycle industry. All the suppliers have one excuse to give and that is the goods trains are not able to reach Punjab, causing logistical challenges. If we talk of cumulative increase, then so far, the rates of raw material for our industry have been hiked by Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000 per tonne in the past 20-25 days. Now with the goods trains being allowed to enter Punjab, the rates of all raw material should be brought down at the earliest as we are already suffering huge losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/roll-back-hike-in-raw-material-rates-bizmen/articleshow/78811944.cms||Mohit Behl
October 23, 2020||Pune||PMC affordable housing lottery on October 24||Pune: The lottery for affordable houses offered by the civic body as part of the Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana will be held on October 24 and would be streamed live on the PMC’s official website. Over 20,000 applications have been received by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for 2,918 flats available in areas like Kharadi, Hadapsar and Vadgaon. Of the 2,918 houses 1,024 will be available in Hadapsar, 786 in Kharadi and 1,108 in Vadgaon Khurdi. The programme will be held at 11am at the Chhatrapati Shri Shivaji Maharaj hall inside the PMC building. Union minister Prakash Javadekar will preside over the function. As per PMC data the houses will be available as part of five different projects under the ‘affordable housing in partnership’ section. “The Pune Municipal Corporation had invited applications from citizens who wanted to buy the houses. The applications were scrutinized and only valid ones will be considered for the lottery,” said mayor Murulidhar Mohol. He said the lottery would be held online in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines such as social distancing. A statement issued by the civic body said the lottery can be watched on https://pmc.gov.in/ .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-affordable-housing-lottery-on-october-24/articleshow/78818616.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||Thorat demands state’s GST share||Pune: State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday said the Centre’s delay in paying GST dues worth Rs 28,000 crore has worsened the state’s financial condition. “BJP leaders are telling us to take loans to help the farmers, but the Centre is not having a dialogue with the state about it and neither is it paying GST dues to the state,” he told TOI on Thursday. Most other states have received their share, but despite repeated requests Maharashtra has not been granted its share which is impacting the exchequer, Thorat said. Paying the GST dues immediately would help the state government in a big way during this pandemic, Thorat added. Several initiatives could not be rolled out due to a shortage of funds. Departments addressing the pandemic were the only ones getting any allocation of funds, he added. October rain has damaged crops on lakhs of hectares and the central government should refund the pending GST dues, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thorat-demands-states-gst-share/articleshow/78816329.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 23, 2020||Pune||Duo pose as student, dupe pals of Rs 16k||Pune: A 25-year-old medical student on Tuesday lodged an FIR with the Chikhali police, stating that two men contacted her acquaintances using her old cellphone number and took Rs16,000 from them. The complainant’s cellphone number, inactive for the past six months, was re-issued to the suspect by the telecom company. The suspect started sending messages to the complainant’s contacts and asked them for money by claiming that she was in trouble, senior inspector Satish Mane of the Chikhali police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-pose-as-student-dupe-pals-of-rs-16k/articleshow/78816350.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 80 lakh jewellery loot: Cops say 9 accused identified, arrests soon||JAIPUR: A day after detaining one of the accused in the Murlipura robbery case, Jaipur police claimed to have identified about nine persons who were involved in its planning and execution. Various teams of Jaipur police raided places in different villages and cities of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to nail the culprits. Police claimed that they were very close to making arrests and recover the robbed jewellery worth over Rs 80 lakh. Jaipur police had detained one of the accused and were in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to make further arrests and recover the jewellery. “We have already nabbed the main accused from Haryana. In order to ensure our team is able to nab the rest of the accused, we are not divulging details about his name and whereabouts. But we are very close to solving this case as so far, we have identified nine persons who were involved in planning and execution of the robbery from the jeweller’s shop situated at Murlipura,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). Police have not ruled out the possibility of involvement of some old employee who is acquainted with the jeweller. “Some people have been detained for questioning. But we are not in a position to divulge more details as that may affect the case as all the nine accused are on our radar. In this case, our focus is also to recover the jewellery looted from the shop,” said Hari Shankar Sharma, assistant commissioner of police, Jhotwara. According to the police, they are not showing the main accused as ‘arrested’ and are also not bringing him to Jaipur. “After he would be shown as ‘arrested’, it will be difficult to recover the robbed jewellery as there is a chain of accused who have passed on the looted jewellery to each other. Various teams are on the job and hopefully we will get them,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-80l-jewellery-loot-cops-say-9-accused-identified-arrests-soon/articleshow/78817926.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Pettimudy rescue dog ‘Dona’ bags gold in efficiency test||IDUKKI: A police dog that worked to find victims of the Pettimudy landslide has bagged a gold medal. Dona, a Labrador Retriever breed dog, has bagged the gold medal as part of the assessment test before the passing out parade at the state dog training institute at Thrissur Police Academy. According to officials, Dona worked tirelessly with rescuers to find victims of the Pettimudy landslide on August 7 even before completing the dog squad training. “For the first time dogs were deputed for search and rescue operation purposes in the state. Dona completed the training for search and rescue operations,” said Idukki dog squad in-charge Roy Thomas. “Dona will be capable of finding a life even if there is a weak pulse in case of a landslide or other calamities. The search and rescue dogs were included in the dog squad in the wake of repeated incidents like landslides,” said Thomas. Another dog, Dolly, has also completed training at police academy and joined the Idukki dog squad. “Dolly is a sniffer dog and for the first time in Kerala a Beagle breed dog has been trained and deployed in the police dog squad,” said the official. According to officials, it is for the first time a police dog from the district dog squad has received official recognition in a search and rescue operation. A local dog ‘Kuvi’, which had helped recover the body of toddler Dhanuska near the Pettimudy landslide site, continued training under the police dog trainer Ajith Madhavan in Idukki dog squad, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pettimudy-rescue-dog-donabags-gold-in-efficiency-test/articleshow/78938515.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to resume Nashik city bus services from today||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to resume city bus service from Thursday — after a gap of almost seven months. The decision came after the central office of the MSRTC on Wednesday directed the local authorities of Nashik Division to resume operations on minimal routes and with specific timings. A decision on expansion of bus service will have to be taken only on the basis of revenue generation. The city bus service was closed on March 24 after the central government had announced the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The bus service will resume on trial basis only to assist the movement of people,” an MSRTC official said. Accordingly, there will be one bus running between Nimani depot and Nasik Road Railway station at every 45 minutes in both the directions and other routes will have buses after every hour. “The services will start from Nimani for destinations like Shramik Nagar (Satpur), Ambad, Uttam, Vijaynagar (via Indiranagar) and Pathardi village that will be via Indiranagar,” the official added. Talking about the safety of passengers, the official said that every bus will be sanitized after every trip and the number of passengers allowed will as per sitting capacity of the bus. “Passengers will have to wear face masks failing to which they won’t be allowed inside the bus,” he added. Meanwhile, Nashikites have welcomed the move by the MSRTC saying it will help them to travel across the city at a fair price. “In the absence of city bus service, autorickshaw drivers are charging heavily as a result of which travelling has become costlier and people are now opting for personal transport,” Ranjana Patil, a city resident, said. “This in turn is increasing the traffic on the road along with chances of accidents,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-resume-nashik-city-bus-services-from-today/articleshow/78795215.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Man says robbed of Rs 70k, cops doubt claim||tnnLudhiana: Three unidentified persons allegedly snatched Rs 70,000 from a private company representative near Jagraon bridge here, the police said on Thursday. The man claimed that the miscreants sprayed something at his face, possibly chilly power, and fled with the bag containing the money. However, the police say his statements lack consistency.Pardeep Kumar of Ambedkar Colony near Cheema Chowk, who works with Delight India, a sale-purchase company, said after withdrawing money from a bank near Vishwakarma Chowk, he put the same in his gym bag and left for Jalandhar bypass on his motorcycle.He told the cops that when he reached the flyover near Jagraon Chowk, on the road near a petrol pump below, three unidentified youths stopped him. He alleged that the accused threw some powder-like substance at him and snatched the bag. He also said that the accused even manhandled him before fleeing the spot. After the incident, he called up the police.However, the police are not taking the youth’s claims at face value. SHO Satwant Singh of Division No. 4 police station said he first claimed that he had gone to his office from bank and then he said that he had not gone to office but to meet some relative in Shimlapuri. So, they are first probing the matter before registering a case.The police officer also indicated that there was no evidence of chilly powder being sprinkled on him at the spot. Besides, as per the youth, the miscreants did not have any weapons with them and they were slim, which again looks a little difficult to believe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-says-robbed-of-rs-70k-cops-doubt-claim/articleshow/78811946.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||SPPU flooded with 13,500 complaints about exams||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has received 13,500 complaints about the final-year semester examination conducted in the online and offline modes. Students complained about options, phrasing of questions, connection issues to submission of papers online. A three-member panel has been set up by the university to consider these complaints and a decision will be delivered after a week. A report on all the complaints will be submitted to the state government after which a decision will be taken, SPPU officials said. As many as 2.5 lakh students from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar are taking the final semester examination which is still underway for various subjects. Since the first day, the students and the SPPU administration have run into numerous issues concerning the exam. The SPPU had uploaded a Google Form on its website for students to register their complaints. The complaints have been put into six categories. Of those, the problems faced during login, wrong question papers, questions and options not visible, the paper not being submitted, and others were received. A maximum of 7,500 complaints were for papers not being submitted. The SPPU is trying to rearrange the exam for students whose complaints were genuine. The head of the university’s exam department, Mahesh Kakade, said, “We are trying to solve each and every complaint and ensuring that no student is left behind for technical reasons. We have received the complaints through Google Forms and we are looking into each one. We will soon resolve them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-flooded-with-13500-complaints-about-exams/articleshow/78821893.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 23, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Our yatra will disprove CM’s claims on jobs, says Harish Rawat||DEHRADUN: Former chief minister Harish Rawat on Thursday announced that he will begin a ‘Parikrama Yatra’ in Rudrapur in the first week of November to “search the people who have been given employment by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government.” This comes after CM Rawat claimed that the state government has provided jobs to seven lakh youth in the state in the period since the BJP government came to power. On the completion of three-and-a-half years in power on September 18 this year, CM Rawat had said, “From 2014 to 2017, the Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Commission gave jobs to 802 people and in the past three years, we have provided employment to over seven lakh.” Reacting to this, Harish Rawat claimed that “the jobs are nowhere to be seen and the purpose of our yatra will be to find out who are the people who have got these jobs.” The ex-CM said he was in touch with the people across the state and no one was willing to substantiate the claims made by the BJP government and its legislators. “Therefore, I have decided that I will take out a yatra in the industrial area so that people working there can give me their feedback,” he said. The move by the former CM is significant given that the employment scenario is likely to play a crucial role in the 2022 assembly polls. Therefore, both the BJP and Congress have started their preparations focussing primarily on this issue. The move by the former chief minister is significant given that employment is likely to play a crucial role in the 2022 assembly polls. Therefore, both the BJP and Congress have started their preparations focussing solely on the issue of employment. On the completion of three-and-a-half years in the power on September 18 this year, CM Rawat said, “From 2014 to 2017, the Uttarakhand Subordinate Service Commission gave jobs to 802 people and in the past three years, 6,000 people have been given jobs through the commission. The process to recruit 7,200 more people is under process.” He had claimed that directly or indirectly over 7 lakh people have been provided job opportunities in the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harish-rawat-announces-parikrama-yatra-to-dsiprove-cms-have-given-jobs-to-7-lakh-youths-claim/articleshow/78815008.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Passengers’ number at airport dropped four times during pandemic||Ludhiana: The Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected the Sahnewal Airport. An internal document of Airport Authority of India (AAI) suggests that aircraft movement has decreased by around three times and passenger footfall by around four times. The situation is likely to improve only after the pandemic.As per the document on Covid-19 impact, in April there was a 100% drop in aircraft movement as compared with the same month last year when 506 aircrafts’ traffic was observed. Similarly, passenger footfall also saw a fall of 100% in the month as compared with last April when it was 58,866.In May, there was some improvement as 34 aircrafts flew, while in the month last year the number was 712, suggesting a drop of 95.22%. And the passenger footfall dropped by 97.89% as in May 2019 it was 89,287 as compared with 1,878 in the month this year.The document said aircraft movement percentage drop remained at 82.22% and 74.70% in June and July this year, respectively, as compared with the corresponding period last year. The passenger footfall decreased by 88.13% and 78.85% in June and July, respectively.Aircraft movement percentage dropped to 77.40% and 63.31% and passenger footfall to 78.17% and 74.96% in August and September this year, respectively, as compared with the same months last year.An AAI officer said the pandemic had a huge impact on the aircraft movement, which ultimately hit passenger footfall. He said they would continue to face the challenge as the occupancy in the lone flight has been less now as earlier it used to be more than 80%.The officer said in May and June, even the hotels were not open, and this impacted passenger footfall at the airport. He added that they expect things to improve significantly after the pandemic ends though there may be some positive change in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/passengers-number-at-airport-dropped-four-times-during-pandemic/articleshow/78811976.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 23, 2020||Pune||DGGI arrests bizman for Rs 52cr evasion||Pune: The Pune Zonal Unit of Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) has arrested a businessman on the charge of issuing fake invoices and fraudulently claiming input tax credit. The DGGI said in a statement that the accused had floated firms in four states, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. “The accused defrauded the exchequer of Rs 52.19 crore on total taxable value of Rs 265.60 crore,” the DGGI said in the statement. The DGGI said it had sought and obtained judicial custody of the accused and further investigation in the matter was in progress. “The accused was arrested from Paranda village in Osmanabad district,” the note added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dggi-arrests-bizman-for-rs-52cr-evasion/articleshow/78816378.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 23, 2020||Nagpur||Engg college principal claims sacking over Covid quarantine||Nagpur: Wainganga College of Engineering and Management, Dongargaon, principal Manish Bihade has alleged he was sacked over his failure to report to work after he had isolated himself at home as his 68-year-old father had tested Covid positive in September. A month later, Bihade has been reinstated but faces disciplinary inquiry over alleged misconduct, indiscipline, insubordination and negligence. Wainganga Bahuuddeshiya Vikas Sanstha, which runs the college, president B B Karanjekar told TOI that Bihade had never informed the college about his father testing positive and that he was in isolation with his family members. “Till date, we have never received any communication over mail, phone or WhatsApp about being hit by Covid. Since his appointment in 2018, he used to come for only a couple of days in a few which reduced to a few hours and eventually never turning up,” Karanjekar said. The trust head accused Bihade of running a private coaching institute and several polytechnic colleges while being absent from work at Wainganga. “He is a university approved principal but has never conducted any conference, workshop, good practices as per UGC and AICTE mandates for a university approved principal,” Karanjekar said. Asked about charges in reinstatement letter, Karanjekar said, “Today, he held a press conference without our permission despite being the principal. He has never marked his attendance,” he said. Karanjekar also said those working from home are paid full salaries and the management had no objection in the makeshift arrangements in the wake of Covid pandemic. As per NU officials, the college trust can’t remove an approved principal without the university management council’s nod. Addressing reporters, Bihade said he could not resume duties as the trust had decided to conduct an inquiry and ultimately sack him. He admitted he used to run private coaching classes. “But I stopped them after joining the college. The trust never insisted that I mark my attendance as I used to work till late night,” he said. Bihade said Karanjekar was very well aware of his father’s condition and that he and his family were isolated. “Multiple police complaints have been filed against Karanjekar. He is reinstating me with the intention of implicating me in those cases. The complainant in one case has been asked to insert my name instead of Karanjekar,” Bihade alleged. The principal also accused the management of not paying salary of staff unless they brought students for admissions. He said the college withdrew his termination letter after he approached the university tribunal. Karanjekar agreed the withdrawal came after this development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/engg-college-principal-claims-sacking-over-covid-quarantine/articleshow/78816375.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 23, 2020||Bengaluru||With rules ambiguous, cops and BBMP marshals on fining spree||BENGALURU: A common sight at the Vidhana Soudha is of tourists posing for pictures with the landmark in the background, but these happy memories are being ruined by police and BBMP marshals. Over-zealous authorities are pouncing on tourists who pull down or take off their masks while posing for pictures and are asking them to cough up fines. Tourists say there is no point posing for pictures with a mask on. They say they are being “coerced” into shelling out Rs 250 as penalty for removing or lowering their masks. Nithin (name changed), a Mumbaikar, said: “There were hardly any people in front of Vidhana Soudha on Thursday afternoon when my friend and I went to see it. Within seconds of posing for photos we were surrounded by cops. They told us to pay Rs 250 per person for not wearing masks properly. We had no choice but to pay.” It’s not just tourists. Many Bengalureans say they understand the gravity of the situation, but feel “choked” by penalties. In the past one week, 1,749 people have been penalised for not wearing masks, while 207 have been fined for not maintaining social distance. But people say marshals and cops harass them for small errors. Syed Hussain, a motorist, alleged he was stopped near Jnana Bharathi area because his wife, riding pillion, was not wearing a mask. “My wife was wearing a burqa, yet we were told to pay Rs 250.” Shreekar Rao, a techie and fitness enthusiast, said he was “caught” while running in a park in Uttarahalli. “A marshal rushed into the park and stood in front of me, ordering me to pay fine,” he said. “I had to call my wife and ask her for cash as I was not carrying my wallet.” Another issue that lacks clarity is with regard to social distancing and it has badly affected eateries. “How can I tell a family of three not to sit next to each other?” said Umesh Shetty, a hotelier in Basavangudi. “Marshals do not seem to understand this and penalise us for lack of social distancing.” Manjunath P, a cafe owner in Jayanagar, said: “I have had to pay Rs 6,000 for lack of social distancing. How can family or friends hangout out by sitting far from each? The government needs to think about this.” BBMP has deployed 250 marshals in the city and one of them said, “We are only doing our job and we are being cursed and abused for it. This should stop.” Kiran (name changed), another marshal working in Banaswadi, said, “Every day we fight with at least 10 people who push us away and use filthy language. People don’t understand that we are only doing our duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-mask-rules-ambiguous-cops-and-marshals-go-on-fining-spree/articleshow/78816568.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 23, 2020||Mumbai||MERC and Maharashtra form separate panels to probe power outage||MUMBAI: Shaken by last week’s power outage in Mumbai, known for uninterrupted supply, Maharashtra government has announced a 1,000-2,000MW expansion of gas-based power plants in Uran in two years to take care of the fast increasing power demand. The 672MW gas-based power plant of state power generation company (MSPGCL) at Uran generates 350MW. Power sector authorities concluded that fast-rising demand in Mumbai against its insufficient generation capacity has made even islanding (separation of Mumbai grid from regional or national grid to ensure uninterrupted supply to city) unworkable. The state has appointed an independent eight-member committee comprising engineering experts and IIT professors, other than the three-member MERC committee set up to probe reasons for the failure and suggest measures to avoid recurrences. State energy minister Nitin Raut visited the Uran plant on Thursday and directed the authorities to prepare a detailed project report to complete expansion within two years. “During peak hours Mumbai needs 2,800MW, which will rise to 5,000MW by 2030. Presently, Mumbai generates 1,00MW. Considering the power outage, it is necessary to enhance Mumbai’s generation capacity,” said Raut. The state technical audit committee headed by Prof B G Fernandes of IIT-B, includes Dr M V Aware of VNIT, Nagpur, Dr Faruk A S Kazi of VJTI, advisor to MSEB Holding company Uttam Zalte, chief electrical inspector Dinesh Khonde, Prof S A Soman of IIT-B, Satish Chavan, director (operations) MSEDCL, and Prof Anil Kulkarni of IIT-B. The MERC committee led by retired IAS officer Dr S K Goel includes V Ramakrishna, former member (power systems), Civil Engineering Association, and Kazi. Kazi is common on both committees. While the state committee has to submit its report in seven days, MERC’s committee has three months. “It is necessary to find out what happened and what needs to be done at the individual stakeholder level and collectively, and at the systems level to avoid any recurrence. Also, it is necessary to examine if delay in implementation of recommendations/suggestions of earlier committees had a bearing on the grid failure. Long-term plans for infrastructure augmentation/development do not seem to have materialized in toto as expected. Also, there are additional provisions for Mumbai, such as the islanding system, for which standby charges being paid for by Mumbai consumers, besides infrastructure cost. It is a reasonable expectation that the consumers get reliable power without such major grid incidents, hence the probe committee,” a MERC order over its public hearings said, urging utilities to submit internal investigation reports too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/merc-state-form-separate-panels-to-probe-power-outage/articleshow/78817380.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Demolition carried out at Gulbarg Society||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Thursday carried out demolition of an illegal commercial structure constructed about 10 days ago at Gulbarg Society by one of its members. The civic body action sparked off anger among other owners, who alleged that a similar illegal construction by another member of the society has not been pulled down for 15 years now. A mattress shop set up by Qasambhai Mansuri (77), who owns Bungalow No 2 of Gulbarg Society, was pulled down by the AMC on Thursday. He was served a notice last week, after which the shop was pulled down on Thursday. “The shop that I set up was pulled down by the municipal corporation within 10 days. However, my neighbour Rajesh Jingar has set up three shops since 15 years. Why is no action being taken against illegal constructions made by him?” asked Mansuri. Jingar – who owns Bungalow No 1 – and Mansuri are the only two occupants of Gulbarg Society now. All the remaining houses of the society are desolate and unoccupied. Other owners of houses in the society said that such illegal constructions are coming up because the society is largely unoccupied. “The civic body should act in a fair manner. If the shop set up by Mansuri is demolished, the three shops set up by Rajesh Jingar also should be demolished,” said Firozkhan Pathan, owner of Bungalow No 18 in Gulbarg Society. When asked for his comment, Rajesh Jingar said that he did not complain against the illegal construction made by Mansuri. “In fact, the society refused to give me rights as a member. There are other illegal structures in the society as well. Why are the members only talking of the shops which I have set up on my plot of land,” Jinger said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/demolition-carried-out-at-gulbarg-society/articleshow/78816384.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Body recovered from canal that of woman: Autopsy||Ludhiana: Three days after the family of a disabled man identified the body recovered from a canal near Dhaipai as his, the post-mortem confirmed that it was of a woman.On the evening of October 19, the police had recovered the decomposed body, which was without head and right hand, from the water body near Jodhan.The family of Charanjit Singh, 45, of Gian Chand Nagar, Lohara, had claimed that the body was his. As Charanjit had polio, his left foot was a little twisted. The recovered body, too, had the deformity, they had reasoned. The police, however, had differed with the family, saying the body seemed to be of an old person.Daba police station SHO inspector Pavitter Singh said, “Initially, it couldn’t be ascertained whether the body was of a man or a woman, as it was decomposed. We went for its post-mortem, which has revealed that the body was of a woman. We have got its DNA sample preserved. We will carry out search for Charanjit and investigate the case of recovered body.” Charanjit had gone missing on the night of October 2. The Daba police, on October 17, had booked his friend Veeram Singh, the latter’s brothers Gurdit Singh and Dupinder Singh and auto driver Simran Singh, all residents of Basant Nagar. Veeram and Simran were arrested the same day.Charanjit’s family said Veerma had borrowed Rs 20,000 from them. On October 2, Charanjit had gone to Veeram’s house to get the money back. But Veeram, along with his brothers, thrashed Charanjit and kidnapped him in Simran’s auto. In the vehicle, they stabbed Charanjit and threw his body in Kaind canal in Khanpur village, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/body-recovered-from-canal-that-of-woman-autopsy/articleshow/78811967.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Pune||MSEDCL claims no link to accident||Pune: The MSEDCL on Thursday issued a statement stating that it did not have any connection with the death of a pedestrian, run over by a truck as he fell on the road after allegedly coming in contact with a live wire of a street light pole on a median at Dhavade Vasti on October 19. The MSEDCL informed the Bhosari police in writing about it, as they registered an offence against the electrical department staffers. Senior inspector Shankar Awatade of the Bhosari police said, “The offence has been registered against Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s electrical department officials.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-claims-no-link-to-accident/articleshow/78816381.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Surat||Missing tutor, minor girl traced in Bihar||SURAT: A 24-year-old tuition teacher was arrested for Wednesday for allegedly kidnapping and raping his minor girl student, who delivered a boy two months ago.The accused Shailendra alias Narayan Nirmal Mishra was nabbed from his native village Karmantola of Aara district in Bihar and the girl was also rescued from there. “After eloping on May 28 last year, they got married in a temple and started living as a couple at Mishra’s native home. She delivered a baby two months ago,” said a police officer at Pandesara police station. The girl will turn 18 on November 30 this year, said police. Mishra, who holds an MSc degree, used to give science tuition to the girl who lived near his house. They started meeting frequently and developed friendship, said officials of Pandesara police station. Mishra also taught in other tuition classes. On May 29, 2019, the girl’s father lodged a complaint of kidnapping and raised suspicion about Mishra’s involvement as he too was missing. However, police could not trace him earlier. After getting specific information, police went to Bihar and nabbed Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/missing-tutor-minor-girl-traced-in-bihar/articleshow/78815049.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Ludhiana||No Covid casualty in dist, 43 test positive||tnnLudhiana: No death of a Ludhiana resident due to Covid-19 was reported on Thursday – a first in more than 100 days.The day, however, saw 43 district residents and 17 outsiders testing positive and three patients from Muktsar, Pathankot and Jalandhar succumbing to the virus here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district fatality figure stood at 825 and that of outsiders at 304.To date, 3,65,335 persons have been tested.Of 43 positive cases, 24 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), three were positive cases’ contacts, 10 from OPD, one healthcare worker, three through tracing process, one pre-operative case and an undertrial.The local health department said Ludhiana case count has increased to 19,837 and that of outsiders to 2,657.So far, 18,731 patients have recovered in the district, which constitutes 94.42% of the total cases.There are 278 active cases.As many as 1,374 persons are home quarantined.On Thursday, 73 persons were quarantined and 3,418 samples were collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Eighteen patients, including nine Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-covid-casualty-in-dist-43-test-positive/articleshow/78811983.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Amritsar||Muktsar man gets death for killing three of family, helper||BATHINDA: The Muktsar district and sessions judge on Thursday sentenced a man to death for the murders of his wife, their two children and his helper in 2015. The court of the Muktsar district and sessions judge Arunvir Vashisht awarded death penalty by hanging to Palwinder Singh of Muktsar’s Attari village and life imprisonment to his paramour, Karamjit Kaur, who had helped him to murder his family and her husband. The judge described the case as ‘rarest of rare” cases. Palwinder (36) on June 20, 2015 took his wife, Sarabjit Kaur (32), daughter Gaganpreet Kaur (6), son Jashanpreet Singh (4) and helper Nirmal Singh (30) in his car to Fattanwala village on pretext of buying medicine. On the way back, he jumped out and pushed the newly-bought refurbished Maruti car into the Gang canal close to his village on Muktsar-Jalalabad road. His wife, children and helper all died of drowning. However, he pretended the murders were an accident and then started living with Nirmal Singh’ widow, Karamjit. Muktsar district attorney Navdeep Girdhar said Palwinder was working as Class Four employee at Khalsa School in Muktsar. Due to his illicit relationship with Karamjit Kaur, he decided to eliminate his family and Karamjit’s husband. His paramour helped him in the execution of the plan. The duo had even bought accident insurance policies in the name of Palwinder’s wife and Nirmal Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/muktsar-man-gets-death-for-killing-3-of-family-helper/articleshow/78817975.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Twist in tale! Blind pups from streets of Mumbai find cosy home in Ambala||MUMBAI: You never know when the wheel of fortune will turn. Two blind puppies, born on the streets of Ghatkopar, moved into a cosy home in Haryana recently. The male pups, born of one litter, have been adopted by a couple who were scouting for a “special needs” pet. The two canines—Swami and Yogi—were taken in by the family from Ambala as the two were “terribly attached”. What makes the adoption of these stray canines unusual is that Indie dogs are in little demand in our country. Worse still, there are few takers for a pet with a physical challenge. So, it was incredible when the young couple opened their hearts to two blind Indie dogs, points out Vini Kalgutkar who was instrumental in getting this adoption done. From the ragtag life on the squalid streets of Mumbai, the puppies now romp about in the adoptive family’s home, sniff around their garden, potter around the backyard since they moved in a fortnight ago. “They’ve settled in. It took them a couple of days… They follow us everywhere,” trills Niveda, talking about the two “babies”. By now, Swami and Yogi have already explored their new home. “Their sense of smell and sound is unbelievable,” adds Niveda. “By now, they have sniffed around and mapped the house.” She and her husband, Satiya, are opposed to buying pets. Having lost their pet earlier this year, they were keen to adopt a dog with special needs. “For us, such a dog is normal,” says Satiya. “And then, don’t such dogs need shelter more than others?” The pups were rescued from Ghatkopar earlier this year by Project Meher, an NGO. While the task of getting them a new home began, their volunteers, Rebecca Vincent and Murtaza, fostered the two puppies in Mumbai Central for seven months. “The pups were terribly attached, and we did not have the heart to separate them,” said Rebecca. People from the US and UK were ready to accept them, but getting both into one home was tough, said Vini. A flurry of posts on social media helped, says Vini, thankful for that call from Ambala. A few formalities later, Swami and Yogi hopped aboard a pet ambulance and braved the 34-hour road trip to Ambala. They’re “intelligent boys with amazing inner vision”, says Satiya. “They will walk into the bedroom, take those few steps and then just jump into the bed,” he points out. The couple is happy with the addition to their family, says Niveda, adding, “Swami and Yogi have added more life to our home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/twist-in-tale-blind-pups-from-streets-of-mumbai-find-cosy-home-in-ambala/articleshow/78817981.cms||Alex Fernandes
October 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Twist in tale! Blind pups from streets of Mumbai find cosy home in Ambala||MUMBAI: You never know when the wheel of fortune will turn. Two blind puppies, born on the streets of Ghatkopar, moved into a cosy home in Haryana recently. The male pups, born of one litter, have been adopted by a couple who were scouting for a “special needs” pet. The two canines—Swami and Yogi—were taken in by the family from Ambala as the two were “terribly attached”. What makes the adoption of these stray canines unusual is that Indie dogs are in little demand in our country. Worse still, there are few takers for a pet with a physical challenge. So, it was incredible when the young couple opened their hearts to two blind Indie dogs, points out Vini Kalgutkar who was instrumental in getting this adoption done. From the ragtag life on the squalid streets of Mumbai, the puppies now romp about in the adoptive family’s home, sniff around their garden, potter around the backyard since they moved in a fortnight ago. “They’ve settled in. It took them a couple of days… They follow us everywhere,” trills Niveda, talking about the two “babies”. By now, Swami and Yogi have already explored their new home. “Their sense of smell and sound is unbelievable,” adds Niveda. “By now, they have sniffed around and mapped the house.” She and her husband, Satiya, are opposed to buying pets. Having lost their pet earlier this year, they were keen to adopt a dog with special needs. “For us, such a dog is normal,” says Satiya. “And then, don’t such dogs need shelter more than others?” The pups were rescued from Ghatkopar earlier this year by Project Meher, an NGO. While the task of getting them a new home began, their volunteers, Rebecca Vincent and Murtaza, fostered the two puppies in Mumbai Central for seven months. “The pups were terribly attached, and we did not have the heart to separate them,” said Rebecca. People from the US and UK were ready to accept them, but getting both into one home was tough, said Vini. A flurry of posts on social media helped, says Vini, thankful for that call from Ambala. A few formalities later, Swami and Yogi hopped aboard a pet ambulance and braved the 34-hour road trip to Ambala. They’re “intelligent boys with amazing inner vision”, says Satiya. “They will walk into the bedroom, take those few steps and then just jump into the bed,” he points out. The couple is happy with the addition to their family, says Niveda, adding, “Swami and Yogi have added more life to our home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/twist-in-tale-blind-pups-from-streets-of-mumbai-find-cosy-home-in-ambala/articleshow/78825576.cms||Alex Fernandes
October 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Demand for gensets in Secunderabad Cantonment spikes||SECUNDERABAD: The demand for electric generators has risen in Secunderabad Cantonment after many apartments lost power supply due to the recent flood inundation. Owners of tent houses and other private electric operators used to provide electric generators for weddings, functions and for cinema shootings and TV shows on hire basis. Now, these operators came to light after residential and commercial premises were inundated with floodwaters, and are providing generators on an hourly basis. For instance, in normal days, they used to collect Rs 1,000 per hour, they now hiked rental up to Rs 2,000 per hour. “We have no other option but to hire the generators to drain the floodwater, as electric boards are inundated. We have urged the officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board to send their men and machinery, but they raised their arms up,” Chandra Reddy, a resident of Maruthi Nagar of Bowenpally told TOI. Some residential welfare associations are spending money by collecting from flat owners and using generators. “We have spent Rs 10,000 for generators as the entire cellar was inundated with flood water after open nala was overflowed,” said a resident of Ganesh Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demand-for-gensets-in-cantt-spikes/articleshow/78817995.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lowest daily deaths in six months||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday added 1,136 positive cases of Covid-19, taking the state tally to 1.64 lakh. It was the third consecutive day of daily tally between 1,120 and 1,140. The cases included 231 from Surat, 179 from Ahmedabad, 119 from Vadodara, 108 from Rajkot and 65 from Jamnagar. The cumulative cases in Ahmedabad crossed 41,000 in Ahmedabad, whereas the tally was 34,771, 14,787 and 11,844 for Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Share of the five districts in daily tally was close to 63%, which got reduced from 67% a week ago. The state also recorded deaths of seven positive patients, taking the death toll to 3,663. It was the lowest daily death of Covid-19 patients in 180 days or six months. The deaths included three from Ahmedabad, two from Rajkot, one from Surat and Chhota Udepur each. The death toll for Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot reached 1,883, 828 and 159 respectively. A total of 1,201 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.46 lakh. The discharges included 269 from Surat, 175 from Ahmedabad, 130 from Rajkot, and 101 from Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lowest-daily-deaths-in-6-months/articleshow/78816391.cms||---
October 23, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Vidyagama tutors had tried to resolve caste issues too||BELAGAVI: Besides engaging and educating children, teachers involved in the government’s Vidyagama programme also made attempts to resolve caste discrimination, which is rampant in rural parts of North Karnataka. Some teachers who conducted classes in temples and mutts in Ballari, Raichur, Koppal, Belagavi and Yadgir districts got a first-hand taste of the problem when they were rudely asked to conduct classes elsewhere. This, because they not only allowed children from low-caste families to enter premises run by savarnas or upper caste Hindus, but also sat them alongside children from upper caste families. Just two days into the programme, high school teacher Laxman Patel (name changed) was questioned by upper caste elders on his intentions of holding classes in an area belonging to a Lingayat mutt in Sindhanur taluk, Raichur district. Patel said that on the third day, people from upper caste communities banded together and picked an argument with him. “They said that they have been protecting their place of worship for decades against ‘impurities’ and the sanctity of the place would be lost if I allowed Dalits into the shrine for Vidyagama classes,” Patel said. “I was rudely told to move my classes to some other spot.” At Siraguppa taluk in Ballari, Rajalakshmi was forced to move her students from a Brahmin mutt, but the problem did not end there. She said she resumed tenement schooling in an open area in locality dominated by upper castes. There too, elders objected because SC/ST kids were seated along with their children. In Yelburga taluk in Koppal, savarnas warned parents of Dalit children to stop sending them to classes saying it would derail the caste hierarchy. Ramesh K, a teacher privy to the issue, said, “A parent of an SC student came to me and said his family would be cursed if he sent his child to the mutt. He said they are not supposed to enter these places of worship.”  Stunned by these revelations, some 15 teachers resolved to end this discrimination. They held online meetings and finally decided to shift class venues to Dalit colonies. “This came as a surprise for the upper castes,” Patel said. “Elders from these communities again objected, but we told them that we had no choice as SC/ST kids are barred in other places. After this, some parents did not send their children to class for a couple of days, but fearing they would miss out on an education, they began sending them.” Ravikumar, a teacher from Belagavi district, said the move was bringing about small changes, but that was halted when Vidyagama was abruptly suspended. “Parents had no option but to send their children to classes,” Ravikumar said. “Caste is still a very sensitive issue in these villages and taking on upper castes without a proper plan in mind can land one in trouble.” MR Bheri, a Dalit leader from Raichur, said, “In schools, discrimination is not that visible. Vidyagama exposed the gravity of the problem in villages. Even today in some anganwadis, upper caste parents do not allow Dalit women to cook food.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vidyagama-teachers-had-tried-to-end-caste-discrimination-too/articleshow/78816624.cms||Shreyas HS
