October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru’s student entrepreneurs turn their passion into business opportunities||Fears and uncertainties aside, the lockdown period also gave people ample time to rethink their interests and hone their inherent skills. The students’ community, in particular, took things notches higher and explored the entrepreneurial aspects as well to see if they can also earn a little money while doing what they love to do. Over the past few months, this has led this creative bunch of people to start small enterprises from their respective homes. Bangalore Times spoke to a few students to find out how they have managed to strike a balance between their studies and their businesses… Giving their hobbies a professional twistBengaluru-based Divya Jalan, who is currently studying at the University of Amsterdam, says that the lockdown gave her the opportunity to turn her hobby into a business. “I used to make jewellery before the lockdown as well, but merely as a hobby. The extra time that I’ve had in the past few months made me want to explore my interest more and pursue it as a business,” she says, while talking about her two-month-old venture. Keeping in mind the COVID-19 crisis and customers’ current requirements, many have improvised on their products as well. “Although I initially began with earrings and necklaces, right now one of my most popular items is the mask chain. It’s an ornament which is attached to the mask and is worn around your neck,” explains Divya. Similarly, for Class 12 student Navya Basapa, this was the perfect opportunity to turn her love for baking into something bigger. “My mother and I have been baking at home for quite a while now, but I always wanted to take it up as a profession. Right now, I am using a space in the house as my baking studio. I officially launched my baking business last month, and orders have already begun pouring in,” says Navya. Online classes, fewer assignments gave students time to focus on their productsAccording to these student entrepreneurs, online classes have been a blessing in disguise. “Academically, online classes and fewer assignments meant extra time on my hands, which, in turn, enabled me to focus on my chocolate and mousse business that I started a few months ago. Had it been regular classes in college, I wouldn’t have been able to pull it off,” says Brian Shaji, a final-year student at St. Joseph’s College (Autonomous), who makes a variety of homemade chocolates and chocolate mousse. Meanwhile, for law students and sisters, Sanjeevini Navadgi and Nandita Navadgi, it was their passion for skincare that prompted them to launch their own brand of natural skincare products. “As law students, it is difficult to concentrate on anything else other than our studies. But the lockdown period gave us the opportunity to work on our dream project. Since we don’t have too much to do these days study-wise, both of us are diverting our time on our skincare line,” says Nandita, adding that their techniques are a mix of hacks and remedies they learnt from their elders and what they see online. Balancing between books and businessHowever, Navya says that it is not always as easy to strike a balance between studies and business. “I usually wake up early and bake in the morning and then focus on my studies for the rest of the day. Sometimes, during the baking process, I also take some time out to read up on things,” she adds. Agreeing to that, Divya says, “Recently, I managed some time out to make jewellery during my study holidays. However, with my exams approaching, studies are a priority now.” Social media – a good marketing platformLike many other full-time entrepreneurs who operate from home, these students use social media to the fullest to reach out to new and existing customers. “I do not have a store. I have been selling my products only through my friends and social media, and I feel right now that’s the best thing to do. Sometimes, I get so many orders that I have to say no to some customers,” says Brian. According to Divya, her page has got a lot of followers since the time she began selling her jewellery, and recently they managed 50 orders in a week, which is their highest, so far. “The way things have been moving, it is overwhelming. I am now bracing myself ahead of the festive season,” she sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-student-entrepreneurs-turn-their-passion-into-business-opportunities/articleshow/78826468.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
October 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 369 live rounds, 19 firearms recovered in Munger just before polls, five held||PATNA: Intensifying action against arms smuggling ahead of the assembly polls in Bihar, the Munger police on Friday arrested five persons allegedly involved in arms smuggling and recovered 369 live cartridges of different bores and 19 firearms, including two country-made rifles from their possession in two separate raids in Munger district. The first raid was carried out at Biccha village under Kasim Bazaar police station area while the second one was conducted at riverine area of Sitacharan ghat under Mufassil police station area. Munger SP Lipi Singh said that Abhay Kumar Sharma, Mohammad Parvez and Mister Arafat were arrested from Biccha. Singh said two country-made rifles, five breach-loader pistols, three unfinished pistols of 9mm and 10 live cartridges of 7.65mm were recovered from their possession.” Singh said firearm manufacturing equipment were also recovered from spot.  “The raid was conducted on Abhay’s residence where the two had come to deliver all the unfished items and the finished goods when all the three got nabbed. Abhay and Arafat had earlier been in jail for their involvement in arms smuggling,” she said. SP Singh said Parvez and Arafat had planned to take the finished item to sell them to criminals as per demand. Singh said that in the second raid, police recovered eight breach-loader pistols, one musket and 359 live cartridges which includes 270 of 7.65mm, 10 of .315 bore and 14 of 9mm. She said Mohammad Reham alias Bittu and Mohammad Gulfam alias Kranti were arrested from spot. SP, who herself had led the second raid, said police had received intelligence input that an arms dealing was scheduled to take place in remote riverine belt in which cartridges were to be brought from Khagaria and firearms from firearms from other place. “It was Reham who had brought the cartridges from while his associate Gulfam had brought the firearms from riverine belt. They had planned to dump the consignment somewhere and sell it after election but got nabbed beforehand,” Singh said. This is third such raid against organised arms smuggling racket in Munger within six days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-369-live-rounds-19-firearms-recovered-in-munger-just-before-polls-five-held/articleshow/78836355.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbaikars take to balcony birding as a new hobby||The last few months spent at home has seen a surge in creative pursuits among people – some took up a new language, others wanted to get experimental in the kitchen or learn a musical instrument, and yet a few others have discovered a hobby that they might gone ignored otherwise. It’s birdwatching.... with a twist! They don't have to head out to any green hotspot to do this, for it and can be pursued from the house verandah! Called balcony birding, it's made possible with a number of birds now coming closer to human habitat due to lesser noise and pollution levels. De-stressing? Yes, say Mumbai’s new balcony birders, who have clicked a bunch of photos to document their newfound love. ‘I’ve been taking pictures of sunbirds, coppersmith burnet, mynahs, bulbuls for the last 60 days’Seven Bungalows resident Diana Fernandes has taken a few hundred pictures of birds from her homeDiana Fernandes, an entrepreneur, has seen the most attractive birds over the last 60-odd days and taken a photo-a-day of each of them. Says the Seven Bungalows resident, “Earlier, I hardly paid attention to them, but one day at the start of the lockdown, as I sat down to work I got distracted by a lovely sound. I went searching for the source and it turned out to be a warbler outside. I had to click a picture of it. A few days later I spotted more birds and ever since, I have taken pictures of sunbirds, coppersmith burnet, mynahs, bulbuls and koels. And one of the black-and-white birds has the most melodious voice. I've begun keeping a watch on those trees now as I know these birds' timings, the trees they like to hang out on, etc. Most of us do not really notice these birds, as we are so used to waking up to the cacophony of city sounds like traffic. But if you pause a little, you'll find these birds around. They are such a welcome change.” ‘From Colaba to Virar, there are a lot of balcony birders now all through the city'(Clockwise) Sunbird, Black Drongo and Black-Hooded OrioleShe’s not alone. Like her so many are taking to birdwatching right from their homes. Says naturalist Saurabh Sawant, who lives in Dahisar West, “There are a lot of balcony birders in the city now – right from Colaba to Virar. At a time when people are practising social distancing with others, this solo-participant home hobby is apt and quite engaging. And the timing couldn't be more perfect as most of these birds are nesting or breeding now. Just this morning, a tailor bird came up to my kitchen window on the 10th floor. It’s usually found in the bushes, so it was such a delight to see it at this height. I have also seen white-spotted fantails of late as well as koels. I can see a whole family of coppersmith barbets nesting in a dead betelnut tree from my bedroom window. Oreos also fly around and so do parakeets. White cattle egrets have also started getting a lovely orange tinge to their all-white appearance now, and it was fun to see that transformation happen. There are also black crown night herons, which roost on the bigger trees around my house,” He adds, “We recently completed a ‘lockdown birding challenge’, where we encouraged Mumbaikars to upload a 15-minute checklist of the birds every day. People loved it. Anyone can be a balcony birder – if you have even a few trees near your house, you will find birds. Just peep out of your window, keep watching and observing.” Tips to be a better balcony birderPowai resident is Rishul Bangar is an avid balcony birderArchitect Rishul Bangar is an regular bird watcher at Hiranandani, Powai. He says, “There are a lot of birds coming in the area now. It’s a boon for us bird-lovers with lesser people around and lower pollution levels. Among other birds, I have seen a bird called the coucal. It’s an orange-black bird, the size of a crow and is very vocal.” Rishul shares a few pointers for new balcony birdwatchers: - Look for videos of Indian birds that have bird sounds to help identify the birds - Keep a journal to note down your observances - Early mornings and evenings are preferred times to look for birds - Phone cameras may not always be useful, so use a professional camera if you have one - Wear subtle colours, instead of flourescent hues, to merge with the surrounding - Try and be a solo balcony birder as noise scares the birds away - Share descriptions of bird sightings with others - Be patient as this hobby requires that||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbaikars-take-to-balcony-birding-as-a-new-hobby/articleshow/78828264.cms||Ismat Tahseen
October 24, 2020||India||Kashmir off the table for future talks, India signals to Pakistan||NEW DELHI: This week India came down hard on Pakistan at the Commonwealth foreign ministers’ meeting, describing it as a “globally acknowledged promoter of state-sponsored terrorism” masquerading as a victim and dismissed Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi’s comments on Kashmir as a subject that was India’s “internal matter”. The dismissive and undiplomatic brusque response has now become the template for Indian response to Pakistan’s repeated attempts to raise Kashmir, a position that has steadily solidified since the reorganisation of J&K in August last year. While the commentary is not new, the clear signal to Islamabad is that it has no locus standi on Kashmir and is, in fact, in illegal occupation of PoK. In sharp words, Vikas Swarup, secretary in MEA, slammed Qureshi for raising the Kashmir issue, sarcastically observing that his reference to a south Asian nation that committed atrocities against its religious minorities seemed to best describe Pakistan — a country “that brought genocide to South Asia 49 years back when it killed its own people (in erstwhile east Pakistan)”. Later, foreign minister S Jaishankar used the Asia Society platform to state, “terrorism from Pakistan remains publicly acknowledged by their government as a policy that they are justifying. So it makes it very hard to conduct normal relations with them”. His iteration that Kashmir’s reorganisation is an “internal matter” swiftly dissipated any prospect of a return to the old engagement template with Pakistan, a message that New Delhi is emphatically conveying to the power centres in the neighbouring nation. In fact, Pakistan PM Imran Khan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf laying out the parameters of future talks with India, showed how far apart the two countries were with his suggestion that India wanted to talk being dismissed out of hand. So far as India is concerned, the “status” of Kashmir, an article of faith for Pakistan, in talks with India, is now a non-issue or at least no longer as Islamabad has considered it. The “composite” dialogue of eight subjects, or even the rebadged “comprehensive” dialogue kick-started by late foreign minister Sushma Swaraj, is no longer applicable in the current context, particularly after the Modi government created the UTs of J&K and Ladakh. According to government sources, Pakistan will no longer have any locus standi to discuss this. While New Delhi has always maintained J&K to be “an integral part” of India, there was an implicit accommodation of the Pakistani position at any engagement. That has now gone. Since August 5, 2019, India has certainly come under international pressure, but this has been on the issue of human rights in Kashmir, detention of political leaders, press freedom, 4G internet access. There has been no push-back on Article 370 — except for Pakistan and China. “After PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti was released last week, we’re getting less questions from the international community,” a source said. Jaishankar said in his remarks this week that India’s external boundaries have not changed. “So as far as our neighbours are concerned, our point to them is that this is something which is internal to us. Every country after all reserves the right to change its administrative jurisdictions. A country like China has also changed the borders of its provinces and I’m sure a lot of other countries do that. Neighbours get impacted only if your external boundaries change. That has not happened in this case,” he said. Pakistan is yet to comprehend the changed metrics of engagement, as was clear during Yusuf’s interview to an Indian media channel. India is likely to push at least diplomatically for return of Kashmiri territory illegally held by Pakistan (and a part of it ceded to China). On the UN Security Council resolutions, India considers them to be infructuous now, because there is no longer any possibility of a plebiscite, after the constitutional action of August 5, 2019. For the past year, the foreign office has taken a harder and more belligerent stand with Pakistan. India has not neglected to emphasise the internal nature of the actions on Kashmir. This has now become accepted Indian positions, and this will form the basis of any future engagement with Pakistan, said people familiar with developments. Watch India signals to Pakistan, Kashmir off the table for talks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kashmir-off-the-table-for-future-talks-india-signals-to-pakistan/articleshow/78837771.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 24, 2020||Business||Didn’t skip EMIs during lockdown? Get cashback from your bank: Government||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The government on Friday spelt out the details of the waiver of interest on interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore where borrowers had taken moratorium during the lockdown and also made it clear that those who didn’t opt for it will get an ex gratia payment or a cashback. The payment will be made to small businesses and individual borrowers with loans up to Rs 2 crore. The finance ministry on Friday wrote to all RBI-regulated lenders, stating that the government has approved a “scheme for grant of ex gratia payment of the difference between simple interest for six months to borrowers in specified loan accounts” between March 1 and August 31, 2020. The lenders include banks, cooperative banks, housing finance companies and microfinance institutions. Read Also90% borrowers didn’t defer EMI: SBI to Supreme CourtState Bank of India told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that 90% of borrowers did not avail the moratorium till Aug 31 on repayment of loans through EMI to question the brouhaha caused by PILs over waiver of interest on interest accrued on deferred EMIs. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, "...theThis follows the government affidavit in the SC that it is willing to bear the difference between simple and compound interest on loans during the moratorium period. Waiver of interest on interest may cost Rs 6.5k crThis included compensation to those who paid on time and therefore did not have to pay compound interest. Government sources had estimated the cost of waiver of interest on interest at around Rs 6,500 crore. Under the government scheme, even borrowers who paid on time will get an amount equivalent to the difference between the simple interest that they paid and the notional compound interest on their loan outstanding as on the end of February 2020. To avoid any legal complications, the government has said that the payment does not constitute a “contractual, legal or equitable liability of the central government and is only an exgratia payment”. The government has specified the personal loans that are eligible by listing out education, housing, consumer durable, credit card and auto loans. All MSME loans would also get the exgratia or cashback into their accounts. Borrowers who availed the six-month moratorium will be compensated for the compound interest they would be charged by the banks while those who paid on time will get as cashback the notional interest on the interest that they paid. According to a back of the envelope calculation by bankers, anyone who has paid EMIs on a Rs 1 crore home loan in time would be eligible to around Rs 16,000 of ex-gratia payment. This is assuming an interest rate of 8% which would result in half-yearly interest of Rs 4 lakh and compound interest of Rs 16,269. The government has said that banks would credit the amount into the customer’s account and later claim it from the government. If the borrower has fully repaid the loan in between, the benefit would be calculated for the moratorium period when the loan was outstanding. The rate of interest would be the rate contracted in the loan agreement. Read AlsoLoan moratorium extendable for 2 years as per Covid impact, Centre tells SCThe Centre and RBI on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the moratorium period on repayment of loans amid the Covid-19 pandemic is “extendable” by two years. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre and the RBI, told the SC bench that several steps have been taken for stressedFor credit cards, the banks would calculate the weighted average lending rate for transactions purchased on EMI basis from customers. For the sake of uniformity, lenders have been asked to do all their calculation on the outstanding loan balance as on February 29, 2020. Watch Government has a Diwali gift borrowers who payed timely EMIs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/didnt-skip-emis-during-lockdown-get-cashback-from-your-bank-govt/articleshow/78837862.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 24, 2020||---||In Bihar, PM slams opposition for seeking J&K special status return||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Friday praised the bravery of the Indian Army’s Bihar Regiment in taking on China’s PLA in Galwan Valley in June and said soldiers belonging to the unit had made the supreme sacrifice to protect India’s “honour”. In a poll speech in Bihar’s Dehri, which also saw him attacking the opposition for its “audacity” in demanding restoration of J&K’s special status, Modi said, “The brave sons of Bihar attained martyrdom for the pride of the Tricolour in Galwan… I bow to them and pay my homage.” Read AlsoBihar polls: Rahul takes on Modi over China, migrant crisis; attacks NitishPATNA: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a stinging attack on PM Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in his two rallies in the state on Friday. He took on the PM on issues such as the Chinese aggression at the LAC, the migrant crisis during the lockdown and farm laws andThis was perhaps, Modi’s first reference in public to the bloody fight with the PLA in Galwan after the rich tributes he paid to the Army while visiting troops at Nimu in Ladakh in early July. The plaudits for 16 Bihar coincided with the stalemated talks with China for resolution of the border standoff, with India rejecting Beijing’s demand to vacate the strategic heights it has taken over unless the communist regime agrees to “comprehensive de-escalation”. In his speech, Modi lashed out at the opposition for demanding reversal of the dilution of Article 370, calling the stand audacious. “They are saying they will re store Article 370 if they come to power. Look at their audacity? They are still daring to seek votes from the people of Bihar. Isn’t it an insult to the sentiments of Bihar which sends its sons and daughters to the borders to protect the country?” he asked. The attack came after senior Congress leader P Chidambaram’s support for the demand of political outfits in Kashmir Valley for restoration of “special status for the Valley as part of their Gupkar Declaration”. Modi recalled that quite a few CRPF jawans martyred in the terrorist attack on their bus in Pulwama and in counter-terror operations in the Kashmir. Valley were from Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/in-bihar-pm-slams-opposition-for-seeking-jk-special-status-return/articleshow/78838031.cms||Abhay Singh
October 24, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Rahul takes on Modi over China, migrant crisis; attacks Nitish||PATNA: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a stinging attack on PM Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar in his two rallies in the state on Friday. He took on the PM on issues such as the Chinese aggression at the LAC, the migrant crisis during the lockdown and farm laws and criticised Nitish for “misgovernance”. Sharing the dais with Rahul at Hisua in Nawada, where Congress put up its candidate, RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav criticised Nitish, saying he had grown tired and could no longer handle Bihar. Rahul began his speech with two questions to the massive audience at Hisua: “How was Nitish ji’s government? How did you like PM Modi’s speech?” He then asked the PM when he would oust China from the Indian territory and accused him of lying on the India-China border tension. “Today PM said he bows his head for martyred jawans. We all bow our head for them. But the question is why he lied about China’s intrusion. China has occupied 1,200 sqkm of land and the PM has lied to the entire country about it. In a way, he insulted our martyred jawans from Bihar,” Rahul said. Attacking the NDA government on the migrant crisis, Rahul said, “You have walked hungry and thirsty for thousands of kilometres and PM Modi had no concern. He did not even arrange for trains. I have full faith that Bi har will now give the right reply to PM Modi and Nitish Kumar.” He then raised the issue of unemployment and reminded the audience about the PM’s promise to create two crore jobs. “Did any of you get a job,” Rahul asked the audience. “PM Modi talks about bowing his head for farmers and labourers. But, in reality, he works for Ambani and Adani,” he added. “Who got the benefit of demonetisation and GST? Did you see Ambani and Adani standing in the line outside the bank? Though PM Modi publicly talks about farmers and labours, the moment he goes back home, he works for his industrialist friends,” Rahul said. In another rally, Rahul talked about the pandemic and how his advice to the Centre was ignored. He blamed Modi for destroying the economy and worsening the condition of farmers, labourers and small businessmen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-polls-rahul-takes-on-modi-over-china-migrant-crisis-attacks-nitish/articleshow/78838038.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 24, 2020||India||Quizzed by Parliament panel, FB skirts posers on sharing Indian users’ data||NEW DELHI: Facebook representatives were closely questioned over the social media giant’s revenues in India, the taxes it has paid, data security aspects of the Jio deal, and whether it charges individuals differently, at a meeting of the joint committee of Parliament on the personal data protection bill. Though FB officials Ankhi Das and Bhairav Acharya ducked several questions, they found the going challenging, faced with probing questions from panel chair Meenakshi Lekhi, Congress’s Vivek Tankha, BJD’s Bhartruhari Mahtab and SP’s Ramgopal Yadav among others. The officials said they would get back on subjects like revenue streams and taxes and said the issue of whether FB has been downplaying anti-Joe Biden posts will be addressed at an upcoming Congressional committee meeting. The panel had summoned Facebook on the issues of data protection and privacy. The representatives said between FB, WhatsApp and Instagram, the firm has over 90 crore subscribers in India. However, it could not answer direct questions about the amount of corporate tax it has paid over the years, its ad revenues, nor its policy for accepting ads. Das, who figured in reports alleging she had failed to act against posts by BJP members, and Acharya deal with public policy for FB. India FB head Ajit Mohan has appeared before the House panel on IT and separately said Das does not decide which posts to pull down. The issue did not figure in Friday’s meeting. Sources said while FB representatives said their ad approval team is based in the US, they would revert to the House panel on their earnings through advertising in India. The officials said there was a well established backroom to decide on issues that violate its codes but were quizzed on the apparent lack of pre-emptive screening. Yadav said the officials seemed surprised by the familiarity of the MPs with social media. With reference to FB’s recent Jio tie-up and the resultant questions about data security, the company assured the panel it will protect the privacy of Indian users, but resisted being termed a data fiduciary. It also skirted questions about whether it would share data of Indian users it holds when required by the State or another agency. It said the proposed Indian data law must not cover “non-individual” data, a contentious point. Watch Parliament panel questions Facebook on revenue, profit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/quizzed-by-parliament-panel-fb-skirts-posers-on-sharing-indian-users-data/articleshow/78838093.cms||Swati Mathur
October 24, 2020||India||‘Officials abroad’, Amazon skips meet||NEW DELHI: Amazon’s decision to “decline” to appear before a joint committee of Parliament on the grounds that its officials were unavailable was strongly criticised by panel members, and its head, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi, said a privilege motion would be moved against the e-commerce giant. The panel on Personal Data Protection Bill had called Amazon on October 28, but in an email to the committee on October 7, Amazon’s public policy head Garima Rathore said the company has decided to decline to attend the meeting and said “subject matter experts” were based overseas and could not travel owing to the risks involved due to the coronavirus pandemic. “Our subject matter experts are based abroad and will not be able to appear for the deposition. We will, therefore, have to decline the request for this deposition,” Rathore said in an email that breezily began with a “hope you are doing well” salutation. The panel members were surprised at the response, noting that the company could have sought another date. For the next sittings of the panel on October 28 and 29, the panel has summoned Twitter, Amazon, Paytm and Google. Expressing displeasure over Amazon’s refusal to appear, Lekhi said, “If no one appears, it amounts to breach of privilege. The panel is unanimous in its opinion that coercive action can be suggested to the government against the e-commerce company.” Panel members also expressed surprise that even though India is among Amazon’s biggest markets, the firm does not have any data safety officials stationed in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/officials-abroad-amazon-skips-meet/articleshow/78838105.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||After 4 years, ED again summons Amarinder’s son in Fema case||JALANDHAR: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has once again summoned Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh in an old Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) case after a gap of four years. He has been asked to appear before the ED on October 27. Raninder had last appeared before the ED in this case on July 21, 2016. It is learned that at the time Raninder was asked about the alleged transactions to Switzerland for creation of a trust and a few subsidiaries in British Virgin Islands during Amarinder’s previous tenure as CM. He was questioned for around four hours then. Recently, the ED had sought to inspect some fresh records filed by the I-T department in three cases of alleged tax evasion against the Punjab CM and his son. A lower court had allowed the ED’s application, but a sessions court restrained it from inspecting the records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-4-years-ed-again-summons-amarinders-son-in-fema-case/articleshow/78838109.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||Couples flock to 170-year-old Jharkhand temple for daughters||BOKARO: In a country where female foeticide continues to remain a concern, dozens of couples queue up at a 170-year-old Durga temple in a remote village seeking a daughter. The temple, at Chakulia village in Chas block of Bokaro district, has an immense place of pride and faith among the people and hundreds have been granted their wish for a daughter after offering prayers here, village elders said. Like every year, the Durga puja in this village began with ghatsthapana, a ritual where prayers are offered to a 150-year-old copper pot at this temple. “Even though devotees visit the temple through the year, footfall surges during Navratra as hundreds offer prayers to a grand statue of Siddhidatri Durga seeking a daughter,” local said. According to folklore, a villager named Kalicharan Dubey first prayed here for a daughter about 150-years ago and his wish was fulfilled. As the word spread, several couples seeking a girl child started visiting the temple. Manoj Kumar, a villager said, “Every year, several couples come here seeking a daughter. Many of them had their wish granted by the Devi and all the villagers perform Durga puja here with devotion and dedication.” With the pandemic raging, villagers said the puja this year is being done in atoken manner with no frills, he said. A devotee, Suryakant Singh, said, “We had a son, but felt that the family was incomplete without a daughter. After offering prayers here, we were blessed with a baby girl a few years ago. My family has been visiting this temple every year during Durga puja to bow before the goddess.” Another resident, Katayani Devi, said she had named her daughter Bhawani after her wish was fulfilled by the goddess. Devi said, “Like me, several people, even pregnant women who wish to have daughters, come here to take the blessings of the goddess. I treat my daughter as a blessed child.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/couples-flock-to-170-year-old-jharkhand-temple-for-daughters/articleshow/78838111.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||5-year jail, Rs 1 lakh fine for wastage of potable groundwater||NEW DELHI: Wastage or misuse of potable groundwater will now be a punishable offence in India. A directive of the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) says violators will face imprisonment up to five years or fine which may extend to Rs 1 lakh, or with both, for non-compliance of a mechanism to be framed by local civic bodies to implement the order. The local bodies, dealing with water supply, will specifically elaborate on what may constitute ‘wastage’ or ‘misuse’ — both in terms of domestic and commercial use — and enforce it through proper monitoring. “No person shall waste or misuse potable water resources tapped from underground,” said the directive issued on October 8 under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 acting on an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). It said: “The civic bodies dealing with water supply network in states/ UTs, whether called as Jal Board, Jal Nigam, Water Works Department, Municipal Corpora tion, Municipal Council, Development Authority, Panchayat or by any other name, shall ensure that there shall be no wastage or misuse of potable water tapped from underground and evolve a compliance mechanism, with coercive measures for violations.” The NGT order had come on petitions of Rajendra Tyagi and a not-for-profit organisation, Friends. The petitioners had sought the tribunal’s intervention in curbing wastage of water through running faucets and deep bore wells, washing and cleaning of vehicles with fresh groundwater, swimming pools and leakages/thefts in water transmission and distribution. “People will now have to be cautious and careful in wasting water through incessantly flowing overhead tanks, running faucets, extravagant lifestyles, pipeline-leakage and washing of cars,” said Akash Vashishtha, the advocate who represented the petitioners before the NGT. He said the compliance mechanism would be issued by the respective local bodies in all states and Union territories for implementation of the directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-year-jail-rs-1-lakh-fine-for-wastage-of-potable-groundwater/articleshow/78838163.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Devotees at this temple have slots booked till 2060 to crown Durga||CHATRA: A Durga temple in Mayurhund block of Jharkhand’s Chatra district has a unique ritual which sees devotees booking slots to crown the goddess, reports Vishvendu Jaipuriar. Every year, during Durga Puja, one devotee gets a chance to crown the deity and it is believed that the goddess fulfils all his/her wishes. The rush is so high that all slots to crown the goddess are booked till 2060. In case someone dies before his/her turn arrives, their family members crown the goddess on behalf of the deceased. Last year, Bhuvneshwar Prajapati was lucky to get this chance while this year, Chatra-based businessman Anant Kumar Sinha fulfilled his father Baldev Prasad Sinha’s wish to crown the deity. “My father had booked a slot in 1996, but died soon after. Our turn has finally come this year,” Sinha said. President of the puja committee Ashwini Singh said, “The custom started 70 years ago and since then, a rush among devotees to get a chance began. The committee then started taking bookings.” The cost of the crown is borne by devotees, said Ashwini. “Crown-makers come from West Bengal and each crown costs around Rs 20,000,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/devotees-at-this-temple-have-slots-booked-till-2060-to-crown-durga/articleshow/78838177.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||Assam, Telangana too promise free Covid vaccine||HYDERABAD/ GUWAHATI: A day after Bihar BJP’s poll manifesto promised free Covid-19 vaccine, triggering a similar announcement by the governments of MP, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, two more states — Assam and Telangana — said the doses against the virus would be given free to their people. While Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said the vaccine will be given free of cost to the poor and healthcare workers, his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma said the doses would be free for people in his state. “There is no question of commercialising it,” Rajender told TOI, adding that it is the responsibility of the state and Centre to ensure free vaccination for the poor. “Those who come to government hospitals will be given free dose. Cost does not matter. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has implemented several schemes for the benefit of the poor and this (free vaccine) will also be made available to them,” he said. In the first round, healthcare workers in all government and private hospitals will be given the vaccine followed by the poor and daily wage labourers. Rajender said once the vaccine distribution formula is announced, they would work out the parameters. In Guwahati, Sarma said: “Vaccine will be free in Assam. The government of India has decided to distribute the vaccine free of cost.” However, the Centre has made no such announcement that it has decided to distribute the vaccine free of cost to states. Meanwhile, Congress continued to attack BJP for “politicising the pandemic” through the latter’s manifesto promise with former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah taunting the governing party, saying Kannadigas were awaiting a similar announcement ahead of byelections in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/assam-telangana-too-promise-free-covid-vaccine/articleshow/78838202.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 24, 2020||India||Covid shots may come under UIP||NEW DELHI: After priority use of the anti-Covid vaccine and once mass production picks up, the Centre may consider including it in the universal immunisation programme (UIP) — that provides vaccines for free in government hospitals to specific beneficiary categories — depending on its efficacy, immunogenicity and the Covid-19 situation at that point in time, senior government officials said. As of now, the government is working actively on the draft prioritisation plan and has started collecting data for different categories of beneficiaries who will be immunised on priority once the vaccine is available. At least 15 states have started feeding data of their healthcare workers in public as well as private sector on a new beneficiary module recently created by the Centre, whereas details for procurement and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine are being worked out by the NECVAC, a health ministry official said. Officials also said political announcements so far have not impacted the current plan and the ongoing work to implement it. They also indicated that announcements about free vaccines — in the Bihar BJP manifesto and by other states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka — are also in line with the government’s UIP which provides vaccines for free. “Today universal immunisation is free. The Centre procures vaccines for universal immunisation after tendering and paying a cost. We make it available to states free of cost. We do not charge the states and the states immunise without charging the beneficiary. How is this going to change?” a health ministry official told TOI. In a two-hour long meeting with state governments on Friday, senior health ministry officials discussed creation of beneficiary database. While the database for healthcare workers is expected to be ready by end of October, that for front-line workers and people above 50 years of age is in place. “The database which is not there and that we will have to create is that of people with comorbidities. We have a database from screening of people at 48,000 health centres but that is an incomplete database. So, we have started making a standard database for that. We will share it with states very soon,” the official further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-shots-may-come-under-uip/articleshow/78838204.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 24, 2020||Vadodara||Get fire safety training in the comfort of home||VADODARA: Taking a cue from SSG Hospital staff’s immediate response and efficient utilization of presence of mind in the fire at the hospital’s Covid wing last month, Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services has taken its training programme to next level -- to make alert fire fighters out of normal citizens. The fire department has actively shared its training modules on YouTube and social media platforms to help common people access these and stay prepared for all emergent situations. The modules in the form of short tutorial videos, explain how anybody can act when they encounter an emergency. “The training imparted to SSG Hospital’s staff bore fruits as the hospital staff alone controlled the situation. So, we decided to go online and impart training so anyone can access it,” said in-charge chief fire officer Parth Brahmbhatt. “Since these videos will remain on YouTube, people can keep watching these repeatedly even after many years,” he added. A week ago, the department also started a series of six short videos, titled ‘tactical lift rescue management’, wherein a fire officer explains how anyone can rescue passengers stuck in an elevator. “These are simple methods which anybody can use. It also adds precaution that need to be taken while rescuing people,” said fire officer Amit Chaudhari. Next week onwards, training videos for school children will be shared. “Kids will be explained the dos and don’ts when they are at home alone. It will be about remaining vigilant about situations like smelling leaking gas or burning of wires to reacting to an emergency situation,” Chaudhari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/get-fire-safety-training-in-the-comfort-of-home/articleshow/78833161.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 24, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan thanks Narendra Modi for showing respect for Ram Vilas Paswan||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan thanked PM Narendra Modi for remembering his father late Ram Vilas Paswan at his first Bihar election meeting this year on Friday. “Respected Narendra Modi ji comes to Bihar and pays homage to Papa like a true companion. To say that papa was with him till his last breath made me emotional ... As a son, it is natural for me to feel good to see such compassion and respect for Papa from the PM. I am thankful to the Prime Minister,” Chirag tweeted. While he praised PM Modi, Chirag attacked CM Nitish Kumar again and said anyone found involved in corrupt practices in the ‘Seven Resolves’ of the incumbent government will be jailed, once LJP comes to power. “Even the CM can go to jail, if his involvement is found in corrupt practices,” Chirag told a news channel. PM Modi at Sasaram paid tribute to Ram Vilas, who died on October 8 when he was a Union minister, and RJD veteran late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh. “Bihar has recently lost its two sons, who served people here for decades. I pay my tributes to my close friend Ram Vilas Paswan Ji, who devoted his life for the welfare of the poor and remained with me till his last breath,” Modi said. Paying respect to Raghuvansh, who died on September 13, Modi said: “I pay my respectful tribute to Babu Raghuvansh Prasad Singh Ji, who also worked tirelessly for the welfare of poor throughout his life.” Political observers say though Modi never took Chirag’s name, but spoke about some people talking about a “new power”. It could have also been regarding the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, they say. “People of Bihar have shown through all (pre-poll) surveys and reports that NDA is going to form the government again. However, it happens almost in every election when some people suddenly start portraying one or two faces in a big way. Talks are also spread about rise of any new power, but it has no impact on voting. Besides, voters in Bihar are intelligent enough to defeat those trying to create doubts. The people of Bihar have made up their minds not to allow anywhere near them those who have history of making the state Bimaru,” Modi said with reference to RJD and its chief Lalu Prasad. Chirag, while campaigning in Gaya and Aurangabad districts on Friday, reiterated that he strongly follows the development model of PM Modi. Overwhelmed by PM Modi’s tribute, Chirag said in Gaya that he will stand with the former till his last breath. “Our political path has become different but I have always been and will remain with the ideologies of PM Modi,” he told a TV channel. Though Chirag keeps saying that the next government in Bihar will be formed by BJP-LJP, senior BJP leaders have dismissed such claims and maintained that Nitish Kumar will remain the CM of the NDA government. Chirag, who has fielded 143 candidates and mostly against JD(U) nominees, maintains that he doesn’t feel offended by the BJP leaders’ statements as he believes that they are doing so under pressure from Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-thanks-modi-for-showing-respect-for-rvp/articleshow/78835579.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 24, 2020||Surat||Man jumps into Tapi River||SURAT: The fire and emergency department personnel launched a search for the 26-year-old man who jumped into the Tapi river from Kapodra Bridge on Friday. According to sources, Gulab Madhubhai Patil (26), a resident of Kapodra area, came on his bike at a flyover and jumped into the Tapi river. The passersby saw it and alerted the Fire and Emergency department. The team immediately rushed to the spot and started searching for the man. “Fire brigade teams from Mota Varachha and Katargam were rushed to the spot and are still searching,” said a fire and emergency department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-jumps-into-tapi-river/articleshow/78833373.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||SARI, ILI patients to be tested for tuberculosis along with Covid-19||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has made it mandatory for all Covid as well as non-Covid government and private hospitals to test patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza Like Illness (ILI) for tuberculosis (TB) along with novel coronavirus. The motive is to detect TB cases that are probably going unreported during the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, some Covid-19 positive as well as negative patients were also detected with TB. NMC TB Officer Dr Shilpa Jichkar told TOI, “The Central TB Division has issued guidelines to test SARI and ILI patients also for TB. Less number of TB cases have been notified across the country since beginning of Covid-19 due to various reasons. If they go unreported and remain untreated, TB patients can spread the disease,” she said. In Nagpur, the officer said that around 7,700 TB cases were reported last year but the number has reduced by around 3,000 this year. As per NMC’s data, city is having 4,600 active TB cases. Earlier, patients used to be screened for TB if they had cough, fever and weight loss for two weeks or more. “Latest guidelines have made TB test mandatory for SARI and ILI patients having cough, fever and other symptoms for over six days. Hospitals have been provided material for collection of sputum samples,” said Jichkar. The officer further said that samples of all SARI and ILI patients hospitalized will be tested. “Samples of suspected Covid-19 patients will be tested at the laboratory in GMCH. Also, they will be screened by taking X-ray and tested through cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT),” she said. All Covid-19 positive patients will also be screened for TB. “A study at GMCH, IGGMCH and Sadar hospital revealed TB notification rate at 0.37%-4.47% in Covid-19 positive patients,” she said. NMC chief medical officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar has urged patients who have tested negative for Covid-19 but having symptoms of cough, fever etc to get tested for TB. “Also, Covid-19 recovered patients but having cough etc for long time should also test for TB. Testing facility is available free of cost at GMCH, IGGMCH and NMC’s Sadar Hospital,” he said. Following guidelines issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) earlier this month, the NMC collected data from Covid-19 department regarding patients who tested Covid-19 negative but had symptoms of TB. After screening 221 such patients, 11 were detected with TB. Dr Jichkar said, “There are various reasons behind decline in TB patients. Symptoms of Covid-19 and TB are similar. All were tested for Covid-19 but not for TB. Also, patients with TB symptoms might not go for screening due to fear of Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sari-ili-patients-to-be-tested-for-tb-along-with-covid-19/articleshow/78836194.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 24, 2020||Business||Banks may see flat to lower Q2 bad loans||MUMBAI: Banks are expected to post a flat or lower level of non-performing assets (NPAs) in the quarter ended September 2020. This is a result of the Supreme Court’s decision staying banks from classifying Covid-related defaults as non-performing until further orders. However, most banks are expected to set aside funds in the form of extra provisioning for potential NPAs that may come up in future. HDFC Bank, the only major lender to have reported its results for Q2 FY21, said that its gross and net NPAs shrunk to 1.08% and 0.17% from 1.36% and 0.33% in Q1 FY20. “However, had the bank recognised NPAs after August 31, in the absence of the SC directive, gross and net NPAs would have been 1.37% and 0.35%. The bank made contingent provisions of Rs 2,300 crore, which include Rs 1,130 crore for specific accounts, taking total contingency provisions to Rs 4,000 crore. All provisions currently total about 2.2% of loans,” said Santanu Chakrabarti of Edelweiss Research in a note. Despite many businesses seeing their top lines shrink during the first half due to the lockdown, banks have only reported an improvement in their asset quality so far. This is because the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) allowed all borrowers to avoid paying their loan instalments for six months up to end-August. Loans under moratorium would not have in any case been classified as NPAs for the quarter ended September as an account has to be 90 days overdue before banks classify it as non-performing. The Supreme Court order had the impact of sparing other borderline cases that would have been classified as NPAs this quarter. “From September, there was no official moratorium from the RBI, but there was a court directive against classifying Covid-period defaults as NPAs. So, banks are complying with court guidelines. Banks are prudentially making provisions based on their estimates,” said Rajkiran Rai, chairman of Union Bank of India and newly appointed chairman of the Indian Banks’ Association. Another private lender which announced its results, Federal Bank, also reported a shrinking of NPAs. According to a note by Motilal Oswal, the bank’s management said that if the Supreme Court had not temporarily halted NPA recognition, slippages would have stood at Rs 237 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-may-see-flat-to-lower-q2-bad-loans/articleshow/78837024.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 24, 2020||Business||Sebi bans Yash Birla from market for 2 years||MUMBAI: Regulator Sebi has banned Yashovardhan (Yash) Birla from the market for two years. The action is due to misutilisation of funds collected through the initial public offering (IPO) of Birla Pacific Medspa in mid-2011, including using the proceeds from the offer to manipulate the stock price. Sebi also banned several others associated with Yash for their roles in the same matter. Earlier this month as well, in another case, Sebi had banned Yash from the market for two years. According to the 61-page order by Sebi whole-time member Ananta Barua, Birla Medspa opened its Rs 65-crore IPO in June 2011 and the shares were listed on July 7 in the same year. Within days of listing, Birla Medspa had transferred large amounts of funds to other entities, which transferred these on to some others that, in turn, transferred to a broker, GRD Securities. The broker had bought the stock of the company on its first day on the bourses. So, there were efforts for layering, relating to fund transfers. On the listing day, the stock had closed 154% up over its IPO price despite the company having a rating that indicated “below average fundamentals”. Birla Medspa had thus “deviated from issue objects and diverted money from IPO proceeds worth Rs 33.4 crore”, Sebi noted. The investigation by Sebi also found that despite the company’s promise to set up spa centres across the country, none have come up so far. “On the contrary, around 50% of the IPO proceeds were deployed as ICDs (inter-corporate deposits) to group companies, out of which 60% of ICDs were never returned to the company,” the order pointed out. Along with Yash, 10 other entities have been banned from the market for two years, while another one has been banned for six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-bans-yash-birla-from-market-for-2-years/articleshow/78837376.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Four dead, five injured in two separate accidents in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Four persons were killed and five injured in two separate accidents reported from different parts of Uttarakhand on Thursday night. In the first accident, two homeless persons were killed and two others injured after a speeding truck rammed into a roadside makeshift settlement near Indramani Badoni Chowk on the Dehradun-Rishikesh highway in Rishikesh. Inspector Ritesh Shah, in-charge of Rishikesh police station, said that the truck was going towards Dehradun from Rishikesh when the driver lost control over the vehicle, skidded off the road and mowed down the people sleeping outside. The deceased have been identified as Vikram, 22, and Karan, 22, while Sanjeet, 14, and Ranjeet, 20, sustained serious injuries. In a separate incident, two persons were killed and three others injured after a SUV they were travelling in fell into a deep gorge in Rikhnikhal area of Pauri district on Thursday night. The deceased were identified as Tejveer and Rajendra Singh Rawat, both residents of Faridabad, while the injured were Dhanveer, Manoj and Sunil. According to police, the victims were on their way to Faridabad from Rikhnikhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-dead-five-injured-in-two-separate-accidents-in-ukhand/articleshow/78834820.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 24, 2020||Business||Growth issues worry RBI monetary panel||Mumbai: Even as inflation continued to remain high, the RBI’s newly-constituted monetary policy committee (MPC) focused largely on growth issues in its meeting earlier this month. The new external committee members focused on measures that were needed to create growth-enabling conditions. In the minutes of the MPC meeting released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday, governor Shaktikanta Das said that there would be room for further rate cuts. “I recognise that there exists space for future rate cuts if the inflation evolves in line with our expectations. This space needs to be used judiciously to support recovery in growth,” said Das. RBI deputy governor Michael Patra, seen as an inflation hawk in the past, highlighted the debilitating impact of the recession that the country has entered into for the first time in history. An economy is said to be in a recession when it sees two consecutive quarters of negative growth. “GDP is an aggregative indicator of economic activity and hides the extent of human misery and the loss of social and human capital caused by the health crisis…Nonetheless, if the projections hold, the level of GDP would have fallen approximately 6% below its pre-Covid level by the end of 2020-21 and it may take years to regain this lost output,” said Patra. All the three members — Shashanka Bhide, Ashima Goyal and Jayanth R Varma — who voted for a status quo on rates spoke on the need to stimulate growth. Varma talked about bringing down long-term yields to ensure that MPC decisions are transmitted to the borrower. “I believe that excessively high long-term rates are inflicting damage to the economy in two ways. First, a significant part of the easing of policy rates is not being transmitted to longer term rates that form the benchmark for corporate borrowing and investment decisions. Second, high long-term rates cause an appreciation of the real effective exchange rate by stimulating foreign capital inflows,” said Varma. According to Bhide, continued weakness in demand conditions would put greater stress on fiscal position, financial system. “The outlook for growth and inflation for the next 3-4 quarters suggests the need for a policy environment enabling recovery of output. The inflationary pressures are a concern, but present assessment reflects moderating inflationary pressures in the remaining quarters of the year,” he said. Goyal spoke on the need for a government stimulus, “Financing short-term rise in deficits requires keeping the cost of government borrowing low. Central banks worldwide are taking such actions. The monetary policy resolution committing to benign financial conditions for as long as it takes for revival will help both public and private borrowing and spending.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/growth-issues-worry-rbi-monetary-panel/articleshow/78837176.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Business||Tata Steel, Swedish co eye EU biz deal||Mumbai: Tata Steel and Swedish giant SSAB are in talks for a potential deal to combine their European businesses as the former evaluates sustainable solutions to secure the future of its operations there. The talks follow Tata Steel’s failed attempt to merge its European unit with Germany’s Thyssenkrupp last year over failure to secure regulatory approval. India’s largest private sector steel company has been keen to find a new partner for its European asset as it wants to deleverage its balance sheet, which had a debt of Rs 1.2 lakh crore in the June quarter of fiscal 2021. The strategic options under evaluation include merging the European unit with a peer, or selling a significant stake in it, said a person in the know. Tata Steel chairman N Chandrasekaran had said that he was striving to find a lasting solution for the European business this fiscal. Talks with SSAB, Europe’s sixth-largest steel maker, are in the early stages, even as the sector is under pressure to consolidate owing to scant demand and ample supply intensified by the Covid pandemic, said another person. A Tata Steel spokesperson declined to comment on the “speculation”. Bloomberg was the first to report about the two companies discussing a transaction. In the past too, the two have come together for M&A — for instance, in 2015, Tata Steel’s European unit acquired three SSAB service centres in Nordic. Following the dismal June quarter numbers, Tata Steel had warned that the pandemic could threaten its European unit’s ability to carry on with the operations. The European unit, which runs UK’s biggest steelworks at Port Talbot and a large plant in the Netherlands with 20,000 employees, reported an operational loss of Rs 626 crore in Q1FY21. The unit (earlier known as Corus) has made little or no money ever since Tata Steel acquired it in 2007 for $13 billion. The deal, which was the biggest foreign acquisition by an Indian company, catapulted Tata Steel to the list of world’s top 10 alloy makers. Since 2016, Tata Steel has been selling bits and parts of this European portfolio to various parties to cut losses but it continues to hold a major chunk of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-steel-swedish-co-eye-eu-biz-deal/articleshow/78837314.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 24, 2020||Business||Yes Bank reports Rs 130cr Q2 profit||Mumbai: Yes Bank reported a net profit of Rs 130 crore for the quarter ended September 2020 as against a loss of Rs 600 crore in the year-ago period. Announcing the results, MD & CEO Prashant Kumar said that the bank managed to bring down its cost-to-income to below 50% from 55% in Q1. According to Kumar, there has been significant improvement in the quarter-on-quarter performance, which he said was more relevant as the bank was reconstructed following a government notification in March. The parameters on which the bank showed quarterly improvement included deposits, which grew from Rs 1,17,000 crore to Rs 1,36,000 crore. The improved liquidity has enabled the bank to return all the funds it had borrowed from the RBI ahead of schedule. Retail loan disbursements, which slipped to Rs 424 crore in the first quarter, crossed the pre-Covid level and touched Rs 3,764 crore in the second quarter. Kumar said that the bank aimed to disburse Rs 10,000 crore of retail loans during the current fiscal. The bank’s gross non-performing assets shrunk from Rs 32,702 crore in June 2020 to 32,344 crore in end-September. The bank said that advances to borrowers amounting to Rs 2,391 crore, which would have otherwise been classified as NPA, have not been classified as default because of a Supreme Court interim order. Kumar said that the bank would prune costs further and has appointed a consultant to advise on branch rationalisation. It has already converted 35 rural branches into business correspondent outlets and has shut down some ATMs. It is also renegotiating all rentals with landlords. On the operations side, it has digitised activities like staff training. “We have already announced the sale of our asset management company and are hopeful of concluding the transaction by the year-end,” said Kumar. He added that the bank was working to set up an asset reconstruction company to which the bank could transfer its stressed asset portfolio and was talking to potential investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-reports-rs-130cr-q2-profit/articleshow/78837100.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 24, 2020||Rajkot||Man, two kids succumb to burns||Rajkot: The 31-year-old man and his two young children succumbed to the severe burn wounds that they had suffered on Thursday when he had set them ablaze and immolated himself. Imran Pathan had first killed his wife Nazia (28) and her maternal uncle Nazeer Akhtar (46) on a busy road barely 50 m from the Rajkot railway station. He then went home and set himself and his two children - son Ikan Pathan (8) and daughter Allu alias Aasu Pathan (7), ablaze. All three died in the Rajkot Civil Hospital. On Thursday, Nazia went to her mother’s house from where she called up 181 Abhyam helpline seeking help to secure the custody of her two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-two-kids-succumb-to-burns/articleshow/78834540.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Patna||Anant Singh’s wife seeks vote for ‘change’ in Bihar||MOKAMA: Neelam Devi, the wife of jailed don-turned-MLA Anant Singh, greets people with folded hands while seeking votes for ‘badlav’ (change). “Vote for the change of guards and hand over the reins of the state to a young leader in the larger interest of the people,” she exhorted her supporters while campaigning in the constituency on Friday. Anant is seeking re-election for the fourth time, but for the first time on an RJD symbol. Sporting a light purple-grey sari, Neelam walked through the lanes and bylanes of Mokama Nagar Parishad seeking blessings of the people for Anant. “You know Vidhayak ji is in jail. But that will not deter him from being elected once again as you continue to shower your blessings on him,” she said amid chanting of slogans like ‘Sher-e-Bihar Zindabad’ and ‘Hamara Neta Kaisa Ho, Chhote Sarkar Jaisa Ho.’ Despite being the wife of a bahubali (muscleman), whose name once spelt terror in the entire Barh-Mokama area, Neelam doesn’t hesitate to bow down before some elderly people. “Aashirvad dehon na (Bless me),” she said and tells them that though he was in jail, but “wo janta ki seva hamesa se karte rahen hain (he has always been serving people)”. Neelam consoled a widow, who was allegedly being harassed by some land mafias. “He (Anant) will do his level best to sort out your problems once he is out of jail,” she said. Phulan Rai of Mekar village said, “It doesn’t matter whether he (Anant) is in or out of jail. He has supporters in every section of the society. And being an RJD candidate is an added advantage this time.” Anand had won the 2015 assembly polls as an independent candidate from jail. Anant is pitted against Rajiv Lochan Singh of JD(U). “Though he is a good candidate and also has a clean image, people will vote for Anant. The reason is obvious,” said Ghanshyam Singh of Mokama. Anant is facing 37 criminal cases, including those under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). LJP has fielded Suresh Singh Nishad, former mukhiya of Mekra panchayat. He will dent in the NDA votes as fishermen have a substantial population in the constituency. Nishad is a matter of concern for Rajiv.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anants-wife-seeks-vote-for-change/articleshow/78834684.cms||Ramashankar
October 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man killed in clash over fuel worth Rs 20||PATNA: A man was beaten to death at Padri village under Chautarwa police station area of Bagaha in West Champaran on Thursday following a dispute over Rs20 credit to buy petrol. Three persons were arrested in this connection. Chautarwa police station SHO Vinay Mishra on Friday said the deceased, Sikandar Bhagat alias Sikandar Ram (42), along with his minor son had gone Parsauni chowk on his bike to buy petrol. His co-villager Bhulai Sah (60) and his two sons Sanjay Sah and Manjeet Sah sell petrol in containers on the roadside there. “Sikandar demanded petrol worth Rs100 from Bhulai. Since he had only Rs80, Sikandar told Bhulai to pay petrol worth Rs20 on credit. Bhulai refused, resulting in an altercation between the two. Sikandar slapped Bhulai two to three times after which people nearby intervened and separated them,” the SHO said. He said Bhulai returned home after two hours and narrated the incident to his sons, who along with other family members, went to Sikandar’s house and attacked him. “A clash took place in which Sikandar was critically injured and died on way to hospital. Bhulai, his two sons and others supporting him were also injured,” he said. Man killed by brother-in-law: One Pinku Paswan (25) of Gaurichak in Patna was killed by his brother-in-law at Dhangawa under Kako police station area in Jehanabad on Thursday night. His body was recovered on Friday morning. Police said Pinku’s brother-in-law Munna Paswan of Supanchak under Fatuha police station and his two associates were the main accused in the murder case. Man killed: The bullet-riddled body of one Dilip Kumar (19) was recovered from a canal between Pasaurha and Pansuhi under Dulhin Bazaar police station area in Patna on Friday. SHO Ashok Kumar said Dilip was resident of Bahadurganj under Sigori police station. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-killed-in-clash-over-fuel-worth-rs-20/articleshow/78834739.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Patna||PM strikes a chord with people in Gaya||GAYA: The venue was packed to its capacity as everyone in the crowd was eager to listen to the PM Narendra Modi. Following the standard operating procedure (SOP) of Covid-19 pandemic, circles were made in the audience gallery from lime powder, in which 10,000 chairs were placed to maintain physical distancing. As soon as Modi reached the dais at Gandhi Maidan here for the NDA’s election rally and greeted the crowd with folded hands, the audience replied him with ‘Modi...Modi’ and ‘Jai Shree Ram’. When Modi waved to the crowd and started his address with ‘Bharat mata ki…’, the crowd completed the slogan by shouting ‘Jai’. Many in the crowd felt elated when the PM struck a chord with them while starting his address in local dialect Magahi: “Vishwa vikhyat gyan aur moksh ki dharti ke hum naman kara hi (I pay my obeisance to this place known as the land of knowledge and salvation). Vishnupad mandir ke abhinandan kara hi (I also pay my respect to the Vishnupad temple).” Many people attending the rally were the beneficiaries of the government’s financial help recently. Kailu Yadav, a farmer from Atri assembly constituency in Gaya district said: “The PM has very smartly tackled the corona pandemic. Although people had to suffer during lockdown, as all means of transport were suspended, but it was necessary in everyone’s interest.” Md Sayeed, who runs his tailoring shop on footpath, said, “During lockdown, people got financial help from the government. I also got Rs 1000 in my bank account, but only Rs500 was credited in the zero balance account of my daughter and Rs1000 in my wife’s bank account. Not only my family but my neighbours also received financial help from the government,” he said. However, a group of youths from Bodh Gaya had more expectations from the government. One Abhishek Kumar Gupta said, “The government is running skill India programme to make the youths self-reliant. But those preparing for government jobs want the government attention on some issues. Around 85,000 students have cleared SSC-GD exam 2018. All have cleared the medical fitness test. But there are only 60,000 vacancies. We want the government to accommodate all who have cleared the fitness test, because maximum age limit of most of them has expired and they cannot write any other competitive exam.” Few other youths, including Neeraj Kumar and Rajnish Kumar, had a similar view. “The youths want the competitive examinations to be conducted on time with timely publication of results,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-strikes-a-chord-with-people-in-gaya/articleshow/78835726.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Business||Aditya Birla Fashion to sell 8% to Flipkart for Rs 1,500 crore||BENGALURU: Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail (ABFR) has entered into a commercial pact with Flipkart where it will raise Rs 1,500 crore by selling nearly 8% stake to the e-commerce platform. Owned by the US-based Walmart, Flipkart is paying a premium of nearly 34% for each ABFR share at Rs 205 compared to Thursday’s close on the BSE (24% from Friday’s), according to regulatory filings. Industry executives said this deal underscores the importance of e-commerce for fashion sellers as well as a bigger omni-channel play in a Covid-hit retail universe. TOI first reported in its Thursday edition that ABFR was in talks to sell a minority stake to the Bengaluru-based e-tailer and boost its exposure online. This deal includes pre-emption rights, meaning Flipkart can buy more shares before they are offered to the public and the e-tailer will also have the right of first refusal for a period of 1-5 years “from the date of allotment of equity shares”, according to ABFR. Once the deal is approved by shareholders and regulators, Flipkart will also have the option to appoint a board observer. Beyond its current business-to-business (B2B) arrangements with Flipkart India, ABFR has entered into a pact with the e-tailer for sale and distribution of its brands on the platform. ABFR owns Pantaloons and sells brands like Allen Solly, Peter England, Louis Philippe and Van Heusen in India. Once approved, the conglomerate would have raised Rs 2,500 crore in the current fiscal. This will be used to strengthen its balance sheet and further scale up its existing businesses as well as expand in emerging high-growth categories such as innerwear, athleisure, casualwear and ethnic wear. For Flipkart, this will enhance the range of fashion brands offered on its group platforms, including Myntra. The promoter and promoter group companies of ABFR will hold over 55% stake in the firm after issuance of shares to Flipkart, ABFR said. “This deal also draws the battle lines in this space among Walmart’s Flipkart, Amazon India and Reliance Industries,” a senior industry executive said. Flipkart recently picked up a 27% stake in Arvind’s Flying Machine brand, while Amazon holds a minority stake in Shoppers Stop as well as in a Future Group entity, though that’s run into a legal tussle over Reliance Industries buying assets of Future Group. Then, Reliance has a strong retail presence through Reliance Retail and it is scaling up its e-commerce venture JioMart fast, selling groceries, electronics and apparels. On Friday, the ABFR stock ended with a gain of over 7% to close at Rs 165 per share on the BSE. In a statement, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said the Flipkart deal is an “endorsement of the growth potential of India, while it also reflects ABFR’s strong conviction in the future of the apparel industry in India”. “Fashion retail in India is set for robust long-term growth due to strong fundamentals of a large and growing middle class, favourable demographics, rising disposable incomes and aspiration for brands. Rapid growth of technology infrastructure will further accelerate this process,” said Birla. Flipkart group CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy said, “Through this partnership with ABFR, we will work towards making available a wide range of products for fashion-conscious consumers across different retail formats across the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aditya-birla-fashion-to-sell-8-to-flipkart-for-rs-1500cr/articleshow/78837325.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 recovery rate in Uttarakhand now 89.8%||DEHRADUN: With 288 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Friday, the total tally of infected patients has reached 59,796. Also, nine out of 10 people have recovered from the infection in the state, taking the recovery rate to 89.8%. According to the health bulletin, Udham Singh Nagar reported maximum 62 cases on Friday, followed by 44 in Dehradun, 41 in Pauri, 33 in Nainital, 26 in Rudraprayag, 17 in Haridwar, 14 in Uttarkashi, 13 in Bageshwar, 10 in Chamoli, 12 in Tehri, seven in Champawat, five in Almora and four in Pithoragarh district. At present, Dehradun has the maximum number of active Covid-19 cases. “We have tested around 9.3 lakh people so far while around 15,000 results are awaited,” said Abhiskeh Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. Apart from positive cases, 11 deaths were also reported from Uttarakhand taking the toll to 979. Health watchers claimed that the recovery rate is getting better in the state. Udham Singh Nagar has a maximum 95% recovery rate followed by 93% in Haridwar, 91 in Tehri and 90% each in Nainital and Almora. “It is good to see that we have jumped from a 71% recovery rate a month ago to 89% now. Five districts, in fact, have more than 90% recovery rates while there is not a single district below 80%,” said Anoop Nautiyal from Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 development in the state. According to official data, a total of 8,74,177 samples came out negative till Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-recovery-rate-in-ukhand-now-89-8/articleshow/78834828.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 24, 2020||Patna||1093 new Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 1,093 Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Friday, taking the tally to 2,10,389. Officially, eight deaths were reported taking the toll to 1034. However, with 19,8,437 recoveries, there are 10,916 active cases in the state. As per the health department’s data released on Friday, two deaths were reported from Patna, following which the toll reached 256. There were reports of one death each from Begusarai, Jehanabad, Muzaffarpur, Saran, Nalanda and Purnia. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths, out of which a 60-year-old female of Lalpur village in Begusarai had died on Thursday. Two other deceased include a 75-year-old male from Sareya Khas village in East Champaran and a 75- year-old female from Muzaffarpur. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 15 patients were admitted and 16 were discharged and as on Friday there were 178 patients in the hospital. Out of total admitted patients, 72 were in ICU and among them, 27 were on ventilator and 20 on high flow nasal canula oxygen. He further said that the condition of both deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi and parliamentarian Vijay Kumar Manjhi, who were admitted after testing positive for Covid-19 were stable. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) reported one death of an 85-year-old male from Raghopur. While four patients were admitted, one was discharged on Friday. Of total 1093 new Covid-19 cases, 229 were reported from Patna, taking the tally to 34,055. However, with 31,267 recoveries and 256 deaths, there are 2,532 active cases here. Covid-19 cases reported from other districts include Muzaffarpur (96), Nalanda (78), Purnia (49), Gopalganj (44), Jehanabad (37), Supaul (36) and Madhubani (32). As per the tweet shared by state health minister Mangal Pandey, 1244 people have recovered in the last 24 hours till Thursday and 1,41,869 samples were tested. So far over 98 lakh samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1093-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-state/articleshow/78834721.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 24, 2020||Patna||Power, water supply hit in villages atop Kaimur hills||SASARAM: People living in several villages atop the Kaimur hills in Rohtas district continue to depend on solar energy for water supply. They claim that solar power plants with a capacity of 20 kilowatt each were installed in 11 villages as part of the Centre’s Saubhagya and the state government’s Har Ghar Bijli Scheme in 2018. The grid functioned properly and the villagers got uninterrupted power supply for seven hours everyday. However, the situation changed soon after. Sexagenarian Laloo Singh Kharwar of Dhansa village told this newspaper, “We were happy when the solar power plants were installed because we got electricity for the first time after independence, but they stopped working after sometime. Our pleas to the authorities concerned fell on deaf ears. The situation is no different in other villages.” As a result of the power supply crunch, the people also face drinking water crisis. Another local, Mantra Devi, lamented that taps installed in the ‘kachcha’ houses in her village mostly remained dry. People quarrelling for a bucket of water near the village tube wells is also a common sight. Atoriya Devi of Dhansa village said, “Our water supply depends on when the sun rises because that is when the solar pump starts working.” 40-year-old Mohan Singh Kharawar of Rehal village could not recall the last time an MP or an MLA visited the area in five years. “They come only during elections,” he added. Executive engineer of the South Bihar Power Distribution Company in Dehri-on-Sone, Som Nath Pasawan, said he was aware of the situation and had asked the company which was entrusted with the task of maintaining the grid to restore power supply. With acute shortage of water, the villagers have now started defecating in open fields and the toilets built by the administration are in a state of neglect. Public health engineering department’s executive engineer N Ansari claimed that he had received complaints from the villagers. “Corrective actions will be taken soon,” he added. With a total population of around 25,000, the hilly villages are primarily inhabited by people belonging to the Oraon and Kharwar tribes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/power-water-supply-hit-in-villages-atop-kaimur-hills/articleshow/78834638.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC grants interim stay on construction of anganwadi||MADURAI: The Madras high court has granted interim injunction on a plea which sought to forbear the authorities from setting up an anganwadi centre near an EB transformer at Arittapatti village in Madurai district. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi passed the order while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Veeranan, a resident of Arittapatti village. The petitioner stated that he along with the villagers came to know that the officials were planning to construct an anganwadi building near a EB transformer and a well on the outskirts of the village. Since it is not safe for children to construct the centre at the proposed site, the villagers submitted a representation seeking to shift the construction to some other safe location. Since the representation was not considered by the authorities, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-interim-stay-on-construction-of-anganwadi/articleshow/78837007.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Business||Govt set to divest 10% in GIC Re, New India Assurance||Mumbai: Government is set to offer 10% shares in the country’s largest non-life insurance company New India Assurance through an offer for sale to the public. The Centre may also do a similar dilution in the General Insurance Corporation (GIC Re). However, the timing is not decided. The government had divested close to 15% stakes in both New India and GIC in 2017. The disinvestment of GIC Re resulted in a mop-up of Rs 11,370 crore and New India’s IPO raised Rs 9,600 crore. Both the companies are currently trading at big discounts to their issue price. One of the reasons for not going public was that the shares are considered to be undervalued as not only are their prices at a 20% discount to book value, but also that New India has legacy investments in equities and real estate that are not reflected in the book value. Besides ambitious pricing in the IPO, another reason for the discounts is the relatively lower level of liquidity in the shares. Large chunks of the shares are held by public sector institutions. An offer for sale of shares would have a threefold advantage of complying with regulations, improving liquidity in the shares and helping government raise revenues. GIC Re has a market cap of Rs 21,333 crore, while New India’s share price values the company at Rs 17,000 crore. A 10% dilution would give the government close to Rs 4,000 crore. All listed companies are required to have at least 25% of their holding with the public. In May this year, Sebi had relaxed the 25% minimum public shareholding norms for listed companies in the wake of the Covid outbreak. The regulator asked stock exchanges not to take any penal action against companies that were to comply with the minimum shareholding rule between March 1 and August 31. Subsequently, in August, the government notified changes in the Securities Contract (Regulation) Rules giving listed companies three years to comply with the minimum shareholding rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-set-to-divest-10-in-gic-re-new-india-assurance/articleshow/78837309.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 24, 2020||Business||Salcomp restarts Nokia factory in Sriperumbudur||Chennai: After a gap of six years, Nokia factory in Sriperumbudur restarted production, making phone parts and chargers under its new owner — Salcomp, Finnish electronics component maker. The unit which was restarted by the Tamil Nadu chief minister will be fully occupied in phases.  “We have started with 1,000 persons making phone chargers. We will slowly ramp it up and by 2022 we will have nearly 7,000 persons inside this unit,” said Sasikumar Gendham, MD, Salcomp Manufacturing India Private Ltd. Salcomp will now work at restarting another factory inside the Nokia SEZ, that of Lite-On-Mobile. “We may start that factory in January,” he said. Salcomp, largest supplier of chargers for Apple phones, will invest a total of Rs 1,800 crore and employ 10,000 additional persons. Nokia shut operations after Microsoft decided to keep the Sriperumbudur factory out of a global deal due to tax disputes. The unit was forced shutdown and after a protracted legal battle, the dispute was settled in 2018 paving way for Salcomp to take over the factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/salcomp-restarts-nokia-factory-in-sriperumbudur/articleshow/78836236.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Allahabad||‘Start process to hold Suar by-poll’||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to start the process for holding the bye-election for Uttar Pradesh’s state assembly constituency of Suar in Rampur district forthwith. The seat had fallen vacant when the Allahabad high court declared the election of Abdulla Azam Khan, son of senior Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, as void on December 16, 2019, and consequently set aside his election in an election petition. Subsequently, the state assembly had notified it as vacant on February 27, 2020. Allowing a writ petition filed by Shafeeq Ahmad of Rampur, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “The Election Commission of India has not been able to justify as to why and under what circumstances, bye-election has not been held on the aforementioned constituency despite the vacancy having occurred in December, 2019 and duly notified long back by the state assembly on February 27, 2020. Thus, the Election Commission has failed to perform its constitutional and statutory duty to hold the bye-election for the aforementioned constituency within the time prescribed under Section 151A of the Representation of People’s Act.” Coming down heavily on the ECI for failing to perform its constitutional duty, the court said, “Democracy is a system of government in which a country’s political leaders are chosen by the people in regular, free and fair elections. In a democracy, people have a choice between different candidates and parties who want the power to govern. The people are sovereign. They are the highest authority and government is based on the will of the people. The will of people is supreme. It cannot be lightly interfered with. The Election Commission under no circumstance can frustrate the will of the people. This court, which is a custodian of the Constitution, cannot be a silent spectator in a case of this nature where the Election Commission has failed to exercise its powers in a manner which has the effect of destroying or making erosion in to the democratic set up, which is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution.” The petitioner had requested the court to direct the ECI to immediately declare the bye-election of the UP state assembly constituency (no- 34) Suar of Rampur district. The contention of the petitioner was that the election has been set aside by the high court in the election petition and no interim order has been passed by the apex court in the appeal pending before it. Besides, a vacancy has been duly notified by the state assembly. Hence, in this backdrop, there cannot be any justification for the Election Commission for not holding the elections. “By not holding the elections, the Election Commission has failed to perform its constitutional duty and suppressed the voice of the people who deserve to be represented through an elected representative,” the counsel for the petitioner had argued. The court gave this judgment on October 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/start-process-to-hold-suar-by-poll/articleshow/78834077.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 24, 2020||Allahabad||Steady decline in Covid-19 cases, recovery rate crosses 92% in Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: The steady decline in Covid-19 cases in the Sangam City continued in the past five days in a row, posting high levels of daily recoveries. On October 22, 116 cases were reported in the city, mounting the Prayagraj district’s tally to 22,916. This was the fifth day when fresh cases settled below 150. Similarly, the graph of death due to Covid-19 has come down. From October 20 to 22, one death a day was reported in the district, while two fatalities were registered on October 19 and 18. From October 18 to 22, the city reported 151, 148, 121, 145 and 116 fresh cases respectively. Similarly, 194 , 200, 138, 148 and 125 patients got cured during the same period. Till Thursday, the city’s overall caseload surged to 22,916. However, 21,152 patients have got cured and recovered taking the recovery percentage of the city to around 92 percent. The city has reported 306 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic. A senior health official said there was a decline in cases and therefore the need for hospital beds has reduced. There are 1,458 active cases till Thursday and the majority of patients are currently under home isolation. While 5400 patients have cured and discharged from hospitals, 15,752 patients have also completed their home isolation. “The key behind the high recovery rate is timely hospitalisation,” said an official. The district administration has roped in a team of expert psychologists to counsel the elderly testing Covid positive to convince them to get admitted to hospital for treatment for their own good. The administration had decided that elderly corona patients would not be allowed home quarantine to ensure proper treatment since fatality rate is high in aged patients, the elderly are reluctant to get admitted in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/steady-decline-in-covid-19-cases-recovery-rate-crosses-92-in-city/articleshow/78834242.cms||Kapil Dixit
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Complete works during night time, directs DM||DEHRADUN: District magistrate and Dehradun Smart City Limited CEO, Ashish Kumar Srivastava, has asked the officials and contractors to complete the majority of the construction and repair works at night, causing minimum trouble to the commuters during the day. In a review meeting held on Friday, he has asked the officials to take maximum precaution while carrying out work on roads and market places during the festive season. During the meeting, several projects — including smart roads, Parade Ground beautification work, and water supply augmentation — were also reviewed. He added that the work under water supply augmentation has been completed in the stretch of over 9.40 kilometres and the remaining work is being completed. However, efforts are being made to streamline the sewerage and water supply work under way at Paltan Bazaar. The old pipelines often tend to break which are repaired immediately by the teams to maintain the work flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/complete-works-during-night-time-directs-dm/articleshow/78834841.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||How to kill a lake||CHENNAI: Revenue department officials have identified at least 3,000 pucca structures including a 200 feet wide road encroaching upon the Kolathur lake. The identification at the lake, which is on the right of the 200 feet road as one drives from Anna Nagar to Madhavaram, at the Retteri junction, was done by a team of officials from the Ayanavaram tahsildar’s office in March, just before Covid-19 struck. Records of the Public Works Department (PWD) show that the lake was once spread over 26.37 hectares (about 65 acres) and that an enumeration drive in 2008 had found almost 1,400 houses on it, indicating that the encroachments began much earlier. “However, only 20% of it [the late] is still available. The rest has been fully encroached upon by structures including multi-storeyed homes, places of worship, business establishments and roads and even a drainage network,” said a Greater Chennai Corporation official, adding that it was no longer a lake, but just a puddle (kuttai). A visit to the spot by TOI found that revenue officials had made markings depicting the expanse of the lake, indicating the structures that are illegal. The area is thickly populated with signboards, roads, electricity lines and political party posters, just like any regular part of the city. A land use map of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) shows that an office of the Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), which is popular as Metrowater, is bang in the middle of the lake. The CMDA map shows the building as an institutional structure, while a Metrowater official said it was a water distribution centre for the entire Kolathur area. A corporation map of zone 6 (Thiru-vi-ka Nagar), under which the lake falls, shows that even the 200 feet road has been laid across the lake, a fact confirmed by a PWD official. In such cases, as per the official procedure, the revenue department is supposed to enumerate the encroachers and issue them eviction notices, while the corporation has to look for alternate rehabilitation for them. “But it is unlikely to happen now, as it is the election season. Also almost all of the residents will have some sort of residence proof,” a PWD official said. This could spell disaster during the northeast monsoon that is expected to set in over the city soon. A corporation official said that the lake had been a natural drain for excess rainwater from the 200 feet road and the Retteri lake across the road. “Since the houses have been built right on the water body, the area will get flooded. It will also affect those living in the vicinity of the lake,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-to-kill-a-lake/articleshow/78837012.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana too will provide free Covid vaccine to poor||HYDERABAD: One day after BJP’s manifesto in the Bihar assembly elections promised free Covid-19 vaccines for all, Telangana offered a free dose to the poor in the state when the vaccine is available. Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have already vowed to vaccinate every citizen for free. Speaking to TOI, Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender said: “We will distribute the vaccine free of cost to the poor and healthcare workers. There is no question of commercialising it.” The minister said that it is the responsibility of the state and central governments to make sure vaccination is free for the poor. “Those who come to government hospitals will be given free dose. Cost does not matter. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has implemented several schemes for the benefit of the poor and this (free vaccine) will also be made available to them,” he said. In the first round, all the healthcare workers both in government and private hospitals will be given the vaccine followed by the poor and daily wage labourers. Rajender said once the vaccine distribution formula is announced, they would work out the parameters. An expert committee would be constituted to finalise the ways and methods of distribution of the free vaccine. He said thanks to the steps initiated by the government, the state did not witness a big spike in Covid-19 positive cases after Ganesh Chaturthi. “I appeal to people to celebrate the coming festivals safely by maintaining social distancing and adhering to Covid-19 guidelines,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-too-will-provide-free-covid-vaccine-to-poor/articleshow/78837843.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||State to roll out new mining policy||Jaipur: Mines and petroleum department will soon bring out a new mining policy showcasing the strengths of the state and the opportunities for investors.At a meeting on Friday, Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, mines and petroleum, urged the senior officials of the department to meet various industry bodies and their members to seek feedback to make the policy competitive in the country.“Officials of the department have already analysed the mining policies of states like Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh. We will build on the productive features already available keeping in mind the state’s resources and roll out a policy which is functional, efficient and very competitive in the country,” Agarwal said.He said increased investment in mining is important for raising the revenue contribution to the state. “Rajasthan is very rich in major and minor minerals. We also have huge hydrocarbon resources. What we want is a good policy document that can attract investors,” he said.He further said the policy will also focus on curbing illegal activities in the sector so that there is no revenue leakage. “We want to plug all the routes where illegal mining is possible,” added Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-roll-out-new-mining-policy/articleshow/78836213.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Centre moves CAT seeking transfer of Chaturvedi's petition to Delhi||Nainital: The central government has moved the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) seeking transfer of a petition — filed by whistleblower Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi against lateral entry of private professionals to the post of joint secretaries — from Allahabad to the tribunal’s principal bench in Delhi. The transfer petition was heard by the chairman of CAT, Justice L Narasimha Reddy, on October 13 after which he issued notice to Chaturvedi, asking the officer to reply in three weeks. The tribunal has now listed the petition for further hearing on November 6. Chaturvedi had approached the Allahabad bench of the CAT in February challenging the government’s scheme allowing lateral entry of private professionals to the rank of joint secretaries on a contract basis. The officer, currently posted as chief conservator of forests (research) at Haldwani, had sought restraint on any future hiring under the contractual system. The respondents to the petition had raised preliminary objections to the maintainability of the petition in a hearing on September 3. After the tribunal gave them permission to file the objections in detail, the case was then heard on September 22. However, on that day, the respondents sought further time to file the objections. As reported by TOI earlier, Chaturvedi, in his application, had argued that the contract hiring system is “arbitrary” and “irrational” since an officer of the IFS “ trained and having extensively worked in the sector from grassroots level upto state level ...would not be able to get an opportunity to work as joint secretary.” He had further added that “anyone from the private sector with much less experience of 15 years, and that, too, not the kind of real-time field exposure, to which a cadre IFS officer is subjected to, would be eligible for working at the same post.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-moves-cat-seeking-transfer-of-chaturvedis-petition-to-delhi/articleshow/78832594.cms||Prashant Jha
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 4 held in jewellery robbery case, hunt on for 3 others||JAIPUR: The city police have arrested four persons in the Murlipura robbery at a jewellery store while search is on for remaining three. Cops also recovered some of the valuables though it was found that the jewellery store owner had exaggerated the worth of the ornaments that were actually stolen. He had claimed that jewellery worth Rs 80 lakh was robbed though cops found it to be a lot less. The arrested persons were identified Dileep, Sonu,Vinod and Sandeep and one who have other criminal cases against them. “Dileep was the kingpin and through him we rounded up the others. There is also a woman involved in the crime whom police are looking for. Two of the other accused were already in jail and operating from there. We have found silver and gold but it is less than what the jeweller had said,” said an official who is spearheading the investigation. Three armed robbers barged into a jewellery shop situated at Naadi Ka Phatak area in Murlipura locality and executed the biggest-ever robbery of Jaipur this year on Saturday. The robbers intimidated the owner on gunpoint and decamped with jewellery worth nearly Rs 80 lakh. Before leaving, they took the jeep that belonged to the owner to flee. By evening, the jeep was found abandoned in Vishwakarma Industrial Area. They took barely eight minutes to execute the robbery and leave the place. It appears to be an organised gang and was aware that the jeweller was having huge stock on the opening day of Navratri. Two robbers decamped on scooty they had used for their arrival while one of them used the jeep. After the incident, the jeweller informed police control room. The robbery took place just a few minutes after a bank robbery in Mansarover area in which robbers decamped with a cashbox containing Rs 31.50 lakh. Cops maintained that in the two robberies, the gangs involved were different and in the bank robbery police arrested four persons. One of the accused was arrested from Delhi. He had been seen on CCTV camera before and after he changed his clothes. This robbery was executed as one of the accused owned a lot of debt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-held-in-jewellery-robbery-case-hunt-on-for-3-others/articleshow/78836218.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sees a 28% fall in rape cases in 2020||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s latest data on crime against women, released on Friday, shows a 28% fall in the number of rape cases in 2020. Similarly, molestation cases have gone down by 32.91% and cases relating to ‘outraging a woman’s modesty’ dipped by 18.51%. At least 1,241 rape cases were reported this year till September 30 as compared to 1,723 cases in the corresponding period last year. And 1,527 cases of molestation were reported this year as against 2,276 in 2019. Analysis of rape cases shows that accused were known to the victims in 97.66% cases while rapes by strangers stood at 2.34%. The case solving per cent in rape cases stood at 91.6%, molestations at 82.7% and insult to modesty at 76.6% in 2020. The data shows that Delhi’s conviction rate is higher than the all-India rate. In molestation cases, the city had a conviction rate of 34% as compared to the national rate of 27%. Similarly, in cases of eve teasing, a conviction rate of 26% was reported as compared to the 24% all-India rate. Delhi Police officials attribute the fall in crime against women cases to police commissioner S N Shrivastava's zero-tolerance policy. Soon after he took charge, Shrivastava had asked all district DCPs to directly supervise the investigation in rape cases. A scientific study was carried out to map areas, which reported more crime against women. The top cop then asked for intense patrolling in these areas. Among other measures, action against people drinking in public places was given priority. “At least 28,375 persons were arrested for this offence in 2020,” a senior officer said, adding that these steps resulted in drastic reduction in crimes against women. Not just the district police but the cyber unit of the Delhi Police also took timely action against online abusers, and people harassing women online were blocked. Civic agencies were instructed to make proper light arrangments in dark patches of the city and even offices where women worked late at night were told to take proper safety measures. The police commissioner also directed district DCPs to ensure case investigations are done scientifically and in a timely manner. The police brass also enforced a 20 days’ time limit in filing of chargesheets in rapes cases after the arrest of the accused. The arrest of the accused was given priority. This led to a high solving rate in rape cases (91.62%) and molestation cases (82.71%) in 2020. Delhi Police also took several proactive measures to ensure that women feel confident in open spaces. All-women PCR vans have been stationed outside market places and in areas often frequented by women. Delhi Traffic Police has also been tasked to challan vehicles having tinted glasses and pick-up vans illegally parked at bus stations. Apart from setting up women help desks, even the rape cases are handed over to women police officers so that victims feel comfortable in reporting the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sees-a-28-fall-in-rape-cases-in-2020/articleshow/78836223.cms||Sakshi Chand
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Debt-ridden father of SHO ends life in Sikar||JAIPUR: A SHO’s father committed suicide in Sikar due to financial debt and in the suicide note mentioned that he was being harassed by the lenders to repay that loan. The SHO is stationed at a police station in Jaipur and further investigation into the matter is underway. The deceased has been identified as Sukhram who was the father of the SHO stationed at Jobner. An official said, “The victim committed suicide by consuming a toxic substance and we are trying to figure out as to how he got it. In the suicide note, he mentioned that he was under a lot of debt due to which he took his own life,” said an official of Sikar police. According to officials, the victim was under a debt of at least Rs 35 lakh. Cops claimed that they will question the family again once they came out of the shock and will also go through the victim’s mobile phone to find leads in the case. The body of the victim were handed over to the family after the post-mortem is done on Friday. The mobile phones of the victims will also be scanned to get more clues into the death. The officials claimed that the families had no inkling that the two persons were thinking of suicide and nothing untoward had happened before the death. “We are trying to find the persons named in the suicide note and will arrest them soon as long as the allegations prove. We will also go through the victim’s phone to find more details into the case though it appears to be clear that he was being hounded for the payments,” said an official. His son along with others will also be questioned and his body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/debt-ridden-father-of-sho-ends-life-in-sikar/articleshow/78836221.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dalit woman alleges rape in Jalore||JAIPUR: Jalore police have registered a case of rape of a Dalit woman wherein the survivor was allegedly sexually assaulted four months back and she was allegedly forced to film the act. She lodged the case after the video was uploaded online and her brother saw it. The accused is yet to be arrested. “The woman registered a case alleging that she was raped by an individual who forced her to take a video recording of the assault. The video was uploaded online and her brother saw it, following which she registered a case. We are investigating the matter,” said SP Jalore Shyam Singh. The 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report has revealed alarming figures for Rajasthan with the state reporting 902 gang-rape cases, highest in the country. It is followed by Uttar Pradesh, but the difference is massive, almost twice the number. After a Dalit woman was gang-raped in Thanagazi in April 2019 in front of her husband, the local police station had not registered a case for three days after the assault leading to massive outrage following which the state government made it easier to lodge FIRs. It was found that in 88% of the cases till September 2019, the accused were known to the complainants and in 43% of the cases, FIRs were filed. Also in many instances, when a woman lodges a domestic violence case under IPC Section 498 A, she can additionally add rape and gang-rape in the FIR, claimed the official. Not just in instances of rape, but the NCRB report puts the state on top when it comes to cases of assault on women, domestic violence as well as attempt to rape. While 6,977 cases were registered of assault on women, which is the highest in the country, the desert state had 18,432 cases of domestic violence. While Rajasthan is leading in the number of rape cases with 5,997 incidents, it is also on top with 1,019 attempt-to-rape cases. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dalit-woman-alleges-rape-in-jalore/articleshow/78836214.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath performs Ashtami puja in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reached Gorakhpur on Friday afternoon to perform Ashtami Puja after 7pm, said Vinay Gautam, media in-charge of Gorakhnath temple. Mahanisha puja and hawan will be performed on Friday night. On Navmi Yogi performs Kanya Pujan of nine little girls and serves them lunch at Gorakhnath temple, said chief pujari, Kamalnath Baba. “On the 10th day of Navratra, Maharaj ji wears Sailsim (a special dress of Guru Gorakshnath) and performs puja and aarti. At around 4pm he leads a Shobhayatra in an open vehicle to Mansarovar temple, 1km away from the main temple,” he said. “On Dashmi, a special prasad ‘Pucca Rota’ made of wheat flour, sugar, pure ghee and dry fruits offered to Guru Gorakshnath. On returning to the temple Maharaj ji performs ‘paran,’,” said temple office secretary, Dwarika Tiwari. CM Yogi observes fast for nine days and only takes fruits, milk, dry fruits in the morning and milk, dry fruits and halwa of Sighara flour in the evening, said Tiwari. The CM installed kalash at Shaktipeeth in Gorakhnath temple on the first day of Navratra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-performs-ashtami-puja-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/78836120.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC orders action against SHO for not filing FIR in gang-rape||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking a serious note of delay of three months in lodging of first information report (FIR) in a gang rape case that too after intervention of the court, the Allahabad high court has directed the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Prayagraj to ensure that FIRs be registered promptly, particularly when the matters relate to women and children. Besides, the court also directed that strict action be taken against the then station house officer (SHO) of Phoolpur police station of Prayagraj district, Brijesh Kumar, after he failed to give explanation as to why he did not lodge the FIR of gang rape survivor despite specific direction issued by SSP, Prayagraj. Hearing a writ petition filed by a gang rape survivor, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “Such gross negligence and laxity on the part of the police department is highly deprecated and such gross negligence, and it we may say so ‘callousness’, is unbecoming of the conduct of a responsible officer entrusted with the obligation of performing the duties of a public office. Strict action is required to be taken against such persons in accordance with law.” The main grievance of the petitioner was that the first information report with regard to the gang rape was lodged after more than three months from the date of incident that too after the filing of the present writ petition. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the court directed the SSP, Prayagraj to provide proper protection to the survivor girl as well as her family members. The court also directed the SSP, Prayagraj to ensure that the investigation in the matter be concluded expeditiously in accordance with law. In order to ensure fair investigation in the matter, the court also directed the SSP, Prayagraj to monitor the investigation of the present case to ensure that the investigating agency conducts the investigation in a free, fair and time bound manner without any external interference. The court passed these directives on October 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-orders-action-against-shofor-not-filing-fir-in-gang-rape/articleshow/78834104.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two held for abducting, assaulting cop in a bus||NEW DELHI: The north district police have arrested two of the kidnappers who had abducted and assaulted a police constable in a private bus on Wednesday night before dumping him near UP’s Firozabad. The bus has been seized. The accused have been identified as Rajeev Chaurasia alias Munna and his son Ankit alias Chhotu. The two are the bus operators who had pulled the cop, Sachin, inside the vehicle. TOI had reported about the incident on Friday. The accused duo were arrested from Madhya Pradesh. Police have identified the rest of the accused, including the driver, as well and raids are being conducted to nab them. It has come to fore that the bus crew had stripped the constable of his uniform and forced him to say that he was drunk and had come to rob the bus passengers, which they recorded. DCP (north) Anto Alphonse said that the accused were arrested by a team led by inspector Dharmender and others. The bus was identified after footage from over two dozen CCTV cameras were analysed. It was traced to Machhand village of Bhind in Madhya Pradesh. In his statement, the injured cop said that he had stopped the bus after hearing some women scream for assistance. As soon as the bus halted, the two staff members alighted and started arguing with constable Sachin. As he called for reinforcement, they started the bus and tried to escape. The cops intercepted it again. Sachin then boarded the bus to check the situation but the attendants and co-drivers overpowered him and sped away. The attendants and co-driver also snatched his service pistol and mobile phones. As the cop fought back, he was assaulted by the crew and his uniform was taken away. They had dropped him from the bus near Firozabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-held-for-abducting-assaulting-cop-in-a-bus/articleshow/78836228.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Man held for killing girlfriend, burying her body||KANPUR: A man was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly killing his 26-year-old girlfriend and burying her body in the fields in the village in Ajgain area of Unnao. Acting on a complaint lodged by the girl’s father in 2019, police arrested Suraj, a prime accused in the case, on Thursday, police said. “The woman had gone missing from her house on April 2, 2019. Subsequently, her father lodged an FIR against Suraj of abducting his daughter. We were closely monitoring his movements. Finally, after collecting vital evidences, we nabbed him and interrogated him on Thursday. He broke down and confessed to killing the woman, who was forcing him to marry her,” said Inspector Ajgain Kotwali Santosh Kumar. According to police, Suraj and the woman were allegedly in a relationship for over two years and she started quarrelling with him when he refused to marry her. Then Suraj hatched a conspiracy to kill the woman. He strangulated her to death and buried the body in the fields in the village, police said. The matter came to light when police interrogated him and he apprised police about the woman’s body, which he had buried in a field. The police thereafter recovered decomposed body of the woman on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-held-for-killing-gf-burying-her-body/articleshow/78836183.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh’s two senior women cricketers are now UCA selectors||KANPUR: Two senior veteran women cricketers of UP--Archana Mishra and Alka Singh-- have shifted themselves to Uttarakhand, and they are now serving Uttarakhand Cricket Association (UCA) as selectors. Archana Misha is chairperson and Alka Singh a member of the selection committee. Talking to TOI, Archana said, “We two have decided to give our services to other states”. Archana, who had represented UP from 1980 to 1993, was one of the main players of the team. In her second innings, she became herself as a coach and selector and was a member of BCCI’s selection committee. Alka Singh, who belongs to Lucknow, had started her career in 1997 and left active cricket in 2003 after her mother died. She too was a selector of the UP junior team from 2016 to 2019. In 2011, she became a women cricket commentator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ups-two-senior-women-cricketers-are-now-uca-selectors/articleshow/78836416.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Madurai||281 new cases in south TN, 267 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: A total of 281 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths were reported in the 10 southern districts even as the central region had 267 new cases and three deaths on Friday. While Madurai was the only district in the southern region to record more than 50 fresh cases (71) in the last three days, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari had 51 cases each. The three deaths from the southern region were a 75-year-old woman from Tuticorin, a 70-year-old man from Tirunelveli and a 69-year-old man from Dindigul, all of whom had comorbid conditions. The number of fresh cases remained below 300 for the third day in a row after more than four months. The seven other districts recorded less than 30 cases each with Ramanathapuram (6) recording the lowest. It was followed by Tenkasi (10), Virudhunagar (14), Sivaganga (16), Dindigul (19), Theni (20) and Tirunelveli (23). Active cases in the region dropped further to 3,322 with Sivaganga (146), Tenkasi (152), Ramanathapuram (162), Virudhunagar (163) and Theni (177) having less than 200. Madurai (720) and Kanyakumari (607) are the only districts to record more than 500 active cases in the southern region. The eight central districts including Trichy had registered 302 cases on Thursday, up from 280 on Wednesday. The total cases in the region stood at 63,473 as the downward trend of cases continued in all the districts. The number of active cases stood at 2,682 with Trichy having the highest of 577. The region has so far discharged 59,955 patients. Thanjavur district recorded the highest number of 78 fresh cases on Friday, keeping its positive cases tally at 14,865. Trichy and Tiruvarur districts recorded 53 cases each making their positive cases tally 12,153 and 9,303 respectively. The lowest number of five fresh cases was reported in Perambalur. The death toll of the region touched 836 with three more deaths in Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Tiruvaur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/281-new-cases-in-south-tn-267-in-central-dists/articleshow/78837033.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rahul Gandhi takes on PM over China, migrants crisis & jobs||PATNA: In his two rallies in the state, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a stinging attack on both PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Nitish Kumar. He took on the PM on issues such as the Chinese aggression at the borders, the migrant crisis during the Covid-19 lockdown and the farm laws among others while slamming Nitish for his “misgovernance”. Sharing the dais with Mahagathbandhan CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at Hisua in Nawada, where Congress has put up its candidate, Rahul began his speech with two questions to the massive audience gathered, “How was Nitish Ji’s government? How did you like PM Modi’s speech?” He then asked the PM when will he oust China from India’s land occupied by the enemy and accused him of lying on the India-China border skirmishes. “Today PM Modi said he bows his head for martyred jawans. We all bow our head for them. But the question is why he lied about China’s intrusion. China has occupied 1200 sq km of land and the PM has lied to the entire country about it. In a way, he insulted our martyred jawans from Bihar,” Rahul said. Rapping the NDA government over the migrant crisis, Rahul said, “You have walked for thousands of kilometres hungry and thirsty and PM Modi had no concern. He did not even arrange for trains. I have full faith that Bihar will now give the right reply to PM Modi and Nitish Kumar.” He then raised the issue of unemployment and reminded about the two crore job promises made by the PM. “Did any of you get a job?” Rahul asked the audience. He said, “PM Modi talks about bowing his head for farmers and labourers, but in reality, he works for Ambani and Adani.” He added, “Who got the benefit of demonetization and GST? Did you see Ambani and Adani standing in the line outside the bank? Though PM Modi publicly talks about farmers and labours, the moment he goes back home, he works for his industrialist friends.” In another rally at Kahalgoan, Rahul talked about the Covid-19 pandemic and how his advice to the Centre was ignored. He blamed PM Modi for destroying the economy and worsening the condition of farmers, labourers and small businessmen. Tejashwi, on the other hand, said he was expecting the PM to talk on special status and special package given to Bihar. However, the younger Yadav scion mainly targeted CM Nitish from the dais. Switching between Hindi and Bhojpuri, Tejashwi said he will work for the people of all castes and religions. “A few people are trying to divert from the main agenda and create hatred based on caste and religion. But people of Bihar will cast their vote on the right agenda,” said Tejashwi. He repeated his promise of 10 lakh government jobs, equal pay for equal work for niyojit teachers and increasing the honorarium for various self-help groups. Hisua Congress candidate Nitu Singh, Nawada RJD candidate Vibha Devi and Prakash Veer, the Rajauli RJD candidate were present on the stage. He ended by claiming that his father and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad will be out of jail on November 9. “The same day is my birthday and the next day on November 10 will be Nitish Ji’s farewell,” said the younger Yadav scion to the crowd, which kept hooting and cheering. With inputs from SB Sinha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rahul-takes-on-pm-over-china-migrants-crisis-jobs/articleshow/78836234.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Work on South Masi Street to be stopped till Diwali in Madurai||MADURAI: Traders have welcomed Madurai Corporation’s move to suspend road works in South Masi Street till Diwali as it would help to boost their business. Works to the tune of Rs 45 crore is being carried out in the four Masi Streets around the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple that include laying roads with UGD connections, pipelines to ensure supply 24x7, storm water drains and underground electric wires. While work on three of the roads, North, West and East Masi streets are almost completed, work is now underway in the South Masi Street. Most of the commercial establishments in the core of the city are concentrated along these four streets. Meanwhile, the road works affected the business of traders after lockdown measures were eased. Rains that began two weeks ago, added to the woes of the traders, who then made many representations to the district administration and corporation seeking that the works be expedited as it was affecting them as the roads were uneven due to ongoing works. The corporation commissioner S Visakan, who inspected the roadworks in South Masi Street on Friday, ordered that the work be suspended till the end of Diwali and he also asked them to make the road smoother to make it easier for the traders and public. Shankar, a trader, said that even if the relief is being given only till Diwali, the civic body should take steps to ensure that the work is expedited. Tamil Nadu textile merchants’ association, secretary Ashraf Tayub, said that the commissioner’s instructions would definitely help them in a big way. “It is good that we have an administration, which is sensitive to our needs and takes concrete action. Better roads mean better business for us and smooth shopping for public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/work-on-south-masi-st-to-be-stopped-till-diwali/articleshow/78837031.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vadodara||VMC extends interest rebate scheme for property tax||VADODARA: In an bid to mop up pending property tax bill amounts, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has extended its interest rebate scheme till November 30. According to a proposal regarding the scheme, despite strict recovery by the civic body, several tax bills remain unpaid due to legal issues, liquidation processes and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has only added to the situation. The scheme was applicable till October 31. Under the scheme, those willing to settle their taxes at one go will be given a complete waiver of notice fee, warrant fee and advertising charges. Properties that have been assessed under the rent-based system will be given a 100% waiver of interest if their tax and interest were both pending. If only interest was pending, a rebate of 95% would be given on the pending amount. The rebate shall be given even if cheques for the taxes have bounced, but those seeking the rebate will have to pay the charges for the bounced cheques. Similarly, in the case of area-based assessment system, residential properties of the size up to 30 square meter will be given a complete waiver of interest if the pending amount is under Rs 10,000. For higher amounts, a rebate of 80 per cent will be given. For non-residential properties, the rebate will be of 60 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-extends-interest-rebate-scheme-for-property-tax/articleshow/78833218.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University to declare entrance exam results from Sunday||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad University would declare the results of the undergraduate and postgraduate entrance examination from October 25 onwards. Authorities had conducted the entrance exam of UG and PG courses last month. All results will be released by October 28 as the education ministry directed to start the new session from November 1. The online admission process would simultaneously commence for the academic session 2020-21. The constituent colleges would start the admission process by issuing a cut-off list, a week after the commencement of the AU admission process. First, the results of the entrance exam for various undergraduate and IPS courses will be released. After this, the results of law and master’s entrance examinations will be announced by the Allahabad University. The entrance examination of BSc and BCom was conducted by AU on September 26, while that for admission to BA, BFA (bachelor in Fine Arts), BPA (bachelor in physical education) and BALLB were held on September 27.  LLB entrance exam was held on September 29, while PGAT-I, MCom and LLM entrance examination on September 30 and PGAT-II and various courses of Institute of Professional Studies (IPS) was conducted from October 1 to October 5. Director of admission cell Prof Prashant Aggarwal said that all the results will be released from October 25 to 28 and the process of online admission will start from October 27. Besides, varsity authorities are gearing up to hold combined research entrance exam (CRET) in the third week of November. The application process for CRET has been completed. As UGC NET exam would be held on November 13, CRET exam has been delayed this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-to-declare-entrance-exam-results-from-sun/articleshow/78834122.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur: Cops exhume girl’s body on suspicion of murder||GORAKHPUR: The Kushinagar police on Friday dug out the body of a three-year-old girl from her grave and sent it for post-mortem examination on her mother’s allegation that she was murdered by her stepfather. The body was exhumed with the permission of the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). As per the police complaint filed by the mother of the deceased, the step-father of the girl killed her on Thursday. Police have not registered any FIR so far and are awaiting the postmortem report. The body was exhumed in the presence of SDM Khadda, Arvind Kumar. Reports said one Durgesh Singh of Bhujouli village under Khadda police station limit in Kushinagar district married one Monika of Bharwalia village under Kasya police station limit two months back. It was the second marriage for both of them. Durgesh has two children from his first marriage while Monika had a three-year-old daughter from her first marriage. As per the complaint, Durgesh took away the girl on a motorcycle on Thursday. He later told Monika that the girl fell from the motorcycle and died and he had buried her. When she asked him to show the spot where her daughter fell, he started beating her. Monika informed the police and also her family and expressed the doubt that her husband had killed her daughter and also buried her body. As per Monika, earlier everything was all right in the marriage but for the last few days, there were frequent arguments between the couple on the issue of the girl. Acting on the complaint, police sent the body for postmortem and also detained the accused for interrogation. SP Kushinagar, Vinod Kumar Singh, told reporters that on the complaint of the girl’s mother, police have sent the body for postmortem and the report is awaited. “The girl’s mother has accused her husband of killing his stepdaughter. However, the accused says that the girl died in an accident. Things will become clearer after we get the autopsy report. Action will be taken accordingly,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-exhume-girls-body-on-suspicion-of-murder/articleshow/78836159.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 24, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Simplicity, corona curbs dominate Durga Puja||PRAYAGRAJ: The much-awaited festival of Durga Puja formally began in the city on Thursday. However, it remained a low-key affair in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, Durga Puja committees of Prayagraj have set up barwaris in accordance with the guidelines issued by the state government and the district administration. Simplicity and basic Puja rituals have replaced the grandeur and huge theme-based pandals that the residents used to witness in the past years. The samitis have not only decreased the size of the pandals but have also limited the number of people who can enter at a time. A range of other measures aimed at preventing the spread of the coronavirus has been put in place. The size of the main idol has been reduced to around four feet from the usual six-foot-tall structure. Devotees are allowed to see the pandals only from a safe distance. At the 140-year-old City Barwari, the main idols are placed on the stage, while all the devotees, barring the priest and a few organisers, sit at the other side of the barricade. Similarly, at Bai Ka Bagh Barwari, the devotees are made to sit, at a safe distance from each other, outside the well lit and decorated pandal. Another difference marked this year is the absence of Dhaakis (Dhaak players), who used to arrive in large numbers from West Bengal every year on the invitation of many barwaris of the city and stay here till the conclusion of the Puja. This year, most of Durga Puja samitis are relying on recordings of Dhaak beats which are amplified through the loudspeaker when the rituals are being performed. “We are fortunate that two of the four Dhaak players we had invited, have managed to arrive in the nick of time. Not all pandals have these Dhaakis this year,” said Tanmay Chaterjee, who is associated with City Barwari. Another highlight of this year’s Durga Puja is the provision of quarantine wards near the pandals.  “We have been instructed by the administration that if any visitor shows Covid-like symptoms, they should be immediately shifted to these separate quarantine wards so that other devotees are safe,” said Alok Roy, general secretary of Colonelganj Barwari. Besides, thermal screening and masks have been made compulsory at all the pandals. Unlike previous years, when there used to be an award for the best pandals in the city, this year, the panel from the Bengali community will announce award for the barwari which has strictly followed all the Covid-19 norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/simplicity-corona-curbs-dominate-durga-puja/articleshow/78834143.cms||Rajeev Mani
October 24, 2020||Allahabad||History-sheeter’s house razed in trans-Yamuna area||PRAYAGRAJ: A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district officials and police demolished a house allegedly constructed and owned by history-sheeter Mohd Javed alias Pappu Ganjia in Naini area of the trans Yamuna pocket in Prayagraj district on Friday. Pappu Ganjia has over a dozen criminal cases including extortion and land grabbing registered against him at different police stations of the district. He has also been accused of illegally obtaining land in trans Yamuna area. SP (trans Yamuna) Chakresh Mishra told TOI that history-sheeter Pappu Ganjia was sent behind bars three months back in connection with a case registered against him under section 386 of the IPC. He added that a total of 19 criminal cases were registered against him. The demolition drive was conducted by a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority, administrative officials and the police. Heavy police bandobast was in place to deal with any protest or disruption. As the joint team started its demolition drive, a group of locals raised their voice against the PDA’s move, but senior police officials pacified them.  The police officials told locals that the house was constructed without the sanction of the map from PDA. PDA official Alok Pandey said, “The house was constructed on 400 square metre area without getting a map sanctioned by the civic agency. It was built inside a campus spread around two and half bigha land along with a boundary wall. The house is estimated to be around Rs 5 crore.” The district police have also compiled details about other illegal properties owned by Pappu Ganjia.  Earlier during the day, police restricted movement of local residents towards the house.  The house and the boundary wall had been demolished by the time this story went to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/history-sheeters-house-razed-in-trans-yamuna-area/articleshow/78834302.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling case: Kerala HC extends protection to M Sivasankar till Oct 28||KOCHI: Kerala high court on Friday extended the not-to-arrest order in favour of M Sivasankar IAS in gold smuggling case until October 28. A single bench of the court issued extended the order not to arrest the IAS officer, who was principal chief secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan when the alleged gold smuggling through diplomatic channel came to light, after considering an anticipatory bail plea filed by him. The court has reserved the case for pronouncing its orders on the bail plea on October 28. Enforcement directorate (ED) has informed the court that the IAS officer had a direct role in gold smuggling and that he had telephoned customs to release the detained cargo containing the gold. He also helped key accused Swapna Suresh in money laundering. It is being investigated whether Sivasankar is the real beneficiary and Swapna was only a pawn, the court was told. Sivasankar was aware of the actions of Swapna Suresh and he is not telling the truth when questioned, despite being presented with material showing his involvement, ED has argued. Material against the petitioner was produced in sealed cover before the court by ED. Opposing the plea for anticipatory bail, ED’s counsel submitted that granting bail now would hamper the investigation and that jail is the rule and bail is the exception in money laundering cases. However, Sivasankar’s counsel P Vijayabhanu submitted that the allegations are vague and are being raised off the cuff. He argued that the submissions of ED before the court goes against the evidence of the department itself. Attempt of ED to arrest Sivasankar on the supposition that he may be the kingpin amounts to harassment. There is no bar in granting anticipatory bail for economic offences, he argued. Sivasankar has become an untouchable now and he is not able to get even a hotel room, his counsel submitted. After completion of arguments, the court reserved the case for pronouncing orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-extends-protectionto-sivasankar-till-oct-28/articleshow/78833588.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: OPS receives Thevar’s armour, hands it over memorial trustees||MADURAI: Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam received a 13.5 kg gold armour from the safety locker in Bank of India, Anna Nagar branch in Madurai on Friday, which he handed over to the trustees of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar memorial that will adorn his idol. To mark the 113th birth anniversary and 58th death anniversary of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar, events are set to be held in his memorial in Pasumpon Village in Ramanathapuram on October 30 and 31. Late chief minister J Jayalalithaa offered the gold armour for the memorial in the year 2014. The then treasurer of the AIADMK O Panneerslevam and the custodian of the memorial Gandhi Meenal, were appointed as custodians of the armour.  Ministers R B Udayakumar, Sellur K Raju, Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay, corporation commissioner S Visakan and MLA V V Rajan Chellappa among others were present when the armour was handed over to the trustees. Meanwhile, the All India Forward Bloc protested against the government order that anybody wishing to go to the memorial this year should obtain the permission of the Ramanathapuram district collector. State general secretary Maheswaran has said that this order by the government is condemnable. Steps should be taken to follow the old rule where permission from the police inspector of the respective police stations was deemed sufficient for attending the event. As the Annadhanam has been banned, the Tamil Nadu government should make arrangements to set up an Amma canteen in Pasumpon and provide food to the people who come there on days of the ceremony, he said adding that they would take out a procession to the memorial on October 25 from the Thevar statue in Goripalayam to stress this demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ops-receives-thevars-armour-hands-it-over-memorial-trustees/articleshow/78837048.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Court ‘amazed’ at Tihar reply on Umar Khalid plea||NEW DELHI: A city court said it was “amazed” at Tihar Jail’s reply that from the cell of former JNU student Umar Khalid, “half the ward movement is visible”. The jail administration’s reply was in response to Khalid’s allegation of not being allowed outside his cell as if he was in solitary confinement. The court found the statement “bizarre” as prisoners are allowed outside their cell during permissible hours. “Grievance is that he is kept in a particular cell like a solitary confinement? Can you be specific?” said additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat. “I can understand there is a safety issue. But that can’t be the norm. He has to be kept out. Is he being allowed that?” the judge questioned. Tihar Jail superintendent Adeshwar Kant, who appeared following the court summons, responded with a “yes” adding that Khalid was “allowed to come out if he wished to”. The court, referring to a portion of jail reply, asked further, “I am amazed at paragraph number 6. The cell is located where half the ward is visible?” The reply stated that Khalid’s cell was “located at such a place from where more than half the ward movement is visible”. Kant clarified, “From inside also movement of inmates is visible.” The court, however, remarked: “It is a bizarre thing to say when a prisoner is allowed (outside cell).” Though the superintendent assured that it only related to Khalid’s security and nowhere restricted his movement, the court noted that it would be sending its latest order to the director general of prisons. “I hope it continues. I shouldn’t receive a complaint in future,” the judge warned the jail superintendent. Khalid, in the meantime, said that the situation had improved from the time he brought his grievance to the court’s notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-amazed-at-tihar-reply-on-khalid-plea/articleshow/78836264.cms||Aamir Khan
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Daily special trains from Chennai to Trichy, Thanjavur and Kollam||MADURAI: The Railway Board has approved the following fully reserved daily special trains from Chennai to Kollam, Trichy and Thanjavur. Train no. 06101 will leave Chennai Egmore at 5pm and reach Kollam 8.45am the next day. The first service from Chennai will be on October 25. In the return direction, train no. 06102 will leave Kollam at 12 noon and reach Chennai at 3.05am the next day. The first service will be on October 26. The trains will stop at Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Vridhachallam, Trichy, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Srivilliputhur, Rajapalayam, Sankarankoil, Kadayanallur, Tenkasi, Sengottai, Punalur, Avaneswaram, Kottarakara and Kundara. Train no. 06102 will also stop at Sivakasi. The composition of the trains is two AC 3-tier, eight sleeper class, two general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Train no. 02653 will leave Chennai Egmore at 11.15pm and reach Trichy at 4.45am the next day. The first service from Chennai will be on October 27. Train no. 02654 will leave Trichy at 10.45pm and reach Chennai at 4.15am the next day. The first service from Trichy will be on October 26. The train will stop at Mambalam, Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Vriddhachallam, Ariyalur, Lalgudi, Srirangam and Trichy Town. It will have a composition of one AC first class, three AC 2-tier, five AC 3-tier, nine sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Train no. 06866 will leave Thanjavur at 9.50pm and reach Chennai 4.30am, the next day. The first service from Thanjavur will be on October 26. In the return direction, train no. 06865 will leave Chennai Egmore at 10.55pm and reach Thanjavur at 6am the next day. The first service from Chennai will be on October 27. The trains will stop at Papanasam, Kumbakonam, Aduthurai, Kutralam Mayiladuthurai, Chidambaram, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Tambaram and Mambalam. Train no. 06865 will also stop at Sirkazhi and Vaithiswaran Koil. It have a composition of one AC first class, one AC 2-tier, two AC 3-tier, 13 sleeper class, three general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Reservations for the above trains will open at 8am on October 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/daily-spl-trains-from-chennai-to-trichy-thanjavur-and-kollam/articleshow/78837034.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Doctors flag poor followup, lack of counselling for elderly post recovery||MADURAI: The long-term physical and mental impact of Covid-19 on elderly patients can be grave which necessitates prompt followup and psychological counselling post recovery. However, doctors say awareness about these aspects is very less which is evident from the poor response to Covid wellness centres established in government and private facilities. “Post recovery, periodical check-up of blood parameters is a must for at least 3 months for elderly patients. Blood thinners are given to many Covid-19 patients, which they have to take even after recovery. Lung fibrosis can occur in some and lung physiotherapy is recommended post recovery. Fatigue is also common and hence patients must have adequate rest post recovery,” said Dr N Raja, senior consultant geriatric physician. In some patients, there are chances for reinfection and care must also be taken to ensure co-morbid conditions, if any, are also under control, he added. This apart, there can also be long-term impact on mental health of elderly patients post recovery. “Most Covid-19 patients, especially elderly, are in a constant state of fear. First, they fear getting infected, then comes fear of death when they get the disease, and post recovery there is fear of recurrence of disease,” said Dr C Ramasubramanian, founder, MS Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, which has been working with Madurai corporation to provide counselling for Covid-19 patients. He said the elderly already feel segregated from society with the emergence of nuclear families and now with Covid-19, they face stigma too. Insomnia, loss of appetite, obsessive behaviours like germophobia, guilt feeling, thoughts of hopelessness/worthlessness and suicidal thoughts are prominent signs of mental illness, which need psychiatric intervention. Social distancing may limit interactions with caregivers and loved ones, leading to increased feelings of loneliness and anxiety, adding to general feelings of uncertainty and fear, said Dr N Suresh Kumar, a clinical psychologist. Regular telephonic counselling sessions, healthy contact with family, caring for the general, medical and psychological needs and respecting their personal space and dignity were important components of mental health care in elderly. Dr Ramasubramanian stressed the importance of counselling family members too for complete recovery. “Reaching out for help early can greatly help prevent serious mental illness. Through counselling, we were able to help many patients recover from depression and prevented suicides. Even for those without any symptoms of mental illness, counselling gives them a boost of positivity,” he said. For any mental distress, ‘Speak 2 Us’ helpline can be contacted at 9375493754.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-flag-poor-followup-lack-of-counselling-for-elderly-post-recovery/articleshow/78837070.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||In a first in 65 years, Dehradun’s iconic Durgabari wears deserted look during Durga Puja||DEHRADUN: For the first time since it was established sixty-five years ago, the city’s iconic Durgabari on the Mall Road is seeing a deserted look during the Durga Puja festival. Due to restrictions imposed by the Covid pandemic, entry of visitors has been prohibited and the aarti and other rituals are being broadcast on Facebook Live. There is no community kitchen for puja 'bhog' and cultural events have been cancelled. “All the rituals are being live-streamed through the Dehradun Durgabari Facebook page and other digital platforms," said Kaustav Nag, president of Durgabari Puja Committee. He added that special precautions are being taken in view of the pandemic. “Besides mandatory wearing of masks, social distancing and thermal screening, we are ensuring sanitisation of the premises every few hours,” he told TOI. Like Durgabari, Bengali Library, another traditional Durga Puja location in the city, has also kept celebrations low-key. “In order to ensure no crowding in the pandal, we have had the ‘Anjali’ mantra written on both sides of the pandal in Bengali and Hindi. People can visit at the allotted time to conduct their worship in limited numbers,” said Alok Chakraborty, secretary of Bengali Library Puja Samiti. Commenting on the muted celebrations this year owing to Covid, Rashmi Banerjee, a resident of Rajpur Road, said, “The hustle and bustle in the puja pandals may be missing this year due to restrictions necessitated by the Covid situation but we are confident that with the blessings of goddess Durga, this time shall pass and we will be able to welcome her with full gaiety next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-in-65-years-doons-iconic-durgabari-wears-deserted-look-during-durga-puja/articleshow/78833573.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covid hits plan for aero, defence centre of excellence in Nagpur||Nagpur: Plans to build a centre of excellence at Nagpur to create skilled manpower for aeronautical and defence industries, in association with the state government, have taken a hit due to Covid. The plan which was mooted by late Lt General Ravi Thodge (retd), who died this July of a heart ailment, had been approved during the Devendra Fadnavis regime. Under the proposal, the state government was supposed to infuse Rs63 crore equity for the centre. Another Rs220 crore were to come from Tata Technologies Limited. In May this year, the state government issued a notification to put on hold investments on account of financial constraints due to Covid. The decision has affected the centre of excellence also. The state government has also turned down a recent request by Vidarbha Defence Industries Association (VDIA) — which is building the centre, to provide a comfort letter instead. VDIA had asked for a comfort letter from the state government saying that capital could be provided as and when the situation normalizes. With the state government letter, VDIA hoped to raise bank loans for the time being. “We had hoped the letter would help us to raise bank loan as a means of bridge funding. If the government has issued such comfort letters to sugar factories for providing guarantees, why should it not for the centre of excellence,” said Dushyant Deshpande of VDIA. The government refused the comfort letter citing the earlier notification that called for curtailment of all expenses and investments. Deshmukh said VDIA is a body promoted by Thodge and has 85 industrial units as members. The late ex-serviceman had also promoted a company — Vidarbha Defence Industrial Hub Private Limited (VDIPL), which has been allotted land in the Mihan project. VDIPL, which has got 7 acres of land, had plans to let out 3 acres to VIIA for the centre of excellence. “With state government capital held up, Tata Technologies is likely to back out from the project,” said Deshpande. “They had been waiting for the state government’s contribution and there are indications that the company may leave the project due to the delay. In that case, it would be a major loss to Vidarbha’s development,” he said. However, Deshpande said district guardian minister Nitin Raut has put up a proposal for allotting Rs10 crore for construction of the centre. Thodge, the brains behind the project, retired as master general ordnance (MGO) of the Army. He was also appointed as member of the committee of administrators in the Board of Cricket Control Of India (BCCI). The veteran was also known for leaning towards the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-hits-plan-for-aero-defence-centre-of-excellence-in-nagpur/articleshow/78836246.cms||Shishir Arya
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Jobless parents struggle to pay KU’s hefty fees||Hubballi: The lockdown has left many parents jobless and many are still struggling to make ends meet. It has also left their wards in dilemma as many students are finding it difficult to pay a hefty late fee prescribed by Karnatak University to pursue BA, BCom or BSc. As KU has set October 22 as the last day to pay fees for admission, many students are running from pillar to post to get it reduced or postpone the last date of payment. Due to the lockdown and financial crunch, many students delayed getting admission in various colleges after PUC results were announced. Now they are not finding it difficult to get admission because of hefty fees structure along with the late fees prescribed by KU. Sandeep Budihal, principal, Kanakadasa College in Vidyanagar, said, post lockdown many students have come forward to get admission by managing get half and in some cases a quarter of the total fees. “Because of Covid-19, we are allowing them to take admission and pay fees in installments. But many students are finding it very difficult to manage the late fees to be paid to KU,” he added. Rajat Ullagaddimath, a student leader, said in most colleges, admission fees is around Rs 15,000. “Considering the late fees of Rs 4,240, students have to pay nearly Rs 20,000. Not many parents can now afford to pay so much. In such a situation, the government should waive off fees. Collecting late fee is unfair. University officials should have understood the problems of students and people. Even after the last date for admission was extended three times, people are unable to pay fees. This explains people’s condition after the lockdown,” he added. Mahendra Koutal, former ABVP state secretary, said, “Yes, many students are finding it very difficult to pay late fees. We will bring this problem to the notice of the vice-chancellor and registrar and request them to cancel collection of late fees.” KUD vice-chancellor KB Gudasi said, “We are charging late fees as was the practice before. There was even a suggestion to increase the fees by 10%, but because of Covid-19 we have not increased it and are charging late fees that was there last year only. Serious matter We will look into the matter seriously. I will talk to the vice-chancellor concerned and definitely address the issue. Dr. CN Ashwath Narayan, Deputy chief minister and higher education minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jobless-parents-struggle-to-pay-kus-hefty-fees/articleshow/78827902.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 24, 2020||Kanpur||Minor girl gang raped in Jalaun, one held||KANPUR: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly gang raped by two youths, one among whom was caught by the locals who thrashed him severely in a village under the limits of Kuthaund police station of Jalaun district on Thursday night. The incident came to light after the locals alerted police following which a police team rushed to the spot and took the accused into custody. The police identified him as Shivam, and his other absconding aide as Anil, both residents of the same village from where survivor hails. The family members of the girl has lodged a complaint, following which an investigation has been initiated into the matter. In their complaint, they alleged that their minor daughter was standing near their house when Shivam and Anil, both residents of the same village arrived there and forcibly abducted her. They, thereafter took her to a secluded spot where they gang raped her, said police. “Shivam, one among the accused, was nabbed by the locals and handed to police, while searches are underway to nab the other accused Anil. The girl has been sent for medical examination. A police force has been deployed in the village,” said additional superintendent of police Dr Awdhesh Singh. The accused have been booked under charges of rape and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/minor-girl-gang-raped-in-jalaun-one-held/articleshow/78836190.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kochi||Demolish house: Koz corp to MLA||Kozhikode: City corporation has issued a notice to K M Shaji, MLA, asking him to demolish the house as it was constructed violating the Kerala Municipal Building Rules. Corporation officials had measured the house and the premises following a directive from the enforcement directorate (ED). The agency is investigating a case against the MLA for allegedly receiving Rs 25 lakh as bribe for allotting additional plus two seats at Azhikode High School. According to the corporation, permission was given to construct a 3,200 sq ft house. But after completion, the house is measured at 5,500 sq ft. The building has no number from the corporation as Shaji has not given any reply to the notice given to regularize the construction. Meanwhile, Shaji told reporters in Kannur that he was yet to get the notice. “There has been no violation on my part. I have not given a completion certificate for the house. I can get the additional construction regularized when I submit an application for the competition certificate,” he said. Shaji said there has been vigilance inquiry, ED probe and threats from Mumbai against him, but he will not be cowed down by such developments. Asked how he constructed such a big house, Shaji said he hails from an economically sound background. “Construction of my house need not be compared with that of E P Jayarajan or Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. There is no room for any doubt as to how I got the money for constructing the house,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demolish-house-koz-corp-to-mla/articleshow/78833608.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Demand for vermicomposting units under subsidy scheme doubles in Queen of Hills||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The demand for vermicomposting units under the subsidy scheme from the horticulture department has gone up among farmers in the district. A few years ago, the horticulture department started with one or two vermicomposting sheds. After the hill district was declared as organic last year, the horticulture department sanctioned 50 vermicomposting units under the subsidy scheme. This year, the demand has doubled to 100 units. The cost involved in setting up a 600 cubic feet vermicomposting unit would be around Rs 1 lakh. The horticulture department sanctions a subsidy of Rs 50, 000 for a compost unit of the prescribed size, according to Shiva Subramaniam Samraj, joint director, horticulture department. He said, “A few years ago we started with one or two units of vermicomposting in the process of creating awareness among the farmers about organic farming.” The official said, “After the district was declared as an organic district, the demand for the units increased. For the first time, we sanctioned 50 vermicomposting units with 50% subsidy last year.” This year the demand for the vermicomposting units under the subsidy scheme doubled. As many as 100 farmers applied for the subsidy for vermicomposting units. “But the government has sanctioned only 65 units under the subsidy scheme. We have recommended to the government for the remaining 35 applications for the units”, Samraj said. The 600 cubic feet vermicomposting shed with four divisions should have waterproof roofing. Any agri-waste could be dumped into the shed. One to two kilograms of earthworms put inside the shed would convert the agri-waste in 45 days of time. “It is a success story in the Nilgiris. Farmers show more interest in organic farming as the produce is chemical–free. Also, this makes them self-sufficient for manure,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/demand-for-vermicomposting-units-under-subsidy-scheme-doubles-in-queen-of-hills/articleshow/78836249.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Apprenticeship-UG course at American College||MADURAI: The American College in Madurai, is introducing an apprenticeship-embedded undergraduate (UG) programme, Bachelor in Management Study (BMS) with specialization in maritime logistics, from this academic year 2020-21. The college has signed an MoU with the Logistics Sector Skill Council (LSC), a central government body engaged in skill development, for the same. Students will undergo two years’ regular classwork (concept-based learning) and one full year of apprenticeship (on-the-job-training) with a stipend of Rs 9,000 per month during the training period. Students completing the first year will be given a certificate and the second year with a diploma, and the third year with a degree. The course aims at empowering students to earn while in their final year of the degree programme, and providing opportunities for regular employment on completion, also paving the way for higher level management studies like MBA. The programme is expected to create adequate skilled human resource for gainful employment at supervisory and middle levels of management in the logistics sector. “This is the first-of-its-kind programme in south Tamil Nadu and among the colleges affiliated under Madurai Kamaraj University. The programme accounts for 148 credits and a maximum of 60 seats. We are expecting a good demand for it,” said Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College. He added that the college has tied-up with various companies for job opportunities in maritime logistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/apprenticeship-ug-course-at-american-clg/articleshow/78837072.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man arrested for sexually abusing his employee||HYDERABAD: A person who allegedly sexually abused a female employee was arrested by Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths on Friday from Goa. Joint Commissioner of Police (CCS) Avinash Mohanty said that the accused, who operates a locket-selling business and travel agency, had a store in the city. The complainant, a woman who worked in the store, alleged that she had been sexually abused. The accused allegedly obtained multiple Aadhar cards with different names and date of births. The accused had allegedly taken private photos with the victim in the past and threatened her that he would upload the photos on internet if she did not heed his requests. He made her call up celebrities and attempted to extort money. The victim approached the police, who registered a case and nabbed the accused. Police said that he was booked under the charge of cheating, rape, and violation of IT Act. The accused was sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-sexually-abusing-his-employee/articleshow/78834975.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi: 17 women felicitated for being role model for ‘Mission Shakti’||JHANSI: 17 women and ten police personnel including seven women cops were felicitated by the district police administration at Deendayal Auditorium on Friday for their contribution to the society in various fields. The event, organised to promote woman empowerment under ‘Mission Shakti’ programme, was presided over by Commissioner Jhansi division, Subhash Chandra Sharma. Senior officials of the police and district administration including IG Jhansi range Subhash Singh Baghel, DM, Andra Vamsi and SSP, Dinesh Kumar P. During the programme, 17 woman from various fields were felicitated for being role model with their contribution towards the society. Apart from this ten police personnel were felicitated for their special work in the field of women security. During the programme, SSP Jhansi said the event should not be observed for few months only but always. He further stressed on empowerment, safety and dignity of women and said that it is the prime concern to uphold the woman safety and security and ensure to safeguard it. On the other hand DM Jhansi advised to adopt the good part of the internet and keep away from the bad part to think and work in a positive manner. To make the event more engaging, cultural programmes depicting women empowerment were also held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/17-women-felicitated-for-being-role-model-for-mission-shakti/articleshow/78836464.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge likely to open in Uttarakhand on Nov 9||DEHRADUN: The country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge in Uttarakhand’s Tehri district is likely to be inaugurated on November 9 on the state’s foundation day, ending a 14-year wait. The 440-metre-long bridge that will serve a population of around three lakh and has come up at a cost of Rs 150 crore. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said a request has been made to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the bridge. The need for the bridge arose after the previous bridge connecting Pratapnagar tehsil to Tehri was submerged in the waters of Tehri lake during the construction of thee Tehri dam, forcing people to take a longer route by road. Work on the Dobra-Chanti bridge began in 2006, but it kept hitting hurdles. In 2011-12, the bridge’s design was found “faulty” and work was stalled. Finally, in 2015, a South Korean company got the e-tender for the project and construction started again. Hari Om Sharma, engineer-in-chief of the Public Works Department (PWD), told TOI, “We have successfully completed the task of load-testing in the last few days. Only a small stretch of the approach road is to be worked on. The bridge will be ready for inauguration in November.” CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the PM has been approached to inaugurate the bridge. “We are looking forward to a response from PMO and then a date will be announced,” said Rawat. Officials said the date is likely to be November 9 — the day Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000. The announcement has come as a relief to lakhs of families in Pratapnagar who had to travel several kilometres extra to reach the district headquarters of Tehri after the construction of Tehri dam. With the bridge, the distance from Pratapnagar to Tehri will be around 70 km. As of now, one has to cover a distance of 100 km by road to commute between the two places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/countrys-longest-motorable-single-lane-bridge-likely-to-open-in-ukhand-on-nov-9/articleshow/78833600.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||215kgs ganja smuggled from AP to Kerala seized||The Madurai city police on Friday seized 215.2kg of ganja smuggled from Visakhapatnam to Kerala. Based on a tip-off received by the Anna Nagar police, a team led by inspector P Boominathan intercepted a multi-utility vehicle bearing Kerala registration number on the Madurai Ring Road around 8.40am on Friday. Police found ganja packed in 106 polythene bags in the rear seat of the vehicle and detained Robert Victor, 24, from Thiruvananthapuram, who was driving it. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/215kgs-ganja-smuggled-from-ap-to-kerala-seized/articleshow/78836244.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Vigilance sleuths seize Rs 91,000 from check post||COIMBATORE: Continuing crackdown on corrupt officials, Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths conducted a surprise raid at the regional transport office (RTO) check post on the interstate border at KG Chavadi here in the early hours of Friday and seized Rs 91,230 from officials there as they failed to produce documents to prove its source. The check post on the Tamil Nadu side has long been in high demand among the RTO officials for posting because of the high interstate cargo traffic and the prospect of taking bribe from truckers. DVAC deputy superintendent of police T H Ganesh and his team got a tip that the staff at the check post were taking bribe to allow heavy vehicles, mostly trucks, to enter Kerala. Based on the information, the team conducted a surprise raid at the check post around 5am on Friday. “We knew the staff would leave after their shift at 8am. So, we went in early and found the unaccounted cash,” a DVAC source said. The source said there was nearly Rs 4 lakh at the check post. “They had maintained accounts for Rs 3 lakh. As they failed to produce documents for Rs 91,230, we seized the same.” The DVAC sleuths have registered cases against motor vehicle inspector Saroja, assistant motor vehicle inspector Arul, office assistant Kannan and a tout, Saravanan. The four have been booked under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Section 102 (power of police officer to seize certain property) of the Criminal Procedure Code. According to the source, transport department officials at the check post would stop goods carrier vehicles and collect huge fines for overloading and not having valid documents. “Truck drivers, who were violating the norms, would approach the officials and bribe them to allow their vehicles to enter Kerala.” The officials, he said, had appointed Saravanan, who was paid Rs 2,000 a day, to collect money from drivers of vehicles with Tourist-board for issuing them permits to enter Kerala and errant truck drivers. “We have registered an first information report, the details of which were sent to the higher officials of transport department for further action,” the source said. The DVAC sleuths had conducted searches at the office of a sub-registrar at Mettupalayam and the north taluk office over the past two weeks and seized unaccounted money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vigilance-sleuths-seize-rs-91k-from-check-post/articleshow/78836250.cms||A Subburaj
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Madurai MP Su Venkatesan tests positive for Covid-19||MADURAI: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently undergoing treatment at the government hospital for thoracic medicine in Thoppur. According to sources from the health department, three close relatives of the MP, including his wife and one of his daughters, have also tested Covid-19 positive. In a post on his official social media handles, the MP said, “It has been confirmed that I tested positive for Covid-19 today. I am admitted to the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur and doing well.” District health officials said that so far 24 contacts have been traced and their samples collected for testing. “It is expected that the number of contacts would be more than 50 people,” said an official. Previously, three MLAs from Madurai district, including minister for Co-operation Sellur K Raju had tested Covid-19 positive and recovered. Meanwhile, in Kanyakumari, the district revenue officer tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and admitted to the Kanyakumari Government Medical College Hospital, Asaripallam. The official had recently attended a meeting where several top district officials including the collector were present. However, health officials confirmed on Friday that collector Prashant M Wadnere tested negative for Covid-19. They added that all contacts of the official are being traced and tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-mp-su-venkatesan-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78837094.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Driver shortage mars tractor rental scheme||COIMBATORE: Farmers in Coimbatore and Pollachi are not able to make use of the tractor rental scheme of the agricultural engineering department due to shortage of drivers. Availability of tractors at a subsidized rent is crucial as it is time to plough lands for rabi crops, farmers who attended the online grievance day meeting on Friday said. Four tractors two in Pollachi and two in Coimbatore are available under the scheme. “But we are not able to rent them because officers claim that drivers are not available,” said Karthik Krishnakumar, a coconut farmer from Kinathukadavu. “It is an attractive scheme as the rent is only Rs 340 per hour, compared to the private players, who charge Rs 1,000 per hour. It will cost us more than Rs 10,000 to hire a private tractor and driver for a day,” he said. Thousands of farmers benefit from the scheme, the farmers said. It is more feasible than buying a tractor for Rs 7 lakh and attached equipment for another Rs 3 lakh. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani ordered agriculture department officials to immediately appoint a driver each for Coimbatore and Pollachi, said Krishnakumar. Coconut farmers also complained about the whitefly menace, which has become serious after the southwest monsoon. “While officials are taking action by giving us insecticide and putting up yellow sticky traps, they don’t seem to be effective enough to check the menace and destruction,” said a farmer. “Agriculture department officials don’t seem to be taking the issue seriously. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University should do more research on ways to control it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/driver-shortage-mars-tractor-rental-scheme/articleshow/78836261.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Use branded products to make sweets’||COIMBATORE: The food safety department has issued another reminder of the guidelines for sweet and savoury manufacturers ahead of Diwali. The department has reminded the manufacturers to use only branded ghee, oil and vanaspati. “They should use only drinking water for cooking. The place where food is cooked and stored should be clean. Vessels should be washed and cleaned immediately after use to check growth of bacteria,” said the statement.  “All products manufactured and packed for the festival should mention the expiry date. Savouries should not be placed on newspapers after frying. Newspapers should not be used to cover the items. Those using newspapers during the process will be fined Rs 2,000. The manufacturers should use only food colour,” it said People can text, send pictures and videos of any bakery, sweet or savoury maker or manufacturer flouting the guidelines to WhatsApp number 9444042322.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/use-branded-products-to-make-sweets/articleshow/78836266.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Patna||Helped 21 lakh natives stranded in other states: Bihar CM||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said his government has spent more than Rs 1,000 crore to provide financial assistance to people affected by the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing an NDA rally in the presence of PM Narendra Modi near Sasaram in Rohtas district, Nitish said more than 21 lakh people of Bihar, who were stranded in various states during the lockdown, got financial assistance. He added that financial assistance of Rs 1,000 per family was also provided to more than 1.64 crore ration-card holders across the state to reduce their burden. Also, Rs 4 lakh compensation is being given to families of Covid-19 victims in Bihar. Nitish also highlighted the achievements of his government in limiting the spread of Covid-19 in all 38 districts of the state. “Bihar has a recovery rate of 94% and this has been achieved because of the high testing rates. Bihar is much below the national average in the deaths and spread of Covid-19,” Nitish, who is also the JD(U) chief, said. Bihar CM also lauded the Centre for helping poor women of the state by ensuring free refilling of LPG cylinders under the Ujjwala Yojana. “Altogether 85 lakh BPL families in Bihar availed the benefit of free refilling of LPG cylinders,” Nitish said adding the Centre also provided Rs 500 per month in the bank accounts of female beneficiaries of the Jan-Dhan Yojana for three months. Attacking RJD boss Lalu Prasad (without taking his name) for misgovernance from 1990 to 2005, Nitish said, “Earlier law and order situation in the state was in a shambles. Several doctors and traders left the state fearing kidnappings. There were a series of massacres. But everything has changed now, and there is an atmosphere of peace and security in the state.” Nitish further said while recounting the main achievements of his government in front of the PM, “No institutions were built during their (RJD) 15 years rule, whereas the NDA government established several important institutions. The state government in recent years opened three new medical colleges. Eight more medical colleges are under construction in Bihar with the help of the Centre,”. He added, “Their (RJD government’s) last annual budget (of the state) was less than Rs 24,000 crore. We raised the state’s annual Budget to Rs 2.11 lakh crore,” Nitish said. “I have provided electricity connection to each household across the state. If you vote us to power, we will now provide solar street lights in all villages,” Nitish said and urged the people to vote for the NDA candidates in their respective assembly constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-helped-21-lakh-natives-stranded-in-other-states/articleshow/78836269.cms||Madan Kumar
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rs 70 lakh worth gold biscuits seized at Hyderabad airport||HYDERABAD: Customs officials apprehended two passengers who arrived at Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport from Visakhapatnam and seized 1.4 kg gold biscuits worth Rs 70 lakh from their possession. Two of their associates were caught by customs officials at Visakhapatnam airport. Acting on specific information from Visakhapatnam customs officials, the Hyderabad Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) team caught two passengers who arrived at 1.45pm on Friday from Visakhapatnam. During frisking, customs officials found four pieces of gold biscuits in the trouser pockets of the two smugglers. “The gold is of foreign origin and its market value is Rs 70 lakh,” said a customs official. Customs officials believe that the gold was concealed in the aircraft by two other passengers during the aircraft’s international leg of journey between Dubai and Visakhapatnam. “The two accused apprehended by us boarded the flight in Visakhapatnam as domestic passengers and picked up the gold concealed in the aircraft,” said a Hyderabad customs official. “Their associates who brought gold from Dubai were caught by our Visakhapatnam counterparts,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-70l-worth-gold-biscuits-seized-at-city-airport/articleshow/78838618.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kanpur||Bhoomi Pujan of rail coach refurbishing factory held in Jhansi||JHANSI: The Bhoomi Pujan ceremony of the land in Jhansi where the rail coach refurbishing factory has to come up, was held on Friday. The full-fledged construction work of Rs 450 crore mega project is set to start from November 20. The factory, which is expected to be fully constructed by 2022, will churn out 250 refurbished coaches annually which will then be doubled to 500 coaches. The project will be a source of mega employment generation, as per railway officials. The Bhoomi Pujan ceremony was attended by Jhansi DRM Sandeep Mathur, CWM Deepak Nigam and other railway officials. Spread across 74 acres of land, it was sanctioned in 2018, and its foundation stone was laid by PM Narendra Modi on February 15, 2019 during his visit to Jhansi. Mathur informed that the construction work would be supervised by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited. “The factory will have an environment-friendly pre-engineering building shed of 65,000 square metres with a waste water recycling plant and a 500kw solar plant mounted on the roof,” said the DRM. “Apart from this, the factory will also have state-of-the-art machinery and power plants including robotic arm paint booth, shot blasting plant, automation in coach assembling and disassembling line and remote controlled EOT cranes. As many as 160 staff quarters will also be part of the factory,” he added. “It will prove to be a major asset for Indian Railways as well as for Jhansi in terms of standard maintenance of new generation LHB coaches,” said Mathur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bhoomi-pujan-of-rail-coach-refurbishing-factory-held-in-jhansi/articleshow/78836479.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Row over PMC contractor’s claim on plantation on hill||PUNE: The Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti (DGPS) has accused the PMC-appointed contracting firm for the Smart City water tank project of claiming the plantation the residents forum had done on Law College Hill as its own. The DGPS also alleged that the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Preservation of Tree Act provisions were not being followed during the construction of the Smart City 24/7 Water Tank project on Law College hill. As many as 100 trees were cut for the project and, hence, compensatory plantation was a must in the first place, the DGPS stated. DGPS member Sushma Date said, “The contracting firm for the Smart City 24/7 Water Tank project next to the SNDT water tank on Law College hill has put their tags on the saplings planted by our group (DGPS) on July 26, 2019, and August 10, 2020, on Law College tekdi with the intent of claiming this plantation as part of their mandatory compensatory afforestation under section 8 (5) of The Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Preservation of Trees Act, 1975.” Date added, “It isn’t about claiming credit for the sapling plantation but about how the civic contractors violate the tree Act every time and find innovative ways to cover up. Hundreds of trees are cut for infrastructure projects, but hardly any are planted in their stead.” Priya Bhide, also a DGPS member, said, “ Frustrated by the apathy shown by the contractor, our group conducted sapling plantation drives in 2019 and 2020. Overall, around 150 native species saplings were planted with the help of NGO Maharashtra Vriksha Vardhini. We have tried to keep these saplings alive through winter and summer by regular watering and mulching drives. During the lockdown, we had hired workers from the nearby slum to water the saplings through summer.” The DGPS recently wrote about the issue to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner and the head of the department of the civic body’s water department. A senior PMC water department official said, “If the firm has wrongfully taken credit for the plantation, we will ask them for evidence. If found at fault, we will penalize them.” On the saplings planted by the contractor in lieu of the trees felled, the PMC official said, “The contractor had planted trees in a forest area at the site and provided us with necessary evidence. But we have told them to undertake a third-party audit to show how many trees have been planted, where they have been planted and if they are still alive.” When TOI contacted some key contracting firm officials in the know of the project, two of them refused to comment. The third official did not respond to TOI’s phone call or text messages seeking the firm’s response to the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/green-guards-claim-plantation-drive-credit-seize-by-contractors/articleshow/78837168.cms||Neha Madaan
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 70 lakh worth gold biscuits seized at Hyderabad airport||HYDERABAD: Customs officials apprehended two passengers who arrived at Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport from Visakhapatnam and seized 1.4 kg gold biscuits worth Rs 70 lakh from their possession. Two of their associates were caught by customs officials at Visakhapatnam airport. Acting on specific information from Visakhapatnam customs officials, the Hyderabad Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) team caught two passengers who arrived at 1.45pm on Friday from Visakhapatnam. During frisking, customs officials found four pieces of gold biscuits in the trouser pockets of the two smugglers. “The gold is of foreign origin and its market value is Rs 70 lakh,” said a customs official. Customs officials believe that the gold was concealed in the aircraft by two other passengers during the aircraft’s international leg of journey between Dubai and Visakhapatnam. “The two accused apprehended by us boarded the flight in Visakhapatnam as domestic passengers and picked up the gold concealed in the aircraft,” said a Hyderabad customs official. “Their associates who brought gold from Dubai were caught by our Visakhapatnam counterparts,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-70l-worth-gold-biscuits-seized-at-city-airport/articleshow/78835034.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||No more bail extensions due to Covid: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday ordered over 2,300 undertrials accused in heinous crimes to start surrendering from November 2, in a phased manner, refusing to extend their interim bails granted due to Covid-19 pandemic. The high court and district courts had started releasing inmates in March to decongest prions and periodically extended all interim bails granted prior to and during the lockdown. On August 24, the court had extended till October 31 all the interim orders, which won’t be extended any more. A full bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh directed all undertrials to surrender in a phased manner between November 2 and November 13, taking note of the claim of jail authorities that only 3 prisoners out of around 16,000 currently behind bars, remain Covid positive. The also court specified that its order would also apply to 356 prisoners granted bail by the high court and asked them to surrender before jail authorities on November 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-more-bail-extensions-due-to-covid-says-hc/articleshow/78836289.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Drop in Covid-19 testing, Vishwajit Rane says will ensure at least 2k tests daily||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday admitted that the number of Covid-19 tests conducted daily in the state has dropped, and said that he would ensure that 2,000-2,500 are done every day. “I have discussed this with chief minister Pramod Sawant,” said Rane after a meeting of an expert committee. Goa has been conducting an average of 1,000-1,200 tests a day (on Friday, it was 1,176). He also said Goa is doing “much better” compared to last month. “Mortalities have dropped to single digits,” he said. Rane also said that the health department would specify how many days after a person tests positive should their family members undergo a Covid test. “An SOP will be issued by the directorate of health services after consultation with the health secretary,” he said. Currently, when a person tests positive, family members are asked to wait for 4-5 days before they’re tested. However, if any family member has symptoms, the test is done immediately. Rane also said there’s no point in testing “the whole village”, but people close to the positive case should be tested. He added that large companies that wish to test their employees should tie-up with private laboratories permitted to do Covid tests. The health minister also said that testing at government health centres is meant only for citizens of Goa. “If any citizen feels they need to be tested, it will be allowed,” he said. “The DHS will issue directions in this regard.” The number of samples tested daily dropped last month after a surge in testing in July and August. One of the reasons for this drop is that the government no longer tests all travellers, a protocol it followed during the first few months of the pandemic. Rane said that the health secretary had review meetings with health officials to examine if monitoring of patients in home isolation is being done thoroughly. Since the government permitted home isolation, many Covid-positive patients have opted for it. “The meeting also saw discussions on whether patients are called regularly, how many calls are made to them, and whether it’s possible to increase the number of calls to patients,” he said, adding that GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar has also offered to chip in for monitoring patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drop-in-covid-testing-rane-says-will-ensure-at-least-2k-tests-daily/articleshow/78837175.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||MSEDCL consumers in Pune circle clear dues worth Rs100 crore||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has received payment for pending power bills worth Rs 100 crore from 68,000 consumers in Pune circle in the last few days. Over 42,000 consumers in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic body limits have cleared dues worth Rs66 crore, while over 24,000 consumers in Junnar, Khed, Maval and Mulshi talukas have paid bills worth Rs32 crore. According to MSEDCL, after receiving numerous complaints regarding inflated power bills, the company established direct communication with the consumers and set up help centres across the circle to resolve the issue. “We have already restarted meter reading after unlock, so there is no question of discrepancy in power bills,” said Nishikant Rau, public relationship officer, MSEDCL, Pune. He added that bill payment recorded a major dip by 50% in March, April and May. It picked up pace only after July, but there are dues worth Rs 794 crore pending from residential, commercial and industrial consumers. “MSEDCL is contacting consumers who have dues worth more than Rs 5,000. If they have any grievances, those too are being resolved,” he said. Raut said that the power distribution company has conducted 97 webinars and several other programmes to resolve doubts and queries in the past 45 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-consumers-in-pune-circle-clear-dues-worth-rs100-crore/articleshow/78837174.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Rajkot||2018 video of luring lion with bait resurfaces||RAJKOT: The forest department has launched a hunt for a man whose two-year-old video of luring a lioness using chicken as a bait surfaced on Friday. The location is suspected to be somewhere in Babariya forest range, the place as the one in 2018 when the video of some locals throwing chicken pieces to tease the lions had gone viral. Dheeraj Mittal, deputy conservator of forest (DCF), Gir-west, said “This is a two years old video recorded in the farm of the same person who was found luring a lion with chicken in 2018. The person seen in this video is a new face and we have identified him. He will be arrested soon.” The forest department had received this video a few days ago and they were investigating it. However, it went viral on social media on Friday. The man is seen hurling a chicken and a lioness watching him from the dark coming and grabbing it before running away into the wild again. In the video that surfaced on Friday, a man is seen hurling a chicken and a lioness watching him from the dark coming and grabbing it before running away into the wild again. Illegal lion shows have again started in and around Gir and the department had nabbed six persons involved in illegal lion show by offering a live cow as bait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2018-video-of-luring-lion-with-bait-resurfaces/articleshow/78834568.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Surat||Sarma floated shell firms, claims I-T department||SURAT: The income tax department has claimed to have seized property documents and ‘key’ evidence regarding illegal investment to the tune of Rs 40 crore allegedly made by Surat city BJP vice-president PVS Sarma. The searches were initiated a day after Sarma, a former senior income tax officer, alleged massive money laundering scam post-demonetisation. On Friday, the I-T sleuths operated two out of three bank lockers owned by Sarma and his family members and seized cash Rs two lakh and jewellery including gold, diamond and silver valued at Rs 25 lakh. In all, Rs five cash has been recovered from Sarma in the last two days. Department sources said they have also got some crucial leads on about half a dozen shell companies allegedly operated by Sarma and his associates. Some three persons involved holding posts of directors in these companies were called for questioning at the I-T office on Friday. During the search at other locations of the Sarma’s associates, the I-T department seized 1.5 kilogram gold, Rs 59 lakh in cash , fixed deposit documents of Rs 40 lakh and Rs 63 lakh worth of jewellery The department has gathered documents related to Sarma and Kalamandir Jewellers whom he has accused of scam and posted the related I-T settlement commission’s documents. The search operation at 12 locations out of the total 14 locations in Surat, Mumbai and Thane is completed. Sources said that the department has seized the property documents related to 18 residential plots owned by Sarma and his family members in Unn area. The valuation is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sarma-floated-shell-firms-claims-i-t-dept/articleshow/78833396.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Municipal Corporation destroys 42 kg inedible food items||RAJKOT: Launching a drive against food adulteration ahead of Dussehra and Diwali festivals, the food department of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) destroyed 42kg of inedible food items on Friday. The drive was carried out under the Food Safety and Standard Act 2006. “We checked a total of 78 food business operators (FBO) in the city and collected 16 samples of the edible items. After inspecting the items, we destroyed 42kg of inedible food items and served notices to 30 FBOs,” said an RMC official. “Among the items destroyed apart from those found adulterated, also included those items that did not have the labels of ‘best before date’ and ‘use by date’,” added the official. The checking of FBOs was carried out in Punitnagar main road, Vavadi, Vavadi 80-feet road, Vavadi Nandanvan main road, Pedak Road, Ranchhodnagar, Old Morbi road, Morbi Highway, Bhaktinagar Circle, 80-feet road, Kotharia main road, Devpara on Kotharia road, Kedar Gate on Kotharia road, Vinodnagar on Kotharia road and Shraddha Park main road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-destroys-42kg-inedible-food-items/articleshow/78834744.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Doctor falls for discount bait, loses over Rs 1 lakh to cyber crook||Pune: A 33-year-old doctor lost over Rs 1 lakh to a cyber crook after falling for a discount bait. The incident occurred on October 14. Inspector Salim Chaus from Wanowrie police said on Friday the doctor had booked some articles on an e-commerce website following which he received a call from a person who requested him to purchase goods from him directly because he was offering 20% discount. Chaus said, “Tempted by the offer, the doctor purchased some articles and transferred Rs 33,000 via netbanking to the caller who later denied receiving the money. The doctor again transferred Rs 33,000 into his account.” The inspector said, “The suspect again called the doctor and brought to his notice that the value of total bill was Rs 33, 190.90 paisa and that he needed to pay the balance amount of Rs190.90 paisa. The doctor again transferred over Rs 33,000 into his account.” “The suspect then lured him into sharing details of his wife’s account number and one time password following which Rs 7,000 was transferred from his wife’s account. Realising that he had been duped of over Rs 1 lakh, the doctor filed a complaint application with the cyber crime police station. The cyber officials conducted a preliminary inquiry and transferred the application to Wanowrie police for taking action,” he added. Offences under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctor-falls-for-discount-bait-loses-over-rs-1-lakh-to-cyber-crook/articleshow/78837177.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Nine PhD scholars from IISER selected for PMRF||Pune: Nine students from the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, are among those selected for the Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship (PMRF) this year.Of those selected from the institute, Ankit Kumar and Tamaghna Chowdhury are from the physics department, Ajinkya Gaikwad is from the mathematics department, Achyuth Venugopal is from the earth and climate science department, and Bhawakshi Punia, Anushka Kaushik, Cavya Jose, Swagata Dutta and Sandip Chattopadhayay are from the chemistry department. Uner the PMRF scheme, the selected PhD students, will be given a grant of Rs70,000 for the first two years, Rs75,000 for the third year and Rs80,000 for the last two years. Besides, the students are also eligible for a research grant of Rs2 lakh per year for five years. Venugopal said, “I’m working in the domain of geo-chemistry. The PMRF project involves the use of the chemical composition of ancient marine sediments to understand how the past ocean conditions evolved during a specific time of the earth’s history known as the Archean.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nine-phd-scholars-from-iiser-selected-for-pmrf/articleshow/78837199.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Northeast riots: Bail to man accused of giving SIM card on fake ID||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday granted bail to a telecom firm employee accused of providing a SIM card on fake ID to Jamia student, Asif Iqbal Tanha, while noting that there is no evidence yet to attract the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act slapped on the accused. Justice Suresh Kait granted bail to Faizan Khan who was arrested under UAPA sections in connection with a case related to the violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. Khan is alleged to have issued a SIM card on fake ID and used his mobile number to generate OTP to activate the new number for Tanha, who is a co-accused in the case. However, justice Kait noted that “the material on record and the investigating agency’s own status report do not disclose the commission of the offences under the UAPA, 1967, except bald statements of the witnesses.” The court noted that embargo on courts from granting bail imposed by UPAPA won’t apply in Khan’s case since the investigating agency was yet to demonstrate that he had “actual knowledge” that the said SIM card would be used for organising the protests. “It was imperative for the investigation agency to demonstrate that the petitioner had active knowledge about the utilisation of the said SIM card,” the court pointed out, adding that “there is no proof on record, such as CCTV footage, video or chats of petitioner with any of the group, except the allegation that he provided SIM on fake ID in December 2019 and took a small amount of Rs 200/- for the same. It is not the case of the prosecution that he provided many SIMs and continued to do the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-bail-to-man-accused-of-giving-sim-card-on-fake-id/articleshow/78836307.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana EAMCET results today at 3pm||HYDERABAD: The results of the Telangana Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test (Eamcet) for the agriculture and medical (AM) stream will be released at 3pm on Saturday. The chairman of Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE), T Papi Reddy will release the results at the UGC-HRDC Auditorium, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) Hyderabad. The results will be available on the website: https://eamcet.tsche.ac.in. They will be available in the following format: TS Eamcet-2020 agriculture & medical stream: htno., candidate name, father name, gender, local area, category, Eamcet marks, Botany, Zoology, Physics, Chemistry, Eamcet weightage, inter weightage, combined score, rank, result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-eamcet-results-today-at-3pm/articleshow/78835060.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Act against nightclubs that defy Covid-19 rules, Vishwajit Rane to collector||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that he had written to the North Goa collector to take action against nightclubs and hotels operating in defiance of SOPs. “It has been seen that a lot of hotels and nightclubs are not following norms,” he said. “We’ve taken up the issue very aggressively with the collector.” Rane asked the collector to take action against erring clubs under provisions of the Disaster Management Act. Rane also said that nightlife isn’t the only driver of Goa’s tourism industry. “There are multiple things about Goa that can be marketed, and this is what I’ve told the chief minister,” he said, adding that the home and excise departments should monitor the situation. On Monday, TOI frontpaged a report on nightclubs along the North Goa beach belt violating social distancing and mask-wearing norms, with a photo of a packed dancefloor. Rane had then called for the licences of these establishments to be cancelled. On Friday, he called videos of those parties “shameful”, but said the onus can’t be on the government all the time. “When such photos and videos become public, people wonder what the administration is doing, but the onus also lies on hotels and nightclubs, as well as on the individuals attending (the events).” He said those visiting nightclubs are “not children”, and must follow all protocols. “People must take care, since the pandemic is not likely to go away as soon as earlier predicted.” He added that even in Panaji, he regularly sees people going for morning and evening walks without masks. “If people want to defy protocol, there is nothing much we can do,” he said. Since last month, Goa has witnessed a gradual increase in domestic footfalls, and hotels, too, have registered “satisfactory” occupancy on weekends. Stakeholders expect a rise in tourist numbers during the Diwali vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-nightclubs-that-defy-covid-rules-rane-writes-to-collector/articleshow/78837202.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Patna||PM praises Bihar’s martyrs, slams ‘dark days’ of RJD rule||PATNA: In his first physical election rally since the Covid-19 pandemic gripped the country, PM Narendra Modi launched a scathing attack on the RJD-led opposition in Bihar even as he praised the martyred jawans of the state who laid down their lives in Galwan valley clashes with the Chinese army. From national issues such as China and abrogation of Article 356 to “dark days” of RJD rule and Nitish’s development work, he covered a wide array of issues in his three rallies. The PM’s first rally in the state began at Dehri (Sasaram), which was his first-ever joint appearance with CM Nitish Kumar for an assembly election in Bihar, followed by two more rallies at Gaya and Bhagalpur. At all three places, he began his speech in the local dialect — Bhojpuri, Magahi and Angika, which established an instant connect with the audiences. “Bihar has been India’s ‘Samman (honour)’, ‘Swabhiman (pride) and ‘Sanskaar (ethos)’. People here have been contributing to the growth in other parts of the country, and the Bihari Army jawans sacrificed their lives in Galwan Valley as well as during the Pulwama terror attack. I bow my head to them,” the PM said at Dehri, drawing applause. Attacking the Mahagathbandhan, he described the alliance as a drag on Bihar’s development and growth on a day the state also saw a high-pitched campaign by his fervent critic Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The PM came down hard on the opposition, especially Congress, for questioning his government’s policies on the farm laws, the MSP, and even the acquisition of the Rafael fighter planes from France, maintaining that the UPA, in its 10-year rule, did not increase the MSP while his government increased it by one-and-half times. “Their stand on MSP is just a pretext for their support to the ‘dalals (brokers)’ and middlemen. They also supported brokers and middlemen by making an issue out of the purchase of Rafel fighter planes. For them, national interest is not important. The interest of brokers and middlemen is more important,” the PM said. On abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, the PM said, “People had been waiting for it for long. Now they (read Congress and J&K parties) have started saying that it will be revoked if they came to power. How so ever hard they might try, they should know that the country will not change its decision it has taken.” On Bihar, the PM insisted that re-electing the NDA government is “necessary to take the state along the path of development with complete ‘taalmel’ (coordination) with the Centre”. He adding that the Swamitva Yojana (property card scheme) launched in six states as a pilot project would also be implemented in Bihar once the NDA government returns to power. “The NDA government in the state has constructed roads and bridges with central assistance, and the tourist inflow through the Buddhist Circuit would increase once the international airport is completed at Kushinagar in UP, like at Bodh Gaya,” the PM said, taking note of the PM Package worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore that he had announced in 2015. Modi then went on to defend Nitish’s association with RJD and the UPA (2013-17) saying it had been a “sheer waste of time for Bihar,” since the UPA did not help Bihar. “Nitish split with the grand alliance and the Congress and joined the NDA only when it became too much for him to put up with the ‘family interests’ (that RJD chief Lalu Prasad pursued),” the PM said. Without taking the names of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi, the PM said that the state’s development and growth had suffered during their 15-year rule during 19990-2005, which, however, was reversed by the NDA government headed by Nitish Kumar from 2005. “It restored the state’s glory and pulled it out from the category of “bimar (sick)” states,” the PM said, adding in Bhojpuri, “Lalten ka jamaana gaeel (Days of the lantern are over” The PM also called the 15-year rule of Lalu-Rabri duo as “dark days,” marked by murder, kidnapping for ransom, ubiquitous atmosphere of ‘khauf (fear)’ with doubts on the safe return of any girl or boy who had ventured out of the house. Again, without taking the names of grand alliance’s CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan, the PM put them as two “new faces” who had suddenly emerged and “bhram (confusion)” was being created around them. (With inputs from Alok Chamaria in Sasaram & Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-praises-bihars-martyrs-slams-dark-days-of-rjd-rule/articleshow/78836306.cms||Abhay Singh
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Aspirants find ‘errors’ in 2 more JNU papers; NTA rejects claims||NEW DELHI: A day after National Testing Agency (NTA) announced that the history exam for entrance to MPhil and PhD courses of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) would be taking place again on October 28, several university aspirants claimed that there were many “mistakes” in the answer keys of MA Sociology and MPhil Women Studies papers as well. The aspirants have also demanded that the Rs 1,000 charge fixed for challenging the answers should be removed and all those who were wrongly evaluated should get their due marks. In a statement on Friday, JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) alleged that “the NTA has released response sheets and answer scripts with multiple discrepancies and wrong answers. The cost of challenging each question is Rs 1,000 and the time to download response keys was till October 22. We now hear of a re-examination being conducted in MPhil and PhD courses of history with just six days’ notice.” Saket Moon, JNUSU vice-president, claimed that many aspirants were shocked by the mistakes in the answer keys released by NTA on October 20. “They have come up to us saying that there were issues with the answer keys of two more papers. The union has requested the student faculty committees of different centres to help compile a list of errors in different papers and send it to NTA. We want NTA to do away with the Rs 1,000 charge for challenging questions. It should also award marks to all those aspirants who have been wrongly evaluated in the exams,” Moon said. However, an NTA source told TOI that “there are no discrepancies in any other paper and the re-examination is only for the history course and that too from one shift.” NTA added that it got the answer keys verified from JNU. “So the allegations of more wrong questions and discrepancies in answer sheets are false.” The entrance exam was held on October 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aspirants-find-errors-in-2-more-jnu-papers-nta-rejects-claims/articleshow/78836329.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rates for ore transport revised||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday reached an amicable solution to the ore transportation rate issue with truck owners’ associations and mining companies. Under the revised rates, the transportation charge for less than 10km is Rs 14.5, between 10-20km Rs 14, and Rs 13.5 for above 20km. The rates are calculated against the diesel price of Rs 52 per litre. A senior government officer said that the new rates would be applicable for the transportation of e-auctioned ore and royalty paid ore. As per the 2017 rates, trucks were paid Rs 12.5 for the first 10 km and, thereafter, Rs 11.5 between 20 to 30 km. During the first meeting held to revise the transportation rate, truck owners’ associations had demanded that it be fixed at Rs 17.5 for the first 10km. Recently the Supreme Court granted mining companies time till the end of January 2021 to transport ore. It had also directed the state government to take possession of the ore lying at mining leases at the end of this period by invoking power under the Mineral Concession Rule, but after serving a one-month notice. Sawant had told reporters that over four million tonne of iron ore is lying in the state and that the order will allow mining activities in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ore-transportion-rates-revised/articleshow/78837265.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Vishwajit Rane: Goa to follow its own protocol, continue plasma therapy||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Friday that the state government would continue plasma therapy even if the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) removes it from the Covid-19 plasma protocol. “We will not stop plasma therapy,” he said. “We will follow our treatment protocol devised by private sector and government doctors. As far as Goa is concerned, we find that plasma and Remdesivir are giving excellent results when used in time.” He was replying to a question from reporters whether the state would remove plasma therapy if ICMR modifies its protocol. “Experts have advised that Remdesivir should be administered immediately and within a specific period of time,” he said. “Similarly, convalescent plasma has to be given and helps improve oxygen saturation levels and reduces lung damage.” “The protocol may keep changing, but with our experience and after discussion with experts from both the private and public sector, we will follow our own protocol so that maximum lives can be saved,” he said. At the ESI-Covid hospital Margao, as many as 263 patients have been given a combination of convalescent plasma and Remdisivir, and 70% of them patients have recovered, he said. He also said that if there is any other protocol to be followed, it will be decided by the expert committee. The antiviral drug, Remdesivir, he said, has also been approved by the Food and Drugs Administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-follow-own-protocol-continue-plasma-therapy-rane/articleshow/78837210.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Search for Gautam Pashankar on; kin hands over note to cops||PUNE: City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Friday told TOI that the family members of missing businessman Gautam Pashankar have handed over a note to the police, purportedly written by him, which stated that he was ending his life. However, Gupta avoided getting into the specifics of the note. The city police continued their search for the businessman, who went missing on Wednesday evening. Deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Priyanka Narnavare told TOI, “In our investigations so far, we have not come across any aspect which indicates that it could be a case of kidnapping. The family has not received any ransom calls. The family members said he had no financial constraints nor was he under any kind of depression.” “Pashankar went away on his own. We have formed four police teams to trace him and are conducting technical investigations. We are trying our level best to find him and we want him to return safely,” she added. Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of the Shivajinagar police station refused to divulge details about the progress of the investigations into the missing complaint lodged by Pashankar’s son Kapil on Thursday. The 65-year-old Pashankar, head of the Pashankar Group, had gone to his fuel station on Solapur road on Wednesday afternoon before returning to his Shivajinagar office. He left the office around 4.30pm. A police official requesting anonymity said, “A CCTV camera has captured images of Pashankar outside Modi Baug (his residence) near Central Mall at Shivajinagar after he left his office on Wednesday evening. He kept his mobile phone at home and walked away. We don’t know in which direction he went because the place around does not have CCTV surveillance. He has not called his family members.” Speaking to TOI, Pashankar’s son Kapil made an impassioned plea for his father’s return. “Dad, we want you back. You know we have been through far worse. We have almost got out of it. Even if you think there is something, we will come out of it,” he said. Kapil said his father had started out with a poultry business in the early 1980s before buying fuel stations and getting into the real estate business. “Getting into the automobile dealership business was my decision. We were expanding till General Motors got caught in the emissions scandal and sales plummeted for its flagship Tavera brand,” he said. “We believed that GM being a big company would work out a solution. However, that did not happen and they wound up their business in India. We suffered huge losses but at the same time I was selling 100 cars of Audi (a new dealership) in a month. That dealership was doing well and we expanded to Nashik and other places. However, even that got caught in trouble because of the Volkswagen emissions scandal (VW owns Audi),” Kapil said. It was then that the Pashankars decided to wind up the car dealership business. “With the proceeds, we paid back over Rs 250 crore in bank loans. The repayment of all debts took five years but were paid off in full last year. I have the no-dues certificate on each of those loans and we could not have done that without consulting dad,” Kapil said. Kapil said the family has been through a lot even by way of medical crises. “The current predicament is nothing to the mountain of challenges we have surpassed together. We are looking at a fresh start. Our residual debt is only Rs 7 crore which we took for the real estate business. But even there our asset cover is much more. There is no reason for dad to feel dejected. He has to come back. We want him back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/search-for-pashankar-on-kin-hands-over-note/articleshow/78837207.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Gym operators in Pune draw up SOPs ahead of reopening||PUNE: Gymnasia across the city are dusting off and greasing their equipment in anticipation of reopening their doors to customers this weekend. The state government has allowed gyms and fitness centres to reopen — with some restrictions — from October 25. In the absence of any official guidelines till Friday, gym operators said they have drawn up their own Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). The state public health department will issue the official SOPs, but until then the gyms will fall back on their SOPs based on the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. These include restricting the number of members working out, staggering workouts on alternative days and enforcing social distancing and safety guidelines within the gym. “Apart from restricting the use of swimming pools and group activities, the government has not issued any guidelines yet, but apart from that we have not received any guidelines. Unlike earlier, members will now be able to visit the gym only in fixed one-hour slots. Equipment will be placed around four to six feet apart, and the gym will be disinfected regularly. Members too will be advised to disinfect the equipment after use. The trainers will work in shifts,” Nilesh Kale, president of the Pune Fitness Club Association, said. Sangram Chougule, who operates a gym, said they have staggered members’ workout schedules. “Members with surnames starting A-M will be permitted to workout on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, while those whose surnames start with N-Z can work out on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. We have restricted gym timings, number of people allowed, buddy workouts, showers and steam rooms to ensure everyone’s safety,” will be out of bounds for patrons and no one will be allowed to loiter around in the locker room,” Chougule said. Operators said a set of rules have been drafted specifically aimed at members. “They are required to carry their own drinking water, sanitizer, gloves, napkins, shoes and yoga mat. Their temperature will be taken at the entrance. Staff will have to use masks, while the members must wear face shields while working out,” Chougule said. Gyms are likely to remain shut on Sunday — Dasara — as operators are likely to perform puja. “We will keep the gym open for enquiries only. We have planned a grand celebration for the opening of my gym and will distribute sweets to all our neighbouring establishments,” explained Kale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gym-operators-draw-up-sops-ahead-of-reopening/articleshow/78837224.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Restart Palakkad-Chennai train soon, Pollachi MP tells Southern Railway||COIMBATORE: Pollachi MP K Shanmuga Sundaram has requested the Southern Railway general manager, John Thomas, to restart the Chennai-Palakkad-Chennai Express, the only direct train connecting Pollachi and Palani regions with the state capital. In a letter, the MP urged the official to operate the train to at least Pollachi and back until the pandemic recedes. The move comes after several passenger welfare and industrial associations demanded resumption of the train service. “There are only limited buses to Chennai from Pollachi and Palani and they are running packed with scant regard for maintaining social distancing, which is unsafe in this time of contagion. So, please restore a train service to Chennai from Pollachi,” Shanmuga Sundaram said in the letter. Many organizations, including the Pollachi Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have been pressing for resumption of the train service from at least Pollachi, as it covers Udumalpet, Palani, Dindigul, Namakkal, Salem and Katpadi on the way to Chennai. B Mohanraj, secretary, Pollachi Train Passengers’ Welfare Association, said, “Since it is a daily overnight train, it is convenient for people and businessmen from the region to travel to Chennai for work and return without wasting a day. Now, people from Udumalpet and Pollachi have to travel two to three hours to Coimbatore to catch a train.” The MP has also requested the railways to set up a ticket booking counter at Madathukulam station and allow stoppage for the Palakkad-Chennai Express and Thiruvananthapuram-Madurai Amirtha Express at the station for a minute. “If our request is heeded, it would provide a low-cost, safe public transport to migrant workers, students and employees of Madathukulam town and surrounding areas,” Shanmuga Sundaram said. Madathukulam is the headquarters of Madathukulam taluk with 11 village panchayats and home to 12 paper manufacturing units, textile mills, dairy farms, poultry farms and dyeing units, among others. Presently, only Palakkad-Tiruchendur and Coimbatore-Madurai trains stop there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/restart-palakkad-chennai-train-soon-pollachi-mp-tells-southern-railway/articleshow/78836321.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Hawkers seek to reopen fashion street market||Pune: Around 35 vendors from Mahatma Gandhi Road Hawkers Association (MGRHA) staged a protest against the Pune Cantonment Board’s (PCB) decision not to allow the fashion street market to reopen.The association members submitted their memorandum to PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar.“We could not grant permission as most elected board members opposed the idea in the last general body meeting held on July 31. The market is a congested place and maintaining social distance could be a big issue. Also, at the time, the board had over 100 Covid-19 cases. So, we did not allow vendors to reopen the market,” said Kumar.He said the board will take a final call on the matter after deliberations in the general body meeting to be held in the first week of November. “Until then, the market will remain shut,” Kumar added.Around 450 hawkers operate in the market, which is a popular shopping place between MG Road and East Street. Hawkers said that it has become an issue of their survival. “All markets in Pune have opened. This is the only market that is still closed. It is a matter of 450 families, who have suffered huge financial losses due to the pandemic,” said MV Akolkar, president of the association.“The board wants to close the market permanently. However, it is not possible until the civil court cancels the decree passed in November 1997,” said Akolkar.Kumar refuted the allegation saying that the market was closed due to the pandemic. “We have recently given permission to reopen Kumbhar Bawadi market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hawkers-seek-to-reopen-fashion-street-market/articleshow/78837239.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||45 test +ve for virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris 45 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday taking the tally to 6,318, even as 19 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. The district has seen 5,910 patients recovered so far. With this, the recovery rate stands at 93.5%.As many as 371 active cases are being treated at various health facilities. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/45-test-ve-for-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78836317.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB opposes MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah’s discharge plea in scam case||HYDERABAD: The call data retrieved from the mobile phones of Sathupalli MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, Bishop Harry Sebastian, MP A Revanth Reddy and others drove the ACB towards making Sandra Veeraiah as an accused in the infamous vote-for-note scam, the conspiracy for which was hatched at TDP’s Mahanadu in Hyderabad five years ago. The ACB said this in an affidavit filed before the ACB court in Hyderabad opposing the plea of MLA Veeraiah to discharge him from the case. In May 2015, ACB caught Revanth Reddy luring independent MLC Elvis Stephenson with a Rs 50 lakh cash bribe to vote in favour of the TDP nominee in the MLC elections in 2015. Stating that he was not named in the first charge sheet and that he was unnecessarily dragged into the case in the subsequent chargesheet, MLA Veeraiah sought discharge from the case. ACB countered it saying that the subsequent probe into the mobile phone conversations of the accused had brought out the larger conspiracy and he was added as an accused. Another accused, Rudra Udaya Simha, filed a discharge petition too and ACB opposed his plea as well. The case was posted to October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-opposes-mla-veeraiahs-discharge-plea-in-scam-case/articleshow/78835079.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 24, 2020||Goa||Centre transfers part of GST relief to Goa, others||PANAJI: Bringing relief to revenue-starved states like Goa, the Centre borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore to 16 states and two Union territories, including Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Assam, Delhi and J&K, as compensation for the shortfall in Goods and Services Tax, the finance ministry said on Friday. Goa, which is facing close to 50% shortfall in GST collections in the current financial year, is owed Rs 1,018 crore as compensation, and the funds released by the Centre are part of the first tranche of compensation for the shortfall. Paucity of funds has seen the state government struggling to pay its employees’ salaries on time, while beneficiaries of social security schemes such as Griha Aadhaar and the Dayanand social security scheme have been waiting for four to six months to receive their monthly dues. Goa witnessed 34% shortfall in GST collection in AugustDespite steps to revive the economy, Goa’s GST revenues remain sharply down, with the state accounting for just Rs 240 crore in September against Rs 311 crore in September 2019, indicating a 23% decline. In August this year, the total GST collected amounted to Rs 213 crore, against Rs 325 crore earned in a year ago during the same period. While Goa witnessed a 34% shortfall in GST collection in August, the national decline in GST revenues stood at 8% for August, indicating that Goa’s GST collections will continue to lag behind even as the nation’s economy picks up. Since the lockdown was abruptly imposed from March 22, Goa’s GST collections plunged, with the state finance department reporting a 91% decline in collections in April. Goa has informed the Centre that it is in favour of borrowing funds through an RBI-facilitated special window to meet the GST shortfall for the current financial year. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman regarding the state’s preference for option 1, joining at least 12 other BJP-ruled states that made a similar choice. However, the Centre gave in to the demands of opposition-ruled states to borrow and fund the GST compensation shortfall. The finance ministry said that the Centre would borrow from the market to pay Rs 1.1 lakh crore to states, and then act as an intermediary to arrange back-to-back loans to state governments. The ministry said the government of India has evolved a special borrowing window to address the shortfall in the GST collection during the year 2020-21. Twenty-one states and two Union territories opted for this special window. Out of these, five states did not have any shortfall on account of GST compensation. “Today, the central government borrowed and transferred Rs 6,000 crore as first tranche to 16 states namely Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and two union territories: UT of Delhi and UT of Jammu and Kashmir,” the Union ministry said in a statement. The borrowing is at an interest rate of 5.2% and the tenor of borrowing is expected to be broadly in the range of 3 to 5 years, the ministry said, adding that it intends to release Rs 6,000 crore to states every week. This arrangement, the ministry said, will not reflect in the fiscal deficit of the Centre and will appear as capital receipts for state governments. The Centre had in August proposed two options to states: borrow Rs 97,000 crore (on account of GST implementation) from a special window facilitated by the RBI, or the complete shortfall of Rs 2.35 lakh crore (including Rs 1.38 lakh crore due to Covid) from the market. The options have since been revised to Rs 1.10 lakh crore and Rs 1.8 lakh crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-borrows-transfers-funds-to-goa-15-states-2-uts/articleshow/78837222.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Autonomous college students use lockdown period to do well in exams||Mangaluru: Autonomous colleges here have performed well, despite the pandemic, in the recent examination held exclusively for final-year students. Three city-based autonomous colleges, who jointly had examination centres outside the state, for the convenience of students from these places, have got good results. The results of colleges under Mangalore University and autonomous colleges was declared this week. Some autonomous colleges are yet to declare their PG examination results. According to the St Agnes College management, the pass percentage is the same as the last academic year, but what has improved is students’ performance. Charles Pais, registrar, St Agnes College, told TOI that the pass percentage is 91.2, which is on par with the previous year. “However, student performance improved drastically among those who were in the first class bracket. Last year, the first class with a distinction percentage was 41, and this has gone up by 8%,” he added. As many as 88% of students who appeared for the undergraduate examination at St Aloysius College have passed. “What we have noticed is that students have used the time they got during the lockdown for studies, and it reflects in their performance. The students who have performed well have become better, and those that were good have excelled,” said a person from the college management. Exams held outside state took place without a glitch: Colleges Three autonomous colleges in the city like St Agnes College, St Aloysius College and School of Social Work, Roshni Nilaya, had jointly made arrangements for students from Kerala, Goa and five north-eastern states to write the examination in their own state. A total 700 students from other states were able to write the final examinations without visiting their parent college. When contacted St Aloysius College, Mangaluru, they said the entire process went off without a glitch. “The question papers were sent to the respective centres outside the college in the morning, and the college received scanned copies of all the answer sheets, latest by the same evening. Everything went off smoothly, and it was widely appreciated by parents,” he expressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/autonomous-college-students-use-lockdown-period-to-do-well-in-exams/articleshow/78835069.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Balasaheb Thorat plans more ease of norms for e-registrations||PUNE: State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat plans to relax conditions for e-registrations for the first point-of-sale, and removing the cap on the number of property registrations for developers. The effort will encourage property buyers and enable more transactions in this festive period, he said. In April, a state government circular allowed online registrations for developers registering 20 or more documents after due verification of the builders. Thorat on Thursday told TOI that they plan to remove this condition and allow more RERA registered and authentic developers to apply for the process. When builders get bookings, they will be able to register their properties using this facility from their offices after government verification. “We have had 40 developers register with us using the e-registration facility. We want the number to increase. So, we plan to ease the limit on registrations further which will encourage more developers to take up e-registration,” he told TOI. The state has already announced a reduction of stamp duty till the next financial year and last month already crossed the total registrations when compared with the previous September. The minister said such initiatives will encourage more developers to register for the online process. “We may not be able to achieve the target but we are hoping that the market will revive by the year-end,” he said. E-registration of property deeds started in Maharashtra in 2012, but restrictions to ensure sale transactions were in place. Builders who registered 500 documents at one go could opt for e-registration. This was relaxed in April to 20 registrations. “Some more relaxations would encourage more developers to opt for e-registrations,” Pune CREDAI metro president Suhas Merchant said. He has been taking it up with the government. Unlock measures, avoiding crowds and to maintain social distancing norms will encourage people to opt for e-registrations, another developer said. As of now, the facility is only available at the first point-of-sale between a builder and the first buyer as it is easier to verify property-related information for such transactions. “It gets complicated thereafter, but the process is being worked out for further transactions,” a senior official from the registration department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minister-plans-further-ease-of-norms-to-promote-e-registrations/articleshow/78837247.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||State slow in issuing marriage assistance fund, say applicants||COIMBATORE: When 26-year-old S Aarthi Meena got married in early 2018, she was confident of repaying the loan that she took to meet the wedding expenses within a year. For, she had registered for the state government’s marriage assistance scheme and officials had assured to issue her Rs 50,000 and a gold coin weighing one sovereign under the scheme within a year. But after two and half years, she is yet to receive the fund. “I have approached the social welfare department several times, inquiring about the fund. Each time, officials would make some excuse. We were pinning hope on this fund to repay the loan taken for the wedding. But things did not go as planned. Now, we are paying Rs 5,000 as interest every month,” she says. With a newborn at home, she says, it is becoming extremely difficult to manage the expenses. “The sooner they disburse the fund, the better.” Like her, there are more than 10,000 women waiting for the assistance under the scheme in the district. Some of them had applied for the assistance as early as March 2018. Under the scheme, the state provides Rs 25,000 and one sovereign gold coin to women who have completed at least Class X, and Rs 50,000 along and one sovereign gold coin to those who have completed diploma or degree. In the case of scheduled tribes, women have to complete only Class V to be eligible for the scheme. In all cases, the annual income of the family should not exceed Rs 72,000. While some painstakingly obtain all the necessary documents to apply for the scheme, others approach middlemen, who charge up to 10% of the fund. A beneficiary, Reshma (name changed), says, “We tried for income certificate on our own and we were made to run from pillar to post, but in vain. On learning that we had to approach e-seva centres several times to register for the scheme after obtaining the income certificate, we approached a middleman. Going on our own is both time consuming and tiring.” According to a source with the social welfare department at least 4,000 to 5,000 women apply for the scheme in the district every year. “Most of them are graduates. Depending on the fund allocated, beneficiaries would be selected based on seniority. The waiting list has applicants from March 2018.” He says they had distributed the assistance to 2,000 applicants in 2019 and 3,000 in 2018. “We are waiting for a communication from our higher-ups regarding the scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-slow-in-issuing-marriage-assistance-fund-say-applicants/articleshow/78836336.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Pocso court remands 2 accused in judicial custody for abusing minors||Coimbatore: The city police on Friday remanded two men under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.Infant Daniel, 25, a motorcycle mechanic from Puliyakulam, was arrested in August for sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl. “He eloped with the minor girl, married her and sexually assaulted her. The all women police (east) registered a case and arrested him. The minor girl was handed over to her parents. He was booked under the Pocso Act and was remanded in judicial custody. He came out on conditional bail in October and again eloped with the girl on October 12. He stayed with her in a lodge at Paramakudi, where he sexually assaulted her several times. All women police inspector Amutha and team arrested Daniel and rescued the girl when they returned to Coimbatore. He was produced before the special court for Pocso cases on Friday and remanded in judicial custody,” a police officer said.In the second incident, Santhosh, 19, of Erimedu in Ammankulam was arrested after he eloped with a 17-year-old girl. The Variety Hall Road police found them in Theni district, where his parents were planning to conduct their marriage. Santhosh was taken to Coimbatore on Thursday and was remanded in judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pocso-court-remands-2-accused-in-judicial-custody-for-abusing-minors/articleshow/78836327.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Home-buying picks up ahead of festive season||PUNE: Realtors across Pune said the recent home-buying trend has almost touched the highs of the past two years. Low interest rates on home loans combined with the need to have a good home, good prices and practically no loss of jobs in the IT sector have translated into good traction for real estate sales. More people are converting their intent to buy properties to actual purchases, and definite enquiries are rising ahead of the festive season starting from Dasara on Sunday, realtors said. The sentiment this festive season is much more upbeat that it was last year, they added. Anuj Puri, chairman of Anarock Property Consultants, said, a great number of Pune’s hitherto fence-sitting home-buyers emerged from the lockdown with firm decisions to take the plunge and many are vocal about having made this decision, but insist on getting the best possible deals. At this stage of the pandemic, there is a very real sense of having overcome extreme adversity. “Probably, never has the essential spirit of Dasara been more keenly felt than this year. The primary sentiment is that of wanting to ensure that, no matter what happens, the family must be secure in an owned environment over which one has complete control. The second driving factor is an understanding that the currently favourable market conditions come with an expiry date,” Puri added. Realtors said it has become a market of more serious buyers and they are getting people who are not just window-shopping. “Typically, one in 10 customers who have visited the site got converted, now the ratio has moved to one in six,” Manish Jain, vice president, Credai Pune Metro, said. Paramvir Singh Paul, branch director of Knight Frank India, said buyers are coming back in good numbers. The return is driven primarily by stamp duty cut, lowest ever home loan rates and offers/discounts extended by developers, he added. “People who had been deferring their decision to buy a house for the past few years are now willing to buy an apartment and find this to be the best time to close the transaction. Customers visiting sales offices of projects these days are serious buyers. The stamp duty revision came at the right time to coincide with the festive season,” Paul added. The shift is towards affordability as home-buyers have reduced their budget but haven’t changed their preference in terms of BHK or size. They are moving towards the peripheral regions. Sudhir Pai, chief executive officer, Magicbricks, said, “With the festive season here, we are witnessing a sharp recovery in demand and prices have remained stable for the July-September quarter. This augurs well for the real estate industry. We hope consumers’ buying sentiment will continue to improve and translate into transactions in the coming quarters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-buying-picks-up-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/78837246.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Flower prices soar as Ayudha Puja nears||Coimbatore: Flower prices have doubled, even tripled ahead of the Ayudha Puja festival.Arali (Nerium oleander) sevanthi (chrysanthemum) and sampangi (tuberose) are sold for double the price compared to the non-festive season, traders at the temporary flower market set up at Devanga Higher Secondary School at RS Puram and stalls set up on Mettupalayam Road told TOI. While a kilogram of Arali is sold for Rs 350 compared to the last week’s price of Rs 100, sevanthi is sold for Rs 160 compared to Rs 40, sampangi for Rs 240 compared to Rs 100 and jasmine for Rs 800 compared to 500.The pandemic has forced people to celebrate the festival in a simple way, said K Prabhu, a flower trader. “As a result, the quantity of flowers they purchase has come down. Those who used to purchase two to three kilograms of flowers are now buying 500 to 750 grams. Despite the measure to set up a temporary market to ensure social distancing, people are reluctant to visit public places. There is a 50% dip in the number of customers compared to the previous year.”Flower trader R Venkatesh has received only 10% of the previous year’s order for garlands. “Many commercial establishments and industries here have decided not the celebrate the festival or celebrate it in a simple manner,” he said. Last year, there was a huge demand for flowers, especially sevanthi, which is abundant this year, said trader Mujeeb Rahman. “I earn only Rs 70,000 a day compared to Rs 1.5 lakh last year.”The pandemic has ruined the festive mood, said M Suresh, a resident of Saibaba Colony. “This year, we wouldn’t be able to invite as many friends and relatives as we had last year due to the pandemic. We have decided to cut back on expenses and will celebrate with close relatives.”Meanwhile, vegetable prices remain unaffected. “Only the price of onions has gone up due to lower production. It happens every year around this time. Onion price is expected to come down in two weeks,” vegetable trader Narayanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flower-prices-soar-as-ayudha-puja-nears/articleshow/78836337.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 24, 2020||Business||Kangana flight chaos: IndiGo bars 9 media personnel from flying from Oct 15-30||NEW DELHI: IndiGo has barred nine electronic media personnel from flying for a fortnight after its internal probe panel found they had behaved in an unruly manner on a Chandigarh-Mumbai flight (6E-264) of September 9 that had, among others, actress Kangana Ranaut on board. Confirming this, an IndiGo official said the “ban period for the nine journalists is from October 15 to 30”. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had directed IndiGo on September 11 to “initiate suitable action against all those, who are responsible for violations of the regulatory provisions and guidelines and submit an action taken report failing which suitable action will be initiated against the airline.” Following this regulatory directive, the airline had set up a probe panel as per the no fly list rules. “Earlier this week, IndiGo has informed us that its probe panel has found the media personnel on that flight did behave in an unruly manner that violated both flight safety and the Covid protocol. The airline has grounded those media personnel for two weeks. It has sent its probe panel findings and action taken to the DGCA and other airlines,” said sources. Now it is upto other airlines to follow IndiGo action on those found guilty of unruly behaviour for the same time period. Till now Indian carriers have collectively barred passengers like in cases of MPs barred from flying after misbehaving with airline personnel. Most recently, on January 28, 2020, IndiGo had decided to ground standup comedian Kunal Kamra for six months hours (later halved to 3 months) after he had confronted TV anchor Arnab Goswami on a flight. Other airlines had also barred Kamra, with AirAsia India and Vistara doing so for 1.5 months. The 15-day suspension is the lowest no fly period given by an airline in India so far. On September 9, Ranaut was making a pre-announced return to Mumbai. Inflight videos of 6E-264 showed soon after the aircraft touched down in Mumbai, electronic media personnel left their seats and rushed to the front row where Ranaut was seated to try and and show her visuals. Crew members repeatedly made announcements for passengers to observe onboard norms. One of the announcements said: “Please understand, we all are equal. Please do not harass any passenger. Kindly follow all safety rules and remain seated till seat belt is on.” The DGCA sought a report from the airline. After getting the same last month, the regulator had written to that “a number of violations have happened on the day.…” The violations listed in this letter were: not stopping the large number media personnel boarding the flight with big cameras in Chandigarh itself by taking help of security personnel; these passengers not following crew instructions during flight and even after landing; not following COVID-19 protocol. The DGCA has warned all airlines that allowing a repeat of such behaviour will lead to the airline being suspending from operating that route — on which such an instance takes place — for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kangana-chaos-indigo-bars-9-media-personnel/articleshow/78840332.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops arrest four, seize 10kg ganja||HYDERABAD: Jubilee Hills police on Friday arrested four persons as they were allegedly in possession of 10 kgs of ganja, worth Rs 2 lakh. Police said that the prime accused is still missing. The accused were nabbed at Yousufguda check post. Apart from ganja, police seized three mobiles and three bikes from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-four-seize-10kg-ganja/articleshow/78835117.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU releases rank list for UG counselling||COIMBATORE: R Praveen Kumar from Tiruvannamalai district has scored 199.50 out of 200 to come first in the undergraduate admission rank list of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU). Vice-chancellor N Kumar released the list on Friday. From the 48,820 applications received for undergraduate courses this year, 31,410 candidates have been selected. TV Girivasan from Perambalur, who secured 199.25, came second in the list. D G Pushkala secured 199 to come third. Dean and chairman of admissions M Kalyanasundaram said that 86.20% of the applicants preferred agriculture degree programme as their first choice. The special reservation rank list will be released on October 28. The university offers 10 undergraduate programmes through 14 constituent colleges and 28 affiliated colleges. There are 4,800 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-releases-rank-list-for-ug-counselling/articleshow/78836339.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Businesses highly optimistic about turnaround despite poor sales||PUNE: Traders and businesses across the city have a sunny outlook for this Dasara despite having fewer bookings or sales compared to pre-Covid levels. Considered an auspicious day, Dasara is expected to see increased demand for gold, white goods and other valuables. Traders said they remain optimistic as Akshaya Tritiya and Gudi Padwa were celebrated despite the flagging economic conditions. They said the slowly increasing sales are indicative of a revival, especially after the crippling effects of the lockdown. “Several people have pre-booked gold, while many will come directly to the stores at auspicious times. Dasara is one of the three-and-a-half auspicious muhurats of the year and bringing home gold or silver is likened to bringing Goddess Laxmi home, so we are expecting good sales this year. It will be about 50% of the sales we saw last Dasara, because businesses are still only restarting and spending capacity is limited,” Fatehchand Ranka, managing director of Ranka Jewellers, said. “Since Dasara falls on a Sunday, we expect a very good response not only in terms of pickups of pre-booked jewellery, but also fresh buying. Value-wise, the industry will fare better than last year since gold prices have gone up — Rs49,000-Rs51,000 per 10gm,” Saurabh Gadgil, chairman and managing director of PNG Jewellers, explained. Representatives from automobile showrooms said deliveries slated for Dasara were fewer than last year. “We have had 40% fewer bookings and are likely to deliver 100-120 vehicles this Dasara. Sales are increasing consistently and there are chances that the market will improve further till Diwali,” Amit Ingale, sales manager at BU Bhandari Honda, said. The second-hand vehicle market too suffered a setback. “We have not seen as much festive season business that we do each year. I have about nine or 10 vehicle deliveries slated for Dasara. Similar is the situation for most other second-hand car dealers. The torrential rains have put a damper on the festive season. People generally make bookings for Dasara delivery at the beginning of Navaratra, but it has rained almost every evening since the festival began and so, many were unable to make bookings,” Vinod Ahir, who runs Auto Fin Solutions, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/businesses-do-well-despite-fewer-bookings-sales/articleshow/78837251.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 24, 2020||Pune||Thieves set sights on pricey onions, 550kg stolen from two storage facilities||PUNE: A “prized possession” of late because of its sky-high prices, onions have made it to the “to-steal” list of thieves. Around 550kg of onions worth Rs55,000 were stolen in the early hours of Thursday from two storage facilities at Devachi Jali village near Manjarwadi in Junnar taluka, about 88km from the city. The farmers intercepted one of the two thieves — Sanjay Paradhi of Junnar taluka. The other escaped with 10 bags of onions — each containing around 55kg of the kitchen staple. Paradhi was later handed over to the Narayangaon police. Dattatreya Thorat (32), a farmerfrom Devachi Jali, told TOI that he and his family members had filled 38 bags with onions from the storage on Tuesday night. “We kept them inside the storage and secured the doors with a wire. We decided to visit the facility every two hours because the cases of onion thefts had gone up due to its high prices,” Thorat said. He said he had visited the storage facility around 9pm and around 10.30pm on Wednesday. “When I went there again around 2.30am on Thursday, I saw a three-wheeler commercial vehicle and a motorcycle parked near the storage. Two men were shifting the onion bags into the vehicle. I immediately raised an alarm, following which one of the suspects drove away,” Thorat said. He said his relatives and others reached the spot hearing his scream and intercepted the other suspect, who failed to start his motorcycle. He had tied a bag of onion to his motorcycle. “We took that bag and handed him over to the police,” Thorat said. He said three bags of onions were stolen from his storage and about seven bags from that of his neighbour, Anil Patil. An officer from the Narayangaon police said the police had ascertained the identity of the other suspect. “We shall soon arrest him,” he said. Thorat said the police patrol the area during the night hours. “But the thieves are cleverer. They know when the patrol vehicle would come in a particular area and they avoid striking there in that time slot,” he said. On Thursday, 550kg of onions were stolen near Manjarwadi. A day before, thieves struck at Manchar. Most farmers in the district are shifting harvested onions to their houses from storage facilities following the spurt in thefts of the kitchen staple. Santosh Thorat, another farmer, said, “Onions are now being sold at Rs100 per kg. We cannot let our efforts go waste and allow the onions to land in the hands of thieves. So, we are shifting the produce to our homes. It would also save us from leopards and snakes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-set-sights-on-pricey-onion-550kg-stolen-from-two-storage-facilities/articleshow/78837256.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||280 fresh cases take Covid tally to 41,262||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 280 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 41,262. With 273 people getting discharged from treatment centres, the number of active cases stands at 3,758. At least 36,974 patients have so far recovered from Covid-19 in the district, where the recovery rate has gone up to 90%. The district recorded two more deaths, taking the toll to 530. One of the victims was a 59-year-old man who was suffering from obesity and dyslipidemia, a condition where there are too many lipids in a person’s blood, who was hospitalized on October 8, with fever, cough and breathing difficulty died early Friday morning. The other victim was a 60-year-old man with diabetes who got admitted on October 20 at CMCH with breathing difficulty. He died on Thursday morning due to bilateral bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. Hospital ICUs, which were all running full with all their oxygen support beds occupied, finally are enjoying some breathing space with some of their beds getting empty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/280-fresh-cases-take-covid-tally-to-41262/articleshow/78836342.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Need to visit hosp inconveniences disabled beneficiaries||Mysuru: A new directive to obtain a unique disability identity card that would facilitate people with disabilities to reap benefits in jobs and schemes has supposedly left many inconvenienced. This is because of their helplessness to visit the district hospital to get examined. The process is completely online, but the persons with disability have to visit a recognized hospital in the district or taluk headquarters to get examined by a medical officer to complete the formalities. So far, only 22,000 people have applied for the unique ID, but some of them are unable to visit the hospital because of their vulnerability. Zilla panchyat CEO D Bharathi, after learning that some of them are confined within the walls of their homes because of their weakness and find it difficult to travel to the district and taluk headquarters, suggested that officials organise special camps in taluks and hoblis to facilitate such persons, so that they get examined at their doorsteps. The CEO directed officials attached to the disabled welfare office and department of women and child welfare to help such persons to reach the camps. Mysuru has about 60,470 disabled persons as per the 2011 Census. The people are living in every part of the district, and some of them are living in remote villages. Currently they have obtained disability certificates and are getting pension under government scheme. However, the government’s latest order to issue identity cards to disabled persons in 2019 has left some inconvenienced. Though the district has 60,000 persons with disabilities, so far only 21,000 people have applied for the identity cards. The process is affected in many areas due to lack of village rehabilitation workers (VRW). These workers help the department in assessing the situation. District disabled welfare officer Malini G told TOI that the process is under way to identify and issue unique ID cards to them. As physically challenged persons are provided 5% reservation in jobs, facilities and schemes, the card would be helpful in getting the benefits without hassle, as their Aadhaar card would be linked to it. In some places we don’t have VRWs who assist us in identifying such persons. In their absence, a survey to know as to how many are unable to travel a long distance or have 90% and above disability, has been delayed. “We’re also suspecting duplication of cards because only 35% have applied for the ID online till now. There are about 60,000 beneficiaries. This new process would help us to eliminate duplicate beneficiaries, if any, and also to identify the needy,” the officer asserted. Women and child welfare deputy director K Padma said the department would take all necessary steps to facilitate people with disabilities to get unique disability identity cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/need-to-visit-hosp-inconveniences-disabled-beneficiaries/articleshow/78833455.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Fish prices soar due to inclement weather||Mangaluru: The price of fish, which should have been moderating at this time of the year from a high during the monsoon ban months, are still hovering at uncomfortable levels – thanks to the inclement weather over the past few weeks that has prevented fishermen from venturing into the sea. But the prices are likely to head south, depending on the catch, as boats have already left for deep sea fishing, fisheries department officials’ aid. Though the prices of staple fish like mackerel and sardines have remained at a constant high of above Rs 200 per kilo, the price of premium fish has seen a downward trend. Though fresh mackerels are available, the supply of sardines has dried up and the frozen one’s are dumped into the market at a high price point. At the KFDC outlet in the city, seer fish with weight less than two kilos was retailing at a comfortable Rs 380 to Rs 400 per kilo (whole), while black and white pomfrets were retailing at Rs 450 and Rs 750 a kilo, which is a reasonable rate at this time of the year. Historically the prices of seer fish is around Rs 480 per kilo in October-November months and goes up later. Likewise, white pomfrets retail about Rs 750 in October-November months. The lesser fancied black pomfret retails at Rs 550 per kg during these months. But somehow the prices of mackerel and sardines, which saw their prices rise above Rs 200 per kilo about 18 months back, have never seen a marked dip. This year also they are retailing at Rs 200 to Rs 240 per kilo. Two years ago, when the catch was good the prices used to fall to as low as Rs 80 per kilo for sardines and Rs 130 for mackerels.  Likewise mackerel costs Rs 80 to Rs 100 and pomfret from Rs 200 to Rs 310, depending on the eatery, usually frequented by office-goers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fish-prices-soar-due-to-inclement-weather/articleshow/78835121.cms||Stanley Pinto
October 24, 2020||Coimbatore||BU-Vadavalli stretch to be made 4-lane||COIMBATORE: The state highways department is all set to widen the two-lane road from Vadavalli to Bharathiar University campus into four-lane soon. The revenue department has issued notification to acquire land for the project and a tender would be floated as soon as the commissionerate of land administration approves the land acquisition. Three years ago, the road leading to Marudhamalai foothills from Lawley Road was two-lane. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Bharathiar University, government law college and Marudhamalai Murugan temple are located on the stretch. To reduce traffic congestion, the state highways department had widened the road from Lawley Road Junction to Kalidass theatre stop at Vadavalli into four-lane two years ago, with median. Now, the department is planning to widen the 2.7km stretch from Kalidas theatre bus stop to the Bharathiar University campus. “We need to acquire 7,900 square metres of land for the project. We have issued notifications to the landowners, fixed the land value and sent the details to the commissionerate of land administration for approval,” said a senior revenue department officer. Pointing out that the current width of the road was seven metres, a state highways department said the road would be widened to more than 15 metres, facilitating hassle-free vehicle movement on the stretch. “We have already identified the land to be acquired for the project and land owners would be compensated as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. Some of the commercial complex buildings will be demolished for the work,” the revenue department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bu-vadavalli-stretch-to-be-made-4-lane/articleshow/78836356.cms||A Subburaj
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Keep masks on while you meet & greet, say housing society members||PUNE: Housing societies members in the city have reminded residents to continue wearing masks as well as take other precautions as the number of visitors and guests increase up during the festive season. “The number of guests invited into the society has gone up during this time. While we cannot ban outsiders from coming into the premises, we can urge them to take safety measures. There are many seniors and cancer survivors with compromised immune systems living in the society. We have sent messages over WhatsApp to all residents to make sure that their guests also wear masks when they enter the society. The security guards have been given instruction to inform anyone entering the society that they will not be allowed in without masks,” said a members of the managing committee of a housing complex in Undri. Many residents tend to pull down the mask or not wear one while walking within the society. “Even though we do not have any Covid-19 cases in the society at present, it is important for us to keep following social distancing norms and, most importantly, wear masks while talking to members of other households. We are sending reminders to everyone to adhere to the norms,” said a member of the management committee of a housing society located on NIBM road. Pramit Patil, a resident of Salunkhe Vihar, said, “After months of lockdown and staying confined to their homes except for essential trips to the grocery shops, people are desperate for some get-togethers and celebration, which is great if done with proper adherence to safety norms and social distancing. There was a small get-together of residents of our single-building society in the open area. We wished each other, maintained distance and a few of the ladies performed socially-distanced dandiya. Celebration is possible with caution.” Smita Bajoria, a resident of NIBM road, said, “People are dressing up and venturing out. They’re sometimes purposely not wearing masks because they’re wearing make-up. But safety comes before vanity while we are in the middle of a pandemic. Women are gathering on the benches in the society and chatting away without masks while they accompany their children to the play area. Many people are riding the elevator without masks. I have brought this to the notice of our society’s management but they have not taken any action yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/keep-masks-on-while-you-meet-greet-say-housing-society-members/articleshow/78837258.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Actor Dhanveer in soup over tiger safari video||Mysuru: A video clip of a tiger sighting in Bandipur landed Sandalwood actor Dhanveer Gowda in the soup hours after it went viral on Friday. The actor has been accused of flouting rules and going on a night safari on Thursday. However, he has denied the allegations.. According to the actor, he went on the 4.30pm safari in the forest department's jeep alongwith a friend. While Dhanveer sat next to the driver, his friend was in the passenger seat. "Even after an hour and a half of the safari we did not see any animal. We were disappointed and just as were returning, a tiger crossed our path. We took videos on our mobile phones. I uploaded it on my social media account on Friday morning," he said. The video went viral and the actor has now been accused of indulging in a night safari at the reserve which is banned. Dhanveer immediately deleted the video from his account. In his defence, the actor said, "I have not violated any rules. It is winter and it gets dark soon. It was cloudy and dark in the forest. I have never violated forest rules and it was not a night safari." Bandipur reserve authorities said that they are investigating the incident. Reacting to the incident, forest minister Anand Singh said that action will be initiated against the actor and forest officer if they are found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/actor-dhanveer-in-soup-over-tiger-safari-video/articleshow/78833173.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Surat||Over 100 families get back valuables lost in NCH||SURAT: Following several complaints of valuables being lost or stolen, the state government-run New Civil Hospital (NCH) has set up a special system to keep belongings of the Covid-19 patients safeHaren Gandhi, chief security officer at NCH, said an eight-member team has been tasked with preparing a list of valuables like mobiles, jewellery and other items in the possession of patients or their relatives during the time of admission. Contact numbers of relatives and other distant kin are also registered. The photographis of the valuables are also taken and entered into the register. Since July, lost valuables that were found were handed over to families of nearly 100 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-100-families-get-back-valuables-lost-in-nch/articleshow/78833417.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vadodara||More scrapped notes seized near Godhra||VADODARA: In the fourth case since July 29, scrapped currency notes with nearly Rs 10 lakh face value were seized from two persons by the special operations group (SOG) of the Panchmahal police in a village of Godhra taluka on Friday. SOG sources said the the seizure was made after a tip-off that two persons with a black bag were standing on the roadside at Chhavad village and were going to make an illegal deal. The two men were identified as Somabhai Baria Chhavad and Vinod Shikari from Kevadiya in Godhra taluka. Scrapped Rs 500 currency notes with face value of Rs 9,87,500 were found from the bag. The string of seizures had begun with the massive seizure of demonetised currency by the state Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) and Panchmahal police from Godhra town. This was followed by a seizure of Rs two lakh of currency in Halol and a seizure of Rs 16.61lakh in Godhra town. Despite the series of seizures, there is still no clarity if these were linked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-scrapped-notes-seized-near-godhra/articleshow/78833237.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Locals, tourists clash at Kodibetta||Madikeri: An incident of locals clashing with tourists at Kotebetta earlier this week has come to light after an audio clip by a tourist went viral on social media. The tourists from Suntikoppa have now complained to Somwarpet police. According to the complaint filed by Nasir, Yatish, S Kumar, Daniel, Cheluvaraju, Ayub, Irshad, Theertha Prasad, Basheer and Nasir, they had parked their five motorbikes at the foothills of Kotebetta to climb the hill. Upon their return, they saw their bike tyres deflated. Also some people, claiming themselves to be forest staff, allegedly blocked their way by parking a jeep, assaulted and robbed them. The complaints said the attackers — in a group of 20 and all wearing masks — are locals residing around Kotebetta. When TOI contacted some locals, they said Kotebetta is a religious place having Botlappa Ishwara Temple. “Visitors should keep the sanctity of the holy place. But many of them consume liquor here and litter the area. Annoyed over such behaviour, locals often clash with tourists,” they added. Somwarpet police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/locals-tourists-clash-at-kodibetta/articleshow/78833583.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Two construction workers electrocuted in Madhapur||Hyderabad: Two construction workers died while they were transporting steel after the steel rods came in contact with a high tension wire at an under construction site in Madhapur on Thursday. The incident took place at around 4pm when Jitender (24) and Umakanth (20) were shifting the steel rods from the site’s gate to their workplace. A case was registered by the police and investigation is being done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-construction-workers-electrocuted-in-madhapur/articleshow/78835163.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Rowdysheeter hacked to death in Kalladka||MANGALURU: Two days after the death of Tulu film actor and rowdysheeter Surendra Bantwal in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, another rowdysheeter, Umar Farooq, was hacked to death on Friday evening in Kalladka. Preliminary reports from the police department in Dakshina Kannada hint at the murder having been committed by a close associate of Farooq’s. Police sources alleged that Farooq’s friend, with whom the victim’s relationship had soured, was suspected to have committed the crime. The murder was allegedly committed near Bodogi, Melkar in Bantwal taluk around 5.20pm, said police. Bike-borne assailants, as yet unidentified, stopped Farooq’s vehicle and attacked him with lethal weapons. The injuries he sustained proved fatal and Farooq allegedly died on the spot. There were many cases against Farooq, including one for his alleged involvement in a communal riot in Kalladka reported a few years ago. No breakthrough yet in Tulu actor’s murder On the other hand, police are yet to make significant headway in their probe into the murder of Surendra Bantwal, who was killed on Wednesday. Sources in the team investigating the murder said that a close aide of the actor was one of the suspects. “But we have not been able to trace him. He has gone into hiding after the murder. It was a meticulously planned murder,” said one of the officers involved in the probe. An audio clip wherein a person claimed responsibility for the murder of the Tulu actor had gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/rowdysheeter-hacked-to-death-in-kalladka/articleshow/78835160.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Stay indoors, wear masks. And it’s not Covid||NEW DELHI: The thick haze over the city on Friday was enough to tell people that Delhi’s air quality had deteriorated to become ‘very poor’. With hardly any wind, the overall air quality index logged 366 on Friday evening, the most elevated pollution level recorded so far this winter season and the worst since January 22, when the AQI was 370. According to Central Pollution Control Board data, at least 10 air quality monitoring stations recorded readings in the ‘severe’ category, or over 400 on the AQI. With forecasting agencies saying wind speed would remain sluggish over the next 48 hours, the haze is likely to persist. Given the conditions, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority advised people to leave home only if absolutely necessary and to wear a mask at all times. Track the pollution level in your cityA scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the air quality has deteriorated mostly due to calm surface winds. “Wind speed has dropped and almost calm conditions during the day is leading to pollutants accumulating,” said the met official. According to Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), low mixing height, or the trapping of pollutants closer to the ground, and low wind speed hamper smoke dispersion, with the farm fires adding to the pollutant burden. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a forecasting agency under the Union ministry of earth sciences, pegged the share of emissions from stubble burning in the pollutants in Delhi’s air at 17% on Friday. SAFAR reiterated that the spike in pollution was largely due to “extremely calm surface winds” and low inversion height that was trapping pollutants closer to the ground. “The highly calm surface wind conditions prevailing over the Delhi region are forecast to continue for the next two days,” said SAFAR. “This will lead to low ventilation conditions and little dispersion of pollutants for an extended period and, hence, the accumulation of pollutants near the surface. Further deterioration in the AQI is predicted for the next two days.” The Early Warning System for Delhi, also developed by the Union ministry of earth sciences, meanwhile predicted the AQI would remain in the ‘very poor’ category for the next three days, because of light winds and stagnant meteorological conditions, along with mist, which would remain in place until October 26. EPCA chairman Bhure Lal told TOI that no additional measures to control pollution in the capital were being implemented, though the environment body was keeping a keen eye on the situation. “Since the soaring pollution is due to meteorological conditions and lack of winds, there isn’t much that can be done to change that,” he reasoned. “However, people must take precautions.” CPCB data showed the 10 monitoring stations of Alipur, Bawana, Shadipur, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Patparganj, Vivek Vihar, Mundka and Wazirpur recorded ‘severe’ pollution on Friday morning with AQI breaching the 400 mark. However, only four stations — Alipur (459), Shadipur (410), Wazirpur (431) and Mundka (402) — showed ‘severe’ levels at 6pm. The AQI was in the ‘very poor’ category across NCR as well, with Greater Noida logging the highest reading of 381, followed by Noida (369), Faridabad (360), Ghaziabad (344) and Gurgaon (334). Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said, “The current wind direction is north-north-west, but it is likely to shift to west. The wind speed is improving gradually, and we anticipate a rise in speed to 8-9metres per second, which is a good sign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stay-indoors-wear-masks-and-its-not-covid/articleshow/78836389.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 24, 2020||India||Despite US nod, check Remdesivir use: Doctors||The US Food and Drug Administration’s approval to Gilead’s anti-viral drug, Remdesivir for adult and pediatric (12 years and above) Covid-19 hospitalised patients, may not lead to its rampant use as a treatment option in India. Doctors say only restricted or emergency use of Remdesivir in Indian patients should continue till more robust data emerges. As against this, Remdesivir has been granted a full regulatory go-ahead on October 22, becoming the first drug for Covid-19 to receive USFDA approval. The approval comes even as the recent World Health Organisation’s Solidarity Trials showed that the drug was ineffective in reducing mortality or duration of hospital stay. Earlier in May, Veklury or Remdesivir was authorised only for emergency use by the US regulator. Indiscriminate use of the drug in patients here in India needs to be curbed as nearly all scientific studies showed it was ineffective in reducing mortality or duration of hospital stay, doctors told TOI. It is approved for only restricted emergency use at present. ``India needs scalable, affordable, and equitable treatments. The WHO Solidarity trial has generated data that is remarkably clear, independent, and robust. I do not think that we should let the US FDA drive our treatment protocols. Physicians have a moral imperative and an ethical obligation to use interventions that are proven, are known to save lives and are cost-effective’’, Dr SP Kalantri Professor of Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram said. Experts argue about the need for earlier use of Remdesivir but, even if it brought modest benefits, the absolute numbers of lives saved are very small. ``Since August, Maharashtra has issued a warning against its rampant use, and advised only a restricted use policy in moderate to severe hospitalised cases’’, Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 task force said, adding the drug if used early, in the first nine days of the illness, can enhance recovery. The USFDA approval was supported by the agency’s analysis of data from three randomized, controlled clinical trials that included patients hospitalized with mild-to-severe Covid-19, it said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/despite-us-nod-check-remdesivir-use-doctors/articleshow/78838286.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 24, 2020||Chennai||WFH is now WFNH, club houses turning into co-working spaces||CHENNAI: With WFH (work from home) becoming the new normal, realtors are converting common areas including club houses and recreation centres inside housing complexes into co-working spaces to enable Work from Near Home or WFNH. In some residential complexes, even large commercial blocks are being remodified into boutique office spaces. Developers say creating ‘business centres’ inside residential complex will help address various downsides of WFH such as space constraint, poor internet connectivity, data security concerns, and lower employee engagement and motivation. Lodha Group offers co-working spaces as part of the Club Saint Amand membership to residents of Lodha Luxury, Lower Parel, Mumbai since August. “The co-working space is equipped with meeting rooms, a board room, and a networking space— The Collaborative. In recent months, with the shifting work culture, residents have been making the most of the 7,000 sqft space incorporated with the latest state-of-the-art amenities. With Club Saint Amand, we aim to deliver unrestricted access, fluidity in work, and bespoke experiences closer to resident’s abodes,” a Lodha’s spokesperson said. Chennai-based developer Akshaya has converted the commercial tower in its townships, in Kelambakkam, Thoraipakkam, Guduvancherry and Padur, which used to house a corporate office of one lakh sqft into ‘Work From Near Home’ (i.e) smaller boutiques offices inside the township. Its chairman & CEO T Chitty Babu said “The WNFH is available in sizes from 1,550 sqft and up to 8,500 sqft. We will continue to introduce co-working office space and boutique offices in our new projects too.” New residential projects on the drawing board are also factoring in business centres as among the ‘must have’ amenity options. Niranjan Hiranandani, founder & MD, Hiranandani Group said “Just as club houses accept membership requests from those not residing within the complex or township, work from near home has the potential to become a revenue earning amenity for the project – in all respects, a practical solution. We have started to incorporate co-working space designs in our existing projects including Hiranandani Gardens, Powai (Mumbai) Hiranandani Estate, Thane (Mumbai) and Hiranandani Fortune City in Navi Mumbai and new projects.” The cost of turning existing banquet and club house spaces to business centres is not huge; so too is the maintenance cost, he added. Residents’ welfare associations too welcome this initiative. Sujatha Y, secretary of Chennai-based The Central Park Apartment Owners Association at OMR, which has 192 apartments, said “It is a welcome move, since most residents do feel trapped inside their homes but fear stepping far away from their residences. We are planning to convert our community hall and games room into co-working space for our residents, if the situation around the Covid pandemic remains unchanged.” Development rules do not have any specific reference that allows or disallows setting up of co-working spaces. “It could be construed as a change of use and accordingly dealt with and is subject to regulatory approvals,” said a retired professor of urban engineering at Anna University. “Setting up co-working offices are legally allowed for residential complexes which already have Club house approvals from the regulators as integrated or combined buildings,’’ realtor Chitty Babu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wfh-is-now-wfnh-club-houses-turning-into-co-working-spaces/articleshow/78835194.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Purchased an electric vehicle after August 7? Log in to apply for subsidy||NEW DELHI: Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday launched a portal for seamless disbursal of subsidy to buyers of electric vehicles. The incentives would be applicable for all vehicles registered after August 7, when the policy was notified, while road tax deduction would be valid from October 10 and registration fee exemptions from October 15. Electric vehicles dealers can log on ev.delhi.gov.in and apply for subsidy. “The entire process is simple and hassle-free. The transport department has approved over 100 EV models that will be eligible for subsidy. Till now, 36 manufacturers and 98 dealers have registered with us,” said Gahlot. The minister added that the EV policy was one of the key actions announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the war against pollution. The policy has been welcomed by all stakeholders. We are attempting to implement everything under this policy in the best way possible. On October 10, it was decided to exempt road tax. Five days later, registration charges were exempted,” Gahlot added. The 100 models comprise 14 electric two-wheelers made by Hero Electric, Okinawa, Ampere, Jitendra New EV Tech and Li-ions Electrik, 12 electric four-wheelers made by Tata and Mahindra, four electric autos by Mahindra, Piaggio and Saarthi, 45 e-rickshaws and 17 e-carts. “The buyer will be informed about the progress and status of the claim application through regular SMS updates. The transport department will have a dashboard through which it will track the number of applications received and those pending approval at the individual office level. Real-time tracking has also been put in place,” Gahlot said. The website has also listed electric vehicle dealers across the city and charging stations with Google map location in each district. Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission, said tariffs for charging electric vehicles on low tension would be Rs 4.5 per unit and Rs 5 per unit for high tension. “This is the lowest tariff in India. Service charge would be added depending on the charging facility,” he added. Currently, Delhi has 70 charging stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/purchased-an-electric-vehicle-after-aug-7-log-in-to-apply-for-subsidy/articleshow/78836402.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops arrest two, seize Rs 1L worth gutka||Hyderabad: Cyberabad police raided a shop in Chetanpally in Shadnagar, where two persons allegedly were manufacturing gutka. Police said that Rs 1 lakh worth gutka and its related machinery was seized by police. Both the persons were arrested and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-two-seize-rs-1l-worth-gutka/articleshow/78835207.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Aurangabad||HC quashes case against woman for man’s death||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court quashed an FIR filed against a 24-year-old female student for abetting the suicide of a 26-year-old man in December 2017. The woman had approached the high court seeking to quash the FIR registered against her by Begumpura police under sections 306, 506 and 34 of the IPC following a complaint from the deceased’s younger brother. The deceased, Ganesh, a student who pursued masters in computer scinece, and his younger brother Umesh Kopurwad were putting up at the hostel on the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University campus. The bench, comprising Justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar, observed, “from the bare reading of the FIR, in which the contents of the suicide note are incorporated, it is evident that the contents do not even remotely indicate that the applicant had instigated the deceased to commit suicide or had intentionally aided the commission of the suicide by the deceased. ’’ On September 12, 2017, when Umesh came back to the room of his hostel around 1.10pm, he found that it was locked from inside. When he saw through the slit of the door, he found Ganesh hanging from the ceiling of the room. They informed police, who found a suicide mentioning that the woman was moving around with other boys. The bench observed that the “contents do not indicate that the petitioner created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no alternative than to commit suicide’’. On the contrary, the bench remarked “the contents of the suicide note, as narrated in the FIR, indicate that the deceased did not like the petitioner to be friendly with other boys.” While referring to a line in the suicide note that read ‘she continued going to movies with the boys and moving around with them on the bike’, the court observed, “this indicates that the deceased did not like the petitioner to be friendly with other boys.’’ Thus, the bench said, “it cannot be said that the petitioner had an intention to bring about the suicide of the deceased or that she had created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no alternative than to commit suicide or instigate the deceased to commit suicide. Therefore, the petition will have to be allowed.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-case-against-woman-for-mans-death/articleshow/78832805.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 24, 2020||Goa||Focus on drainage, St Inez creek, not smart cameras: Mayor tells Smart City Mission||PANAJI: Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Limited (IPSCDL) should focus on projects such as drainage systems, footpaths and good roads, which can improve lives of local residents, instead of spending precious funds on “unnecessary” projects, mayor of the Corporation of the City of Panaji, Uday Madkaikar, said. Madkaikar said the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC), which hinges on smart cameras being installed in the state capital, are not useful for the state. He said this after meeting the new IPSCDL chief executive officer (CEO) Hemant Kumar, an IAS officer. “The new CEO said that he has no idea about the projects recommended by the Panaji MLA, but said that the priority is to install the cameras by using any means necessary,” Madkaikar said. The mayor, along with a couple of representatives from Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate’s office, met Kumar to take stock of the ongoing projects. Kumar reportedly informed them that the ICCC project, which has been awarded to L&T for Rs 181 crore, has to be completed as soon as possible since the smart city mission comes to an end in March. “We had asked the earlier CEO to prepare an estimate to solve the flooding for 18th June road, Miramar, Mala, and to take up the Ribandar municipality market and Ribandar football ground under the smart city mission. Leaving all this aside, the new CEO wants to give priority to the cameras. We are against this.” He said that instead of installing 450 cameras in the state capital, IPSCDL should take up work on rejuvenating the St Inez Creek, improve the storm water drainage network and create good footpaths for pedestrians.“We need a permanent solution for flooding in Mala and till then, cameras can’t be the priority,” Madkaikar said. We had asked the earlier CEO to prepare an estimate to solve the flooding issue and to take up the Ribandar market and football ground under the Smart City. But, the new CEO wants to give priority to the cameras||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/focus-on-drainage-st-inez-creek-not-smart-cameras-mayor-tells-smart-city-mission/articleshow/78837311.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vadodara||Women cooperative gets 150 biogas plants, NDDB’s trademark||VADODARA/ ANAND: The country’s first women-led manure cooperative got further boost on Friday as 150 biogas plants were sanctioned for women farmers of Mujkuva village of Anand district. Chairman of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), Dilip Rath, launched the next phase of manure management initiative at Mujkuva Dairy Cooperative Society. The Mujkuva Sakhi Khad Sahakari Mandli has been granted NDDB’s trademark ‘Sudhan’ for manufacturing bio slurry-based organic fertilisers while 150 women farmers have been sanctioned biogas plants. These are in addition to the 42 biogas plants that have been installed earlier. In order to promote ayurvedic veterinary medicine, medicinal plants were also distributed to women farmers. Under the initiative, biogas plants are installed by the dairy farmers in their backyard for producing gas that is to be used as cooking fuel. The bio slurry produced from these biogas plants is primarily used by the farmers in their own field and surplus bio slurry gets sold to other farmers or is converted into organic fertilisers. The mandli, which was earlier coordinating the management and sale of surplus bio slurry from women members, will now also take up slurry processing and manufacturing of organic fertiliser. NDDB’s Sudhan trademark will help the mandli in creating an identity and ensuring quality of products. NDDB has started work on supporting two more such projects in Bihar’s Begusarai district and Odisha’s Cuttack district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/women-coop-gets-150-biogas-plants-nddbs-trademark/articleshow/78833270.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Cannabis plants worth Rs 4 lakh seized||BALLARI: Excise officials conducted a raid on a farm and recovered ganja plants weighing 32kgs near Halmuravani village in Siraguppa taluk on Friday. Total worth of the ganja plants seized is Rs 4 lakhs. They were allegedly grown by farm owner Kalappa Doddairanna. The raids were led by deputy superintendent of excise BH Poojar. The plants were grown among other crops in the field. A case has been registered at Sirguppa excise station in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cannabis-plants-worth-rs-4-lakh-seized/articleshow/78834979.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nashik||‘Harassment’ drives 2 women to end lives in Nashik||Nashik: Two women reportedly died by suicide in their respective homes after allegedly facing physical and mental harasmment from their husbands and in-laws. In the first incident registered with Satpur police, Rupali Borse (24) died after she hung herself from an iron hook on the ceiling of her residnce in Shramik Nagar, Satpur, around 6.30pm on Wednesday. While Satpur police registered a case of accidental death initially, police later arrested Rupali’s husband Sham Bore on Thursday evening after a relative of her’s lodged a complaint. Sham’s mother has also been booked on the charges of abetting Rupali’s suicide. The complainant stated that Rupali’s husband and her mother-in-law were continuously harassing her on one or the other pretext for over one-and-a-half years which forced her to take the extreme step. In the second case of suicide registered with Panchavati police, Priya Kunal Gaikwad (32) reportedly hung herself at her residence near Seeta Gumpha in the Panchavati area of the city around 6pm on Wednesday. On Friday, Priya’s father Ramesh Nikam lodged a complaint against her husband Kunal and five of his relatives stating they had been harassing her to bring money from him to start a business since April 2014. Fed up with the continuous physical and mental harassment over money matters for so many years forced Priya to take the extreme step, alleged Nikam. Satpur police have arrested Kunal and one of his family member for allegedly abetting Priya’s suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/harassment-drives-2-women-to-end-lives-in-nashik/articleshow/78832824.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||BJP indulging in low-level politics: HK Patil||Haveri: Teachers and graduates will support Congress in the forthcoming council election because of unemployment, corruption and anti-people policies of the state and Union governments,” said Congress leader HK Patil here on Friday. “BJP has not been upholding values of democracy and ruling party in the state and Centre has insulted the parliamentary system. They have introduced anti-people policies by ordinance without discussions in the houses. The state government has amended the Karnataka Land Reforms Act 2020 to help capitalists and thrown farmers welfare to the wind,” he alleged. The former minister criticised BJP for promising a free Covid-19 vaccine in its poll manifesto in Bihar. “This is low level politics. Everyone should get Covid vaccination in our nation and there shouldn’t be any differentiation in such a serious matter. But BJP is tempting the people of Bihar before the assembly election,” he said. “I urge the registered graduates in the Karnataka West Graduates constituency to cast their first preference votes to our candidate Prof RM Kuberappa, he will serve the welfare of unemployed graduates,” he appealed. DCC president MM Hiremath, former minister Rudrappa Lamani, candidate RM Kuberappa, ZP member Kotreshappa Baseganni and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bjp-indulging-in-low-level-politics-hk-patil/articleshow/78836253.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi municipal corporation readies plan to decongest Anand Vihar||NEW DELHI: To take stock of congestion during peak hours, East Delhi Municipal Corporation commissioner Dilraj Kaur and joint commissioner, traffic police, Meenu Chaudhary visited Anand Vihar on Thursday. It is one of the 13 pollution hotspots in the city. During the visit, it was decided to decongest the area by regulating the traffic, removing hawkers or vendors occupying roadsides through daily drives and by taking action against haphazardly parked autos and other vehicles. Track the pollution level in your city“During the peak hours, air quality declines drastically in the area. Despite being a signal-free intersection, the main road leading to Anand Vihar ISBT, Metro and railway stations witnesses traffic congestion for various reasons, including haphazard parking of autos and private buses. These vehicles often halt abruptly to pick up passengers. The east corporation officials discussed these points with the two officials during their visit,” said a senior EDMC official. “It has been decided that no tehbazari will be allowed on road and autos will be parked in service lanes (near prepaid booths) in an organised manner. Violators will be heavily penalised. We have also decided to approach the railways, ISBT and Delhi Metro for improving the movement plan in the area,” the official added. The east corporation, meanwhile, claimed to have engaged 18 water tankers and a smog gun in Anand Vihar for dust emission and water sprinkling. In each of the two places—Mandoli and Vivek Vihar industrial areas—14 water tankers, one smog gun and three water tankers are engaged. The civic body has almost doubled the number of teams, from 16 to 28, for checking pollution due to construction and waste burning. “Senior officials have also been asked to go for random visits in early morning peak hours and late night to check the status of dust mitigation measures,” said another official. The civic body claims to have issued 436 challans between October 17 and October 22 against the violators and imposed a penalty of Rs 16.2 lakh on them. Rs 3.3 lakh has been collected so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/e-corpn-readies-plan-to-decongest-anand-vihar/articleshow/78836469.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra govt can’t fix non-Covid rates in private hospitals: Bombay high court||NAGPUR: In a verdict that would bring respite to private hospitals, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday ruled that the Maharashtra government can’t fix rates for non-Covid patients in these establishments. Quashing two government notifications of April 30 and May 4 for fixing rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala held that the government isn’t competent to such directives under Disaster Management Act’s (DMA) Section 65. “The legislature isn’t competent under public health and sanitation, hospitals and dispensaries in Schedule VII’s List II (State List) under the Constitution of India to either frame any law/issue any direction for putting a cap on regulating rates chargeable by private hospitals for non-Covid patients,” it ruled. While setting aside the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) orders issued by the then commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on June 4, the judges said that neither the Epidemic Diseases Act (EDA), 1897, nor the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations, 2020 empower the government to issue directives regarding non-Covid patients in 20% isolation and non-isolation beds in private hospitals/health care providers and nursing homes. The NMC orders for fixing rates for non-Covid patients in private hospitals were based on April 30 and May 4 notifications by the state government. “The government isn’t competent to issue such directives for non-Covid patients in exercise of power under DMA’s Section 65. This is clearly an encroachment over petitioner’s fundamental rights under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business,” they said. Stressing that the private establishments are denuded of their control and regulation over 80% isolation and non-isolation beds due to government’s directives, the judges stated that they should be compensated under DMA’s Section 66. “We, therefore, hold that such directives can’t be treated to have been issued in exercise of executive power under the Constitution of India, having a ‘force of law’, by which reasonable restrictions under Article 19(6) can be validly imposed,” the judges said. Explaining about provisions under both Acts, the bench said EDA’s Section 2 enables taking of special measures and to determine in what manner and by whom the expenses incurred (including compensation if any) “shall be defrayed to patients suffering from epidemic diseases, whereas DMA’s Section 65 provides for their effective management”. “None of the provisions of EDA or DMA create any statutory obligation upon the government to treat the non-Covid patients or to take special measures in respect thereof. The DMA provisions are complementary and supplementary, serving the EDA’s purpose and object. Whereas, EDA’s Section 2 enables better prevention of spread of epidemic, DMA’s Section 65 provides for patients’ effective management,” they said. Applauding the study and efforts made by petitioner Dr Pradeep Arora, a paediatrician who is running a nursing home, the judges said he argued the case with a proper understanding of law even though he is not a lawyer. The HC also appreciated contributions made by senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari and Deven Chauhan, who were appointed as amicus curiae, along with advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhkoni and additional government pleader Anand Deshpande, during the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-cant-fix-non-covid-rates-in-pvt-hosps-hc/articleshow/78836484.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Residents waiting for roads and street lights in Jhotwara||Jaipur: Streetlights and sanitation are the biggest problems for the people living in wards of Jhotwara legislative assembly segment. For the last two years, the street lights of most of the areas in Jhotwara are not functioning properly.Manish Mehta, a resident of the area, said, “Street lights in my area are not properly functioning and we have filed many complaints, but obviously they are not resolved. In a few wards, there are LED lights that also stopped functioning after a few months.” Many areas do not have permanent roads. All the politicians assure that roads will be constructed only during election time. However, they never fulfil their assurances once get elected.Naina Sharma, a resident of a ward in Jhotwara, said, “Even the sanitation condition of our area is bad. Garbage collecting vehicles come once a week and ultimately, we have to burn the garbage on road as we can’t keep them at home for long. For the last six months, I have not seen any sanitation worker in the area.”Another resident of the area said that despite several complaints to the civic authorities, no action has been taken so far. People are constantly suffering due to the indifferent attitude of the JMC officials. Like most of the areas of Jaipur, sewerage is an important issue in Jhotwara as well. Many areas do not have sewer lines and have to get the septic tank cleaned in every 10 days. Moreover, there are no drainage system in the area. In newly constructed colonies that are JDA approved, drainage system is not good and people have urged the councillors to construct it but no one pays attention.Jhotwara constituency had seven seats in last election out of which six were won by the BJP. This is considered to be a BJP stronghold which can give tough competition to the Congress. “Since septic tanks have to be cleaned in every 10 days, we have to inform the authorities. However, most of the times, they don’t turn up. So, we have to do it on our own. We have to shell out extra money to get the septic tanks cleaned. This puts additional financial burden on us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/residents-waiting-for-roads-and-street-lights-in-jhotwara/articleshow/78836466.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi active cases at 3-month low, but Puja crowds a concern||Ranchi: With recoveries continuing to outnumber new Covid infections across most districts in Jharkhand, the number of active cases in Ranchi fell below 2,000 on Friday for the first time since July 30 while the state figure seemed set to dip the below the 6,000-mark and reached the lowest since August 13. With three Covid deaths, 435 new infections and 499 recoveries through the day, the cumulative case load stood at 99,045 cases, of which 6,055 are active, 92,128 (93.01%) have recovered and 862 have died. Among the casualties, two were in East Singhbhum and one in Godda. Ranchi was the only district to report new cases in three digits. With 103 cases and 159 recoveries, the number of active cases fell to 1,942. Bokaro reported 65 cases and West Singhbhum 46 However, the state administration and health experts remain concerned about the possibility of another wave of the outbreak in next two weeks due to increased public interaction during festivities. “If people do not obey the guidelines and avoid crowded places during Pujas, it might prove to be disastrous for us,” said Dr Devesh Kumar, public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-active-cases-at-3-month-low-but-puja-crowds-a-concern/articleshow/78837277.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Fisheries College, KFDC to launch ready-to-eat meal||Mangaluru: The College of Fisheries, a pioneer institute in the area of fisheries and fisheries technology, has developed Mathsya Siri Khadya, a ready-to-eat food item that is expected to be launched later this week. The product will be marketed across the state by Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC), according to fisheries minister and KFDC chairman Kota Shrinivas Poojari. KFDC managing director M L Doddamani told TOI the joint venture is a step towards Prime Minister’s Atma Nirbhar Bharat. “Plans are to make the product available at local stores, KFDC outlets, railway and bus stations,” he added. The ready-to-eat food item is one of the products developed by the department of fish processing technology, ICAR-AICRP on Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology, College of Fisheries. Dr A Senthil Vel, professor and dean (fisheries), Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, College of Fisheries, said: “People have now resumed travel and I have noticed that many are not comfortable visiting hotels, especially during long-distance travel. This wholesome meal pack is ideal, especially during a pandemic. The government too has been advising people to eat right and stay fit. This is for the first time that the college has attempted to produce a wholesome meal,” he said, adding the product consists of dry varieties of rotis made of ragi, iowar and rice along with prawn pickle, tuna fish pickle, prawn chutney powder and fish wafers. KFDC had recently launched fish wafers. “All the items are packed in an arecanut dried leaf plate and we hope to price them nominally. The food is highly delicious, nutritious and gluten-free. It is being produced scientifically and it will help farmers who cultivate ragi, jowar, and other millets and also fishermen,” he said. The product is expected to be available a week after the launch. Currently, the Fisheries College is aiming at manufacturing at least 5,000 food packets per day for distribution through KFDC outlets. Talks are on to make it available at all KSRTC bus stands and to join hands with IRCTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fisheries-college-kfdc-to-launch-ready-to-eat-meal/articleshow/78835337.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Identify vulnerable areas, make local evac plans: Report on Anaj Mandi fire||NEW DELHI: Based on a notice sent by National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the town planning department of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has submitted an interim report to a special task force (STF) proposing a host of measures for preventing a repeat of fire incidents like the one that occurred at Anaj Mandi last December. The report recommends checking unauthorised constructions, identifying vulnerable areas in a fixed time-frame and forming neighbourhood evacuation and disaster management plans to curb such hazards. Formation of a larger committee with officials from all town planning departments, traffic police, DDMA, DDA, fire department and discoms has also been proposed to ensure a plan on which action can be taken. Located near Filmistan along Rani Jhansi flyover in the heart of Old Delhi, Anaj Mandi houses several illegal industrial units. One such building caught fire on the night of December 9, 2019 and 43 labourers living there died in their sleep. Taking suo motu cognisance, NHRC had issued a notice to Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, which entrusted the responsibility of a probe into the incident to the STF in January. A committee headed by the SDMC chief town planner having members from other agencies was formed and asked to submit a report. A senior corporation official said that the report presented to the STF mentioned that the profiles and categorisation of unauthorised construction needed to be worked out. “These categories can be subdivided further, urgently removing those that fall beyond permissible safety norms. Regularisation of unauthorised construction can be a different category. The regularisation process must be guided by safety norms. Redevelopment must be given incentives to reduce hazards in such areas,” he added. Master Plan of Delhi 2021 had also envisaged a redevelopment plan for special areas, such as the Walled City and Karol Bagh, but it never came to fruition. The report recommended that regularisation of illegal construction should ensure that the character of heritage areas was protected. There should be a complete ban on any new hazardous industrial or commercial activity in such areas. However, the snail’s pace of action in this case inspires very little confidence. The report was to be submitted within six weeks in January, but it is still being finalised 10 months on. While the incident generated public outrage and highlighted how poorly migrant labourers were treated with respect to working conditions, the probe saw the administration falling in the same old habits. Meanwhile, no accountability among officials has been fixed for the disaster till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/identify-vulnerable-areas-make-local-evac-plans-report-on-anaj-mandi-fire/articleshow/78836507.cms||Paras Singh
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Brain fog after recovery in many Covid patients raises concern||JAIPUR: Abhijeet Singh (name changed),42, recovered from Covid-19 last month. Since then he has been experiencing short-term memory loss, lack of concentration and nausea. Similar problems are seen among many patients who had faced hypoxia for smaller or longer intervals during their Covid treatment. Experts on Covid-19 core team also opined that the problem, termed as ‘brain fog’ is seen among many patients and they need medical intervention. Also, medical and health department, while starting post-Covid care, would also do the mapping of these patients along with those who are facing other problems after recovery. According to the experts, brain fog, a medical condition which is also known as cognitive dysfunction can have short-term or long-term impact on the brain. “Prior to testing positive for Covid, many patients are deprived of oxygen needed for proper functioning of various body parts including the brain. So, by the time we start oxygen therapy at the hospital after the admission of the patient, there is already some oxygen deprivation and lower PO2 (Partial pressure of oxygen) levels in the patients. These patients are complaining of brain fog,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent of SMS Hospital, who is also part of the Covid core team constituted for the treatment by the health department, while talking to TOI on Friday. Doctors said that even during the treatment, when a Covid patient comes with symptoms of lowered oxygen saturation, they complain of lack of concentration, memory loss for smaller periods and even nausea. “We have seen patients get nausea when they get up to visit washroom in the hospital. So, with the oxygen therapy, we are facilitating these patients,” Singh added. Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal of SMS Medical College said that brain fog was certainly seen in many patients who recovered from the virus. “It is a medical condition when a patient complains about troubling cognitive symptoms. Confusion, delirium, dizziness, problems in grasping routine conversations, and memory loss are among a set of complaints. So, while we are coming up with post-Covid care, we will certainly focus on this problem as well.” However, doctors claimed that the number of such patients is not very big but this is a problem that needs timely intervention. “Those who are having these problems should visit neurologists. With post-Covid care, the condition of these patients would be determined,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brain-fog-after-recovery-in-many-covid-patients-raises-concern/articleshow/78836502.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Ragini’s ‘aide’ gets bail in drug case||DHARWAD/BENGALURU: Congress functionary Girish Gadigeppagoudar, said to be a close associate of actress Ragini Dwivedi, was granted conditional bail by the principal district and sessions court in Dharwad on Friday. Girish, after being questioned by CCB about the drug racket, had applied for anticipatory bail on September 21. He was given bail against a surety of Rs 2 lakh. After CCB police arrested Ragini in connection with the racket, Girish was summoned based on the information provided by her. CCB officers questioned him in Bengaluru for three days, seeking details and documents on the duo’s partnership in casinos in Panaji. They later visited Panaji and inspected the casinos. Trio’s bail pleas adjournedThe special court for narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances on Friday adjourned to October 28 the bail petitions filed by three accused arrested in the drug-peddling case with alleged links to Sandalwood. Event manager Viren Khanna, RTO employee Ravi Shankar and businessman Aditya Agarwal, who are among 15 people arrested by CCB sleuths, are seeking bail. On Friday, counsel Hashmath Pasha appearing for Khanna began his argument. The arguments will continue on October 28. Counsel for Agarwal and Ravi Shankar have presented their arguments. The court had earlier denied bail to the other accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/drug-scandal-ragini-aide-granted-bail/articleshow/78836385.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||HC to decide interim fees by pvt schools||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court will issue an interim order for the collection of fees by private schools till the report of the committee constituted by the government arrives. During the hearing on appeals filed by the state government and parents’ association against the single bench order of allowing private schools to charge 70 per cent of the tuition fees, the court though asked the state government to take interim decision, but the state objected to it. The state said that since it was a decision of the single bench thus the court can only take interim decision on the matter. Additional advocate general Rajesh Maharishi said on behalf of the state government that a committee has been formed to fix the fees, which has sent a letter to all the parties asking for suggestions. Many parties have given suggestions in this regard. After the suggestions of the remaining parties, the report will be prepared which will be placed before the court. In such a situation, the government should give a week’s time. To this, the court said that until the final report comes, the committee should decide a tentative fees to provide relief to the parents and the schools. However, schools opposed it and stated that since single bench of Rajasthan High Court had ordered 70 per cent tuition fees, a state government committee can’t issue an interim order. Thus, the division bench of Chief Justice Inderjit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma decided to fix the fees tentatively till the report of the committee comes. A separate order will be issued by the court in this regard.It may be recalled that on September 7, a single bench of the high court allowed the private schools to collect 70 per cent of the tuition fees. However, this was challenged in the high court by the parents’ association and state government. Thereafter, the division bench ordered the state government to constitute a committee for fixing the fees, and stayed the order of the single bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-to-decide-interim-fees-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/78836512.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Surat||Surtis can now fly to Belagavi, Kishangarh from Nov 10||SURAT: Now Surtis can fly to Belagavi or Belgaum in Karnataka and Kishangarh in Rajasthan as the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has approved the two routes from Surat airport for winter scheduled under the UDAN-3 scheme. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) authorities have stated that the Surat-Belagavi-Kishangarh flight services will start from November 10. The aircraft will have the capacity to carry 50 passengers. Star Air, a regional commuter airline, will provide the flight services. The flight will be operated for four days a week (Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday). The flight from Belagavi will depart at 12 pm to reach Surat at 1.20 pm. The same flight will depart from Surat at 1.50 pm to reach Kishangarh at 3.10 pm. From Kishangarh, the flight will depart at 3.40 pm to reach Surat at 5 pm. From Surat the flight will depart at 5.30 pm to reach Belagavi at 6.50. At present, the Surat airport caters to 20 departures and arrivals to various destinations including Delhi, Mumbai, Goa, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Goa and Kolkata. Star Air is based at Kempegowda International Airport in Bangalore, Karnataka. It started operations in January 2019, offering flights within Karnataka state as well as to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat as part of the Central Government’s UDAN scheme. Last month, Hyderabad-based Turbo Megha Airways, an aviation company promoted by TruJet won the bid for operating regional flight between Surat and Diu. A senior airport official said, “Belagavi and Kishangarh are the two new sectors for Surat. The flight connectivity will considerably reduce the travel time for the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surtis-can-now-fly-to-belagavi-kishangarh-from-nov-10/articleshow/78833487.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vadodara||60-year-old lady targeted by chain-snatchers||VADODARA: A 60-year-old lady was targeted by two chain-snatchers in the city on Thursday night. The woman, Ramila Solanki, a resident of Tarsali Road has registered a complaint of loot at Panigate police station. Solanki told the police that she was riding pillion with her husband on their two-wheeler at about 10 pm on Thursday. Two persons came on a motorbike from behind when the complainant was passing through Waghodia-Dabhoi Ring Road. The man riding pillion snatched her gold chain after which the duo sped away. The police have begun scanning CCTV footage to track the motorcycle with the help of its license plate number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/60-year-old-lady-targeted-by-chain-snatchers/articleshow/78833308.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Dip in fresh infections and active cases continues; state reports 14 deaths||Jaipur: Dip in Covid-19 positive cases continued on Friday when the state reported 1,815 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,82,570.Of the 33 districts in the state, Tonk and Baran did not report a single case. However, the districts including Banswara, Dholpur, Jhalawar, Karauli and Sirohi reported less than 10 cases. However, 14 deaths in the state took the total toll to 1,814.Also, 2,367 patients got discharged from various hospitals after getting recovered. “Of the total 1,82,570 patients, we got 1,62,981 recovered in the state. For the past one week, the number of persons recovering is also increasing,” said an officer with the health department.Banswara reported three new cases and was followed by Karauli (2), Sirohi (5), Dholpur (7) and Jhalawar (7).In Jaipur, drop in cases continued as 339 tested positive in the city. “Also, 748 patients were discharged from various hospitals,” said a senior officer. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 296 cases were detected and Bikaner where 217 cases were detected. Also, the active cases in Jaipur, which were over 9,000 in September, have come down to 5,847.Health officials, while refuting reports that there is a drop in testing, maintained that on an average the state is receiving at least 25,000 samples per day. “We are receiving 25,000 samples per day, while in some districts there is drop in average collection of samples as they have more asymptomatic patients,” said Dr Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director (rural health).Of the 14 deaths, two each were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur, while one death each was reported from Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Sriganganagar, Jalore, Kota, Nagaur, Sikar and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dip-in-fresh-infections-and-active-cases-continues-state-reports-14-deaths/articleshow/78836509.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Air India M’luru, B’luru flights resume on Oct 26||Mangaluru: Air India has announced resumption of flights between Mangaluru and Bengaluru starting Monday. Flight AI 575 will depart from Bengaluru at 4pm and reach Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) at 5.20pm. Flight AI 576 will depart MIA at 6pm and reach Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru at 7.20pm. The flights will operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Fares start at Rs 2,342, a communique from the airline stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/air-india-mluru-bluru-flights-resume-on-oct-26/articleshow/78835371.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur business body wants relief in advertisement tax||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh (JVM) has urged the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) for relaxations in advertisement tax on hoardings. Like every year, the JVM will put up hoardings displaying advertisements in the market during Diwali. The revenue generated through this will be utilized for decorating market. They, however, don’t charge shopkeepers for advertisements on any hoarding in the market. On Diwali, traders get relaxations from the authorities. Subhash Goyal, president of JVM, said, “All the traders have incurred heavy losses during pandemic. We want to celebrate Diwali and decorate the market just like last year. Hence, we have requested the JMC to give us relaxations in advertisement tax on hoardings. Recently, traders in market have also demanded relaxation in urban development tax this year by the government. Due to lockdown and ongoing pandemic, traders are facing economic loses which is given as a reason to ask for relaxations by the government. A letter has been sent to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting that six months’ urban development tax this year should be waived off. In the three months of complete lockdown, people have lost their business and many shops were shut. Even after the relaxations in the lockdown rules, footfall in the market is still low and many shopkeepers are barely making any sale. Goyal said, “We have faced enormous loss in the lockdown. People are not getting customers in their shops due to the rising number of coronavirus cases. We have made rules to close down the market early in the evening which has impacted the business as well. These are tough times and want some government support for it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biz-body-wants-relief-in-advertisement-tax/articleshow/78836538.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Hawala racket: ATS seizes Rs 25L||The Anti-Terrorist Squad on Friday surveyed a jewellery showroom in Pipaliya market of Beawar. The ATS received a tip-off that the owner of the showroom was involved in a hawala racket. The team seized Rs 25 lakh from the showroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hawala-racket-ats-seizes-rs-25l/articleshow/78836541.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Sharp 62% fall in remdesivir use across Pune district facilities||PUNE: Use of antiviral remdesivir in the treatment of Covid patients has now dipped by over half in Pune district and the division, data released by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has shown. There has been a 62% drop in the district and a 52% slide in the drug’s use across Pune division, which includes districts of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur. SV Pratapwar, assistant commissioner of the FDA, said: “The use of remdesivir in Pune district seems to have dropped by a much greater degree. We saw a 62% drop in hospital requirement in October, compared to data from last month. And across the division, there has been a 52% fall in sales. The average per day sale of the drug in Pune division was over 9,300 vials in September. That’s now down to 4,100 vials per day.” Remdesivir’s deployment in the fight against Covid-19 had received a setback days ago when the World Health Organisation released a study that said the drug had done little to improve condition of hospitalised patients. But Pratapwar said the dip in the number of new patients in Pune and instructions on judicious use — by the state task force — were also likely factors that caused drops in use and sales. “The guidelines defined in which case remdesivir should be administered and in what dosage. The FDA also began monitoring the drug’s supply to hospitals in Pune division. This monitoring helped us streamline availability because we were able to properly guide families to the nearest unit selling remdesivir,” he said. Just over a month ago, there were desperate pleas on social media by families looking for the drug. But doctors said that activity has since reduced. Kapil Zirpe, president of the Association of Critical Care Societies (SAARC) and head of department of Ruby Hall Clinic’s neurotrauma unit, said the drug’s use has reduced significantly. “There are now fewer active cases at the hospital. In September, we used to get an average of eight to 10 critical cases coming in daily. Now, we get about two.” Zirpe said the drug has shown effectiveness. “Remdesivir is an important therapy in the early stages of coronavirus treatment. It was never claimed that it would reduce mortality. It was primarily used to reduce hospitalisation period and infection severity, which means preventing viral replication early on. It doesn’t prevent already established pneumonia,” he said. Piyush Chaudhari, an infectious diseases specialist with Jehangir hospital, said, “There has been a 50% to 60% drop in remdesivir use at the hospital in October because there has been a similar fall in the number of new Covid admissions. This week, we have half the number of patients we had about a month ago. But proportionate use of the drug has not decreased as many patients coming in are in the moderate to severe pneumonia categories.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sharp-62-fall-in-remdesivir-use-across-district-facilities/articleshow/78838978.cms||Neha Madaan
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Covishield human trial starts, Covaxin enters phase three||NAGPUR: Friday brought two important developments regarding Covid-19 vaccines in Maharashtra. Much awaited human trial for the Covishield, a vaccine developed by Oxford University and Astra-Zeneca, began at GMCH in Nagpur. Secondly, after getting a go ahead from DCGI for the third phase of ‘Covaxin’ trial, Bharat Biotech is gearing up to start it with Nagpur as one of the principal sites. “We have shortlisted the first 50 participants for the human trial of Covishield and administering vaccines to them from Friday. All will be administered in the next two days,” said Dr Sushant Meshram, principal investigator for the trial. The 50 participants include 30 men and 20 women. Five of them are senior citizens above 60 years of age. They will be given a second dose after 28 days. Covishield trials are being held in India though Pune-Based Serum Institute of India (SERI) at 17 centres in the country. In Vidarbha, apart from GMCH Nagpur, another trial site is Sevagram’s Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), where it is yet to start. Covishield trial is a Phase 2/3, observer-blind, randomized, controlled study being conducted on healthy adults. In Nagpur, participants from different fields have been selected for trial. More than 200 people from Nagpur had enrolled and of them 50 were selected for the initial phase. Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) panel recommended permission to conduct Phase III clinical trial for Bharat Biotech’s vaccine Covaxin. Earlier, the first and second phase trials were conducted in Nagpur. Before starting the third phase, data from Phase I and II as well as animal challenge study will be assessed. Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, who conducted the first two phases in the city, told TOI that the third phase trial is going to be conducted on thousands of participants and a bigger set-up will be preferred for it. “We have conducted first and second phase at our centre. Two doses in second phase were administered to 50 participants. Recently, all of them reported for 42nd day review. They are doing well,” said Dr Gillurkar. It’s not officially out yet, but the results of both phases of Covaxin are promising, according to sources. Oxford’s Covishield is also considered as one of the most promising vaccine candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covishield-human-trial-starts-covaxin-enters-phase-three/articleshow/78835397.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Leopard rescued from Masuda block of Ajmer||Ajmer: A leopard that terrorised residents around Masuda region was rescued early on Friday morning. The forest department confirmed the presence of a leopard and placed a cage in the area.The leopard was taken to Beawar forest post from where it will be freed in the jungles of Tatgarh. Leopards in Tatgarh Raila reserve forest are now expanding their territory and intruding into the rural parts of the district. Previously, the catchment region of Jawaja was their main territory, but now the cats have reached the fringes of Masuda block through foothills and are repeatedly attacking cattle.From last ten days, people of different villages in Masuda were living in terror as there were continuous attacks. On Thursday night, the leopard reportedly attacked a goat on Bijaynagar road. On Friday morning, villagers found that the leopard was caught in the cage installed by the forest department near the Bada Talab. Officials said the leopard is a male aged around 3 years. Last week, an 8-year-old boy was attacked by a leopard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-rescued-from-masuda-block-of-ajmer/articleshow/78836564.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Many private hospitals withdrawing Covid wards in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 recovery rate breaching the 90% mark in Telangana, many private hospitals are in the process of converting their isolation ward beds to treat other patients. Close to 60 private hospitals have already withdrawn their isolation services as 80 of the 228 hospitals, permitted to treat Covid-19 cases, are not having any patients. As of October 21, 110 private hospitals are having less than 10 Covid-19 patients. It is learnt that 10 small and medium hospitals have completely withdrawn Covid-19 services. However, as the festive season is underway and would extend up to Sankranti, experts are concerned about the spread of the pandemic. “Several expert studies have cautioned that India may experience another wave of the pandemic after the festive season. At this juncture, even though the bed utilisation is low we should not lower the guard,” said Saswat Avasti, asst professor (health), Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI). Meanwhile, Dr Ashok Reddy, president, Telangana Hospitals Nursing Homes Association (THANA) said that if required the beds can be converted for Covid-19 treatment. “With proper sterilisation, hospitals are using isolation beds for other treatments. However, if need be we can allot these beds for Covid-19 patients,” Ashok Reddy said. According to Dr Rahula Medakkar, chief executive officer of Continental Hospitals, very few big hospitals have allocated separate space for the Covid-19 wards that cannot be switched over to other services. “It’s a fact that bed utilization is at least 30% low compared to the June-July period. ICU beds cannot be converted for other purposes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-pvt-hosps-converting-covid-beds-to-non-covid/articleshow/78835393.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 24, 2020||Pune||Sharp 62% fall in remdesivir use across Pune district facilities||PUNE: Use of antiviral remdesivir in the treatment of Covid patients has now dipped by over half in Pune district and the division, data released by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has shown. There has been a 62% drop in the district and a 52% slide in the drug’s use across Pune division, which includes districts of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur. SV Pratapwar, assistant commissioner of the FDA, said: “The use of remdesivir in Pune district seems to have dropped by a much greater degree. We saw a 62% drop in hospital requirement in October, compared to data from last month. And across the division, there has been a 52% fall in sales. The average per day sale of the drug in Pune division was over 9,300 vials in September. That’s now down to 4,100 vials per day.” Remdesivir’s deployment in the fight against Covid-19 had received a setback days ago when the World Health Organisation released a study that said the drug had done little to improve condition of hospitalised patients. But Pratapwar said the dip in the number of new patients in Pune and instructions on judicious use — by the state task force — were also likely factors that caused drops in use and sales. “The guidelines defined in which case remdesivir should be administered and in what dosage. The FDA also began monitoring the drug’s supply to hospitals in Pune division. This monitoring helped us streamline availability because we were able to properly guide families to the nearest unit selling remdesivir,” he said. Just over a month ago, there were desperate pleas on social media by families looking for the drug. But doctors said that activity has since reduced. Kapil Zirpe, president of the Association of Critical Care Societies (SAARC) and head of department of Ruby Hall Clinic’s neurotrauma unit, said the drug’s use has reduced significantly. “There are now fewer active cases at the hospital. In September, we used to get an average of eight to 10 critical cases coming in daily. Now, we get about two.” Zirpe said the drug has shown effectiveness. “Remdesivir is an important therapy in the early stages of coronavirus treatment. It was never claimed that it would reduce mortality. It was primarily used to reduce hospitalisation period and infection severity, which means preventing viral replication early on. It doesn’t prevent already established pneumonia,” he said. Piyush Chaudhari, an infectious diseases specialist with Jehangir hospital, said, “There has been a 50% to 60% drop in remdesivir use at the hospital in October because there has been a similar fall in the number of new Covid admissions. This week, we have half the number of patients we had about a month ago. But proportionate use of the drug has not decreased as many patients coming in are in the moderate to severe pneumonia categories.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sharp-62-fall-in-remdesivir-use-across-district-facilities/articleshow/78836539.cms||Neha Madaan
October 24, 2020||Pune||Daily recoveries exceed fresh cases for record 22 days in PMR||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) have exceeded new cases for 22 days (October 1-22), the longest since the diagnosis of the first two cases in the city on March 9. The last time when the region had reported more new cases than recoveries was on September 30, when 3,298 people had tested positive as against 3,058 recoveries. Since then, from October 1 to 22, a total of 55,658 patients have been discharged in PMR as against 33,577 new cases. Statistically, in the first 22 days of October, number of discharges was higher by 22,081 than the number of new patients. A constant rise in the number of discharges has also pushed the region’s overall recovery rate. On Thursday, the PMR recovery rate reached 92.6%, with the discharge tally surpassing 2.94 lakh-mark against the total Covid-19 caseload of more than 3.17 lakh. Health officials said mitigation measures, such as increased testing, helped the authorities to arrest the growth of Covid-19 numbers, while increasing the recoveries since the beginning of October. During the last week of September, the region had clocked more recoveries on just four days. On some days in October, the recoveries were almost double than the new infection. For example, 2,804 patients were discharged in PMR as against 1,240 new cases on October 5. The number of discharges have been up in both municipal corporations as well as the rural areas of the district. In fact, the rural areas have recorded the largest increase in the number of recoveries in the region, the officials said. According to the report by the district health office, the region’s overall recovery rate, which stood at 84.4% at the beginning of October, has increased to 92.6% by October 22. The rural and Cantonment areas in PMR have reported almost 16% increase in the recovery rate in last 22 days (from 72.4% to 88.7%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-recoveries-exceed-fresh-cases-for-record-22-days-in-pmr/articleshow/78836552.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 24, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant asks Goa police to ‘zero down’ crime rate||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday held a crime review meeting and directed Goa police to “zero down” the crime rate in the state. Sawant said that the police have been directed to tighten security and law and order in the state. Sawant said that there has been 100 percent detection in major criminal cases which had not happened earlier. In view of a number of criminal incidents taking place in the state, Sawant held the review meeting with the director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), superintendents of police (SPs) and officials of the home department. After the review, he said, “Looking at the police statistics, there is more than 93% detection in crime cases as compared to the previous year.” He also said that last year Rs 2 crore drugs were seized but this year “as of now there is around Rs 6 crore drugs seizure”. “I congratulate the police for doing good work,” he said, adding that one of the reason for the increase in crime in Goa was because criminals were coming in to the state from other states. At the review police officials explained to the chief minister the steps taken by the force to maintain law and order in the state. A senior police officer said that officials explained to the chief minister how some of the recent cases were cracked in the state. On Thursday three persons who sold a gun to the accused in Margao jeweller, Swapnil Walke murder case were arrested by the crime branch of Goa Police in a joint operation with their Bihar counterparts. In another case of a joint operation, this time between the special cell of the Delhi Police and Goa Police three accused in the bank ATM theft case at Socorro near Porvorim were arrested in Delhi. Thieves had stolen the ATM and decamped with Rs19 lakh cash five days ago. Similarly, the brutal murder case at Torda was cracked by the Porvorim police when they arrested seven persons including a builder who had allegedly put a ‘supari’ (contract killing) on the victim Vilas Methar. Police had also arrested businessman in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-asks-goa-police-to-zero-down-crime-rate/articleshow/78837316.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Are you prepared to prevent another Pachanady disaster, HC asks MCC, KSPCB||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Friday sought from both the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) statements on their willingness to appoint an organisation such as the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute to prevent recurrence of tragedies such as the Pachanady disaster. In August 2019, a mound of garbage at the Pachanady landfill slid downwards landing on various houses and several houses. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka pointed out to the MCC and the pollution board that the garbage dump had become a major health hazard, contaminating local groundwater aquifers. The court also sought an explanation from the member-secretary of the KSPCB on whether or not action would be taken against the officer who had failed to lodge a complaint in connection with the Pachanady disaster 14 months after the incident, instead of doing so immediately after. The court was informed that the state government had disbursed the remaining quantum of amount, Rs 14 crore, towards compensation for those affected by the disaster. The lawyer for the MCC, meanwhile, issued a new paper publication calling on all those affected by the disaster to submit teir claims. The court is hearing the case following a PIL filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/are-you-prepared-to-prevent-another-pachanady-disaster-hc-asks-mcc-kspcb/articleshow/78835410.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Won’t contest polls, says Harak Singh after being removed as labour board’s chairman||Dehradun: After being removed from the post of chairman of the state labour welfare board, state forest minister Harak Singh Rawat on Friday announced that he won’t contest the state assembly polls in 2022. While Rawat claimed to have already informed his decision to senior office-bearers of BJP, state party president Bansidhar Bhagat told TOI that he had no idea what made Rawat to say so. “He is a senior leader and a cabinet minister. We will speak to him and get a clear understanding of the matter,” Bhagat said. Meanwhile, speaking to the media at his residence on Friday, Rawat said, “I do not want to contest the assembly polls in 2022. I have already conveyed my wish to the party’s top bosses in Uttarakhand and in Delhi. But I am not saying that I am leaving politics. I will remain loyal to BJP and will do what the party would say.” The sudden announcement by the forest minister, who has consistently won the assembly elections that he has contested in the past, is being seen by many as his way of expressing displeasure at the manner in which the labour welfare board post was taken away from him without giving him any prior notice. However, the minister chose to downplay the issue saying that it was the prerogative of the CM as to who he wanted to appoint for the post. He however added that he will be speaking to the CM about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wont-contest-polls-says-harak-singh-after-being-removed-as-labour-boards-chairman/articleshow/78834113.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||No clue into cop’s stolen pistol, cartridges||Yavatmal: The police are still clueless about a service pistol and 10 live cartridges stolen from the residence of API Rahulkumar Raut three days ago. Complainant Rahulkumar Raut stays on the first floor of an apartment in Bangar Nagar area. On the ground floor of the same apartment, API Hemant Koli working in the City police station stays with his family. Raut’s maid told police the thief came to the house in a police uniform and asked about Raut and his wife. Since the intruder was in uniform, the maid didn’t suspect anything. He went inside, broke open the cupboard and stealthily moved out with the revolver, 10 round cartridges and Rs5,000 cash, says the maid. The maid was questioned by police officers a number of times. However, she has stuck to her statement. Meanwhile, the wife of the API Hemant Koli has reportedly said that she too had seen the man in uniform entering the apartment. The police have registered offences under 171 and 380 IPC, for impersonating a police officer and theft, against the unknown culprit. There is no section for theft of a weapon. SP Dilip Patil Bhujbal said there is no progress in the investigation. When asked why sections of Arms Act were not included in the FIR, he said they would be added later. Also, there has been no action against API Raut, whose negligence caused the loss of his service revolver and cartridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-clue-into-cops-stolen-pistol-cartridges/articleshow/78835412.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ core team||CM Ashok Gehlot has formed a core group for ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ campaign, which will be launched from October 26 to November 14. The core group will have senior officers at district level including the collector, who will inspect quality of milk, spices etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shudh-ke-liye-yudh-core-team/articleshow/78836568.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Suspected ‘spy’ detained||CID and ATS teams in Barmer district, based on confidential information, have detained a youth for spying for ISI, who has been sent to Jaipur for inquiry. He was sending confidential information of army across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspected-spy-detained/articleshow/78836579.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||Nepal PM Oli under fire even from own party for meet with RAW chief||KATHMANDU: Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has come under fire, including from the ruling Communist Party leaders, for breaching diplomatic norms over his meeting with Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief Samant Kumar Goel. Goel called on PM Oli at his official residence at Baluwatar on Wednesday. However, the Indian intelligence chief’s visit did not go down well with some political leaders of the country, including members of the ruling party Nepal Communist Party. The meeting was against diplomatic norms and it doesn’t serve Nepal’s national interest, said senior ruling party leader Bhim Rawal. “As the meeting took place in a non-transparent manner without consulting with the concerned section of the foreign ministry, this may also contribute to weakening our state mechanism,” he pointed out. Bishnu Rijal, deputy chief of the foreign affairs department of NCP, said: “Diplomacy should be handled by diplomats — not politicians. The present confusion over the visit of the R&AW chief is the result of the handling of diplomacy by politicians”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-pm-oli-under-fire-even-from-own-party-for-meet-with-raw-chief/articleshow/78838320.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Plaints on water bills prompt MCC to hold Water Adalats||Mangaluru: Following complaints from water consumers about irregularities and discrepancies in water supply billing, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to hold monthly Water Adalats. Mayor Divakar said the city corporation has received several complaints related to inflated or delayed billing. Some domestic consumers have complained about getting bills in the range of Rs10,000 to Rs25,000. The mayor said people may submit their complaints and the same will be taken up at Water Adalats for redressal. “Consumers should submit an application with details regarding discrepancies in their water bills before November 5. The applications will be scrutinized at Water Adalat sessions. Action will be taken by officials to sort out issues during the sessions,” Divakar said, adding that Adalats will be held every month. Earlier, tariff for drinking water supply was modified when MCC was under the district administration’s administrative control. Accordingly, in the first slab (from 0 to 8,000 litres), the tariff was Rs 7 per 1,000 litres. In the second slab (from 8,000 litres to 15,000 litres), the tariff was Rs 9 per 1,000 litres. In the third slab (from 15,000 to 25,000 litres), the tariff was Rs 11 per 1,000 litres and Rs 13 per 1,000 litres for all consumers whose consumption crossed 25,000 litres per month. During an MCC council meeting held in August this year, the tariff was revised based on complaints from general public. As per the revised tariff, the minimum charge will be Rs 60 for the consumption of 10,000 litres per month. In the second slab (from 10,000 litres to 15,000 litres), the tariff will be Rs 7 per 1,000 litres. In the third slab (from 15,000 litres to 25,000 litres), the tariff will be Rs 9 per 1,000 litres. In the fourth slab (from 25,000 litres to 30,000 litres), the tariff will be Rs 11 per 1,000 litres and Rs 13 for all consumers whose consumption crosses 30,000 litres per month. However, the civic body has been receiving complaints about even small families getting bills upwards of Rs10,000 with dues of the pandemic-induced lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/plaints-on-water-bills-prompt-mcc-to-hold-water-adalats/articleshow/78835440.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||INSA fellowship for CAZRI director||Director of Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI) O P Yadav has been awarded a prestigious fellowship of Indian National Science Academy (INSA). Yadav has more than three decades of experience of research and management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/insa-fellowship-for-cazri-director/articleshow/78836598.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Municipal elections: BJP expels 23 ‘rebels’ in Kota||KOTA: The Kota wing of the BJP on Friday expelled 23 candidates for not withdrawing nominations against their respective nominees in various wards of Kota South and Kota North for the municipal elections. After the last date of withdrawal of nomination concluded on Thursday, 225 candidates are in fray in 70 wards of Kota North and 289 candidates in 80 wards of Kota South. The rebels in both the BJP and the Congress are still forcing the senior party leaders to keep their fingers crossed, however, Kota BJP, following deadline of announcing support for the party nominees was over on Friday at 11 am, announced to expel its 10 rebels from Kota North and 13 from Kota South. BJP MLA and municipal election in-charge of Kota North Kiran Maheshwari accompanied by other senior party leaders announced the expulsion of its 23 workers in a press conference here. Maheshwari said, “Party’s senior leadership has decided to expel 23 workers from party’s primary membership for six years. Some of these party men had been dedicated workers for several years, but they are now contesting as independents against party’s nominees in 70 wards of Kota North and 80 wards of Kota South. So the senior leadership decided to initiate disciplinary action against them as discipline has been the main base of the party,” she added. She said, the entire exercise of ticket distribution for municipal elections was carried out with transparency and even then such things happened, disciplinary actions were initiated, she added. Meanwhile, the BJP decided to extend support to two independent candidates in Ward 43 of Kota South and Ward 30 of Kota North after the nominations by party’s two official candidates were rejected in these two wards. The independent candidate from Ward 30 of Kota North Puja Yadav even took the primary membership of BJP in presence of former MLA Phralad Gunjal on Thursday evening. On the other hand, party’s election coordinator Rajender Rathore stressed that if the sitting MLA, former MLA or any former or sitting party office-bearer is found to be supporting independent candidate against the party nominee, factual report on it would be produced to state’s senior leadership for action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-expels-23-rebels-in-kota/articleshow/78836606.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 7k in hospital, 39 deaths take toll to 7,639||PUNE: As many as 1,287 patients were discharged after successful recovery in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday as compared to 721 new cases, bringing down the active count in the region to 15,481. With the fresh discharges, the total recoveries in PMR have risen above 2.95 lakh. Among the active cases, 7,504 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 7,977 are in home isolation, a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated. On Friday, 321 cases were added in the PMC limits, 168 in the PCMC limits and 232 in the rural and Cantonment areas. With this, the case tally in PMR has increased above 3.18 lakh. So far, 7,639 people have died of Covid-19 in PMR. Besides, 39 more patients succumbed to Covid-19 in PMR on Friday, including the highest 20 deaths in the PMC limits, 16 from the rural as well as Cantonment areas and three in the PCMC areas. As many as 6,729 samples were tested in the region on Friday, including 3,457 in the PMC limits, as many as 1,870 in the PCMC limits and 1,402 from the rural and Cantonment areas. Health officials said they had been appealing citizens to get tested in case of basic symptoms. “Though the cases have dropped to some extent, the citizens still have to remain alert and follow all necessary precautionary measures. The citizens should not delay the treatment and they should get tested after developing basic symptoms,” a health official said. The officials said the residents were appealed to avoid overcrowding and strictly follow the social distancing norms at public places, especially during the festive period. A report released by the PMC stated that as many as 684 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits, of whom 364 were on ventilator support. A total of 1,830 patients were put on oxygen support in the civic limits on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-7k-in-hospital-39-deaths-take-toll-to-7639/articleshow/78836569.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Care hubs to now submit weekly casualty reports||PUNE: State technical committee head Subhash Salunke, in a move to control Covid deaths, has directed private hospitals in the city to appoint committees to audit all deaths and submit detailed weekly reports to the local administration. Salunke on Friday told TOI that the analyses of patient deaths will help authorities prevent mortality in the region. “We are starting with hospitals within Pune Municipal Corporation limits. Facilities in PCMC limits and rural parts will follow soon. The same process will also be replicated across the division,” he said. The expert added that the death reports will help determine if patient deaths were the result of delayed admissions or problematic treatment protocols. Pune city has so far registered 7,600 Covid-19 deaths. According to the new orders, hospitals will also have to submit historical data on deaths that have already occurred. The guidelines are a response to the region’s high case fatality rate (CFR). In Pune, the CFR is nearly 2.4% compared to the state’s 2.6% and the country’s average of 1.5%. September saw the most deaths during the pandemic. State task force member Shashank Joshi said, “We want to bring the CFR to below 1%. Efforts are also being made to ensure cases are detected early.” Maharashtra has already deployed health workers to go door-to-door for the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ survey, which aims to find people with symptoms. State health minister Rajesh Tope has also called for the implementation of the teleICU initiative that connects doctors in rural parts with experts from large hospitals. The CFR is an important indicator of a disease’s impact on a population. According to the World Health Organisation, there are two measures used to assess the proportion of infected individuals with fatal outcomes. The first method is the infection fatality ratio, or IFR, which estimates this proportion of deaths among all infected individuals in a population. The second is case fatality ratio (CFR), which estimates this proportion of deaths among only identified confirmed cases. India continues to have wide variations in the Covid-19 CFR. The state of Punjab has the country’s highest CFR at 3.14%. Gujarat’s has dropped to 2.2% while Kerala — the state with the third-highest burden of active cases — has registered a low CFR of 0.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/care-hubs-to-now-submit-weekly-casualty-reports/articleshow/78836619.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||HC seeks govt’s reply on reservation of seats||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to local self-government department and the state election commission and sought a reply on a writ petition, which challenges the lottery conducted to reserve SC/ST seats for the municipal bodies, in view of polls in six municipal corporations. The SEC and LSG will have to reply by November 3.The LSG department will contest the matter after consultation with the advocate general. “We will convince the court logically. The lottery system has been continuing for years for reservation of seats, as per rules and guidelines. The same method, process and procedure is being followed,” said Bhawani Singh Detha, secretary, LSG.The petitioner had appealed to the court to stay the reservation of SC/ST seats for the municipalities, in view of municipal corporation polls, as it has not been done following due process, i.e. following descending order or rotational procedure to reserve seats.In its prayer, the petition stated, “By way of an appropriate writ, order or direction in the nature thereof declare Rule 6 of the Rajasthan Municipalities (Election) Rules, 1994 to be ultra vires to Art 243T of the Constitution of India to the extent that where it does exclude the municipalities which were provided reservation in the previous elections and further to hold that the list of municipalities prepared in the descending order (rotation) shall be acted upon in such a manner that all municipalities gets reservation of seats for SC and ST at least once.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-seeks-govts-reply-on-reservation-of-seats/articleshow/78836626.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘Officer to take call on candidate’s nomination’||Jaipur: Following rejection of nomination paper of a BJP candidate in Ward 134, Jaipur Greater, for the post of councillor in the municipal polls, the Rajasthan High Court has directed the candidate to put forward his point of view in front of the returning officer and also asked the official to hear him out.“The court has asked the returning officer to hear him out. Now, if the officer thinks the objection raised by the candidate stands, then he will make a provisional arrangement, else the nomination will be considered rejected. The officer will take a decision on this,” said district election officer Antar Singh Nehra. The district election officer has on Friday appointed 10 observers for the municipal polls to the posts of councillors in the district. Around 1,230 employees will be trained for counting of votes on October 26 (Monday).Nehra also said arrangements will be made for visually impaired persons during the elections. He said Braille script will be available in all the polling booths for the convenience of the visually impaired persons. Launching the ‘Uchit Doori, Mask Jaroori’ campaign on Friday, Nehra said, Rotary club has donated 20,000 masks to the administration which will be used during municipal corporation elections. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officer-to-take-call-on-candidates-nomination/articleshow/78836620.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s clogged sewerage network needs revamp||HYDERABAD: The city’s sewerage network has gone for a six, in the recent rains. Result: Immense hardships for people and sleepless nights for civic authorities. While usually, civic bodies received between 600 and 800 complaints per day during the rainy season, the count has jumped to over 2,000 post the floods. Officials admit that it is a record of sorts for the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board’s Metro Customer Care (MCC). A quick scan of the complaints shows that majority of them are coming in from the over 200 residential colonies across Old City – including Langer Houz, Bahadurpura, Moghulpura, Zampura, Falaknuma etc. The common grouses: overflowing of sewerage, missing covers of manholes and sewer water getting mixed with potable water. “tHE situation is extremely bad as sewer water has inundated the Gulshan Iqbal Colony. After the Gurram Cherevu breached, water entered the colony and the sewerage lines got blocked with weed and other waste material,” Mohd Hazeez, a resident of the area told TOI. Another resident of the Lalith Bagh, Koteswar Rao said how jammed lines had made it difficult for families to use washroom. “The toilets in the houses are not fit for use. This is creating great inconvenience. The overflowing sewers are also a health hazard,” he said. In some colonies of Bahadurpura the people, in a bid to help the flood water recede faster, had opened the manhole covers. As a result, the trunk sewer that streamlines the waste water has been left completely blocked. Water board officials confirmed that they were attending to several complaints relating to overflowing of manholes. “We have noticed hundreds of uncovered manholes in inundated areas. We have appealed to residents not to open manhole covers without our permission. Uncovered manholes pose great danger,” said T V Sridhar, officer-on-special duty, HMWS&SB adding that the board has also warned people to avoid consuming contaminated water as it can lead to ailments. Meanwhile, sources in HMWS&SB’s MCC told TOI that they have deployed mini jetting machines and manpower to tackle the situation. “We have deployed 50 big jetting machines and 70 mini jetting machines. The teams are working extra four hours in view of the severity of sewerage network problems. That’s our priority,” said Sridhar. While the water board is primarily working in the Old Coty area – and some other parts of Hyderabad – peripheral pockets are being attended to by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. “The GHMC is tackling the sewerage network crisis in the peripheral areas. A month ago, the state government transferred the operation and maintenance of the sewerage network from us to GHMC,” said a water board official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chocked-sewerage-network-proving-a-nightmare/articleshow/78835468.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 24, 2020||Vadodara||Ramsinh Parmar elected Amul Dairy’s chief uncontested||VADODARA/ ANAND: For the first time in the history Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited — popularly known as Amul Dairy, election was held for one of the top posts of the co-operative. Even as Ramsinh Parmar got elected uncontested as chairman of Amul Dairy on Friday, suspense on who will occupy the post of dairy’s vice-chairman will continue for at least a month. In Amul Dairy’s history, chairman and vice-chairman have always got elected unanimously by the board of directors. This time Ramsinh, a former Congress MLA, who had joined BJP in 2017, got elected uncontested as chairman. But the post of vice-chairman saw a contest between dairy’s incumbent vice-chairman and Congress MLA from Borsad, Rajendrasinh Parmar and BJP’s former MLA from Balasinor, Rajesh Pathak alias Pappu Pathak. The fact that election was held for one of the posts adds to the series of twists and turns that the dairy has witnessed in the recent times. Total 18 members including 13 elected board members, three government nominees, one representative of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) and district co-operative registrar participated in the meeting called for the elections. Just a day before on Thursday, the Gujarat High Court (HC) directed that while the polls can be held as scheduled, the results should not be declared until the next hearing – November 24. HC had directed that the votes cast by three state-nominated directors in the board should be kept in a separate sealed cover. HC intervened after Congress-backed members of the board including Rajendrasinh, Anand’s Congress MLA Kanti Sodha Parmar and Sanjay Patel filed a petition challenging the appointment of the three directors, who they claim are affiliated to BJP, as state government’s nominees ahead of the election. The petitioner have alleged that as BJP-affiliated members could win only couple of seats during the election of board in August, they are trying to create an artificial majority to tilt the elections for the top posts in their favour. The petitioners have urged the HC to issue directives through which appointments of government nominated directors is quashed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ramsinh-elected-amul-dairys-chief-uncontested/articleshow/78833182.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Gurgaon||No new projects if old ones pending: Haryana-Rera||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram bench of Haryana Rera on Friday issued a notice to blacklist and debar a real estate company, Empire Realtech, and its promoter CHD Developers from launching any new project till ongoing ones are completed. It’s the first time the regulator has taken such a tough measure as delays in delivery of homes have turned into a chronic problem both in the city and other parts of NCR’s struggling but massive real estate sector. CHD Developers had launched a housing project under Empire Realtech in 2011 – 106, Golf Avenue in Sector 106 – with a promise to offer possession by December 2016. The homes have, however, not been delivered yet. The promoter intimated the revised date for completion to H-Rera as June 30, 2021 at the time of registration in 2016. “But keeping in view the present situation of funds and stage of construction, there is every likelihood of further delay of the project,” observed the bench comprising chairman KK Khandelwal and members SC Kush and Samir Kumar while deciding to issue a notice asking why the company should not be blacklisted and debarred from launching new projects till it completes existing ones. “The quarterly progress reports have not been submitted by the developers (as required under Rera rules) either,” Khandelwal said. The notice asks why penal proceedings should not be initiated and a penalty that may be up to 5% (Rs 28 crore) of the project cost should not be imposed. “The promoter has been asked to submit a mitigation plan for completion of the project within a month in consultation with the association of allottees. The authority has also given an option to the association of allottees on taking over the project for its completion,” Khandelwal added. There are 642 units in the project, of which 600 have been sold. Nearly Rs 500 crore has been collected from homebuyers. The promoter has also taken a loan of Rs 150 crore, of which Rs 36 crore is outstanding. The bench said since the promoter had not opened a separate Rera account for the project, instalments paid by homebuyers were received in the bank’s escrow account, and the money deposited in the account was taken away by the lender against the loan. Consequently, there were no funds left for construction. The bench said 70% of the homebuyers’ money should have been deposited in a separate Rera account to be used only for construction. “This is a clear violation of Section 4 of the Rera Act and warrants penal proceedings under Section 60 of the Act against the promoter,” the bench said. Construction stopped in October 2018. Most of the allottees have already paid 90% of the cost of the apartments. “It seems that the promoter has siphoned off funds as even after receiving more than Rs 600 crore from the allottees and lending institutions, only Rs 168 crore has been spent on construction,” the bench noted. It ordered a forensic audit to probe what had happened to the funds. The allottees’ association has, meanwhile, suggested taking over the project and completing it. The regulator is examining that proposal. The promoter has been asked to infuse funds for the completion of the project, which is estimated to be Rs 104 crore. The other incomplete projects of the developer include CHD Van Group Housing (10 acres) and CHD Rosertico (10 acres).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/h-rera-serves-first-debarment-notice-toughens-stance-on-housing-delays/articleshow/78836639.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man watched car vanish in swirling waters after landlord informed him of deluge||BENGALURU: Newlywed Jagadish Kumar, a software professional with a private company, had recently moved into a house on the first floor of a three-storey building in Gurudatta Layout near Hosakerehalli. He had finished lunch on Friday when his landlord, Muthanna (name changed), called him on the phone around 4pm and raised an alarm over a deluge outside. According to Muthanna, Jagadish rushed to his balcony only to see that his red Maruti Swift was not where he had parked it. All he could see was that swirling rainwaters had turned the road into a canal. Before it could sink in, Jagadish peered ahead to find his hatchback adrift in the water about 100 feet away from his house. Within seconds, the vehicle was washed away and vanished from his sight. The stormwater drain (SWD) in the locality had overflowed. Before Jagadish could react, Muthanna rushed up, with his mother in tow. “I told him my bike too had disappeared,” he told TOI. “I stay on the ground floor with my parents. My mother was alone at home when I came home from work in the rain. I parked my bike outside and stepped inside the house. Suddenly, I heard a loud noise and rushed out to see my bike falling and floating in water. My tenant Jagadish’s car too was moving. I called him. I had no time to think. The water had already begun entering my home,” narrated Muthanna, a private company employee. Videos of the car getting washed away shot by locals went viral within a couple of hours. While Jagadish declined to speak, Muthanna said he felt sorry for his tenant. “The car was washed away when no one was inside. It would have been even worse if it had an occupant,” said another resident. “We don’t know where my bike or Jagadish’s car is. We may find them on Saturday after the water level recedes,” rued Muthanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-watched-car-vanish-in-swirling-waters-after-landlord-informed-him-of-deluge/articleshow/78836150.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gandhi Bazaar underpass flooded, JC Road traders hit||BENGALURU: Tagore Circle underpass in Gandhi Bazaar, Basavanagudi turned into a lake of sorts following incessant rain in the afternoon. Watch: Tagore Circle underpass filled with rainwater and cars struggling to wade out. A bystander is heard expressi… https://t.co/rmmN6AmLSH— TOI Bengaluru (@TOIBengaluru) 1603511129000In a video shared by a businessman, the underpass was seen filled with rainwater and cars struggling to wade out. A bystander is heard expressing shock at a car’s bumper falling because of the gushing water. Mahesh EV, the businessman, said the entire area was flooded during and after the showers. He said his office, located next to the passport office on Lalbagh Road, was inundated. “Vehicles were stranded in the parking area of Lalbagh Road,” he said. The video showed vehicles in knee-deep water and people in shops next to the basement trying to retrieve their drenched goods. Susheel Bamboli, another businessman, said flooding near the underpass was cleared by late evening. “Mud or other debris must have caused it,” he said. Journalists’ Colony on JC Road was another badly hit area. Road infrastructure and drainage works under way there only added to the misery. Venkatesh J C, secretary of Automobile Dealers’ Association said, “The rain was no doubt heavy but at the same time it was not that heavy for water to run three feet deep. We all need infrastructure work, but basic planning is missing. Works such as these should be taken up early in the year and completed before June (monsoon).” The basements of several complexes had over eight feet of water, submerging and damaging parked vehicles. Gurnam Singh, who runs a shop on JC Road for over 20 years, said, “My store is on the second floor, so there was no damage. But my vehicle parked downstairs was half-submerged in water. There is no way it will start now.” Syed Thousif F, a trader, said he suffered a loss of Rs 35 lakh because rainwater entered his automobile accessories shop. “Fresh stock had arrived in the wee hours of Friday. The authorities completed infrastructure work three months ago, then how did the road flood within 10 minutes? Who is responsible for this damage?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tagore-circle-underpass-flooded-jc-road-traders-hit/articleshow/78836178.cms||Farheen Hussain
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cycle lanes likely to connect CBD with Outer Ring Road by March||BENGALURU: In a move that’s likely to benefit thousands of cyclists in the city, government agencies are drawing up plans to connect central business district (CBD) and Outer Ring Road (ORR) with dedicated bicycle lanes. BBMP, along with directorate of urban land transport (DULT), is planning to build 35km of cycle lanes connecting Old Madras Road, Byappanahalli, KR Puram, Marathahalli, Silk Board, Madiwala, Koramangala, Inner Ring Road, Indiranagar, Domlur, Trinity Junction and MG Road (see box). Palike officials are working with DULT to finalise the corridors. “We have identified the corridors but need to finalise them. DULT is helping us with technical support. We hope to complete the project by March,” said a senior BBMP official. BBMP and DULT are also creating pop-up lanes between Silk Board Junction and Lowry Memorial College near KR Puram on ORR, and the work is expected to be over by November. In addition to this, Bengaluru Smart City Limited (BSCL) is providing cycling infrastructure in CBD. BSCL officials said a cycle lane from Minsk Square and Raj Bhavan Road to Chalukya Circle will be completed by November-end. RK Mishra, urban mobility expert and co-founder of Yulu, a public bicycle-sharing operator, said: “Connecting CBD with ORR through dedicated cycle lanes is the right step. Many officegoers stay within 5km of their workplace and could use cycles to commute. It’s a safe mode during the pandemic, instead of crowded buses.” Bicycle mayor Sathya Sankaran said: “Sale of bicycles has increased during the pandemic. Though Bengaluru’s weather is ideal for cycling, many are scared to venture out because of heavy traffic on roads. At present, cycle lanes are largely restricted to a few roads in CBD like Cubbon Road and St Marks Road. Government agencies should build 1,000km of cycle lanes every year for the next 10 years.” He said people at the neighbourhood level should work with agencies to come up with cycle lanes in their areas. DULT officials said they are planning cycling districts in the city. Cycling district 1 will be spread across 25 wards in and around ORR. In response to an online campaign, #MarkYourCycleRoutes, conducted by DULT to crowdsource routes frequented by cyclists, 109 people have suggested 133 routes across the city. DULT said it has launched a sustainable mobility accord, a programme to encourage cycling and walking in neighbourhoods, to tie up with resident welfare associations and NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cycle-lanes-may-connect-cbd-with-orr-by-march/articleshow/78836182.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: New norms may spike property tax on outskirts||BENGALURU: The rural development and panchayat raj department is reviewing tax collection methodology and rates to increase revenue and bring more properties under the racket. With over 99 gram panchayats in Bengaluru Urban and over 50 percent of panchayats in Bengaluru Rural having lost their rural character, the department has decided to tap properties there and this may result in a spike in tax rates. A recent meeting of elected representatives from Bengaluru concluded the department could earn no less than Rs 1,000 crore additional tax from the city alone if taxes are collected efficiently. RDPR principal secretary L K Atheeq said the department is preparing a self-assessment scheme (SAS) for panchayats which have lost rural characteristics and have high-rise buildings. It will soon launch an online payment gateway and portal. “Take, for example, Bangalore North, Electronics City and other outlying areas. All these are urban areas but are part of local panchayats. We can earn more revenue if there is an easy way for the public to assess tax and pay it,” said Atheeq. The department is reportedly revising the current flat rate of property tax levy to a more dynamic taxation based on type of flooring, roofing and extent of property demarcation. “This will expand our tax net and bring more revenue,” said Atheeq. For fiscal 2019-20, outside urban local bodies (ULBs), RDPR has raked in no less than Rs 600 crore. This includes tax on land and building, advertisements, entertainment tax, vehicle tax, water bills and streetlight charges. While this a considerable increase in tax collection, with previous fiscals seeing only Rs 300 to Rs 400 crore collection, data suggests that many properties have not paid previous taxes and have an overall balance of roughly Rs 1,200 crore. According to sources, apart from revenue inspectors being paid off to show lower taxes, the bigger challenge is of khathas issued to illegal constructions in rural Karnataka. “If a gram panchayat issues a khatha to an illegal construction on government land, it gives the owner an official document to pursue a legal case for claiming his right to that land and place it under the Akrama-Sakrama category. This has resulted in 20-30% properties in a village being discounted from the tax net,” said an RDPR official. With the newly launched central government scheme Svamitva to assess rural properties by using drones, the government hopes to maintain a register of how many properties can be brought under the tax bracket. A similar exercise is carried out in Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits which issues B khatha to properties on revenue land. There is an increase in demand for exempting panchayats from paying taxes this year due to pandemic hurting their livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-norms-may-spike-property-tax-on-outskirts/articleshow/78836241.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Gurudutta Layout bore the brunt of SWD breach||Bengaluru: Chandru M has been running a supermarket in Gurudutta Layout near Hosakerehalli, south Bengaluru, for 15 years now. Never before has he seen water in the locality’s stormwater drain (SWD) gushing with such force. “The water level was rising rapidly. It flowed on the road and then started entering my shop as we looked on. We didn’t even get time to react. In less than an hour, the water level rose to 2 ft, submerging all my goods,” said Chandru, owner of SLV Mart. Chandru’s godown on the other side of the street was also flooded. “The loss would amount to 2-3 lakh. We were just getting back on our feet after the lockdown and now this has come as a big blow,” he said. Chandru’s was one among the many shops, including bakeries, pharmacies and kirana stores, and houses that were inundated on Friday evening when the SWD at 1st Cross overflowed. The layout was at the receiving end of rain fury for the second time in 48 hours. Downpour on Tuesday night had led to collapse of the retaining wall on another stretch of the drain. Raghavendra Rao, a resident, said: “Ongoing construction in the drain prevented the water from flowing through it, causing it to overflow. It started raining heavily by 3pm and by 4.30pm, the water overflowed.” Gurudutta Layout was among scores of localities ravaged by the rain on Friday afternoon. Adjacent Dattatreya Nagar too bore the brunt of water overflowing from the SWD. “We are doomed. About two days ago, my bike got submerged after the retaining wall collapsed. I spent nearly Rs 2,000 to get it repaired and today my bike is not even to be seen,” said Sushil Ramesh, a resident of Dattatreya Nagar. “Sanitary work was going on in the area and due to Tuesday’s rain, the road next to the drain caved in and the retaining wall collapsed. We had informed the engineers to finish the construction work soon, but they couldn’t proceed due to rain,” said senior BBMP official. Flood of woes in RR Nagar Around 5.45pm, the Vrishabhavathi Valley SWD breached, sending water into over 50 houses in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, including 30 in Pramod Layout. “Due to heavy rain last month, the retention wall of the SWD had collapsed leading to flooding. Once again, it’s the same situation,” said Ramesh Rao, a resident of Pramod Layout. Bheemanakatte Lake in RR Nagar overflowed flooding 20 houses nearby. “We could not differentiate between the lake and the road from my flat. It seemed like a river was flowing in front of my house,” said Shakambari Jayaram, who lives next to the lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gurudutta-layout-bore-the-brunt-of-swd-breach/articleshow/78836169.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||MLC poll: JDS extends support to independent candidate||Hubballi: In a major political development, JD(S) candidate Shivashankar Kallur asserted he will remain neutral and extend his support to independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar. Addressing a joint press meet here on Friday, former minister and MLC Basavaraj Horatti said that Kallur is retiring from poll fray as per the instruction of JD(S) top brass HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy. “We could not meet voters of four districts after announcement of the election. Meanwhile, Kallur’s father-in-law died and he is not in position to carry out extensive campaign. Hence we are withdrawing our candidate from the fray,” he explained. “As the party decided to maintain distance from both Congress and BJP, we are supporting Gurikar,” he added. Gurikar said he will bide by the party’s decision and will remain as a loyal worker of JD(S). Former MLA NH Konaraddi, other JD(S) leaders Rajanna Koravi, Gururaj Hunasimarad and others were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mlc-poll-jds-extends-support-to-independent-candidate/articleshow/78836237.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Use Dasara funds for covid relief: Forum||Mysuru: Kannada Chaluvaligar Association district president BA Shivashankar on Friday condemned the state government decision of spending Rs 15 crore for Dasara celebrations even when it is a low-key affair. “The state government could have utilized this fund to ensure better treatment for Covid-19 patients besides extending relief for flood affected people. Relaxing restrictions for entry of tourists and illuminating major junctions and will result in a spike in Covid cases,” he said. He demanded that the state government come out with a list of participants for the Jamboo Savari as it has announced that only 300 people will be invited. The government must also release details about how the Rs15 crore for Dasara has been utilised, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/use-dasara-funds-for-covid-relief-forum/articleshow/78833473.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana budget to be reviewed, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao worried over fund crunch||HYDERABAD: With revenues dwindling, central arrears mounting and the pandemic not slowing down, Telangana government has decided to go for an interim review of the state budget 2020-21. Sources said the government wants to prioritise the welfare schemes and allocate funds to various departments after reviewing the budget. Directing the officials to submit a report on the budget, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday said: “Under these extraordinary circumstances, we have to prepare estimates on how much funds are actually available and how much funds can be allocated to the departments.” The government had presented an ambitious Rs 1.82 lakh crore budget in March 2020 with huge allocations like Rs 10,000 crore to GHMC and Musi riverfront development with an eye on forthcoming GHMC elections. Similarly, some allocations had been increased as the government was keen on the loan waiver scheme, pensions and welfare schemes. The CM said the state’s revenues took a dip following the imposition of lockdown. “We also faced cuts in the central funds. The central GDP has fallen to -24%. This had a major impact on states. Time has come to review the entire state budget,” he said. The revenue expenditure fell to Rs 66,000 crore in the two quarters from Rs 72,000 crore due to paucity of funds, officials said. The Centre has to pay about Rs 10,000 crore towards GST share to the state. Also, the state is yet to get the Finance Commission funds, officials explained. Senior officials said the government had planned to take up revenue mobilisation by way of land auctions to garner at least Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 12,000 crore to fund flagship schemes. It was also decided to auction non-performing assets and land available with Deccan Infrastructure and Land Holdings Limited, Telangana Housing Board and Rajiv Swagruha to raise money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-budget-to-be-reviewed-cm-kcr-worried-over-fund-crunch/articleshow/78835522.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Streamlining SCB sewer a big challenge||SECUNDERABAD: Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials are faced with the tough task of streamlining the sewerage system that’s been severely affected by the recent floods and overflowing nalas. Complaints about blocked sewer lines have come from SAIL Colony, Bhavana Colony, Dhanalakshmi Colony, Royal Enclave, Amaravathi CHS, Paigah Colony and 20 other residential colonies. Confirming it, SCB senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender told TOI, “Nearly 50 complaints are coming from the inundated colonies every day and we are addressing them.” Residents said that the inundation has caused inconvenience to hundreds after the sewerage network was blocked with household trash, hazardous waste, unwanted greenery and waste. “Silt from the Hasmathpet nala also blocked the network,” said N Linga Reddy, resident of Dhanalakshmi Colony. Residents of Bhavana Colony are also fighting a stench arising from the sewerage water. “The flood water overflowed from the open nalas and left a lot of silt and dirt in the colony. The smell is unbearable,” said J Sunitha, resident of the colony. The SCB official also admitted that the poor sewerage network, which was laid six decades ago, was at present paralysed. “SCB does not have a pucca sewerage system and the sewer water is being released into storm water drains by residents of colonies,” the SCB official claimed. There are 350 residential colonies and the existing sewer network cannot bear the load and sewage water is flowing on the main roads and bylanes. “SCB is running three big jetting machines to address the sewerage related grievances,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/streamlining-scb-sewer-a-big-challenge/articleshow/78835475.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Officials set to consider new Feluda rapid test||PUNE: State health officials said they are considering the deployment of the indigenously developed Feluda Covid-19 test kit, which was approved for use by the Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday. The Feluda kit — short for FNCAS9 Editor-Linked Uniform Detection Assay — is a paper strip that uses CRISPR technology to detect genetic material of SARS-CoV-2 in less than an hour. Importantly, the ICMR confirmed on Friday that test results via Feluda will not have be re-confirmed by an RT-PCR device. The kit also promises to be cheaper and as effective as the gold-standard RT-PCR test — with manufacturers claiming 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity in detecting the new coronavirus. All these features make Feluda a compelling choice for Maharashtra, where officials are trying to improve the number of tests per million population. “More tests with cheaper kits are the way forward,” said state task force member Shashank Joshi, who added that Feluda can improve Maharashtra’s testing rate. The state’s test-per-million number has reduced to 60,000, compared to the national average of nearly 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/officials-set-to-consider-new-feluda-rapid-test/articleshow/78836630.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Cash-strapped, but north corporation unable to widen its tax net||NEW DELHI: Cash-strapped North Delhi Municipal Corporation has identified only 3,273 new taxpayers during this financial year. In comparison, the total number of taxpayers added by the civic body in 2018-19 was 42,000 and in 2019-20, it was 22,000. Considering that the civic body is going through a financial crisis and is not even being able to pay salaries to its staff, the failure to bring the defaulters in the tax net is glaring. The data was shared by the north corporation’s additional commissioner in a standing committee meeting on Thursday. It was informed that notices were issued to 3, 273 new properties under Section 123D of Delhi Municipal Council Act till September 30. The 3,273 properties also included 1,322 commercial ones, which have not paid the tax. Notices of assessment have been issued to only 145 commercial property owners. Mayor Jai Prakash said, “The data covers a period of only 6-7 months (1 April- October 17). Also, for the initial three months (till June), our staff could not do a ground survey properly due to the pandemic. But we are working hard to double the figures by the end of this month.” The commercial properties, which were identified or issued notices, were big defaulters and the amount recovered from them would surely add to the revenue, added the mayor. Officials said that till September 30, 2019, the civic body had earned Rs 400 crore as property tax while this year, the figure was just Rs 365 crore. The north corporation had conducted a door-to-door survey three years back. It recorded details of properties and issued them a Unique Property Identification Code number too. Around 10 lakh new properties were identified by the private firm conducting the survey. But till date, the number of taxpayers has not increased beyond 4.7 lakh. In the last financial year (2019-20), the north corporation earned Rs 1,118 crore in property tax and transfer duty, which was almost 45% of its total income of Rs 2,485 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cash-strapped-but-n-corpn-unable-to-widen-its-tax-net/articleshow/78851603.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pramod Sawant reviews steps taken to resume mining||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday held a meeting with the mines department officials on expediting various decisions it has taken for the resumption of mining activities. Sawant was accompanied by advocate general Devidas Pangam and chief secretary Parimal Rai at the directorate of mines and geology office.  Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said, “We discussed various issues including the resumption of mining activities besides other policy decisions.” He said the department has already submitted mining related details to the Union government. “Visiting mines department for discussion was helpful as we had access to all the files for references,” he added. The directorate is likely to pass an order by November concerning the recovery of money in illegal mining cases based on an audit report submitted by a team of chartered accountants. On August 4, the state government had informed the high court that the directorate will decide within four months on the show cause notices to mining companies for recovery of over Rs 3,000 crore. In February 2018, the SC had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire mining industry to a halt. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-reviews-steps-taken-to-resume-mining/articleshow/78837438.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||NIT-Warangal experts’ warning on Falaknuma flooding ignored||HYDERABAD: NIT-Warangal researchers had published a paper in December 2019 stating that Falaknuma and Malakpet are highly flood-prone after a scientific study. On October 14, Falaknuma was the worst hit among flood-affected areas in the city resulting in loss of human lives, displacement of families and inundation of several colonies. The NIT study “Visualisation of urban flood inundation using SWMM and 4D GIS” published in ‘Springer’ journal was taken up for flood inundation mapping using stormwater management model and four-dimensional geographic information system. NIT civil engineering experts took up the study in Chanchalguda, Malakpet, Durganagar, Falaknuma and a few other colonies in the southern parts of the Musi river in an area of 91 square km. NIT experts — PZ Seenu, E Venkata Rathnam and KV Jayakumar — conducted series of on ground and digital model evaulations. Jayakumar, one of the authors of the study, said: “Drainage network exists only in a small portion of zone V of the city where the study has been taken up. We have identified the drainage network extending from Malakpet to Falaknuma as the flood-prone region. The inundated area consists of landed properties and residential areas.” He said there was no inundation in the upstream part of the study area due to the presence of water bodies and steep slopes. “We used software packages, SWMM and ArcGIS and flood inundation map for study area in Hyderabad has been prepared by combining run-off depth with respect to time, peak discharge and digital evaluation Model. Areas which are likely to be inundated in study area for different rainfall durations were found out using flood inundation map,” they said. Researchers said that the study presents a methodology to prepare the 4D flood inundation for the study area which will be useful for early determination of flood propagation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nit-w-experts-warning-on-falaknuma-flooding-ignored/articleshow/78835526.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Protect Golconda Fort, Telangana HC tells ASI||HYDERABAD: Expressing concern over the safety of the historical Golconda Fort during the deluge and the subsequent incessant rains and disapproving the negligent attitude of the state and central governments in taking steps to protect the prestigious five centuries old fort, the Telangana high court on Friday directed the state to take immediate steps to protect the fort and summoned the director of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) directing him to appear before the court on November 26, 2020. The director has to explain the reasons for not releasing adequate funds to undertake repairs to the fort despite requests from the Hyderabad circle of the ASI. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction after converting a TOI report dated Oct 23, 2020 on the plight of the Golconda fort as a PIL and commencing an urgent virtual hearing on this. The bench told advocate general B S Prasad to ensure adequate protection to the fort forthwith. Assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao was asked to obtain answers from the Centre as to why the required funds were not released to the ASI Hyderabad circle for taking the necessary repair works. The case will come up again on November 26. TOI report on Golconda fort highlighted how central officials were keeping mum even after a report from ASI Hyderabad circle wrote to them driving home the urgency to take up repairs as cracks developed on the fortification wall at three areas last week. The fortification wall, made of stone and mud, became feeble due to decades of neglect. Only 15% of funds sought were released by the central officials and this rendered the Hyderabad circle helpless. Experts say that at least Rs 50 crore should be released to protect this Qutub Shahi quake proof architecture that later inspired many countries. Heritage experts feared that there is every danger of water seeping into the outer fortification ramparts. The gap between stones has widened so much that rainwater started flowing through them with force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protect-golconda-fort-high-court-tells-asi/articleshow/78835498.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t allow road on tank FTL: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Friday directed the state government and GHMC to not allow the formation of any road within the full tank level (FTL) area of Yellamma Cheruvu near Kukatpally in Hyderabad. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy converted a TOI report, ‘Road Over Yellamma Cheruvu Angers Locals’ published on Oct 23, 2020 as a PIL and directed the authorities to stop forthwith any such construction. The bench directed the GHMC to explore possibilities of providing alternate access to the locals of that area. The TOI report narrated the woes of the people in the surrounding areas of this tank, who were suffering from frequent flooding. The road which is being constructed within FTL goes against an earlier directive of the court that clearly said that no part of the tank should be allowed to be filled. Neither private parties nor the state agencies can do this. Any encroachment of this tank would spell doom for the neighbours. According to Gurram Bala Swamy, convenor of save our urban lakes, people with vested interests are keen on constructing this road across the FTL so that they can derive benefits. The bench said that the authorities cannot lay any road within the FTL area. It gave notice to the state and its officials and directed advocate general BS Prasad to file the counters. The bench issued notices to the DGP, HMDA. GHMC and its lake protection committee along with the principal secretaries of irrigation, revenue, and municipal administration, asking them to file their replies to the contentions .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-allow-road-on-tank-ftl-hc/articleshow/78835518.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 24, 2020||Pune||FDA vows supply of medical oxygen at capped prices||PUNE: Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials have started conducting surprise raids at manufacturing units, distributors and also health hubs to ensure supply of liquid medical oxygen at the newly revised rate in the region. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) had on September 25 announced a cap on liquid medical oxygen and medical oxygen cylinder prices for six months. FDA-Pune joint commissioner S B Patil said, “We have intensified our check to ensure that medical oxygen is not overcharged.” Representatives of small and medium-size hospitals said the move was “a little delayed” and “most distributors have by now found ways to charge additional amount under the pretext of handling and sanitization”. A medical expert, who runs a hospital in Bibwewadi, said, “The distributors of oxygen cylinders charge Rs100 extra for handling and sanitation. Even after the price cap, a jumbo cylinder costs us Rs620. This includes handling/sanitization and GST charges.” The same jumbo cylinder containing 7,000 litre of inhalation medical oxygen would cost Rs380 before the Covid-19 pandemic. “This means we are paying much more even after the price cap. Even if we exclude the handling/sanitization and GST charges, a jumbo cylinder still costs us Rs480,” the doctor said. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said, “With the reduction in cases, the black-marketing and profiteering over the sale of medical oxygen have also reduced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fda-vows-supply-of-medical-oxygen-at-capped-prices/articleshow/78836634.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 24, 2020||India||Rajnath to perform ‘shastra puja’ with jawans along LAC||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh will review the operational situation and military preparedness in the northeast sector during a visit over the weekend, amid the continuing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh with China. Singh will leave on Saturday for the Sukna-based 33 Corps, a crucial Army formation that has the 17 (Gangtok), 27 (Kalimpong) and 20 (Binnaguri) Mountain Divisions (each division has 10,000-12,000 soldiers) earmarked for the LAC with China. He will visit Sherathang, Nathu La and other forward areas near the LAC in Sikkim on Sunday. “The minister will get briefings and interact with troops. He will also perform ‘shastra puja’ at one of the forward locations on the occasion of Dussehra,” an official said. Singh will review the progress of some infrastructure projects under ‘Project Swastik’ of the Border Roads Organisation in the sector, including an alternative access route in Sikkim. The visit comes at a time when India and China are slated to hold the eighth round of corps commander-level talks to defuse the troop standoff in Ladakh. India has kept all Army formations and IAF air bases geared towards the three sectors of the unresolved 3,488-km LAC — western (Ladakh), middle (Uttarakhand, Himachal) and eastern (Sikkim, Arunachal) —in a state of high alert in response to the Chinese military build-up along the border, as was earlier reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-to-perform-shastra-puja-with-jawans-along-lac/articleshow/78838341.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||ADG of UIDAI sent to 15-day judicial custody||Kota: The assistant director general (ADG) of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), who was arrested by a sleuth of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Kota on Tuesday this week, was on Friday, on completion of his two-day remand for interrogation, produced before special judge of ACB court that ordered to send him to jail under judicial custody for 15 days.He was arrested from his office in New Delhi for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1 lakh for sanction of ADHAR franchise. The special judge of ACB court Pramod Kumar Malik also rejected the bail plea moved by the accused, with the observation that public servants have begun to treat themselves as masters of the public (Lokswami) and that corruption is a social evil and if the accused of such a crime is freed on bail, it would not be possible to eradicate social evils and it would lead to rise in the corruption cases. Meanwhile, ACB Kota, following the interrogation with ADG Pankaj Goyal during remand and verification of tout identified as Hemraj Tanwar’s role, made him co-accused and booked him in the case. ASP Chandrasheel Thakur said that the role of other officers of the department has also surfaced as being suspected and it is being verified, he further said, denying to disclose the names of suspected officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/adg-of-uidai-sent-to-15-day-judicial-custody/articleshow/78836664.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Over Rs 400 crore crop loss in Telangana's Siddipet district||HYDERABAD: Unprecedented rains have damaged crops in more than 84,000 acres in Siddipet with the total losses on account of the rains pegged at Rs 423 cr. Siddipet district administration told the visiting central team, that most damage was to standing paddy crop. Out of the 120 days of monsoon, there was rain on 82 days something that had not happened in last three decades. As against the 760 mm of rainfall during the period, this time 1449 mm of rain was received. In just three days in October, 20 cm rain was recorded. The visiting central team on Thursday interacted with farmers in some villages in Mulugu. A farmer, Bomma Yellaiah said that he had taken land on lease and cultivated cotton but just as time for picking started, rains caused damage. Siddipet collector P Venkatrama Reddy informed the team that in 23 mandals, a total of 5.33 lakh acres of land was under cultivation out of which paddy was being cultivated in 2.29 lakh acres, cotton in 2.43 lakh acres, and red gram in 44,000 acres. Most of the crop loss was in paddy and cotton. Because of the rain, paddy in 41,000 acres was damaged, cotton in 37,000 acres cotton, red gram in 2245 acres red gram, and vegetables in 2375 acres. The total loss was in more than 84,000 acres and 62,745 farmers were affected with the crop loss pegged at Rs 423 cr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-rs-400cr-crop-loss-in-siddipet-dist/articleshow/78835549.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Port ushers in digital RFID based cart tickets system||Mangaluru: Entry of containers into New Mangalore Port - the gateway to Karnataka - has gone paperless and digital. The clearing and forwarding (C & F) agents who hitherto submitted manual container cart tickets for trailers/trucks in triplicate at the traffic check post, to CISF and Customs are now logging in to RFID based PIS systems that M/s CMS Ltd has provided. The process is auto approved without any manual intervention. This process of automation was partially necessitated by the pandemic as it is driven by the union government’s drive for #DigitalIndia, says A V Ramana, chairman, NMPT. “Covid19 had penetrated critical areas of the wharf. With Port and contract employees testing positive, it indicated vulnerability of staff critical to port operations, to this pandemic,” Ramana told TOI. The above solution was critical to ensure business continuity, he said. Accordingly, handwritten container cart tickets are no longer accepted at the port gate. C&F agents log in to the PIS system and record data of the containers in the screen provided for generation of the cart-tickets. This is then linked to port entry RFID pass to trucks/trailers. Since the process is auto approved, the truck/trailer driver now flashes the RFID card and details of the ticket including container number are displayed on screen. Ramana said CISF who man the port main gates physically cross verify the container number and trailer/truck details against the cart ticket details displayed on the screen and accordingly permit the trailer/truck inside the port. The system has provision for generation of reports such as daily/shift wise which statutory authorities such as CISF, Customs and traffic personnel at the container yard can cross verify the actual status at the gate. Ramana said the port had given a detailed PowerPoint presentation to the C&F agents in the run up to introduction of this new system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/port-ushers-in-digital-rfid-based-cart-tickets-system/articleshow/78835536.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: HC relief for interning medical aspirants||JODHPUR: Providing relief to the applicants for the post of medical officers, who have been interning presently, the high court has directed the state government to allow such applicants to participate in the examination being conducted by RUHS (Rajasthan University of Health Sciences, Jaipur) on October 26, 2020, and their forms be accepted in offline format. The aggrieved aspirants had moved the high court challenging the recruitment notification dated October 15, 2020, stating that the applicants must necessarily possess Permanent Registration Certificate provided by the Rajasthan Medical Council on or by October 29 as an eligibility condition for filing the application form. Counsel for the petitioners Shretima Bagri argued that the Rajasthan Medical and Health Rules, 1963, did not prescribe for any requirement of Permanent Registration Certificate. Rajasthan Medical Council has issued provisional registration certificates/receipts to all the petitioners, while the permanent registration certificate would be issued only after completion of the one-year internship. “But the respondents imposed a supplementary condition, whereby the candidates could only be termed as qualified if they furnished Permanent Registration Certificate issued by the Rajasthan Medical Council, on or before the examination date, October 13, 2020,” Bagri said. Around 150 aspirants, aggrieved by the condition for recruitment, had moved high court seeking permission for appearance in the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-relief-for-interning-medical-aspirants/articleshow/78836654.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasara gift for govt staff: DA to be released||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said he would convene a meeting with all the government employees’ unions shortly to discuss their issues and resolve them. He gave this assurance to the employees’ unions leaders and gazetted and non-gazetted employees, who met him on Friday and donated Rs 33 crore (their one-day salary) to the chief minister’s relief fund (CMRF). In what could cheer the employees ahead of Dasara, the CM instructed the finance department to release one DA due from July 1, 2019, to the employees. He said the existing method of DA calculation and estimation should be changed and the officials have been asked to look into it. “As on date, the Centre is taking a decision on how much the DA can be. The states are following the Centre’s guidelines. There is a lot of delay taking place in the Centre preparing the estimates and taking a decision on this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasara-gift-for-govt-staff-da-to-be-released/articleshow/78835550.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Rajura tiger trapped in cage but breaks free after a few hours||CHANDRAPUR: The problem tiger of Rajura, which is eluding forest teams for the last seven months, on Thursday night was trapped in a large cage in a culvert in Rajura range but it somehow managed to escape after few hours. Sourced told TOI that lured by a bait the tiger walked into the specially-designed cage at around 10.30pm. The pressure sensitive gate fell down automatically trapping the beast. The eight-year-old tiger attacked the bait and injured it. But when the beast understood it was trapped, it left the bait and focused its energy on escaping, said the sources. The strong beast managed to pull the trap door that slides into channel-grove and squeezed out through the narrow opening, said a source involved in the operation. Among various other measures to tranquillize and capture the tiger, officials had placed a special cage at a culvert in compartment no. 170 in Rajura range where the tiger is having regular movement. The underpass was converted into a cage by barricading it from either sides. It has a trap door that automatically drops if an animal enters the cage. Earlier, the cage was monitored by two forest department personnel sitting in a camouflaged enclosure kept at a safe distance. They were told to manually drop the cage’s gate with a rope tied to it if the tiger walked in. After the move caused a controversy due to misunderstanding that forest personnel were being used as bait, the department fitted an automated mechanism to the cage’s gate. According to sources, the tiger wouldn’t have escaped had the personnel monitoring the cage not been removed from the spot due to the controversy. DCF, Central Chanda division, Arvind Munde confirmed the incident and said they would now adopt new strategy to capture the problem tiger. The forest department has installed a camera trap that captured the tiger walking into the cage. The tiger couldn’t be snapped after escape as it took another route after freeing itself from the cage, said the sources. The tiger is responsible for eight human kills in the last 22 months. Despite three extensions to the tranquillizing orders and various efforts taken by the forest department, the beast has evaded capture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rajura-tiger-trapped-in-cage-but-breaks-free-after-a-few-hours/articleshow/78835556.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire NOCs: Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar fare worst||AHMEDABAD: The cities of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar are at high risk with nearly 70% of buildings requiring fire NOCs in Ahmedabad and more than 80% in the state capital remaining without valid fire NOC. This awful situation persists even after repeated directions by the Gujarat high court in the last two decades and frequent drives undertaken by AMC to enforce building bylaws. Of the total 27,322 concerned buildings in Ahmedabad, 18,912 do not have valid fire NOC. They either do not have NOCs or have not got the NOCs renewed. In Gandhinagar, there are 587 buildings without fire NOCs out of total 709 buildings. While Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar are faring the worst, in Rajkot, all buildings have fire NOCs. There are 103 buildings in Rajkot which require such no-objection certificates. The state government submitted the details to the high court in response to the court’s query in a PIL seeking action in the fire tragedy that took place in Shrey Hospital, where eight Covid-19 patents died on August 6. Petitioner advocate Amit Panchal has also demanded proper implementation of fire safety laws and orders. During the proceedings, the issue of fire NOCs came up. The Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services Department told the high court that Amdavadis are apathetic when it comes to renewal of fire NOCs and inspections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-nocs-abad-gnagar-fare-worst/articleshow/78836662.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||Miscreants bomb Mizoram Bengali school||AIZAWL: A bomb blast hit a Bengali-medium school at Saihapui V village in Mizoram’s Kolasib district bordering Assam late on Thursday night, Mizoram DIG (Northern Range) Lalbiakthanga Khiangte said on Friday. There were no casualties. Khiangte, who has been camping in Vairengte town since the violence broke out at Saihapui V and Vairengte town last Saturday, said the miscreants used gelatin to destroy the building. He said a criminal case was registered at Vairengte police station under various sections. The damaged school building is close to the Saihaipui V Village task force duty post, which was dismantled by a mob from Hawaithang and surrounding villages on October 17 with the help of Assam Police officials, the DIG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/miscreants-bomb-mizoram-bengali-school/articleshow/78838347.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Banswara triple murder case: Hubby’s body found in pond||Udaipur: The murder mystery of a woman and her two children in Banswara took a new turn on Friday after the body of her husband, the prime suspect, was found in a pond on the Banswara-Jaipur Road.The body of Devendra Sharma (40), a resident of Dholpur district, was seen floating on the water surface at noon. A day ago, police had found bodies of Devendra's wife Neetu (37), daughter Shweta (15) and son Aryan (12) from their home in Raata Talai area of the city, their throats had been slit with a sharp knife that was found beside the bodies. Devendra was absconding and his mobile phone was switched off. Since the family hailed from Dholpur, the bodies were kept in the mortuary and on Friday after their relatives arrived, the autopsies were done and the four bodies were given to the relatives.The cremation was held later afternoon, close contacts and relatives offered teary tributes as all the bodies were lit in a single pyre. Devendra and Neetu's parents were inconsolable and were unable to speak a word as they wept unstoppably. Police have asked the relatives to stay for a few days so that the investigation could be completed without causing inconvenience to them for being called again for recording statements.“It seems a clear cut case of murder and suicide now since the prime suspect's body has been found. We scanned the CCTV footages and the man's movement was found in the same direction where his body was found. So for the present, it is assumed that the man killed his wife and kids and committed suicide. Police will speak to their relatives to find out the motive behind the murder,” SP Kavendra Singh Sagar said. According to sources, Devendra was under stress and depression since 2009. He was treated at Jaipur and Udaipur for some time. He was known for impulsive behaviour and often left home without information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/banswara-triple-murder-case-hubbys-body-found-in-pond/articleshow/78836669.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Avadh Girl's Degree College debate on new education policy||LUCKNOW: The Debating Club of Avadh Girls’ Degree College organised Shri Aditya Kumar Chaturvedi Memorial annual intercollegiate debate on the topic “Can new education policy reform higher education in India?” on Friday. The competition was held online. The best team award went to Amna Khan and Pratishtha Singh of AGDC. Abhishek Sinha and Yash Mishra of BSNV College bagged the second prize while Devanshi Singh and Satakshi Dubey of IT College came third. Best speaker for the motion was a tie between Amna Khan of AGDC and Abhishek Sinha of BSNV College. Best speaker against the motion was also a tie between Pratishtha Singh of AGDC and Satakshi Dubey of IT College. 12 colleges participated in the contest. The college has been organizing this debate competition in the memory of Shri Aditya Kumar Chaturvedi, father of AGDC principal Upma Chaturvedi, since 2015. On the panel of judges were Prof Rakesh Chandra and Prof Prashant Shukla from Lucknow University, and Pulak Tripathi from Dainik Jagran, Lucknow. The debate was moderated by Surabhi Modi Sahai. Z Viccajee, president, AGDC, cpncluded the event by wishing all the participants good luck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agdc-debate-on-new-edu-policy/articleshow/78837404.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Constable killed in road mishap||KOTA: A police constable was killed on the spot on late Thursday night while two others sustained injuries after their motorbike was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Gadepan plant under Simliya police station of Kota district on Thursday night. The body was on Friday morning handed over to family members after postmortem, while the other two, a constable and a teacher, were reportedly undergoing treatment at MBS hospital. The deceased constable, Pramod Kumar, 26, was posted at Baran police line. The injured Sunil Kumar is posted at Anta police station of Baran district, while Kailash is a teacher in a government school. The three were riding on a motorbike when around 9pm on Thursday an unidentified vehicle hit their bike near Gadepan plant, assistant sub inspector Abdul Hakim said. The three were rushed to a hospital in Kota where doctors declared Pramod Kumar dead, he added. Police lodged a case of negligent driving against the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-killed-in-road-mishap/articleshow/78836666.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC issues notice over Hardik Patel's pleas||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday issued a notice to the state government over two applications filed by the Gujarat Congress’s working president, Hardik Patel. He is challenging a trial court’s orders refusing to suspend the bail condition prohibiting him from leaving Gujarat without prior court permission . Hardik has submitted to the HC that he is one of the star campaigners for the party in the election-bound Bihar and is required to visit the state to attend political functions. He had urged the trial court to temporarily suspend the restriction so that he can take part in campaigning. But his request was rejected. The trial court had advised him to attend such events through video-conferencing. When Hardik’s advocate Anand Yagnik made his submissions, the state government sought time from the court to file its reply. Justice R M Sareen issued a notice and posted a hearing on this matter on October 27. The trial court in Ahmedabad imposed the bail condition after Hardik was granted bail earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-issues-notice-over-hardiks-pleas/articleshow/78836672.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Central govt releases Rs 200 crore for Telangana roads||HYDERABAD: The Centre has released Rs 202 crore for development of roads in Telangana. The amount would be utilised for repairs and maintenance of 868 km of eight National Highways passing through the state. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy thanked Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari for granting amount and said decision was taken immediately after meeting minister in Delhi on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/central-govt-releases-rs-200-cr-for-t-roads/articleshow/78835558.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||All Covid-19 vaccine developers on hackers’ radar, say experts||HYDERABAD: Cyber security experts have cautioned that all pharmaceutical companies into vaccine development and production can expect a ransomware attack, if they haven’t faced one already. The warning has come from cyber security experts at a time when Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is busy reviving its computer networks and data centre after an attack on Thursday. Sources in the industry say that given the global expectations built up around the Covid-19 vaccine, hackers understand the critical nature of its data too well. In the past few months, vaccine developers in the US, UK, Canada, Spain and Japan have seen cyberattacks. Telangana IT and Industries secretary, Jayesh Ranjan, told TOI that an advisory would be issued to all vaccine and developers companies involved in Covid-19 related work to step up cybersecurity. Several Hyderabad-based pharma companies have signed agreements with foreign companies and research institutions for a vaccine and are in various stages of development. “Vaccine production is a sensitive activity and has the potential to impact the entire world,” Ranjan said. “These companies will definitely be a target. Although companies themselves will work on security, we will issue an advisory.” Experts caution that ‘Ryuk ransomware’ attacks are most likely with attackers stealing encrypted data and demanding a ransom from the company. Umesh Thota, CEO of Authbase said, “India ranked second with an over 39% rise in ransomware attacks in the past year. Among the most aggressive attacks are those by Maze and DoppelPaymer, which begin exfiltrating data from hacked networks. The attackers threaten to release data on leak sites and can demand a ransom six times more than the average demand.” Experts say the sort of attack Dr Reddy’s faced seems to be one where a group works together to target a particular network .They add that companies dealing in sensitive data need to have a clear and well-defined strategy to prevent, respond and recover from ransomware attacks. Rahul Agarwal, partner Cyber Security PWC, told TOI, “Review and limit the external connections, ensure all antivirus signatures and patches are updated and create regular employee awareness on cyber hygiene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-covid-19-vaccine-developers-on-hackers-radar-say-experts/articleshow/78835565.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man informs cops of garba, kin threatened||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 33, from the Ranip area of the city on Thursday filed a complaint with Ranip police alleging that two residents of the society where she lives threatened her with dire consequences as her father informed cops of garba being held in the society. Hetal Dave, who stays in Pink City Apartment in Ranip, states in the FIR that accused Sureshsinh Parmar and Nitin Panchal threatened her and her family members as her father Yogesh Dave complained to police about garba organized in the society on Tuesday night. She stated the accused threatened to lodge a case of liquor prohibition against her father. She filed a complaint of criminal intimidation against the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-informs-cops-of-garba-kin-threatened/articleshow/78836658.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Damage report to be ready in a week||Hyderabad: The central team visiting the state to assess damage due to heavy rains and floods is likely to submit a report by next weekend. A five-member team is likely to prepare the reports individually and a common assessment report may be prepared by next weekend, highly placed sources told TOI.  The two day tour ended on Friday and officials are leaving on Saturday. The state government has submitted an initial damage report citing a loss of Rs 8,000 crore and the team will make their own assessment and refer to the central committed for recommendations. Sate government source said the memorandum on damage given to the centre will be updated again with full details. There are many norms for crop damage compensation claims. A special grant is being sought by former SCB vice president, J Rama Krishna, for flood hit areas in SCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/damage-report-to-be-ready-in-a-week/articleshow/78835566.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Emergency use of Covaxin possible if govt approves: Co||HYDERABAD: Bharat Biotech, which is developing India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, expects the critical Phase III trials to be completed after April 2021. Only after that, the company will go for commercial licensing and WHO pre-qualification, a top official of the company said. However, Covaxin could be available for emergency use earlier if the government decides not to wait for the completion of Phase III studies and invokes an emergency use authorisation (EUA), Sai Prasad, executive director, Bharat Biotech International told TOI. “We expect Phase III studies to begin in November and the first set of efficacy readouts will be available only by April or May of 2021. We have been providing all information on all aspects of our projects to the government... there have been discussions within the government on when to potentially introduce the vaccine so whether they will wait for our Phase III data or introduce it before is their prerogative,” he said. Pointing out that Bharat Biotech is not actively pursuing EUA, he said if the government wants the firm to do it and gives the right approvals it will consider an early rollout. The company claims its Phase III trials, with over 26,000 volunteers, are one of the largest efficacy studies to be conducted in the country for any drug or vaccine. The trials will be conducted at about 25 sites across 12 states because the company wants to ensure that the wide demographic variability within India is covered. The Bharat Biotech ED said the company has capacity to churn out around 150 million doses per annum from its existing manufacturing facilities with a second facility coming up at Genome Valley, Hyderabad, that is expected to go online in December and with another location outside Hyderabad being explored the total capacity can shoot up to over 500 million doses per annum. He said the company is open to sharing its knowledge and technology with other companies as long as they have the capability and expertise to manufacture such a vaccine in case the need arises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/emergency-use-of-covaxin-possible-if-govt-approves-co/articleshow/78835569.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation launches elderly care, Vadil Sukhakari Yojana||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal corporation has launched a healthcare initiative for elderly citizens. Under the scheme ‘Vadil Sukhakari Yojana’ teams will visit elderly citizens, especially those with co-morbidities. Teams with three paramedical staff each will visit elderly citizens and apart from checking for diseases, they will also distribute immunity booster package including vitamin C, zinc tablets, samsamani vati among others. The AMC has decided to have 100 such teams and about 2,000 senior citizens will be covered every day. Senior citizens with co-morbidities will be visited by a team every 15 days. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS forest and environment, and in-charge of Covid management in the city said that during a meeting with municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and other deputy municipal commissioners it was decided to start the new initiative for the elderly. The scheme will ensure that a doctor and paramedical staff visit elderly citizens regularly and check them for diabetes, hypertension, kidney diseases and other diseases related to old age, as those with co-morbid conditions require special attention. The AMC has also developed a special software for the project to maintain data and record of the co-morbidity of senior citizens. Gupta said the AMC has identified 30,000 senior citizens with co-morbidities based on a household survey. The survey was conducted in 21 wards with greater incidence of coronavirus infection, including wards like Jodhpur, Bopal,. Chandkheda, Maninagar, Isanpur among others He added that this is the first such project for the elderly in the country. The AMC has launched multiple healthcare initiatives successfully, including the Dhanvantari Rath, the 104 treatment helpline, Sanjivani yojana, Doctor Mitra project, the Corona Santavana project among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-launches-elderly-care-vadil-sukhakari-yojana/articleshow/78836671.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 1,000 sub-inspectors pass out from police academy||HYDERABAD: Home minister Md Mahmood Ali said the state government will soon take up another round of police recruitment to fill up 20,000 posts of various ranks. The minister made the statement while addressing the gathering at the passing out parade of 1,162 sub-inspectors at RBVRR Telangana State Police Academy. The home minister, along with DGP M Mahendar Reddy, attended the passing out parade on Friday morning. The home minister said that so far, 18,428 SI and constables have been recruited in Telangana and soon, about 20,000 more vacant posts will be filled. Both the home minister and the DGP have advised the SIs to work with integrity and honesty to bring good name for the police department. Academy in-charge director K Srinivasa Reddy said that so far 1,25,848 police personnel of various ranks have been trained at the academy. Among the SIs who passed out of the academy are 256 women sub-inspectors. Among the 1,162 SIs, 68 are engineers and 37 have an MBA degree. Though several trainee cadets contracted Covid-19 at the academy, they all recovered and finished training as per the schedule. As part of the training, the cadets have performed difficult bandobast duties during municipality elections, Medaram Jathara, and Ganesh immersion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-1000-sub-inspectors-pass-out-from-police-academy/articleshow/78835576.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Indiranagar, Gomtinagar grapple with twin threats of dengue, Covid-19||LUCKNOW: Residents of Indiranagar and Gomtinagar are grappling with twin diseases since the onset of September. The two localities have not just been on tenterhooks due to a high number of Covid-19 cases but now even dengue has become a rampant problem for them. The tally has now reached above 310; majority of these were reported in September. Of the 275 recorded dengue cases from government hospitals/labs till October 21, the maximum number of patients at 23% are from Indiranagar (64) followed by Gomtinagar with 30 cases. As many as 58 dengue patients from Indiranagar were diagnosed in September-October. In Gomtinagar, 28 patients were diagnosed in the same period—the most recent being a two-year-old girl from Vinay Khand. With symptoms closely identical and sometimes misread as those of Covid-19, experts said that a number of fever patients have been diagnosed with dengue several days after being bitten by its vector, the female Aedes Aegypti mosquito. “A patient of mine had high fever coupled with symptoms which were very similar to those of Covid-19. But he kept testing negative for it. He also tested negative for dengue initially and then all tests had to be repeated. Finally, his second test for dengue came out to be positive,” said a KGMU doctor in the medicine department. The survival rate of dengue larvae is high when day temperature is above 25 and night temperature is above 16 degree Celsius. The peak season of the disease is between July and October. However, cases were reported till the end of November last year, until temperature dropped below the ideal mark. Following the two areas in cases were Chinhat and Balaganj—recording 16 cases each. Fifteen of the cases from Chinhat were reported in September, while all of the 16 from Balaganj were reported after October 14. On KGMU campus, the various hostels, especially SP hostel, and faculty residences together reported 12 dengue cases in two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/indiranagar-gomtinagar-grapple-with-twin-threats-of-dengue-covid/articleshow/78837443.cms||Yusra Husain
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||TSPCB forms 24x7 team to track pollution at Kazipally||HYDERABAD: A committee comprising officials from the Telangana State Pollution Control Board on Friday ordered the formation of a 24x7 monitoring team to track pollution in the Kazipally industrial area. The decision was arrived at a meeting following a TOI report on pollution engulfing nearly one-third of the city last month. A five-member committee held an online meet with industrial stakeholders and affected residents to discuss the steps needed to be taken after the TOI report “Sulphur-like smell unnerves city, locals approach PCB” was published on September 12, 2020. Track the pollution level in your citySpeaking on the occasion, executive engineer Ravi Kumar suggested that pollutants released from three industries in the Kazipally-Gaddapotharam area could be responsible for the foul smell that residents have been encountering. He said that Mercaptan used during the industrial process and disposal of solid waste might be cause for the pungent smell. In addition, other chemicals might also be contributing, he suggested. About preventive measures, he said basic precautions such as the use of scrubbers and carbon columns were not being followed. Residents on their part raised complaints about the continuing smell in their areas. Lakshman, a resident of Bachupally, said, “We were getting a pungent smell even yesterday that was unbearable. By the time the PCB team arrives, the odour reduces.” Srinivas K, another resident of the area said: “Since the incident on September 12, at least 20 other instances of pollution spreading across areas have taken place. Complaints have been marked as ‘to be attended’.” The committee took a serious view of the incidents. Speaking to industrial representatives separately, they warned of environmental compensation norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tspcb-forms-24x7-team-to-track-pollution-at-kazipally/articleshow/78835573.cms||Uttara Varma
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to buy maize at Rs 1,850/quintal||HYDERABAD: Lamenting that some farmers had cultivated maize against government’s advice in the vanakalam, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the government would purchase maize at Rs 1,850 per quintal through Markfed and urged the farmers to utilise the opportunity. “The government has no responsibility to purchase the maize but decided to buy it so that farmers need not suffer any loss,” KCR said during a review meeting on agriculture and maize procurement. The government, through the Markfed, had purchased nine lakh tonnes of maize in summer by spending Rs 1,668 crore. Since the maize did not get any price in the open market, it was auctioned. In the open auction, Markfed got only Rs 823 crore and suffered a loss of Rs 845 crore. Last year, Markfed had purchased maize at Rs 1,760 per quintal and the cost touched Rs 2,000 per quintal with transportation charges. KCR said Telangana is the only state implementing several pro-farmer and pro-agriculture polices and schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-to-buy-maize-at-rs-1850/quintal/articleshow/78835574.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Cop enacting fake rescue op suspended||Kalaburagi: Sending out a message that indiscipline will not be tolerated in the department, the Kalaburagi top cop on Friday suspended Mallanna S Yalagod, police sub-inspector (PSI) attached to Nelogi station. The PSI, in his attempt to gain fame, had stage-managed a rescue operation and also got a video of the same shot. The clip shows him saving a lamb in a flooded village, much to the joy of the villagers. However, the video backfired with the people of the district, especially social media users, taking exception to the fake operation. Taking note of the same, Kalaburagi SP Simi Mariam George suspended the PSI. Yalagod has now been replaced by Jevargi PSI Sangamesh Angadi. Incidentally, Angadi gained popularity after a video showing him rescuing a woman and her newborn baby from floods at Hasanapur village in Jevargi police limits went viral. It is said Yalagod too tried to gain popularity after seeing Sangamesh’s video of the heroic act. However, his fake rescue act boomeranged, with his “inspiration” taking over his post. This is for the second time that Yalagod is suspended — he was shown the door for anointing himself with pots of milk by the villagers on his birthday three months ago. After the video went viral, then SP Yada Martin Marbanhang had suspended him for a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cop-enacting-fake-rescue-op-suspended/articleshow/78836394.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||AU blacklists Promarc for failure to conduct exams online||AMRAVATI: Having had to face the music of students and senate members alike for its failure to conduct exams online even in the fifth attempt, the beleaguered Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University, in a face saving act, on Friday blacklisted the agency Promarc Pvt. Ltd contracted to conduct the online exams. The university faced severe criticism first for engaging an outside agency for its online exams and then for its repeated failure in performing the task smoothly. While harassed students staged demonstrations before the varsity demanding resignation of vice-chancellor and director of Board of Examination and Evaluation on Thursday, irate senate members too called on the VC demanding blacklisting of Nagpur company Promarc Pvt. Ltd. The members alleged that the varsity selected the company for conducting the online exams without testing its credentials. Bowing to the criticism from all corners and demand of the senate members, the varsity announced its decision to blacklist the company. When the varsity had announced to conduct the exams on October 12 after two postponements earlier, all were expecting a smooth sailing. However, the company’s server gave in that day, causing great inconvenience to students and the varsity which led to further postponement and cancellation of next day’s exam too. Because the company again failed to put its machinery on track, the university was again forced to put off all exams indefinitely. Angered by the repeated inability of the company, the vice-chancellor Murlidhar Chandekar took the Promarc director to task and the technical committee constituted for this purpose today annulled the company’s contract. Varsity registrar Tushar Deshmukh dashed off a letter to the company informing it of the decision and compounding of its security deposit. Along with Promarc, seven other companies had submitted their bids to the varsity. All firms had given demo before the committee that selected Promarc as its bid was the lowest, had experience of conducting exams online and done good job with Nagpur University exams, the committee had noted while awarding the contract to the company. Contrary to the committee’s observations, the company abysmally and repeatedly failed in its task, inviting wrath of students and bringing bad name to the varsity. “We have blacklisted the company and decided not to give any work of the varsity to it in future,” the VC told TOI. Expressing regrets for the mental and physical harassment the students had to undergo because of the agency’s failure, Chandekar assured to safeguard their interests. “ We will see to it that they (students) do not suffer academically,” said the VC. He said future course of action will shortly be decided in the meeting of Academic Council and the Board of Exams and Evaluation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/au-blacklists-promarc-for-failure-to-conduct-exams-online/articleshow/78835601.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||SSP Hajit Singh: No proof to back ‘forced to drink urine’ claim||FAZILKA: Police are yet to find any evidence to back the allegations by a Dalit youth that he was assaulted by some persons and forced to drink urine at Chak Janisar village of Fazilka district on October 8, said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Hajit Singh on Friday. The SSP said a special investigation team (SIT), constituted to investigate into the claims, found the allegations of the youth being forced to drink urine incorrect. He said complainant Gurnam Singh alias Gora, a resident of Chak Madrasa village in Muktsar, who visited his brother’s house in Chak Janisar during the late hours on October 8, was assaulted by villagers over suspicion of being a thief. The SSP said no incident in which Gora was forced to drink urine by villagers had been established during investigation. Six persons were booked by the police, including Jagvir Singh Bhola, Simranjit Singh alias Kala, Ramandeep Singh, Sukhjit, Gaganjit Singh and Tarsem Singh, under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 365 (abduction), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and various sections of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, following a video clip of the assault going viral. Police arrested four accused in the case. SSP said in the preliminary report filed by the SIT on Friday, it was found that the victim was beaten up over the suspicion of being a thief as he was found roaming near the village around 10.30 pm on October 8. “However, the SIT did not find any evidence suggesting that the victim was forced to drink urine,” the SSP maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ssp-no-proof-to-back-dalit-youths-forced-to-drink-urine-claim/articleshow/78836687.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||8-year-old girl molested in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A 33-year-old man, a resident of Rakhial, has lodged a complaint on Thursday against one Rajiahmed Shaikh, 55, of Gujarat Housing Board in Rakhial, alleging that the accused had pulled her 8-year-old daughter into his shop and with the intention of sexually abusing her, bit her on her cheek. Police have arrested the accused after getting his Covid-19 test done. Police have lodged a case under Section 354(1) (i) of IPC and also invoked sections of Pocso. According to the FIR the girl had gone to the accused’s shop to buy a chocolate on Wednesday when the incident happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-yr-old-girl-molested/articleshow/78836703.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Panel to evaluate bids for secretariat construction||HYDERABAD: Financial bids for new secretariat construction will be referred to the commissioner of tenders. The roads and buildings department on Friday opened bids with two companies — L&T and Shapoorji Pallonji Group — in the fray. A senior official said that the details of bids would be sent to the commissioner of tenders for evaluation after October 26. A committee would monitor the bids submitted by these firms. Details were referred to commissioner of tenders as the R&B does not have the authority to finalise tenders of above Rs 10 crore. State government has estimated that new secretariat will cost Rs 657 crore. Once the firm is finalised, the announcement could be made next week, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-to-evaluate-bids-for-sectt-construction/articleshow/78835584.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Plaints against RTA staff for illegal scrappping of vehicles||HYDERABAD: S Srinivas Chary, a resident of Nagole, was shocked to find out that a passenger autorickshaw he purchased from S Raj Kumar was under the list of scrapped vehicles when he took it to the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office in Secunderabad for a fitness check. On enquiry, Chary was informed that as per RTA records, the autorickshaw in his possession, bearing number bearing AP10V9663, was scrapped and the permit of the said vehicle was transferred to another autorickshaw bearing number AP10W3053. “I have been visiting the RTA office from February 2017 and till date, the issue has not been resolved. I request the authorities to take necessary action against those involved in issuing illegal scrapping orders for vehicles and check if there are more such cases,” said Srinivas. In a similar case last year, Kanaka Raju Vangapally, a former resident of Hyderabad, who moved to Kakinada, was shocked to find that the registration number of his autorickshaw (AP10U7145) also belonged to a goods carrier. The stories of S Srinivas Charry and Kanaka Raju Vangapally are two among the various reported cases of negligence by RTA authorities. However, after the irregularities in the process came to fore, a complaint was submitted to the officials of the transport department and Lokayukta to take necessary action against the staff and other persons who are involved in the illegal scrapping (creating documents as if the vehicles are scrapped) and issuing similar registration or permit numbers to the vehicles. When contacted, a senior RTA official said, “Permission for the new autos is given only after old auto is scrapped with certification from the RTA authorities, as per rules issued in 2002. If there are any irregularities, we will definitely take action and see that the issue is not repeated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaints-against-rta-staff-for-illegal-scrappping-of-vehicles/articleshow/78835593.cms||Moulika.KV
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR to run special trains during festive season||HYDERABAD: To clear passenger rush during the festive season, the South Central Railway (SCR) is operating 1,310 originating/terminating special trains for the upcoming festivals of Dasara, Diwali and Chhath Puja. Apart from these, another 456 festival special trains will be passing through the zone during the festival season. Due to increasing in frequency of train services, additional safety measures are being implemented at all railway stations. In a review meeting, SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya instructed officials to make adequate arrangements and also advised the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) to maintain a strict vigil and regulate passenger movements and ensure maintenance of Covid-19 precautions. “We appeal to all passengers to follow the guidelines provided by the railway administration for a safe and secure travel during the season,” said Mallya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-to-run-spl-trains-during-festive-season/articleshow/78835596.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||PG medical students hit hard as colleges withhold certificates||HYDERABAD: Almost 300 post-graduate medical and dental students in the state are unable to pursue senior residency and super-speciality courses as private medical colleges have withheld their original certificates over fee issue. In 2017, the state government had increased the tuition fee for PG medical courses in private colleges following which the Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA) had moved court. In an interim order, the HC had directed to proceed with the admissions by collecting 50 per cent of tuition fee as fixed by the government and remaining 50 per cent in bonds from the candidates. The arrangement was subject to outcome of the writ petitions. In June this year, the 2017-18 PG batch graduated after appearing for the final year examinations. However, in a rude shock, 10 private medical and dental colleges in the state have withheld their original certificates due to which students are neither able to register with the Telangana State Medical Council for official practice nor pursue further studies. “I have applied for super-speciality course in neurology for which the counselling is set to commence shortly. When I approached the college management seeking my original certificates, they refused to return and asked me to pay the remaining amount which was submitted as bond during admission,” said Dr Prashanthi K, a student. Now, a complaint has been registered by the HRDA with the Telangana State Human Rights Commission which has summoned the college representatives. “Despite submitting necessary bonds, private colleges are withholding original certificates which is against the HC interim order that clearly states that original certificates cannot be retained at any rate and are not to be taken as pledging either by colleges or university,” said Dr Mahesh Kumar, president, HRDA. Taking note of the complaints registered by the PG students, B Karunaker Reddy, vice-chancellor, Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences, said, “We have instructed private and medical colleges to not withhold original certificates, especially for those who are set to pursue super-speciality courses. Not just that, we have also informed our standing counsel to mention the matter in the court and expedite the proceedings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pg-med-students-hit-hard-as-colleges-withhold-certificates/articleshow/78835585.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Effigies to become smaller, crowds absent this Dussehra||LUCKNOW: No crowds would be allowed to gather for Dussehra in the city this time owing to Covid safety norms. Lucknow police commissionerate has appealed to the public to keep themselves safe and avoid gatherings during burning of Ravana’s effigy. Police also said that in comparison to previous years, only a quarter of the people have taken permission to organise Dusshera fair this year. At Ramlila Maidan, the sizes of traditional Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakaran effigies have been reduced from 120 feet to 50 feet this year. Barring organisers and a VIP, nobody from the public would be allowed to enter the ground. No effigy would be stalled at crossings. Any venue should be open where distance of at least 6 feet can be maintained between attendees. DCP central Somen Barma said, “We are making appeals to public using the public address system to not gather in groups and take part in fairs. “Police teams at three places where permission for Ravana effigy installation has been taken would be deployed along with PRVs. Those found lurking in the area will be booked,” said Barma. “We have given permission only after visiting the spot and ensuring Covid-19 protocol is being followed,” said DCP north Shalini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/effigies-to-become-smaller-crowds-absent-this-dussehra/articleshow/78837467.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Mob attacks Tanda child rape accused||HOSHIARPUR: After the rape and burning of a six-year-old village girl near Tanda on Wednesday, police on Friday had to save the 19-year-old accused, Surpreet Singh, from mob fury at the Tanda civil hospital when he was bought for medical examination with his grandfather. The charred body was in the cattle yard of accused’s grandfather. The girl’s family alleged kidnapping and rape before murder. The child’s mother appeared in a wailing video, telling the villagers how the boy had come to the house in her absence like always and banged the door desperately. She came back to find the child missing. Someone had seen Surpreet luring the girl with a biscuit. Police also have a CCTV image of it. By Wednesday evening, the search party had found the body. Surpreet’s grandfather is accused for aiding the crime. Asked about it, Tanda deputy superintendent of police Daljit Singh Khakh said: “The affected family named the old man in its complaint.” The Punjab government paid the girl’s family Rs 4 lakh as compensation. Tanda legislator Sangat Singh Giljian and Chabbewal MLA Raj Kumar handed over the cheque. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mob-attacks-tanda-child-rape-accused/articleshow/78836678.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt policies are ‘anti-farmer’: Cong||Hyderabad: TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has neglected maize, paddy and cotton farmers despite the farming community’s protests across the state. Interacting with reporters in Dubbak, he said the fate of lakhs of farmers depends on the outcome of Dubbak elections. “The CM is pursuing ‘anti-farmer’ policies since 2014. The TRS government has not only neglected the welfare of farmers, but also created new problems,” he alleged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-policies-are-anti-farmer-cong/articleshow/78835607.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Agra||Over 800 kg cannabis seized in Hathras||AGRA: About 850kg cannabis worth Rs 1.25 crore in the street market was seized in Hathras on Thursday. The narcotics was being “buried” in the foundation of an under-construction building when the police team raided. The police have registered an FIR under various sections of NDPS Act. However, no arrest has been made so far. According to police, around 140 bags carrying 6-7 kg cannabis each were seized. The large quantity of cannabis was smuggled from Odisha in a truck and a car. Initial investigations revealed that the car is registered in the name of a person who owns the plot where the consignment was found, SP Hathras Vineet Jaiswal said. A manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-800kg-cannabis-seized-in-hathras/articleshow/78834322.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Film company gets notice for littering in Goa||PANAJI: The Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) has issued a notice to the line producer of a Mumbai-based film production company following reports that a lot of waste generated by the film crew, including personal protective equipment (PPE), was not cleared from the picturesque village of Nerulafter shooting was completed earlier this month. Photos of a swathe of land covered in plastic and other waste in the village did the rounds on social media platforms after shooting wrapped up more than a week ago. Biomedical waste, including PPEs from health centres and government hospitals, is routinely sent to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital’s disposal facility. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said his ministry shouldn’t be responsible for the incident and those who gave permission for the film shoot ought to be held responsible. “It is not right to dump waste in the open. When permission was given for the film shoot, conditions ought to have been added in guidelines that the entity will dispose of the waste,” Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/film-company-gets-notice-for-littering-in-goa/articleshow/78837501.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Agra||After 7 months, Agra’s SNMC to restart OPD||AGRA: Seven months after closing down the out-patient department (OPD) due to the Covid-19 pandemic, SN Medical College has decided to resume functioning from November 2. The OPD will be operated for three hours from 9 am to 12 noon. A decision to the effect has been taken following a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in Agra. The SNMC had been converted to Covid facility earlier. Moreover, the rush of patients suffering other diseases, especially viral infection, at the district hospital and other government centres has also fallen. According to the SNMC authorities, the patients will have to register for an appointment with the doctor concerned at the OPD through the tele-medicine helpline. The patients suffering tuberculosis will be prescribed medicines for 15 days and other patients for seven days so that they do not have to make repeated rounds at the hospital. SNMC principal, Dr Sanjay Kala, said, “The load of Covid-19 patients at SNMC has significantly reduced. Therefore, we have decided to open the OPD for common patients from November 2. Required arrangements are being made in this regard. We are determining a daily OPD slot for different types of patients. Only those patients requiring physical checkup by doctors will be called at the OPD. Remaining cases will be addressed through tele-medicine facility. This is aimed at avoiding a large gathering at the hospital and to prevent the spread of Covid-19."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-7-months-agras-snmc-to-restart-opd/articleshow/78834325.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Agra||UP dists to follow Etah Police, 'engage' mothers of children with special needs||AGRA: Following in Etah's footsteps, police in other districts of Uttar Pradesh are also working on plans to designate mothers of children with intellectual disabilities as special police officers. TOI had on Friday reported that over 1,900 women in Etah, whose children have intellectual disabilities, have been recognised as special police officers. "I will ensure the plan is implemented in all other districts of Aligarh range (Aligarh, Hathras, Kasganj)," inspector general of Aligarh range Piyush Mordia said. "The initiative by Etah Police (also under Aligarh range) is very impressive. It will bring police forces closer to the people." Agra has a similar plan. "It will help protect those with intellectual disabilities and it will help empower women. I will work on a similar plan for Agra," SP (Agra city) Botre Rohan Pramod said. The plan, under the UP government's 'Mission Shakti' initiative to empower women, relies on social signalling to battle stigma and crimes against the intellectually disabled. Women whose children have intellectual disabilities were identified, designated as special police officers (a nominal position), handed identity cards acknowledging their special roles and police nameplates (with the blue and red service colours). The ID says, "You possess an incredible strength to smile even in the toughest phases of life. Uttar Pradesh Police salutes you for this courage and confers the title of special police officer on you." Etah SP (crime) Rahul Kumar, who launched the initiative, said, "After becoming part of the police family, they will have a natural protection against crimes. It will also help curb social stigma." First responders in cases of crimes against the intellectually disabled are consistently either family members or neighbours, UP Police emergency helpline data had shown. "They need special protection," added Kumar, an editorial member of the 'Guidebook for First Responders to Handle Mental Health Emergencies.' And the gesture means a lot. Satyawati, mother of a 14-year-old, said the entire village turned up when police officials handed her the ID. "I had never thought police could be so kind. My boy was overwhelmed. This gesture has given us a lot of strength." So now, the plan could be extended across the state. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said, “I have worked for disability welfare. It needs support from every section of society. I am very happy that police officials have come forward to address this. I think police forces of other districts should also consider empowering mothers of special children."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-dists-to-follow-etah-police-engage-mothers-of-children-with-special-needs/articleshow/78834333.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 24, 2020||Agra||Prime suspect in theft, murder case arrested after encounter in Agra||AGRA: A wanted criminal and prime suspect for robbing and murdering a cash collection agent of a liquor vend owner in Agra was arrested after being injured in an encounter with police on Friday morning. Botrey Rohan Pramod, SP (city), told TOI that the suspect, Hasan Ali, 30, was wanted for robbing and murdering a cash collection agent, Sonu, on October 18 under Etmaddullah police jurisdiction. Promod said during vehicle checking between 1 and 4 am at Kalindi Vihar, the police team intercepted a bike that had no number plate. When its rider was signalled to stop, he opened fire at the police in a bid to escape. In retaliation, police fired, hitting the suspect on his legs. He was taken to the hospital for treatment. Police have recovered a bag containing Rs 2 lakh from his possession. During interrogation, Ali told police that after committing the murder of the collection agent, he fled to Mumbai and then went to Ahmedabad and Jaipur. He had recently returned to Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/prime-suspect-in-theft-murder-case-arrested-after-encounter-in-agra/articleshow/78834311.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Amid wait for Covid-19 vaccine, Andhra Pradesh starts to ramp up cold chain facilities||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the number of daily Covid-19 infections in the state stabilising over the last six weeks, the state health department has now focused its attention on vaccine delivery mechanism, for when a Covid-19 vaccine is available. The health department has stared augmenting cold chain facilities to facilitate safe delivery of vaccines for mass immunisation. A number of potential Covid-19 vaccines have reached advanced trial stages and are expected to be available in the next few months. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NGEVAC) has prepared a detailed blueprint for vaccine storage, distribution and administration in consultation with state governments and other relevant stakeholders. Andhra Pradesh already has optimal cold chain capacity for its regular immunisation programmes. The state has started scaling up for Covid-19 storage and distribution by utilising even spare capacity. However, there is no clarity yet on the size of the vaccine, the date of availability and the number of doses that the state will receive. Even though priority groups for the first phase of vaccine administration have not been identified yet, the Union government has asked states to aggregate data pertaining to health staff. According to experts, the vaccine is likely to be distributed among high-risk and vulnerable groups in the first phase including healthcare personnel, the elderly, people with comorbidities and other frontline Covid-19 warriors. Speaking to TOI, Andhra Pradesh health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said that the state is ready with its cold chain capacity for Covid-19 vaccine storage and distribution. “The Union government asked the health department to send data of health staff,” the commissioner added. Dr R Ramana Rao, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Gitam Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), said, “A robust cold chain needs to be created for Covid-19 vaccine supply as it involves transporting vaccine in controlled temperatures from the point of manufacture to delivery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/amid-wait-for-covid-19-vaccine-state-starts-to-ramp-up-cold-chain-facilities/articleshow/78834328.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh: Won’t let BJP divide Punjabis on caste lines||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, on Friday, accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to divide society on caste lines to further its vested political interests. He asserted that he would not allow them to impose their vicious agenda in the state. “I will not let them disturb Punjab’s peaceful atmosphere at any cost,” said Amarinder, referring to the BJP’s attempt to take out the “Dalit Insaf Yatra” on Thursday without permission. These divisive tactics will never succeed in Punjab, where people have been living in harmony, he said. Amarinder also said the saffron party does not have the moral right to talk about Dalit rights, which they violated wherever they were in power. He corroborated this saying that Uttar Pradesh, under BJP rule, accounted for over 25% of cases of atrocities against SC community in the country and had recorded the highest number of such incidents in 2018. “Is this your definition of justice for Dalits? Is this what you are offering the SC people of Punjab?” he asked the BJP. Amarinder said the BJP, finding itself totally cornered by the draconian, anti-farmer and unconstitutional farm laws, is indulging in theatrics and propaganda to divert public attention. “The fact is that the party has completely failed farmers and SC students, whom its national leadership has deprived of access to higher education by abruptly withdrawing from the central postmatric scholarship scheme,” he said. Amarinder attributed BJP’s attempted rally to its alarm over the state government’s successful launch of its own scholarship scheme for SC students. Despite suffering Rs 800 crore in losses due to the “anti-Dalit” decision of the BJP-led Union government, the cash-strapped Punjab government not only introduced a new scheme - B R Ambedkar SC Postmatric Scholarship - for SC students but even expanded its ambit to benefit more youngsters, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wont-let-bjp-divide-punjabis-on-caste-lines-amarinder/articleshow/78836709.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Labourer, 3-year-old son die in hit-and-run in Kamareddy||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old labourer and her three-year-old son died in a hit-and-run case in Kamareddy district on Friday. The 38-year-old labourer was identified as Narsamma, a labourer from Sayinipally in Nagarkurnool district. She was married to J Kurmaiah, also a labourer, and the couple had four sons. Seven months ago, the couple, along with their younger sons, had gone to Padtoor village in Jalna district, Maharashtra for cement road construction work. After the completion of their work on Thursday afternoon, they started their return journey to Telangana along with other workers in a DCM van. En route at around 5am, the DCM van stopped near National Dhabha on NH-44 near Kamareddy town for a break. Some of the workers, including Narsamma and her sons, deboarded the van to answer nature’s call. However, when Narsamma and her two sons were crossing the road while returning to the van, Narsamma and one of her sons were hit by an unknown vehicle travelling from Hyderabad to Nizamabad. Narsamma’s son was rushed to a nearby hospital, however, he was declared brought dead by the doctors. Meanwhile, Narsamma succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment. “We have registered a case under section 304-A of the IPC and launched a manhunt to nab the offender,” Kamareddy inspector I Jagadeesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/labourer-3-yr-old-son-die-in-hit-and-run-in-kamareddy/articleshow/78835609.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Bedside oxygen in most King George's Medical University departments||LUCKNOW: Most departments in King George’s Medical University will now be able to give bedside oxygen facility to patients, while the bed strength of the Queen’s Mary Hospital under the gynaecology department has increased by 40%. Also, shifting of patients between hospitals located across the road can now be done through a footover bridge. Earlier, patients had to cross the road amid busy traffic on foot or on stretchers. The three projects were among five worth over Rs 92 crores inaugurated by medical education minister Suresh Khanna on Friday. He reiterated the government's commitment to provide best healthcare services and lauded KGMU's efforts during the novel coronavirus pandemic. According to KGMU spokesperson Prof Sudhir Singh, the gas plant built at the cost of over Rs 27.3 crore will ensure bedside oxygen supply to wards of 13 departments, including surgery, paediatrics, paediatric surgery, urology, oncology and some wards of the medicine department. Till now, the oxygen supply in these departments was through cylinders. Departments which have been shifted to new buildings already have bedside oxygen facilities. The 100-bedded maternity and child health care wing constructed at the cost of Rs 27.3 crore will enable the QMH hospital to cater to an increasing number of patients. The department till now had 250 beds and remained jam packed 24X7. Fire hydrant systems, costing Rs 30.2 crore, will cover several departments, including surgery, medicine, pulmonary department, paediatrics and urology among others. A residential complex costing Rs 22.3 crore will have accommodation to nearly 160 staff members. Vice-chancellor Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri said that the virtual ICU system developed by the university is helping 58 L-2 health care facilities in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bedside-oxygen-in-most-kgmu-depts/articleshow/78837491.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Man awarded life term for raping 5-year-old in 2015||BAREILLY: A POCSO court in Bareilly on Friday awarded life imprisonment along with Rs 50,000 fine to a man for raping a 5-year-old girl in Aonla area of the district. This crime was reported in 2015 and the accused Aman Maurya, a domestic help, was caught red handed by the family members inside the garage after their attention was attracted by the screams of the girl. This is the second such judgment announced by a court in Bareilly in 48 hours where the accused raped a minor girl. A man was sentenced for life along with a fine of Rs 60,000 for raping a 6-year-old girl in Fatehganj West area by additional district and sessions judge Anil Kumar Seth on Thursday. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “We are following all cases of sexual assault against women and children and this is fourth cases since October 15 where the accused were convicted for their offence.” District government counsel Suneet Kumar Pathak told TOI, “The accused was 18 at the time of the crime and he is in jail as his bail was rejected by the court as well. He has been convicted with life imprisonment in the rape case. A fine of Rs 50,000 has also been slapped on the accused. Additional DGC Reetram Rajput and police ensured that the evidence and the eyewitnesses in the case were presented in the court to ensure conviction. The accused had earlier claimed that he was a minor and attempted to delay the process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-awarded-life-term-for-raping-5-yr-old-in-2015/articleshow/78834344.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||20 families involved in selling moonshine for decades call it a quit||BAREILLY: About 20 families in Kaanth area of Shahjahanpur district who used to manufacture illicit liquor for the past many decades have now decided to quit the business after several efforts by police and social organisations. The families collectively took oath in the presence of SP (city) Sanjay Kumar and decided to lead a “respectable” life. One of them said that they have been promised by police that no one will be dragged unfairly into any case and they will start sending their children to school. The families, in the presence of policemen, threw the liquor manufacturing tools on the road and later destroyed them. They also said that they will motivate other people to live a peaceful and respectful life and send their children to school. A13-year-old boy, whose father was arrested thrice for selling illicit liquor in the past, said, “I had to earn for my family when my father was in jail for nearly a month. We were living a horrible life as there was always a fear of police. I am happy that my parents have decided to work as labourers and I can now go to school.” Sanjay Kumar told TOI, “Nearly 20 families who were indulged in manufacturing and selling of illicit liquor, were motivated and convinced to change their profession. Their step will earn them respect in society. Police will ensure that their children get proper education. This is mainly due to continuous efforts of Kaanth SHO Kunwar Bahadur Singh who was regularly visiting the village and educating the people about the importance of education and a peaceful life along with the ill effects of illicit liquor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-families-involved-in-selling-moonshine-for-decades-call-it-a-quit/articleshow/78834334.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter-state robbery gang arrested, property worth Rs 46 lakh recovered||HYDERABAD: Nalgonda police arrested four members of an inter-state robbery gang and recovered stolen property worth Rs 46 lakh from their possession on Friday. The accused, M Hari Krishna, D Anji Reddy, Suraj and Jani Pasha have committed 26 offences during the past one year in Telangana and AP. Nalgonda SP AV Ranganath said that the gang targets old women staying alone and robs them after conducting a reccee of their houses. According to police, the main acccused, Hari Krishna, identifies the targets using two methods. “Hari Krishna would move in residential areas looking for old women staying alone and also identifies the targets by waiting near old age pension centres. He would follow old women from pension centres to their houses to identify the potential targets,” Ranganath said. Once the target is identified, Hari Krishna would rope in other gang members and gain entry into the victim’s house by opening window grills. “The accused threatened the victims with knives and robbed valuables including cash and jewellery,” the SP said. Police arrested the accused during a vehicle check at Panagal bypass road in Nalgonda while they were travelling on two bikes in possession of stolen valuables. During interrogation, the accused confessed to having committed robberies in Nalgonda, Khammam and Guntur. Police recovered 900 grams of gold, two bikes and five phones from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-robbery-gang-arrested-property-worth-rs-46l-recovered/articleshow/78835618.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Process on to hire principals||CHANDIGARH: Punjab government has started the process of filling posts of principals, headmasters and block primary education officers under the revised rules. Recruitment is being conducted to 173 posts of principals, 337 posts of headmaster/headmistress and 75 posts of block primary education officers. The department has also made amendments in addition to implementing the new pay scale for recruitment. According to the spokesperson, last date for filling of online applications is November 2, 2020 while the last date to deposit fees is November 9, 2020. Candidates who wish to withdraw their candidature can do so till November 2, 2020. Candidates who had earlier filled their online application but did not deposit the required fee can also deposit the fee through bank challans already printed. Written test for recruitment will be held in the first week of December, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/education-dept-filling-posts-of-principals-headmasters/articleshow/78836720.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Special Investigation Team summons Sumedh Singh Saini again to join probe on October 26||MOHALI: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has once again summoned former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini to appear before the SIT on October 26 by 11am at Mataur police station in Mohali. This will be the second round of questioning of Saini. In response to the last summons, Saini had submitted a medical certificate stating that he was not well. Saini is facing murder charge in a 1991 case over alleged disappearance and elimination of Balwant Singh Multani Saini, a Citco junior engineer and son of a former IAS officer. The SIT pasted the summons outside the Saini’s house in Sector 20, Chandigarh and also served the same to his counsels. During the first round of questioning on September 28, the former DGP had been grilled by the SIT for around six hours. Earlier, he had approached the Supreme Court seeking quashing of the high court order dismissing his bail application. Although on September 15, the apex court had granted him protection from arrest, it directed him to cooperate and join the SIT investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-summons-saini-again-to-join-probe-on-oct-26/articleshow/78836726.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmers stage maha dharna over MSP||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of farmers staged a ‘maha dharna’ in Jagtial demanding that the government announce the minimum support price (MSP) for maize and also open centres to buy the produce. Despite police taking steps to prevent gathering of the farmers, hundreds of them managed to make their way to the collectorate. Shouting ‘Jai jawan jai kisan’ slogans, the farmers demanded that the government buy maize for Rs 2,500 per quintal. Anticipating a big gathering, police set up checkposts at all mandals and routes leading to Jagtial town and the collectorate. Several leaders of Rythula Aikya Vedika were taken into preventive custody and some leaders placed under house arrest since Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-stage-maha-dharna-over-msp/articleshow/78835629.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Dalit boy, 13, stands up to village strongman for insulting his father, shot at||BAREILLY: A Dalit boy was battling for life after being shot at allegedly by a village strongman, who took offence when the 13-year-old asked him not to insult his father who worked as a labourer in his field in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Lakhimpur Kheri, Vijay Dhull, said, “We have registered an FIR against Arun Yadav and three teams have been deployed to arrest him. The role of other people in the attack is not verified yet. A circle officer rank person will investigate this case. We are ensuring the best possible treatment for the boy and his life will be saved.” “On Thursday night, when Yadav and his aides -- all of them inebriated-- were abusing Raj Kumar near his home in Ratanganj village, his son asked them to stop,” a police officer said. In a fit of rage, Yadav took out a country-made pistol and opened fire at the boy. A bullet hit his shoulder and he collapsed. The father and other family members picked the boy and took him to a nearby community health centre, where doctors referred him to district hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri. An FIR was later registered at Nighasan police station on Friday. “Arun Yadav is quite an influential and he didn’t like when my son questioned him. Now I don’t have money for my son’s treatment," the helpless father said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-boy-13-stands-up-to-village-strongman-for-insulting-his-father-shot-at/articleshow/78834341.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 31 faculty, two students awarded for research||LUCKNOW: As many as 31 faculty members and two students were felicitated with ‘Eminence in Research’ awards at the “Annual Research Showcase 2020” organised by the research cell of KGMU on Friday. The event was organised at the administrative block. The event isorganized every year where published as well as ongoing research works of the university are showcased. Research cell incharge Prof RK Garg presented the annual research report and vice-chancellor Lt Gen (Dr) Bipin Puri gave away the awards. Dr Mohammed Kaleem Ahmad, biochemistry department, was awarded “Prof Dhavendra Kumar Young Investigator gold medal” for 2018-19, while Prof Vishal Gupta of surgical gastrvoenterology department got the eminence in research award for his publication in the highest impact factor journal. Dr Alka Singh, who did her PhD under Prof RN Srivastava of the department of orthopaedic surgery, received the best PhD thesis award and MBBS student Ahmad Qzair got an award for his publication in a high impact factor journal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/31-faculty-2-students-awarded-for-research/articleshow/78837497.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Saharanpur farmer is UP’s cane production champ||BIJNOR/PILIBHIT: Subhash Chandra Singh, a farmer from Saharanpur district’s Tondarpur cane zone, has bagged the first prize in state cane yield competition for the 2019-20 crushing season in the ratoon crop category. The results were announced by cane commissioner Sanjay R Bhoosreddy on Thursday evening. The average sugarcane yield in the state is 811 quintals per hectare. Among a total of 107 applicants from the 44 cane producing districts, Singh with a net production of 2,329 quintals per hectare, won the competition in the ratoon crop category. Neighbouring Shamli district's Satyaprakash Tiwari was a distant second at 1,851 quintals per hectare in the same category. Ranveer Singh of Ghaziabad got third position with a yield of 1,388 quintals per hectare. In the sugarcane plant production category, Satyaprakash from Gonda district bagged the first prize with a yield of 2,121 quintals per hectare. Besides, two Bijnor-based cane growers -- Jagat Singh of Chandpur and Brahampal Singh of Dhampur -- bagged second and third positions respectively, growing 2,069 and 1,902 quintals per hectare in the cane plant production category. Bhoosreddy said, “For ensuring complete transparency and fairness in selection of winners, the state sugarcane administration had deputed designated field officers who had managed the harvesting of sugarcane attributed to each contestant in their presence." The contest is organized every year and is aimed at motivating farmers to increase the yield per hectare. The department could not find any suitable winner for the general plant variety category. The winners would be awarded the cash prize of Rs 10,000, Rs 7,000 and Rs 5,000 along with certificates. The awards would be presented by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/saharanpur-farmer-is-ups-cane-production-champ/articleshow/78834363.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Vandalism over interfaith couple: Girl recovered in Rajasthan||BAREILLY: The Bareilly girl who had eloped with a school friend from the minority community on October 17 from Quila area of Bareilly district has been recovered by police in Ajmer district of Rajasthan on Friday. The girl has told police that she is 19-year-old and wants to live with the youth. She will be brought to Bareilly under police custody and her statement will be recorded in front of a judicial magistrate. The family members of the girl claimed that she is a minor. Police will verify her class X mark-sheet to verify her age and would send her for a medical examination. Earlier, activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) along with members of other saffron outfits had vandalized Quila police station on October 20 and projected it as a case of ‘love jihad’. Six identified and 200 unidentified people were booked for rioting inside the police station by police. Senior superintendent of police Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “We have recovered the girl and the youth. Both of them are safe in our protection. They will be brought to Bareilly and the statement of the girl will be recorded by police and later by a judicial magistrate. If the girl is a major, steps will be taken as per her statement. If she is a minor then the youth will be sent to jail for abduction of a minor. We are ensuring proper security for the couple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/vandalism-over-interfaith-couple-girl-recovered-in-rajasthan/articleshow/78834367.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 24, 2020||Bhopal||During 15-yr BJP rule, mafia and adulterators had a free run: Nath||Indore: Taking a dig at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, former CM Kamal Nath said on Friday that mafia and adulterators had a free run during the 15-year BJP rule in the state. He also advised Shivraj to use his ‘acting-skills’ to good effect in Bollywood and bring laurels for Madhya Pradesh . Addressing a bypoll meeting in Suwasra constituency in support of party candidate Rakesh Patidar, Nath said, “During 15-year BJP rule, mafia and adulterators had a good time, but when my government launched a crackdown on such elements, Shivraj Singh started suffering a stomach ache. I wanted to change the image of Madhya Pradesh and increase trust of businessmen so that they could invest here,” Nath said. Claiming that Chouhan is a good actor, Kamal Nath said, “He has better acting skills than Salman Khan and Shahrukh Khan. He should go to Mumbai and bring some laurels for Madhya Pradesh.” Nath said, “You must have seen Chouhan kneeling down and claiming that ‘Janata Meri Bhagwan Hain’ but the fact is that for Shivraj, mafia is the only god. Please, don’t fool the public.” He asked Shivraj to give an account of his 15-year rule as well as seven months of his current government. He also asked the CM to tell people about the horse-trading of MLAs and Centre’s three anti-farmer bills.  “Today, I heard Shivraj saying that Kamal Nath is a big industrialist and has many industries across the country, but not in Madhya Pradesh. There is a limit to spreading lies. Can Shivraj tell the people about even one industry owned by me in the country,” Nath said. He urged Chouhan to give details of how much money was sanctioned for Madhya Pradesh when he (Nath) was a Union minister as well as the funds that had been sanctioned by BJP-led central government after 2014.  “Chouhan used to approach me when I was cabinet minister of different departments in the UPA government and had even thanked me for sanctioning maximum money for Madhya Pradesh,” Nath said. The former CM accused BJP of horse-trading and forming its government by misusing money power. He said that Chouhan had made 15,000 promises as CM, but none of them had been fulfilled. “He has been just telling lies, but BJP was exposed in the recent assembly session when the government accepted that agriculture loan of 27 lakh farmers was waived off during Congress rule, ” Nath said. Earlier in the day, Nath visited Sanwer constituency to seek votes for Congress candidate Premchand Borasi “Guddu”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/during-15-yr-bjp-rule-mafia-and-adulterators-had-a-free-run-nath/articleshow/78835628.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: OK to factories on agricultural, mixed use land||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab chief minister has allowed factories on agricultural and mixed-use land, subject to conditions, and cut non-construction fee in case the site is not developed within three years. Looking to boost investment and create jobs, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh announced these decisions after an online meeting of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Board (PRTPD) and the various development authorities. After a 30-day public notice, the state government will finalise these decisions, an official spokesman has said. Factories can come up in fields even 3 kilometres beyond cities and 2 km outside smaller towns, provided the site has a 19-to-22-foot access. The red-category industries (that use hazardous chemicals and material) such as automobile and acid-battery units should be at least 500 metres from the village habitation. Manufacturers can take the mixed-use area only along major roads. The state will have industrial hubs on 1,100 acres in Rajpura and 1,000 acres near Ludhiana. The CM also approved two key projects for Patiala. The first is to clean up and beautify the Chhoti and Badi Nadi by laying sewerage along the river length and creating a reservoir check dam for Rs 180 crore. The other, worth Rs 42 crore, is for transforming Patiala’s main bazaar into a heritage street. Amarinder allowed land owners to develop 200 acres near the airport for a fee, called external development charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ok-to-factories-on-agri-fields/articleshow/78836733.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Quack booked for illegal practice, medicines seized||PILIBHIT: A joint team of the health department, revenue and the police raided a quack's clinic in Jahanabad town on Friday and busted his illegal medical work. The team also recovered medicines and medical apparatus. An FIR has been lodged. Dr Chandra Kumar, the medical officer in-charge of government community health centre at Jahanabad, who had filed a written complaint, said, "Nadeem was running his clinic without any valid medical degree. The information had been sent to the officials of health department following which the chief medical superintendent of the district government hospital Dr RP Singh along with the tehsildar Vivek Kumar Mishra reached Jahanabad." Taking the local police team headed by the sub inspector Ram Kumar Lahri and local witnesses, they raided the clinic. The quack fled. Locals confirmed that Nadeem was involved in illegal medical practice for the past one year, said Dr Kumar. SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said that the clinic has been sealed and medicines along with the medical equipment seized. The quack has been booked under sections 419 (cheating by impersonation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of IPC and section 15 (3) of the Indian Medical Council Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/quack-booked-for-illegal-practice-medicines-seized/articleshow/78834357.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Three police constables thrashed by locals in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: At least 11 people, including five unidentified, were booked on Thursday night for thrashing three constables of Puranpur Kotwali police station. The constables were allegedly assaulted as they tried to pacify some locals who were involved in a heated argument among themselves at a public place. Rajan Tomar, the complainant, stated that he along with another constable, Akshay Tomar, was on way to Assam Road Crossing on the Pilibhit-Basti NH-730 at the outskirts of Puranpur city on night duty when the duo found three locals quarrelling near the Big Bazar premises. When the cops tried to intervene to resolve the issue, the locals turned at them and started hurling abuses. The locals even called 10 more people, Rajan said. In the meantime, another constable, Dheeraj Malik, was called in. Soon, the locals started thrashing the three cops. According to SHO SK Singh, the accused have been booked under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-police-constables-thrashed-by-locals-in-pilibhit/articleshow/78834366.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Saharanpur farmer is UP’s cane production champ||Bijnor/Pilibhit: Subhash Chandra Singh, a farmer from Saharanpur district’s Tondarpur cane zone, has bagged the first prize in state cane yield competition for the 2019-20 crushing season in the ratoon crop category. The results were announced by cane commissioner Sanjay R Bhoosreddy on Thursday evening.The average sugarcane yield in the state is 811 quintals per hectare.Among a total of 107 applicants from the 44 cane producing districts, Singh with a net production of 2,329 quintals per hectare, won the competition in the ratoon crop category.Neighbouring Shamli district's Satyaprakash Tiwari was a distant second at 1,851 quintals per hectare in the same category.Ranveer Singh of Ghaziabad got third position with a yield of 1,388 quintals per hectare.In the sugarcane plant production category, Satyaprakash from Gonda district bagged the first prize with a yield of 2,121 quintals per hectare. Besides, two Bijnor-based cane growers -- Jagat Singh of Chandpur and Brahampal Singh of Dhampur -- bagged second and third positions respectively, growing 2,069 and 1,902 quintals per hectare in the cane plant production category.Bhoosreddy said, “For ensuring complete transparency and fairness in selection of winners, the state sugarcane administration had deputed designated field officers who had managed the harvesting of sugarcane attributed to each contestant in their presence."The contest is organized every year and is aimed at motivating farmers to increase the yield per hectare.The department could not find any suitable winner for the general plant variety category. The winners would be awarded the cash prize of Rs 10,000, Rs 7,000 and Rs 5,000 along with certificates. The awards would be presented by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/saharanpur-farmer-is-ups-cane-production-champ/articleshow/78834359.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 24, 2020||Kolhapur||4 killed, 3 hurt in car, state bus collision in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Four members of a family from Kolhapur were killed and three were injured when their car collided head-on with an MSRTC bus on the Kolhapur-Gaganbawda road on Friday morning. The traffic on the road was affected for a few hours following the accident. Police, however, restored it by evening. The deceased, identified as Karan Deepak Malve (27), Sanjay Dinkar Malve (44), Pooja Sanjay Malve (36) and Akkatai Dinkar Malve (65), were residents of Vikram Nagar in Kolhapur. Police officers said that seven members of the Malve family were travelling in the car towards Kale-Kalambe village to attend a funeral. The accident took place when the driver tried to overtake a bus near Kale Kalambe village and collided with an MSRTC bus that was coming from the opposite direction. Such was the impact of the collision that three of the family members died on the spot, while Pooja Malve succumbed to her injuries while being taken to a hospital. The injured have been identified as Samarth Sanjay Malve (15) , Nanda Deepak Malve (45), Sunita Bhagwan Chougule (50). They have been admitted to the Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-killed-3-hurt-in-car-state-bus-collision-in-kolhapur/articleshow/78833074.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Agri department to get 2 new wings||HYDERABAD: Attaching great importance to the farm sector, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the agriculture department would be strengthened by creating two more divisions. Each division will be headed by an IAS officer. “We will create two new wings in the agriculture department. One wing will take care of water for irrigation, power, fertilisers, seeds and infrastructure activity. It will coordinate with the departments concerned. The second wing will focus on marketing. It will study on which crops have demand in the country, in the world and which crop will get profits to farmers. It will prepare strategies in coordination with marketing and civil supplies departments to get better price for farmers,” the CM said at a review meeting on agriculture at Pragati Bhavan on Friday. The CM said crop procurement centres should be set up in the villages to purchase the agriculture produce. He said 60% of population in Telangana is dependent on agriculture. “If agriculture sector is good, the state and its people will be good,” he said. The entire map of agriculture has changed after the formation of Telangana state when compared to the situation in united AP. Telangana has become the highest paddy producing state in the country, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-dept-to-get-2-new-wings/articleshow/78835648.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Meerut||Six miscreants nabbed after police encounter in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: At least six miscreants were arrested after a police encounter in Muzaffarnagar on Friday. Two of them sustained injuries. Police seized two cars, two pistols, two country-made weapons and 16 cartridges from their possession. The accused had 22 cases filed against them. According to sources, the incident took place in the Shahapur area early on Friday, when the police tried to stop two cars during a routine vehicle check. The car occupants fired at the cops and drove away. Constable Rajnish Kumar sustained a bullet injury. Following the incident, police blocked all the major entry points of the district and launched a search operation. After a few hours, they found the cars at the nearby Tawali village and warned the accused to surrender. The accused again started firing at the police team. And the cops then retaliated, in which two accused sustained bullet injuries. Six people were arrested. The injured men were identified as Ashwini and Sachin - residents of Haryana. The other four - Manjeet, Vikram, Monu and Vikki - also belong to Haryana. They have several criminal cases against them in the neighbouring state. Budhana DSP Girija Shankar Tripathi said, "Police have recovered two cars and illegal weapons, including dozens of bullets, from their possession."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/six-miscreants-nabbed-after-police-encounter-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/78834373.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||With Covid threat still looming, Durga Puja goes online||NAGPUR: With the fear of the Covid pandemic looming, the vibrant festivities of Durga Puja have gone virtual this year. People are missing out on the essence of the festival that lies in flamboyant pandals, bhog, huge idols, creative decorations, food stalls and teeming crowds. The Katol Road Puja, which entered its diamond jubilee year, is one of the biggest in town where citizens gather in large numbers for the revelry. Organized by Sarbajanin Durgotsava, under the aegis of Bengali Cultural Society, joint secretary Soumyendu Sarkar said the celebrations have been toned down amid the pandemic but the committee has stayed connected with visitors via live streaming ‘Anjali’ on Facebook. He added, “It’s not just a religious festival, it’s a cultural extravaganza. This year we’re missing out on meeting so many people from different religions who used to visit our pandal, which was the highlight of this festival.” The Durga Puja organized at Agrasen Bhavan by Paschim Nagpur Bangiya Samiti every year has shifted to a new venue at Vazalwar Hall near Traffic Park. President of the association Dr Bidhan Chandra Bag said they were strictly maintaining Covid protocols by allowing only 5 persons inside the pandal. Speaking about how the celebrations are different in every way this year, he said, “Everyone visiting the pandal for darshan are bringing their own sanitizer and we have provided sanitizers at the gates as well. They are allowed to enter only after their temperature is checked and their names and contact details noted down. Citizens are not allowed to enter the area where puja is performed.” Bag added, “As cultural activities are at the heart of the festival, they are being organized virtually. Everyone can watch the programme from the comfort and safety of their homes. Even Anjali and darshan are broadcast live through Facebook.” Committee secretary SP Mukherjee said that the pandal was sanitized in the morning and evening as per Covid guidelines. TOI spoke to a number of citizens regarding the shift to virtual platforms and the emergence of this new normal. Sudeepta Bhadra said, “We can’t enjoy the great fervour of Durga Puja, but for the sake of our country and citizens, we are attending the live streams for darshan as it’s the need of the hour. It is a different kind of experience as we are missing out on pandal hopping, catching up with family and friends, bhog, new attires, Pushpanjali, etc. We hope the festivities are back with a bang next year and we are able to rejoice with greater enthusiasm.” Tapshi Chatterjee said she was trying to recreate the festival vibes by planning tight-knit get-togethers with family. “Though we are not celebrating Durga Puja this year with the famous tradition of pandal-hopping, we are relishing our favourite delicacies like ghoogni, biryani, bhogal khichdi, etc with our families. We have either planned dinners at relatives’ places or going out with the whole group while taking all precautions and maintaining Covid guidelines. The shift to virtual platforms for darshan has made me realize festivities are not just enjoyed at pandals, we can have a merry time if we are surrounded by people important to us and who help us celebrate with same zeal,” she said. Another devotee, Maitrayee Chakraborty, said, “I have attended puja virtually with my family this time and we cooked ‘bhog’ at our house and then distributed it to some people nearby. Usually ‘bhog’ is offered to the idols in huge pandals, and then distributed to devotees which will be missed by everyone this time. This year, the authenticity of the festival is lost as ‘Dhaki’, which is an important traditional instrument, was not played.” Speaking about the downsides of witnessing the whole festival amid the pandemic, Aneesh Ganguly said, “There were strict orders that only organizers can be present inside the pandals while others can watch from a distance of 10 feet from the altar inside the pandal. There are a few drawbacks but we organized a puja at our house and I attended various puja virtually and nearby pandals as well. The deity worship process has become shorter this time and durga puja mishti is being missed.” A student, Gunjan Saha, said, “We are obviously not celebrating like we do every year but committee that conducts our durga puja has done the Ghatsthapna in a small place where the pandit will follow all rituals as usual. They have used a small photo of Durga maa instead of the idol. The traditional bhog is being cooked by one family only. Our committee has not called the ‘Dhakis’ from Kolkata this time. This year there won't be the traditional ‘Dhunuchi naach’ for us which we usually do in a group and also individually on Ashtami. Just so that we don't miss out on the dance competition, we are participating in online contests in the traditional Bengali attire.” Acknowledging the advantage of technology in staying connected during the festival, Sneha Paul said, “Being minimalistic is the mantra this year. We are not attending any puja physically, but praying at home itself. Live streaming is a saviour and we are making the most of it. The major difference is not being able to celebrate like earlier but technology has brought everyone together. We are playing online games and having competitions that are quite interesting.” (With inputs by Anchal Bhatia and Janhavi Dave)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-covid-threat-still-looming-durga-puja-goes-online/articleshow/78835638.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University aspirants irked over lack of information||LUCKNOW: Candidates who have applied for admission to various undergraduate courses at Lucknow University took to Twitter on Friday demanding ‘transparency’ in the admission process. They said that LU has begun with the third phase of counselling but so far no information has been given about course/college-wise allotment of seats. As a result, candidates are not being able to analyse possibilities of admissions in their desired course/college. Abhay Verma, a candidate, said “Earlier during on-campus counselling, LU would display seat-availability status live on a screen, which can be done online as well.” LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivatasava said the university was looking into the matter and will declare seat status in the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-aspirants-irked-over-lack-of-info/articleshow/78837500.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh’s tally crosses 8 lakh, latest 1 lakh recorded in 22 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Friday crossed the eight-lakh Covid-19 case mark. With 3,765 new cases registered on Friday, the overall tally has increased to 8,00,684. The state also reported 20 deaths, taking the Covid-19 toll to 6,544. The state took 22 days to record the latest one lakh cases, the longest period taken to add any one-lakh cases after the state’s first one-lakh infections. As many as 4,281 patients recovered from the disease on Friday. There are currently 31,721 active cases with 7,62,419 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 95%. Andhra Pradesh crossed the one-lakh case mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. It took only 11 days for the state to add the next one-lakh cases to touch the two-lakh milestone. The third one lakh cases also came in 11 days. The state recorded the fourth, fifth and even the sixth one-lakh cases in only 10 days, while the state logged the seventh one-lakh cases in 14 days. In a clear turnaround, it took the state a span of 22 days to touch the eight-lakh case mark on Friday. Andhra Pradesh tested 80,238 people on Friday and detected 3,765 new cases with a case positivity rate of 4.7%. This was the highest single-day test total conducted ever since the outbreak started in the state. The overall case positivity rate fell to 10.8%, while the mortality rate stood at 0.81%. Guntur district crossed the 600 casualty mark to become the second district to do so after Chittoor (756 deaths).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aps-tally-crosses-8l-latest-1l-recorded-in-22-days/articleshow/78834356.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||India’s newest LNG terminal at Mundra nears 50% capacity utilization||Ahmedabad: At a time when some of the LNG re-gasification projects including the Dabhol (Maharashtra) and Kochi (Kerala) terminals are struggling for optimum capacity utilization despite being up and running for more than five years now, the brand new Mundra LNG terminal in Gujarat, is operating at about 45% capacity due to spurt in demand. The prices of gas in the international markets have been on a constant decline amid the Covid-19 crisis.The Gujarat government-backed GSPC LNG project at Mundra, which is co-promoted by the Adani Group, began commercial operations in February this year with 5 million tonnes per annum (MTPA) installed capacity and built at a cost of about Rs 5,000 crore. “This is the fastest ramp up of an LNG terminal in the country since Dahej (phase-1) in 2004 which had the first mover advantage. Currently, the Mundra LNG terminal is operating at a throughput more than the throughput of the three LNG terminals (Kochi, Ennore and Dabhol) that came up in the last eight years,” said Sanjeev Kumar, managing director of GSPC. The Mundra terminal is facing pipeline capacity restraint that restricts it from further ramping up the capacity. The pipeline has a carrying capacity to cater to 5MTPA of gas transportation from Mundra to Anjar. But, further down from Mehsana to Bhatinda, the pipeline can cater to only 7.5 million metric standard cubic meters per day (mmscmd) or about 2MTPA volume of gas. GSPC aims to set up a compressor near Ghana village in Kutch that will allow it to add throughput capacity of another 1.5mmscmd in the next few months, according to Kumar. By the end of this financial year, the Mundra LNG terminal will have achieved a throughput of 50% or about 2.5MTPA of the total installed capacity, he added. The Mundra terminal was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018 however it was only earlier this year that it received its commissioning cargo.India’s LNG import for September was 2,972 million metric standard cubic metres which was 6.2% higher than the corresponding month of the previous year, according to a September report by Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell, ministry of petroleum and natural gas. Mundra LNG terminal has already handled 20 cargoes, that too delivered by 19 different LNG ships including large sized Q flex carriers. The gas prices that were hovering around USD 5-6 per MMBTU last year fell to an all-time low of USD 2 in the April to July period this year. GSPC has booked 11 LNG spot cargos from April to October period in the range of USD 2.25 per million British thermal unit (MBTU) to USD 3.5 per MMBTU, said sources. The gas from Mundra terminal is supplied to the ceramic hub of Morbi and other parts of Saurashtra by Gujarat Gas, another state government-owned entity.Apart from households and industrial units, the gas from Mundra is supplied to GSPC Pipavav Power Company. The 700MW power plant produced only 62 million units in the April to July period last year which has increased to 1,610 million units in the same period this year, according to Central Electricity Authority data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/indias-newest-lng-terminal-at-mundra-nears-50-capacity-utilization/articleshow/78816781.cms||Maulik Pathak
October 24, 2020||Meerut||Woman, paramour held for killing elderly with scissors||MEERUT: Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district claimed to have solved the mysterious murder of an elderly man named Sukhbir whose body was recovered from a sugarcane field on October 9. Following the arrest of the deceased's daughter-in-law Jyoti and her paramour Rajiv, police revealed that Sukhbir had spotted the duo in a field in a compromising position. The duo panicked and decided to get rid of Sukhbir before he spilled the beans. Accused Rajiv works as a tailor in the area and was in an illicit relationship with the wife of the victim’s younger son. On the day of the murder, Rajiv had called Jyoti to meet at a discreet spot. However, they were spotted by Sukhbir in a compromising position. The duo attacked and killed him and abandoned his body in a cane field. Police have also recovered a scissors used for the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-paramour-held-for-killing-elderly-with-scissors/articleshow/78834374.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||‘Over 1,000 Nepalese pensioners crossed border to withdraw pension over 3 days’||PITHORAGARH: More than 1,000 Nepalese personnel of the Indian Army came to India to withdraw their pensions in the last three days when the two entry points at the Indo-Nepal border — at Jauljibi and Dharchula — were kept open to facilitate their arrival. According to official sources, a total pension amount of Rs 1.01 crore was withdrawn from the bank branches in Pithoragarh district during the three-day period. “In these three days, 1,085 Nepalese citizens came to India. Several ex-Army men came to withdraw their pensions and some civilians came in for shopping as well. The bridges were closed by Nepal at 5 pm on Friday,” said AK Shukla, Dharchula SDM. Notably, the decision to open bridges for three days was taken in the wake of Dashain — a major festival in Nepal, similar to Dussehra. The bridges at the Indo-Nepal border have remained closed since March 23 when the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-1k-nepalese-pensioners-crossed-border-to-withdraw-pension-over-3-days/articleshow/78834375.cms||Prem Punetha
October 24, 2020||Bhopal||Nath did nothing for MP, only does politics here: Chouhan||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday launched a fresh attack on Congress leader Kamal Nath saying that he does not even know Madhya Pradesh and its tradition. Chouhan made the allegation while addressing poll rallies in Pohri, Morena and Karera assembly constituencies. "Kamal Nath ji talks about Madhya Pradesh, but does not even know the state very well. He is unaware of the people, culture and their traditions. During 40 years of his parliamentary life what did he do for the state? He only considers Madhya Pradesh as a pasture," alleged Chouhan before leaving for Pohri. "Being an industrialist, Nath failed to set up an industry in the state. He establishes industries elsewhere, pays taxes somewhere else and only does politics here. Kamal Nath never had any love for the people of Madhya Pradesh," he said. Addressing the public in Pohri in Shivpuri district, Chouhan in an emotional appeal called upon people to support the BJP. "I want the to bridge the gap between rich and poor. BJP has decided that the poor will be given wheat, rice, salt for 1 rupee. No poor will starve. But, Kamal Nath never gave one kg of wheat, not even a penny," said Chouhan. Recalling the schemes launched for the public, the chief minister said that Congress during its 15-month rule stalled all the developments and welfare schemes run by the BJP. But the BJP government will continue them all,” he said. "My appeal to all my sisters and brothers is to decide whether you want welfare schemes and progress or not. The Congress had stalled all the programmes and now will take away all that you get. Big leaders of Congress will come and ask for votes with liquor, saree, money and will try to lure you all, but beware and do not get trapped. Remember the temptation will one day ruin our future," Chouhan said emotionally. The chief minister also announced that Covid-19 vaccine will be made available to poor in the state free of cost. “Poor has so far been spared from the corona virus and the state will also get them vaccinated in future to protect them from the virus. But, a mask is necessary to protect against corona and that everyone should wear a mask at the time of voting," said Chouhan. The chief minister claimed that there is no comparison between the development undertaken during BJP's 15-year government and during the past six months and the works done during 15-month of Congress rule. "I am not the chief minister who sits on the chair, but like to move around and serve the poor and the farmers. I can improve their life. Even before 2003, the Congress had done much damage to the state like during the previous 15 months but the BJP government changed the destiny and picture of the entire state and its public," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-did-nothing-for-mp-only-does-politics-here-chouhan/articleshow/78835644.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports most Covid-19 cases among 4 dists in W Maha||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 245 Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 44,655. The death toll has now risen to 1,480. As many as 38,268 patients have recovered from the contagion.Sangli district reported five deaths and 216 cases on Friday. The total number of cases in the district has reached 43,869 of which 1,606 have succumbed to infection. Currently, 2,245 patients are undergoing treatment after 302 patients were discharged. Solapur rural reported 146 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven deaths on Friday, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 29,751 and the death toll to 869. The discharge of 182 patients on Friday took the number of recovered patients to 25,633. Solapur city reported 20 Covid-19 cases and two deaths. As many as 42 patients were discharged on Friday. The city now has 9,366 Covid-19 cases, of which 8,278 have recovered and 534 patients have died.Kolhapur district reported 65 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Friday, taking the tally of positive cases to 47,708 and the death toll to 1,621. The discharge of 75 patients on Friday brought down the number of active cases in the district to 1,959. Of the four deaths reported on Friday, one person from Sangli succumbed to the viral infection while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kolhapur city. The remaining Covid-19 three patients were from the rural parts of Kolhapur district. Meanwhile, the new commissioner of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, Kadambari Balkawade, on Friday directed officials to increase testing and appealed to citizens to take darshan of goddess Ambabai online instead going to the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-most-covid-19-cases-among-4-dists-in-w-maha/articleshow/78833092.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Anup Jalota and Kumar Vishwas to be star performers||LUCKNOW: The arts quadrangle of Lucknow University will echo with the voices of bigwigs like singer Dharmendra Jai Narain, poet Kumar Vishwas, bhajan singer Anup Jalota, lyricist Gulzar and actor Anupam Kher during the centenary year celebrations. LU alumnus and famed singer, Dharmendra Jai Narain (popularly known as DJ), will perform at his alma mater and relive his college days when he and his band named ‘Dreams’ was famous as the Beatles of Lucknow University. Jai Narain did his MA from LU in 1987 and even taught in the economics department as a guest lecturer. Another alumnus, bhajan singer Anup Jalota, who pursued BA from the university in 1972, will regale the campus with his soothing voice. Poet Kumar Vishwas will pay tribute to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, with ‘Vishwas ki zubani, Atal ji ki kahani’. “Students are the strength of any institution and we are happy that not only former students but people who have made a mark in their respective fields will join the celebrations to make it a grand affair,” LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said. “Kumar Vishwas has confirmed his presence. I also had an interaction with lyricist Gulzar who said he would pen something for the university. Actor Anupam Kher will also join the celebrations virtually,” the VC said, adding the university will host a festival on LU and its contribution to the film industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/anup-jalota-and-kumar-vishwas-to-be-star-performers/articleshow/78837505.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||1 lakh people should get finance relief every day: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has once again instructed the officials to take up relief and rehabilitation measures in flood-hit areas of Hyderabad on a war-footing. Stating that the government had extended Rs 10,000 to each family as an immediate financial relief, he said: “This distribution programme should be done actively. If the poor get this assistance before the festival, it will be of great help to them. Every day, one lakh people should get this assistance.” The CM held a review meeting at Pragati Bhavan on Friday with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and senior officials. He said that due to heavy rains and floods, 33/11 kV sub-stations got damaged at 15 places and all were repaired and restored. At 1,080 places, 11 kV feeders got damaged, which were also restored. Similarly, 1,215 transformers got damaged in Greater Hyderabad. The discom restored 1,207 of them. The CM said power should be restored only after draining the rainwater out since it is dangerous to restore supply in the areas submerged in floodwater. SSPDCL CMD G Raghuma Reddy said 1,299 electric poles got damaged in Greater Hyderabad and all of them had been repaired. “Due to Musi floods, 5,335 poles suffered damage in the rural areas. Of this, the discom repaired 3,249 electric poles and repairs are going on for the rest of them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1l-people-should-get-finance-relief-every-day-cm/articleshow/78835649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Amritsar||‘Throw open Kartarpur corridor’ demand grows||AMRITSAR: With the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, the first Sikh Guru nearing, demands for reopening of Kartapur corridor are gathering steam. Kartarpur (Ravi) Darshan Abhilakhi Sanstha, one of the organisations pursuing the cause of Kartarpur corridor since 2001, sought the intervention of the President for opening of the corridor ahead of Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary in November. Gurinder Singh Bajwa, general secretary of the Sanstha said the government had allowed opening of religious places and gathering of 200 persons but had not taken the decision to reopen Kartarpur corridor. He said the Sanstha has written to President Ram Nath Kovid for opening of the Kartarpur corridor ahead of November 30 so that Sikhs who wish to offer prayers at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, Pakistan could fulfill their religious aspirations. The Sanstha, under the leadership of its founder, late Kuldeep Singh Wadala, has been holding ardas for opening of Kartapur corridor at the international border, Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district since April 14, 2001. To prevent the spread of Covid-19, India not only temporarily suspended the Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage but also stopped registrations for the purpose from March 16, 2020. Two days later, on March 18, both India and Pakistan sealed their international borders in view of the pandemic. On October 2, Pakistan’s ministry of religious affairs and inter-faith harmony issued a notification allowing Indian devotees to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib from dawn to dusk in accordance with the bilateral agreement, 2019 on gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib Corridor. In response, India’s Ministry of External Affairs stated that the decision on re-opening of the corridor would be taken in accordance with the Covid-19 protocol and easing of restrictions. Recently, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal also appealed to the Centre to open Kartapur corridor. Saying that a large number of Sikhs were willing to go to Kartarpur Sahib on pilgrimage, Bajwa said the Sanstha had sought the intervention of the President for the opening of the corridor ahead of November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/demand-to-re-open-kartarpur-corridor-grows-strident/articleshow/78836739.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Onion prices spike, subsidised sale starts in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government started the sale of onions at a subsidised price in the city from Friday. District collector V Vinay Chand inaugurated the opening of a stall selling subsidised onions. The initiative follows the spike in prices following heavy rainfall and floods over the last week in major markets in Kurnool, Karnataka and Maharashtra that destroyed the standing crop. According to state marketing department officials, Vizag received 25 tonnes of onions from Maharashtra. The produce has been distributed among the 13 rythu bazaars in the city. “We have received 21 quintals or 2,100 kilos of onions for our Narasimhanagar Rythu Bazaar in the city. We have sold 1,650 kg of onions on Friday itself and kept 450 kg of onions for tomorrow. The subsidised price was Rs 40 and the rythu bazaar price was Rs 74 on Friday. We request residents to cautiously use the onions since there are chances of further rise in prices,” G Prasad, estate officer of the Rythu Bazaar told TOI. Sources in the marketing department said only onions from Maharashtra are reaching the city, whereas produce from Karnataka and Kurnool is usually available around this time. Meanwhile, in the open market, onion prices continue to soar with traders selling a kilo for Rs 90 to Rs 100. Sources said the 13 rythu bazars in the city require at least 80 to 90 tonnes of onions every day, on average. This time, the government has been able to procure only 25 tonnes at a subsidised price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/onion-prices-spike-subsidised-sale-starts/articleshow/78834381.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Shettar takes a dig at MLA Soumya over Cong CM tweet||Dharwad: Minister for large and medium industries Jagadish Shettar, reacting to MLA Soumya Reddy’s tweet that KPCC president D K Shivakumar will be the next chief minister of Karnataka, said he wondered why Soumya did not mention Siddaramaiah’s name. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Shettar who is campaigning for BJP candidate for West Graduates constituency, said Siddaramaiah is claiming that he would be the next chief minister of the state and Soumya is taking Shivakumar’s name for the post. What is Soumya’s opinion about Siddaramaiah? Shettar quipped. On the prospects of the BJP candidate retaining the seat in the West Graduates Constituency, Shettar said the Congress and JD(S) are divided houses, and that the BJP will romp home comfortably. He said the JD(S) which had fielded a candidate for the election from the constituency has asked his candidate to retire, and has supported an independent. It shows the JD(S) has no courage to face the electorate, he asserted. Replying to a question, Shettar said no final decision has been taken on reopening of the schools and colleges for the academic year 2020-2021, and a discussion is on whether to postpone the reopening of educational institutions for a year or for three months. An appropriate decision will be taken after careful consideration of the situation and taking the opinions of parents, academicians, school authorities and other stakeholders, he added. To another question on a delay in the Centre releasing funds to provide relief to the flood-affected people in the state, Shettar replied that the state government has sent necessary proposals with all details, and is awaiting funds from the Centre. Meanwhile, the relief is being provided to the affected people from the state government, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shettar-takes-a-dig-at-mla-soumya-over-cong-cm-tweet/articleshow/78836424.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||PM ready to change sides in Bihar: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday hinted that the BJP is ready to join hands with Janata Dal (United) as well as its opponent Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) to form government in Bihar. Owaisi was referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech in Bihar and a statement by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan. “PM didn’t mention LJP. He is trying to ride two horses ar once and wants to rule Bihar on one of them. He has released an election manifesto pledging 19 lakh jobs, a clear indication that BJP wants their CM in Bihar and to retire Nitish Kumar. This is BJP and RSS’ plan (sic),” tweeted Owaisi. It can be recalled that LJP leader Chirag Paswan had openly praised PM Modi and BJP leaders, and criticised its ally Janata Dal (United) and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-ready-to-change-sides-in-bihar-asad/articleshow/78835709.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 24, 2020||Meerut||Male govt staff goes pink for a day in Muzaffarnagar as mark of respect for women||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Pink may not be a common colour found in many a man's wardrobe but on Friday, government officials here made sure that some part of their attire was of the shade when they reported to work. The men in pink were seen at the collectorate, Vikas Bhavan and other offices here.The move was aimed at showing respect for women. The move comes days after Muzaffarnagar administration extended the campaign to motivate people to install nameplates in the name of their oldest daughter on their front door. Against this backdrop, district magistrate Seva Kumari J had issued a circular to all government departments, directing all male staff to wear pink to wear pink on Friday. Mohammad Mushfakeen, district probation officer (DPO) in women welfare department, said,"The DM has ordered the colour code for one day."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/male-govt-staff-goes-pink-for-a-day-in-mngr-as-mark-of-respect-for-women/articleshow/78834411.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19 forces administration to scale down Kittur Utsav||Belagavi/ Davanagere: The Belagavi district administration on Friday celebrated Kittur Utsav, which marks the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Rani Channamma, at Kittur taluk of Belagavi district. However, the utsav remained simple owing to the pandemic. Veera Joyhti (lamp of valour) was brought to Channamma Circle here from Kakati village, the birthplace of Channamma located 12km from the district headquarters. It was later taken to Kittur in a vehicle. Kittur MLA Mahntesh Doddagoudra launched the utsav at Rani Channamma Circle in Kittur by welcoming the lamp. Nijagunand Swami of Nishkal Mutt (Bailur) hoisted the utsav flag in the presence of religious heads. Local leaders and district officials garlanded to statue of Channamma, Sangolli Rayanna and Amatoor Balappa on the occasion. The lamp was taken out in a simple procession from Channamma Circle to Sri Madivalshwar Temple at Nichhanike village in Kittur taluk. Hitherto, the utsav was celebrated over three days in a gala manner with the chief minister inaugurating the festivities. However, the pandemic restricted the district administration to keep it simple this year. The latest edition of the utsav was devoid of programmes involving folk performances, lectures and sporting events. ZP president Asha Aihole, deputy commissioner M G Hiremath and other district officials were present. In Davanagere, the district administration and Panchamasali Veerashaiva Samaj and Kannada and culture department too celebrated the Rani Kittur Channamma’s birth anniversary at the DC's office. Rich floral tributes were offered and her valour recalled in India's freedom movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-19-forces-administration-to-scale-down-kittur-utsav/articleshow/78836406.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Traders to keep shops open on weekly holidays too||Kolhapur: Jewellers and other traders in the city have decided to keep their shops open even on weekly holidays till the end of Diwali to make up for the business lost during the lockdown. Though the markets are slowly picking up business, the traders said the footfall of customers is still very low. Some traders said most of the sales are taking place through e-commerce websites and they are unable to compete with that. Kuldip Gaikwad, the president of Jewellers Association of Gujari area, said, “We are expecting an increase in sales during the festive season. All the jewellers have decided to keep the shops open on the weekly holidays. It will help us at least get the lost business recovered.” The other traders said their staff needs to take at least once a week off. Ajit Kothari, the president of electricals’ association said, “There is still a fear among the people despite the decrease in Covid cases. Currently, the business has picked up beyond 30% of what we get every season.” The increase in automobile sales is common during the festive season. However, despite attractive offers, very few customers are approaching for enquiry. The clothing market has picked up faster compared to others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/traders-to-keep-shops-open-on-weekly-holidays-too/articleshow/78833108.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||From college skit to Ram’s role: Pandemic opens Aishbagh Ramlila stage for Lucknow artists||LUCKNOW: Sitting in one corner of the rehearsal hall, 24-year-old Shubh Trivedi revises his dialogues, learning facial expressions to go with them. His mentor and director of the play, Bhaskar Bose, shows him how to hold the microphone so that his voice is clear. “This is my first time in theatre. It is not easy I must say but playing a character as strong as this makes me feel like I am made for it,” says Shubh, an anchor and stand-up comedian who is playing the role of Ram in the century-old Aishbagh Ramlila. The performance is being live-streamed on social media with no audience. This year, the 300-odd artists who come from across India for this Ramlila could not make it due to the pandemic. Shubh was among 50 other locals selected 12 days ago for the performance shortly after UP government announced that the tradition of Ramlila will continue with Covid safety protocols. Most of the performers are college students. Some were even among regular audience of Ramlila. Many have never performed in theatre before. The artists are taking all precautions possible. They quarantine themselves as soon as they reach home. Before entering the premises, they are thermally checked and sanitized. “I was first selected for Bajrangbali’s role, but when the director saw me, he instantly said I will play the character of Lord Ram because of my physique and expressive eyes. Since I had no experience, I was made to watch previous year’s Ramlila episodes. We are performing without an audience, but the comments and reactions on social media are overwhelming,” said Shubh. Priya, 24, who is performing the role of Sita, is a graduate who has acted in several documentaries. “Sita’s character is positive. She is strong and determined. As an artist, my job is to get inside the character to understand its qualities, which I am learning and feel a change inside me,” said Priya. “This year’s Ramlila is very different yet special since our city artists are breathing life into these epic characters,” said Ramakant, who is playing Sugreev. Kolkata-based Bose, who has been directing Ramlila for 13 years, said, “Except Hanuman (played by himself) and Ravana (played by Kolkata artist Shankar Pal), all other artists are from Lucknow. They have learned well in a short period of time. They rehearse 12 hours for the final show.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/from-college-skit-to-rams-role-pandemic-opens-aishbagh-ramlila-stage-for-city-artists/articleshow/78837528.cms||Aditi Singh
October 24, 2020||Meerut||Male govt staff goes pink for a day in M'ngr as mark of respect for women||Muzaffarnagar: Pink may not be a common colour found in many a man's wardrobe but on Friday, government officials here made sure that some part of their attire was of the shade when they reported to work.The men in pink were seen at the collectorate, Vikas Bhavan and other offices here.The move was aimed at showing respect for women.The move comes days after Muzaffarnagar administration extended the campaign to motivate people to install nameplates in the name of their oldest daughter on their front door.Against this backdrop, district magistrate Seva Kumari J had issued a circular to all government departments, directing all male staff to wear pink to wear pink on Friday. Mohammad Mushfakeen, district probation officer (DPO) in women welfare department, said,"The DM has ordered the colour code for one day."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/male-govt-staff-goes-pink-for-a-day-in-mngr-as-mark-of-respect-for-women/articleshow/78834403.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt’s quarantine plan for migrants checked corona spread: Panel||LUCKNOW: The impact of labour migration on the total number of Covid-19 infections in Uttar Pradesh was minimal, a government committee’s report has found. In fact, the actual curve stayed below the projections made by the panel constituted by the ministry of science and technology deputed with the task of arriving at Covid-19 supermodel. The panel, comprising scientists from IITs and other scientific institutions in their analysis done for UP, reported that the actual infections during the labour migration in the May-June stood below 6,000 as against the projections of around 7,500 active infections. The observation, reported the panel, indicates the success of quarantine strategies adopted for the returning migrants. “There was no sharp rise in the number of active infections during the migration period. There could have been a significant adverse impact on the number of Covid-19 cases in UP if migration was permitted before lockdown,” said Prof Manindra Agarwal from IIT Kanpur and member of the panel. Prof Agarwal, while sharing UP data said, the low positivity rate of 5% is something the state can take credit for. India’s cumulative positivity rate is 8%. There are states which have a positivity rate of 20%, he added. “Low positivity in UP indicates more infected people being tested. The model of contact tracing has definitely helped in identifying a lot of cases,” Prof Agarwal told TOI. Based on a mathematical model, the data collaborated by the panel also showed that the number of actual active infections in UP peaked around 69,000 in the third week of September (roughly around September 17). As per the projections done by the panel, the number of active infections would drop below 23,000 in the first week of November provided the existing personal safety protocols continue in full measure. By the year end, the government model projects a drop in active infections to below 5,000 . Prof Agarwal also pointed out that unlike states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat where the graph for active infections was uneven and hence unpredictable, UP had a different story. “Here, the plot went up, peaked at a point and based on the projections, it’s smoothly coming downward. The rise and fall is straight in UP,” Prof Agarwal said. The committee also found that 30% of the population in UP already has antibodies. This is in sync with the percentage of the country's population projected to have antibodies at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-quarantine-plan-for-migrants-checked-corona-spread-panel/articleshow/78837541.cms||Isha Jain
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Three die of Covid-19, 53 test positive||LUDHIANA: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 53 tested positive on Friday. As per the local media bulletin, Ludhiana casualties included an 86-year-old man of Kot Mangal Singh, a 52-year-old man of Issa Nagri with hypertension and an 82-year-old woman of Baloke village with diabetes and respiratory disease. The day also saw two outsiders succumbing to the virus and nine testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has increased to 827 and that of outsiders to 306. To date, 3,68,794 persons have been tested. Of the 53 positive cases, 17 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), seven positive cases’ contacts, 17 from OPD, two healthcare workers, nine through tracing process, and one pre-operative case. The district case count has mounted to 19,890 and that of outsiders to 2,666. So far, 18,779 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.41% of the total cases. There are 281 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,280. On Friday, 52 persons were quarantined and 3,459 samples were collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Nineteen patients, including 10 from Ludhiana, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-die-of-covid-53-test-positive/articleshow/78831322.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Ensure onions sold at Rs 40 a kilo’||AMARAVATI: Agriculture minister Kurasala Kanna Babu at the CM’s camp office here on Friday said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to take stern action against those creating artificial scarcity of essential commodities in the name of floods and heavy rains and asked collectors and SPs to ensure that onions are sold at Rs 40 per kg. Collectors and SPs were asked to ensure that all shops display the price list prominently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-onions-sold-at-rs-40-a-kilo/articleshow/78834420.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ex-rowdy returns after 16 years, faces bind over case||HYDERABAD: SR Nagar police on Friday slapped a bind over case against David Raju, who faced several criminal cases in the past. According to police, David Raju, who was in Andhra Pradesh for the last few years has not been in contact with local cops. Earlier, there was a history sheet against David Raju. “He came to this area after 16 years. He was in AP all these years. In 1991, he was acquitted by the local court in the sensational murder case in which six people were killed. There are no cases pending cases against him now,” said SR Nagar inspector K Saidulu. Police said that he was bound over and released after he promised good conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-rowdy-returns-after-16-yrs-faces-bind-over-case/articleshow/78835757.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Aurangabad||1,549 active cases in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: As many as 102 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Aurangabad district on Thursday night, taking the total number of active cases to 1,549. According to a district health official, the district has so far recorded as many as 1,047 deaths including four that were reported on Thursday. “The total number of patients that the district has recorded so far has increased to 37,104, out of which 34,508 have recovered from the contagion and got discharged,” he said. “All the four deaths were reported at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and belonged to different parts of the district including Sillod and Bhikapur Naigaon. Out of the 102 cases reported on Thursday, 38 were detected during the rapid anitgen tests,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/1549-active-cases-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78833115.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Four members of cricket body booked for cheating||LUDHIANA: The Division 8 police on Thursday booked four members of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) for cheating and forgery. It was alleged that they were running the association’s affairs for personal gains without the mandatory elections. They were accused of charging hefty amounts from the aspirants against the rules and embezzling funds released by the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA). The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Naresh Kumar Marwaha of Deep Nagar, Civil Lines, who is a former joint secretary of the LDCA. The accused were identified as Vinod Chitkara of Upkaar Nagar, Civil Lines, who is honorary general secretary of the association; president Rajindernath Mahajan of Industrial Area-B; honorary treasurer Rajiv Bajaj of Dugri Phase-II; and Satish Garg, a member of executive committee and resident of Shastri Nagar. Complainant Marwaha alleged that LDCA elections ought to be conducted every five years, but after 2003 no polls were conducted and the association formed an executive committee on their own. When a person filed a writ petition against it in the Punjab and Haryana high court, the accused, in September 2019, submitted some forged documents with the Registration of Firms and Societies, Punjab, claiming LDCA had regular meetings. “The accused are also seizing the funds released by the PCA to the LDCA. They have been charging hefty fees from the aspiring players, which again is illegal. According to the PCA, no fee can be charged from the players selected by them. The accused have been conducting trials illegally, and getting up to Rs 30,000 per person in the name of training and selection in different tournaments,” added Marwaha. Division 8 SHO inspector Jarnail Singh said the case was registered after an inquiry by the special branch of the Ludhiana commissionerate. It was revealed during the investigation that the accused were running the association without elections and any meeting. Besides, they have forged signatures to take money released by the PCA and also charged fees from the under-training players, he said. The inspector added that the FIR was lodged under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 410 (stolen property), 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of value security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/four-members-of-cricket-body-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/78831346.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana fights back: Covid doubling rate records 150% jump||LUDHIANA: Suggesting further improvement in Covid-19 situation in Ludhiana, the doubling rate of cases in the district has witnessed over 150% jump in the recent past, according to a state media bulletin released by the health department. The bulletin released on Thursday shows that the doubling rate—the number of days it would take for the cases to double based on the last seven days’ growth rate—for Ludhiana district was 270 days on that day, 164 more than the rate during October 8-21 period, when it was 106 days. At 270 days, Ludhiana’s doubling rate was third-highest in the state, while Moga with 471 days claimed the number one position and Ropar number two with 281 days. Hoshiarpur had the lowest doubling rate of 49 days. The doubling rate in Ludhiana has witnessed a gradual increase starting July 9 when it was 15.7 days, though with some intermittent drops. It increased to 18 days by July 17, but dropped to 12 days on July 31. From there, it rose to 18 days on August 17 and to 28 days on August 31. The doubling rate further went up to 37 days on September 2, reached 39 days on September 15, touched 55 days on September 25 and hit 100 days-mark on October 7. The rate stayed at 106 days during October 8 and 21 before reaching the current value. With the doubling rate witnessing a remarkable improvement, the health department authorities feel that the Covid peak is already over in the district. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said after reaching the peak, there is a decline in the intensity of the pandemic and accordingly, improvements are visible in various Covid-19 parameters. It has been possible on account of increased testing, extensive contact tracing and increased awareness among people about the pandemic, he added. Ludhiana unit president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr Sunil Katyal, however, cautioned that this momentum of improvement can be sustained only if people continue to follow the Covid safety protocols, including wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and go out only if necessary. “There is always a chance of a second surge if adequate precautions are not taken,” he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-fights-back-covid-doubling-rate-records-150-jump/articleshow/78831336.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath: Jail only place for anyone involved in job scam in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that merit was now the only criterion for jobs in UP. “The government has adopted transparency in recruitments, proving our commitment towards free and fair process,” he said. The CM said that now is no scope left for any irregularity in the recruitment process in the state and, in case, if some corruption is found in the process, then jail will be the only destination for the guilty, Yogi said while distributing appointment letters to assistant teachers selected by Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission for government secondary schools. The appointment letters were distributed to the teachers selected for the LT grade through video conferencing while the CM gave appointment letters in a symbolic manner to five teachers. Owing to coronavirus, the teachers were given appointment letters online. The teachers have been allotted schools as per merit and choice. The candidates had been waiting appointments after passing a written exam, introduced for the first time by the government, in 2018. Prior to that, selections were done on the basis of a merit list prepared as per the candidate’s educational qualification. Recalling the corruption in UPPSC during the previous regime, the CM said the appointments were made only on the basis of caste and religion then. “Gone are those days and now merit is the only consideration for the jobs.” Stressing on the importance of technology, the CM said in present times everyone needs to be technically updated as technique is the key to transparency. “If the government lags behind in technology, it will be impossible to extend the benefits of pension, Kisan Samman Nidhi and other allowances to people in these tough times of corona,” he said. He added, “The way education is being carried online, it could not have been possible if we were not technically updated.” On the occasion, five teachers — Jyoti Sharma from Barabanki, Akhlaq from Barabanki, Sandeep Singh from Prayagraj, Kirti Verma from Lucknow and Sumitra Devi from Ayodhya — received appointment letters from the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jail-only-place-for-anyone-involved-in-job-scam-yogi/articleshow/78837549.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||AP’s Covid tally crosses 8L mark||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh on Friday crossed the eight-lakh Covid-19 caseload mark with the state recording 3,765 new infections. The overall tally has increased to 8,00,684, while toll is at 6,544 with 20 more deaths on Friday. AP took 22 days to record the latest one lakh cases, the longest period taken to add the number after the state’s first one lakh infections. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aps-covid-tally-crosses-8l-mark/articleshow/78835813.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: You can’t enjoy snacks at shops||AHMEDABAD: Apart from checking the quality of fafda and jalebi, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has also imposed the condition of social distancing on the customers. The AMC on Friday said it would not allow the customers at fafda and jalebi shops to stand and enjoy the snacks at the premises on Dusherra. On Friday, the corporation checked 24 shops and establishments and collected samples of besan, jadebi, fafda, chutney, oil and ghee among other items. The AMC collected samples from Iskcon Gathiya Rath, Laxmi Gathiya Rath and Saurashtra Nasta house among other establishments. In all, 77 samples were taken, of which 21 were of besan, the ingredient used for making fafda. Other collected samples included 14 of sweets and 10 of the spices used in making fafdas. The AMC said that the drive would continue even on Saturday and Sunday. “The maintenance of social distancing among the customers and ensuring that all of them have worn masks are the responsibility of shop owners,” said an AMC official. The AMC said it would not allow the customers to stand or sit on their vehicles and eat fafda and jalebi by the roadside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/you-cant-enjoy-snacks-at-shops/articleshow/78835798.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Cops stop ABVP activists from breaking open Bamu library||Aurangabad: The city police on Friday detained and later released a group of students belonging to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, who went to break the lock of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University’s main library. They said scores of students, including those doing research, were being deprived of their right to use the library. The government has now allowed libraries to start functioning after following all the safety protocols related to Covid-19.ABVP’s district convener Shyamsunder Sodgir said they had made several representations to the government and the other authorities concerned to start the government run institutions gradually to avoid loss of education to the students. He said that many students in villages have started returning to Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar University but the facilities such as the librarJies were shut. “We went to break the lock of the library building, and were deterred by the police. However, we wanted to draw the attention of the people and the government towards the need to open educational institutions like the libraries,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-stop-abvp-activists-from-breaking-open-bamu-library/articleshow/78833137.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Captain Amarinder Singh to virtually inaugurate many city projects today||LUDHIANA: Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will virtually inaugurate some projects for the city on Saturday. These will also include some of the Smart City projects. The municipal corporation officials are on their toes to make all necessary arrangements. However, over two years ago too he had inaugurated some of the Smart City projects, of which only one has been completed while the rest are either at construction stage or yet to take off. The authorities are tight-lipped over previous projects and claim that due to Covid-19 a lot of time was wasted otherwise these would have been completed. On Saturday, the CM will lay the foundation stone for a chain link fencing project around Buddha Nullah and covering of the drain in Shivaji Nagar. While the city residents are awaiting the beginning of Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, the government will inaugurate the chain link fencing around it. Even for the covering of the drain in Shivaji Nagar, MLA Surinder Dawar had recently laid the foundation stone amid much fanfare. Apart from this, Smart City projects of lighting at the Clock Tower as well as Sidhwan Canal waterfront, slaughterhouse and some schools’ works have been included for the inauguration. On March 11, 2018, the CM had laid foundation stones for LED streetlights, smart Malhar Road project, Sarabha Nagar beautification, installation of road signage, 24x7 canal-based water supply in ABD area and augmentation of existing sewerage system and storm-water drainage system of ABD. Of these, only signage project has been completed. LED streetlights are yet to be installed in the entire city; the work at Malhar Road and Sarabha Nagar market is going on; and canal-based water supply and augmentation of storm sewage in ABD have not even taken off. An official claimed that the projects were going on smoothly, but the pace slowed due to the lockdown, besides it took almost a year even after the foundation stone was laid to hire contractors because tenders were floated thrice. He said they were trying to complete the projects as soon as possible. Akali Dal district president and former MLA from East constituency Ranjit Dhillon said, “This is total eyewash by Amarinder Singh because some of the projects have already been inaugurated. The CM had laid foundation stone for a few other projects some time back and those are yet to be completed. The Congress is trying to fool people.” BJP state vice-president Parveen Bansal said most of the projects were under Smart City mission for which the Centre has paid its share. He said the Congress leaders wanted to take credit for works funded under the mission and which were started by the BJP. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “If Covid-19 had not struck, we would have completed these projects. We are also getting new projects inaugurated by the CM. We also fulfilled the promise to construct one side of Jagraon Bridge flyover. Opposition parties raise hue and cry over everything.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cm-to-virtually-inaugurate-many-city-projects-today/articleshow/78831370.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tech students score with top offer at Rs 39 lakh per annum as placements start online||PUNE: The placement season has begun and preliminary figures from some top colleges paint a rosy picture despite the pandemic blues. The offers are as high as Rs 39 lakh per annum for tech students, and Rs 28 lakh for management students. Training and placement officers (TPOs) from several colleges said the process had gone online this year and students from computer-IT fields in the engineering sector are getting placements as good as last year, while management students are doing well with their pre-placement offers. Companies in financial technology and banks were the biggest recruiters for the present batch, Manoj Khaladkar, TPO at Army Institute of Technology, said. “We have got the highest offer from Microsoft of Rs 39 lakh for six students, four from computer and two from IT. About 65% of our students have been placed with an average salary of Rs 9 lakh per annum. But there are some companies in the wait and watch mode, who will recruit probably in the January to March period,” he said. Tech students score with top offer at Rs 39 lakh p.a.Karthick Subramanian, TPO at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said the placement season is going well. “We still have many companies coming in. One company has offered Rs 31lakh, the final interviews are over, and we are waiting for them to declare the results. As of now, the highest package is of Rs 16 lakh to 11students from a bank and all are from the computer-IT background,” he added. Satish Narkhede, TPO at Pune Institute of Computer Technology, also said they still had companies coming in for placements. The highest package of Rs 31 lakh is being offered by a firm here, with a Japan-based company offering Rs 38 lakh. Both were yet to announce their final results, he said. “The highest package confirmed till now has been from Goldman Sachs to three students. The average package is about Rs 8.5 lakh till now which is expected to go up in the coming months,” Narkhede said. As for management institutes, pre-placement offers matter as these turn into final placement offers once the student completes his or her education. The pre-placement offers are given to students immediately after their summer internships, which the students complete after the first year of their two-year MBA programme. Ramakrishnan Raman, director of Symbiosis Institute of Business Management, said, “About 45 of our students from a batch of 180 have already got their pre-placement offers. Many will appear for their pre-placement interviews in October-November. As of now, the highest offer we have got is for Rs 28 lakh offered to eight of our students. Sectorwise, FMCG, consulting and IT have done well while the new emerging markets are medical-pharmaceuticals and medical-equipment. Start-ups, banks and financial institutes are a bit slow as is the automobile sector. Big conglomerates are as they were last year, in terms of offers to students,” he said. Hotel management student Reva Deo said her placement offer at a luxury hotel in Mumbai came around December. “I received the highest package in my batch of nearly Rs 4.5 lakh per annum. I was to join in June, but the lockdown changed the plans. I was called for training in August, about three months after the scheduled placement. I am gaining more experience here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tech-students-score-as-placement-process-goes-virtual-offers-constant-at-rs-39l-p-a-/articleshow/78836798.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,112 new cases||AHMEDABAD: In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat reported 1,112 new Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s total so far to 1.65 lakh. It was also the 13th consecutive day that the state recorded fewer than 1,200 cases in a day. The new cases include 239 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 121 from Vadodara, and 107 from Rajkot. The four districts account for 58% of the day’s tally. Surat has now crossed 35,000 cases, accounting for 21.2% of the state’s cases. The tallies in Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot are 41,189, 14,908 and 12,059, respectively. The state also reported six deaths — the fewest in a day in six months, since April 25 — taking the death toll to 3,676. The deaths include two each from Ahmedabad and Surat, and one each from Gandhinagar and Banaskantha. The death tolls of Ahmedabad and Surat are now 1,885 and 830. A total of 1,264 patients were discharged in these 24 hours, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 1.47 lakh. The discharges included 260 from Surat, 171 from Ahmedabad, 138 from Rajkot, and 108 from Vadodara. The number of active cases in Gujarat is now 13,985, the lowest in 72 days, since August 11. The shares of active, discharged and deceased patients are 8.5%, 89.3% and 2.2%, respectively. Gujarat in these 24 hours carried out 52,947 tests, taking its total so far to 56.38 lakh. As of Thursday evening, Gujarat had 5.33 lakh persons in quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-1112-new-cases/articleshow/78835840.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: 21,000 devotees take darshan of goddess at Kanaka Durga||VIJAYAWADA: The Kanaka Durga temple in city witnessed a huge turnout of devotees on Friday when the presiding deity was adorned as goddess Maha Lakshmi Devi. Tridhandi Chinna Jeeyar Swamy received darshan of the goddess as temple authorities accorded ceremonial reception to the seer. Speaking to media, Chinna Jeeyar Swamy said that the world is facing a difficult time due to Covid-19 and he prayed for the speedy recovery of thosee affecred. State tndustries minister Mekapati Gowtham Reddy also visited the temple and offered special prayers. Altogether, 21,000 devotees got darshan till 6pm on Friday. Temple authorities were expecting around 27,000 devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/21k-devotees-take-darshan-of-goddess-at-kanaka-durga/articleshow/78835843.cms||Venu Lanka
October 24, 2020||Meerut||Tension in UP village after board with ‘Jai Rajputana’ slogan surfaces overnight, FIR filed||MEERUT: A police contingent was deployed and a panchayat was organised to strike a compromise between people of two groups in Meerut’s Bamtora Narang village after a board advertising government scheme was re-painted by some unknown persons, who put the images of Rajput kings Prithviraj Chauhan and Maharana Pratap on it. The metal board which originally stood near a primary school, was uprooted, re-painted and planted on village entrance with ‘Jai Rajputana’ slogan written on it. Several residents of the village, which has a mixed population, claimed that it was an “attempt to stoke caste tension” in the otherwise peaceful region. “An FIR, under IPC section 153-B (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) has been registered at Hastinapur police station,” said Avinash Pandey, superintendent of police (rural). Indrajeet Jayant, a youth from the village, said, “Some people of a certain caste want to stir tension. They are targeting and threatening people opposing the new board.” By Friday afternoon, a panchayat was held in the village in presence of police officers and a “compromise” was struck. People from both the sides have agreed to repaint the board. “Villagers are unaware who put up that board. Both sides have agreed to paint the board and restore it to its original condition. We are trying to probe who did this,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tension-in-up-village-after-board-with-jai-rajputana-slogan-surfaces-overnight-fir-filed/articleshow/78834372.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Hindus, Sikhs help build mosque in Chakkar village||LUDHIANA: In an example of communal harmony, all communities in Chakkar village have joined hands to build a mosque. Though the village had a mosque that was built before Partition, it was damaged. Gurmail Singh, a member of the panchayat, said the decision to construct a mosque was taken unanimously in the village. He added that villagers belonging to various religions were helping with the endeavour. “The construction work started in the presence of the chairman of Punjab Wakf Board, among others. We are helping in the construction of mosque as they (Muslim brothers) also stand by us,” he said. The Muslim community is happy with the initiative. “As the mosque built before Partition was damaged, we took up the matter with the local panchayat. Villagers are not only contributing money, but also helping construct it. As of now, it is named Masjid Chakkar. We will finalise the name later. About 15 Muslim families are happy to get a mosque where they can offer prayers,” said Muhammad Usman Ludhianvi, Naib Shahi Imam, Punjab. “In the village, we have Shree Krishan Bhagwan and Shiva temples, a gurdwara and now, a mosque is coming up. Our village is an epitome of communal harmony. I visit the site to check the work progress and will contribute in whatever way I can to its construction. There are 20 Hindus in the village,” said 35-year-old Sanjeev Kumar, who owns a sweet shop in Chakkar and has been living here for more than three decades. “In villages, all communities live together peacefully and help each other. We never have had any communal tension as we believe in peaceful coexistence and brotherhood. We are proud that our village has worship places of all the communities living here,” said Chamkaur Singh, a villager. “We are looking forward to the completion of the mosque construction. Villagers are contributing in whatever way they can,” he added. Population of around 8,000 Chakkar village has around 4,700 voters against its population of around 8,000. Sikhs constitute the majority and there are around 20-25 and 50-60 Hindus and Muslims, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hindus-sikhs-help-build-mosque-in-chakkar-village/articleshow/78831358.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||‘Navaratra celebrates respect for women in Sanatan Dharma: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Greeting people on the occasion of Shardiya Navaratra and Maha Ashtami, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday appealed to people to follow Covid-19 protocols of social distancing and wearing masks during celebrations this year. The CM highlighted the importance of women in Sanatan Dharma, saying how the festival of Navratra celebrated the nine forms of Adishakti Bhagwati. The worship of Goddess Durga during these nine days is symbolic of Sanatan Dharma’s respect. Devotees also perform Kanya Puja on Maha Ashtami and Mahanavami. “Navaratra is not just a festival of fasting but in fact celebrates the respect given to women power and girls given by Sanatan Dharma,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/navaratra-celebrates-respect-for-women-in-sanatan-dharma-cm/articleshow/78837558.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bhopal||FlyBig likely to start ops from Raja Bhoj by year-end||Bhopal: A new airline might soon fly from Raja Bhoj airport. After signing contract with Bhopal airport to open a ticket country, a team of the FlyBig airline recently visited the airport for further process. Airport director Anil Vikram said, the team visit was a part of the process to start operations from Bhopal airport. Sources said, the cities that are likely to be connected from Bhopal by ATR 72 aircraft are Indore, Raipur and Ahmedabad.Vikram said, “FlyBig airline is in the process of starting their operations and a team had visited Bhopal airport last month to complete mandatory inspection of aerodrome facilities prior to commencement of operations.”Officials said that FlyBig airline officials had a meeting with other officials, including ATC in charge and finance in charge of AAI Bhopal Airport.Vikram added, “They have opened their counter but ticket sales have not started.” He refused to divulge other information about the operations.Sources said, the airline has shown interest in starting operations by the end of this year. “Cities, including Indore and Raipur, will be connected in the first phase. In the later stage, Ahmedabad will be also connected,” said a senior official of the airport. Sources added that the airline will be launched formally in the near future as few formalities are to be done.The airline’s website stated that in conjunction with the UDAN initiative, FlyBig, India’s newest friendly regional aeroplane, provides connectivity to destinations that were hitherto not accessible by air.Flyers said that it is good to see that new airlines are showing interest. “Good to hear that a new airline wants to start operations from Bhopal airport. We are in need of increasing the air connectivity with the Bhopal airport. The situation turned bad after the lockdown was imposed,” said Ashutosh Yadav, a frequent flyer.Notably, Bhopal airport has continued making efforts in resuming the pre-lockdown situation. The airport has witnessed a surge in both number of flights and freight movement. Resuming services with only 30 flights in May, the total flights that touched Bhopal airport was 294 in September. Similarly, freight movement also crossed above 100MT in September. It was only 2.5MT in May. Notably, Bhopal airport recently secured the overall fifth position in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/flybig-likely-to-start-ops-from-raja-bhoj-by-year-end/articleshow/78835806.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Opposition in fear of BJP’s fame in Fatorda’||MARGAO: Reacting to criticism by Congress and Goa Forward Party (GFP) over BJP general secretary Damodar Naik’s “bebe” (frogs) remark, BJP’s Fatorda mandal on Friday said that Naik’s statement was deliberately contorted by opposition parties, driven by fears of Naik’s “growing popularity” in Fatorda.  General secretary of the BJP Fatorda mandal Pramod Naik said that Naik didn’t intend to insult Goan diaspora as has been made out. He said that Naik reached out to many Goans staying overseas helping them resolve their issues during the Covid lockdown period, “not only from Fatorda constituency, but elsewhere too”. “Congress and GFP are targeting Naik by lending a twist to his innocuous statement,” Pramod said. Pointing out to an infamous remark made by senior Congress MLA Pratapsing Rane in the past where he allegedly referred to Goans working in London as “toilet cleaners”, and GFP president Vijai Sardesai’s allegedly derogatory remarks against a fisher woman and Goans (video of which had gone viral nearly two years ago), BJP demanded that Congress and GFP should first apologise to Goans for these “insulting” remarks. “Why was Congress silent when Rane made this remark?” Naik questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-in-fear-of-bjps-fame-in-fatorda/articleshow/78836796.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fulfil solar power target by 2022, anti-coal activists tell govt||MARGAO: Goyant Kolso Naka on Friday demanded that the government, instead of pushing for new power transmission lines by damaging Mollem forest, should concentrate on effecting a transition to solar power at the earliest to meet the energy requirements of the state. This, the forum said, would besides making the state self-sufficient in power generation and help Goa earn revenue from selling surplus power, would also generate self-employment avenues across all villages and towns in Goa for installation of solar power units.  The anti-coal protestors picked holes in the arguments advanced by power minister Nilesh Cabral in defence of the 400 kV transmission lines and accused him of misleading the people.  Abhijit Prabhudesai, referring to the Statistical Handbook of Goa 2018-19, said that the residents use only about 29% of the energy consumed, while industries consume almost twice as much. “As stated by the Union Government in the Rajya Sabha on September 15,” he said, “the installed capacity for the entire state as on August 31 is only 585 MW, including 532 MW from central sector. However, Cabral has quoted highly inflated figures, such as 1,800 MW demand from residential use, to mislead the people.” Further, referring to the Union government’s projections that predict a rise in peak demand by 2037 to minimum 704 MW and maximum to 1,375 MW by 2037, Prabhudesai said that “contrary to these facts, Cabral has tried to fool the people that the transmission lines are necessary due to increasing demands.” Prabhudesai said that the power transmission project was completely against public interest as it promotes burning of coal and global warming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fulfil-solar-power-target-by-2022-anti-coal-activists-tell-govt/articleshow/78836789.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bareilly||Armed men thrash, rob familly in Budaun||BAREILLY: Armed men forced their way into a house at Jajpur village under the jurisdiction of Ujhani police station in Budaun district on Thursday night, taking the sleeping family by surprise. They thrashed the family members and later, locked them in a room while they ransacked the house before fleeing with valuables. The family was rescued in the morning by neighbours and police were informed. All of them are undergoing treatment at hospital. The condition of a woman, who had head injuries, is critical, police said. Recounting the night of horror, house owner Ragister Singh said he, his wife Irawati, daughter Soni and parents were sleeping when some robbers entered his house and thrashed them before stealing cash and jewellery. Irawati received a blow on the head and is critical, he added. Sankalp Sharma, SSP Budaun, said, “We have registered an FIR in this case and the accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/armed-men-thrash-rob-familly-in-budaun/articleshow/78834543.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Frontline workers’ list for vaccine||Senior state health & family welfare department officials said that a database of 2.1 lakh frontline workers dealing with Covid-19 will be created till October 31. The work has already started, said officials in a national-level web conference convened by the central ministry of health. “Two vaccines are in Phase II and three in the final stage of testing. Vaccines will be given to both private and public sector frontline workers on priority,” said a senior health department official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frontline-workers-list-for-vaccine/articleshow/78835851.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa Congress desk in-charge meets local heads||PANAJI: Former Karnataka minister and Goa desk in-charge of Congress Dinesh Gundu Rao arrived on his first official visit to the state on Friday and held meetings with district and block heads. From strengthening the organisation to discussing the strategy for the coming state assembly elections, Rao sought the opinions of several office bearers and grassroots workers. Rao, who was recently appointed as AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry, said that he is trying to get an overall picture of the state and the party’s readiness for the assembly elections. “I have been interacting with senior leaders, block presidents and district presidents to get an overall view and then we will take a decision,” Rao said in between meetings at the state Congress headquarters. “I will discuss with the leaders the whole background and the scenario and then we can see what has to be done.” Rao was expected to visit Goa earlier but contracted Covid-19. Due to the pandemic and to ensure social distancing, Rao met with groups of 12 to discuss organisational matters. “We are confident that Congress in Goa will once again emerge victorious with his guidance, support and motivation,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. While Rao has his task cut out when it comes to rebuilding the party in the state, he will have to navigate the choppy waters of the Mhadei dispute, where Karnataka and Goa are fighting for the flow of water from the Mhadei water basin. Rao said that he would address the issue on Saturday. “At present he is listening to everyone’s views about the organisation, local issues of the people, the preparations for the coming elections and the other regional political parties,” one of the state Congress general secretaries said. “During the meeting, we discussed about making Congress strong in all the 40 constituencies,” an office bearer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-congress-desk-in-charge-meets-local-heads/articleshow/78836799.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Three deaths in Gadchiroli, Vidarbha toll reaching 5,000||NAGPUR: The Covid situation in Gadchiroli district, which is one of the least affected districts in Vidarbha, is turning serious while the other districts are in a recovery phase. Gadchiroli reported 3 deaths and 105 new cases on Friday. In all, Vidarbha reported 32 deaths taking the toll to 4,980. Deaths occurred in all the 11 districts of Vidarbha after a long time. With Nagpur (13), Gadchiroli (3), Akola (3), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (2), Amravati (2), Buldhana (2), Washim (2), Bhandara (1), Wardha (1) and Yavatmal (1), Vidarbha’s case fatality rate remained around 2.70% which is higher than Maharashtra (2.63%) as well as the national average (1.51%). The number of new cases is declining in Vidarbha. On Friday, 1281 cases were reported — Nagpur (465), Chandrapur (185), Amravati (107), Gadchiroli (105), Gondia (95), Bhandara (90), Buldhana (82), Yavatmal (66), Wardha (44), Akola (28) and Washim (14). The caseload has now reached 1,83,849. Once again, recoveries were more than the new cases. In all, 1490 patients recovered in a day — Nagpur (683), Amravati (159), Chandrapur (123), Gondia (114), Wardha (80), Washim (74), Bhandara (72), Gadchiroli (57), Buldhana (57), Yavatmal (44) and Akola (27). Now, 163161 patients have recovered in Vidarbha. The recovery rate of Vidarbha is 88.74%. GADCHIROLI: A 40-year-old man from Etapalli, a 61-year-old man from Gadchiroli and a 65-year-old man from Chandrapur district died while undergoing treatment in Gadchiroli on Friday. This took the death toll of the district to 46. With 105 new cases, Gadchiroli’s total caseload surpassed the 5,000-mark. The number of recovered patients in a day is 79. Gadchiroli now has 5,078 cases and 4,181 of them have recovered till date. The recovery rate is 82.36. AKOLA: More than 300 tests were performed in a day and only 28 tested positive. Three deaths were reported which took the toll to 270. Akola now has 8,206 cases, 7,459 recoveries and 477 patients are under treatment. BULDHANA: Out of the 800 test reports, 82 were positive taking the number of cases to 8,876. In all, 57 patients recovered taking their number to 8,107. With two deaths on Friday, the tally has touched 119. The number of patients under treatment is 650. WASHIM: The district reported 14 new cases, 74 recoveries and two deaths. Washim’s caseload reached 5,545, including 4,821 recoveries and 123 deaths. Nearly 601 patients are under treatment. BHANDARA: The number of patients under treatment in Bhandara once again surged beyond 1,000 and reached 1014. Total 90 new cases were reported on Friday. A patient died while undergoing treatment taking the death toll to 199. Total 72 patients have recovered taking the number to 6,664. GONDIA: The district witnessed 95 new positive cases, 114 recoveries and two more fatalities. The district’s caseload is now 9,114 and death toll 117. The district’s test positivity rate is at an all time high of 13.20%. Total 1,029 patients are under treatment in Gondia. CHANDRAPUR: On Friday, 185 new cases were detected in the district taking the Covid -19 total to 14,387. With the death of two patients, the toll has risen to 213. The day also witnessed the discharge of 123 patients taking the number of recoveries to 11,137. There are now 3037 active patients under treatment in the district. A total of 1,13,765 samples have been tested so far and 97,825 have been tested negative. YAVATMAL: One death, a 60-year-old man from Darwha, was recorded on Friday. In the last 24 hours, 501 test reports were received of which 66 tested positive and 435 negative. The number of active positive patients is now 399. The district has 9822 positive patients of whom 8723 are negative. On the same day, 44 patients were discharged. AMRAVATI: Even as the number of recoveries outscored new admissions, the district continued to record deaths on Friday. As against 159 recoveries, the district recorded 107 new cases and two Covid deaths. While the new cases took the caseload to 15,839, the day's recoveries took the count to 14,530 for a recovery percentage of 91.74. Two deaths during treatment took the toll to 357, leaving 952 active cases that included 505 in home isolation. WARDHA: A 60-year-old man from Hinganghat died while undergoing treatment. In all, 44 new cases and 80 recoveries were registered in the district. Out of 801 test reports, 44 tested positive and the total number of cases crossed the six thousand mark (6,020). The cases were registered in Wardha (28), Hinganghat (10), Deoli and Selu (2 each) and Karanja and Samudrapur (1 each). Active positive patients reduced to 602 after 5225 patients were discharged after recovery. The death toll reached 193.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-deaths-in-gadchiroli-vid-toll-reaching-5000/articleshow/78835850.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Same online application format for all departments soon||LUCKNOW: To improve ease of doing business mechanism in UP, the state government will develop a common online format for all departments to help end-users get easy access to services on offer. Holding a meeting with the heads of various departments on Friday, chief secretary RK Tiwari said while the online systems is user-friendly, the process of application and approval of no objection certificates (NOCs) and licences should be made more convenient. “Websites should provide clear instructions about the format in which documents have to be submitted online, whether photographs need to be uploaded, and if so, what should be the size. Information on how a digital signature needs to be done should also be provided. Document verification can be carried out through OTP (one-time password) either on applicant’s mobile phone or email. The website should also carry full details of the procedure for filing of applications or other systems available to the public,” he said. The chief secretary said there would be a standard format for online system which would be used by all departments. “However, the format can be changed in case of specific requirements. For the convenience of investors, the unified payment system should also be made online through Nivesh Mitra portal,” he said. Till now, 12 services have been made online under FSDA.Other departments offering online services are geology and mining, basic education, secondary education, Film Bandhu and transport departments (one each), agriculture and legal departments (two each), PICUP and PWD (three each), stamp and registration, electricity safety and UP Fire Service departments (five each), revenue (seven), registrar of societies, UPSIDA and UPPCL (eight each), housing (15), commercial tax (16), excise (17), urban development (18), Udyog Bandhu (28) and labour (50).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/same-online-application-format-for-all-depts-soon/articleshow/78837567.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Self-help groups roped into manufacture puja material for festivals in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The ongoing festive season has turned into yet another occasion for self- help groups (SHGs) in UP to get much-needed financial push. According to data provided by the rural development department, at least 170 SHGs in over 30 districts have been roped in for the manufacture of puja and festive material for Navratri and Diwali. SHGs are manufacturing clay lamps, candles, jhalars (decorative lights), Lakshmi-Ganesh idols, chunari, incense sticks, dona/pattal (leaf bowls and plates), attire for idols, havan samagri and sindoor (vermilion). The work is being carried out under the Centre’s National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and the SHGs are expected to make an income of at least Rs 1 crore. Talking to TOI, mission director, State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM), Sujit Kumar said the move would help the state government in making SHGs self-reliant under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. He said local products would also reduce people’s dependence on Chinese goods. Districts where SHGs have been roped in are Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Kanpur and Ayodhya. According to rural department officials, clay idols are being made in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Jhansi, Ayodhya and Prayagraj, while chunari is being made by SHGs in Aligarh, Azamgarh, Jhansi, Varanasi, Mirzapur and Chitrakoot. Likewise, incense sticks are being manufactured by SHGs in Baghpat, Azamgarh, Banda, Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Kannauj and Sultanpur. Clothes for idols of deities are being manufactured in Baghpat, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Siddharthnagar and Mirzapur while candles are being made in Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Ghaziabad, Lucknow, Kannauj, Banda and Basti. Havan samagri is being made in Bijnor, Azamgarh, Gorakhpur and Varanasi. “Products manufactured by SHGs are also being marketed on online platforms to give them wider market. Many products are reaching other states as well,” Kumar said. “Puja material and other goods are being sold at stalls in local markets and block offices,” he added. Earlier, members of SHGs were provided training by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shgs-roped-in-to-manufacture-puja-material-for-festivals-in-up/articleshow/78837569.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 24, 2020||Goa||Orlim meet discusses Mollem infrastructure projects||PANAJI: Goencho Ekvott continued its protest campaign to drum up opposition against the three major infrastructure projects being taken up in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park. Activists from the NGO reached Orlim where villagers were briefed about the impact of the three projects and the 30 other projects planned under the Centre’s Sagarmala project. Goencho Avaaz co-convenor Viriato Fernandes spoke about coal transportation through Goa, including the proposal for a satellite port at Betul. “If not scrapped, the satellite port will destroy the entire coastline spanning four talukas - Mormugao, Salcete, Quepem and Canacona,” he said. Goencho Ekvott convener Creson Antao, Fr Bolmax Pereira, Fr Roger Godinho, Rama Kankonkar, Olencio Simoes and Fernandes spoke about the destruction of the Western Ghats and the importance of protecting it. “Goa was the first state to achieve LED lights electrification, in which the Goa government had stated that we have saved 80 million units. Also, Goa gets 1,000 MW as its rightful share from the Western grid, due to which the state government has shut down power from the Southern grid which it received from Karnataka,” Simoes said. If there is requirement of additional power, the government could restart tapping from the Southern grid rather than destroying virgin protected forests for the Tamnar Transmission Lines project, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/orlim-meet-discusses-mollem-infra-projects/articleshow/78836805.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Canacona farmers upset as showers damage paddy crop||POINGUINIM: Incessant rain prior to harvest season has damaged the paddy crop in Canacona, bringing misery to farmers and their families who had put in efforts to cultivate the fields. The heavy showers have damaged the crop across the taluka, especially in the low-lying areas. The ripened paddy sheaves were seen lying in a pool of water, thus making it extremely difficult to harvest the crop using mechanised harvesters. Suresh Tolu Gaonkar, a farmer from Baddem in Cotigao, said, “We now have no other alternative but to arrange for labourers to get the harvesting done manually. This will be time consuming and our expenses will increase.” When contacted, zonal agriculture officer Kirtiraj Naik Gaonkar told TOI that the farmers in Canacona taluka had brought 305 hectares of land under cultivation, of which 12 hectares have been damaged. “The zonal office has been receiving applications from farmers pertaining to damages to their cultivated crop. After scrutiny, the applications will be forwarded to the authorities concerned for further assessment,” Naik Gaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-farmers-upset-as-showers-damage-paddy-crop/articleshow/78836813.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||178 test positive, two dead in Chandrapur||CHANDRAPUR: On Friday, 185 new cases were detected in the district taking the Covid -19 total to 14,387. With the death of two patients, the toll has risen to 213. The day also witnessed the discharge of 123 patients taking the number of recoveries to 11,137. There are now 3037 active patients under treatment in the district. A total of 1,13,765 samples have been tested so far and 97,825 have been tested negative. YAVATMAL: One death, a 60-year-old man from Darwha, was recorded on Friday. In the last 24 hours, 501 test reports were received of which 66 tested positive and 435 negative. The number of active positive patients is now 399. The district has 9822 positive patients of whom 8723 are negative. On the same day, 44 patients were discharged. AMRAVATI: Even as the number of recoveries outscored new admissions, the district continued to record deaths on Friday. As against 159 recoveries, the district recorded 107 new cases and two Covid deaths. While the new cases took the caseload to 15,839, the day's recoveries took the count to 14,530 for a recovery percentage of 91.74. Two deaths during treatment took the toll to 357, leaving 952 active cases that included 505 in home isolation. WARDHA: A 60-year-old man from Hinganghat died while undergoing treatment. In all, 44 new cases and 80 recoveries were registered in the district. Out of 801 test reports, 44 tested positive and the total number of cases crossed the six thousand mark (6,020). The cases were registered in Wardha (28), Hinganghat (10), Deoli and Selu (2 each) and Karanja and Samudrapur (1 each). Active positive patients reduced to 602 after 5225 patients were discharged after recovery. The death toll reached 193.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/178-test-positive-two-dead-in-chandrapur/articleshow/78834562.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa selects coal block adviser||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant chaired a meeting of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) cell on Friday where it was decided to appoint a’XYKno Capital Services Private Ltd as the consultant for exploiting the Dongri Tal II coal block allocated to Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC). Sawant said that the request for proposal (RFP) for appointment of the mine developer and operator (MDO) for the coal block will be issued by November 10. A senior GIDC official said that the government has to officially appoint a’XYKno Capital Services Ltd after which the consultant will help GIDC prepare the RFP to appoint the MDO. “At the PPP steering committee meeting held on Friday, we received some interest from two companies who made their presentations,” said Sawant after the meeting. a’XYKno Capital Services is an advisory firm that provides services to state governments in natural resources, energy and clean energy. The second firm that showed interest in helping GIDC prepare the RFP was a Goa-based company. The Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh was allocated to Goa as part of the fifth tranche of the allotment by the coal ministry and the state was supposed to ink the agreement by October 30, 2019. However, due to paucity of funds, GIDC could not pay the instalments upfront and decided to instead select a MDO, who would pay the performance and bank guarantee for the coal block on behalf of the state. Goa’s finance department refused to grant Rs 196 crore to pay the performance guarantee for a coal block in November 2019. At a meeting held a fortnight earlier, Sawant met with the industries department and GIDC where it was agreed that a MDO would be appointed on PPP basis. According to Sawant, a’XYKno Capital Services has offered to assist the state with selecting a MDO for a fee of approximately Rs 10 lakh. “There is one company already working in the coal sector as an adviser. We will take post facto approval from the cabinet. We finalised them as the adviser on nomination basis. The approximate fees are Rs 10 lakh, including GST and everything,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-gets-consultant-for-dongri-coal-block/articleshow/78836807.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM to e-inaugurate farmers’ scheme, heart hospital, ropeway in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate three key projects in Gujarat on Saturday via video-conferencing. The PM will launch the Kisan Suryodaya Yojana for farmers. He will inaugurate the Paediatric Heart Hospital attached to UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre, and a mobile application for tele-cardiology at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. The PM will also declare open the ropeway project at Girnar. All three events will be interlinked and the PM will deliver an address. Chief minister Vijay Rupani will remain present in Junagadh, where the ropeway and Kisan Suryodaya Yojana projects will be launched. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel will remain present at UN Mehta Hospital. The virtual inaugurations will take place at 10:30am. Farmers will be able to avail of daytime power supply from 5am to 9pm under the scheme. The state government has allocated a budget of Rs 3,500 crore for installing transmission infrastructure under the scheme by 2023. Dahod, Patan, Mahisagar, Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur, Kheda, Tapi, Valsad, Anand, and Gir-Somnath have been included in the first phase of the scheme this financial year. The remaining districts will be covered in a phased manner by 2022-23. UN Mehta Institute will now become India’s biggest hospital for cardiology. UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology is undergoing expansion at the cost of Rs 470 crore. The number of beds will increase from 450 to 1,251 after the expansion. The Girnar ropeway will initially have between 25 and 30 cabins with a capacity of eight persons in each cabin. The distance of 2.3km will now be covered in just seven minutes through the ropeway. 15 OTs, 5 cathlabs at UN Mehta Hospital: The pediatric cardiology department at UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre (UNMICRC), which will be inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi on Saturday, has 15 cardiac operation theatres, five cardiac cath labs and one hybrid cardiac operation theatre with cath lab, MediCity officials said on Friday. Officials added that the hospital has 176 beds in the pediatric ICCU, 355 adult ICCU beds, 114 beds for children in the general ward and 64 special rooms. “The purpose of specialized units is to ensure that newborn children and sub-adults with congenital heart problems can get state-of-the-art facilities under one roof,” said an official. A mother’s milk bank will also be activated soon, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-to-e-inaugurate-farmers-scheme-heart-hospital-ropeway/articleshow/78835926.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Now, IMA to challenge capped rates for Covid-19 treatment||NAGPUR: After the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court pronounced the judgment in favour of Vidarbha Hospitals’ Association (VHA) on Friday and set aside the non-Covid rate capping order, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the apex body of private doctors, has filed a separate case in Bombay High Court, where they have appealed against both Covid and non-Covid Charges. “The high court has accepted that the government cannot cap charges of non-Covid hospitals. We, at IMA Maharashtra, have filed our own case at Bombay High Court, where we have appealed against both Covid and non-Covid charges. The hearing is under way,” said state IMA president Dr Avinash Bhondwe. “The Bombay High Ccourt has asked the state to discuss the rates with IMA in a meeting and come up with amicable solutions. The IMA submitted the amount of expenses per bed we require to run a hospital. The state government has not given any answer. The case is still open,” he added. VHA’s legal advisor Dr Pradeep Arora said that VHA will also continue the legal battle and the next step is to fight against Covid bed reservation and capping. “We will read the complete judgement and will continue to fight even against the tyrannical dictatorial enforcement of Covid bed reservation and capping done in Maharashtra,” he said. VHA has welcomed the HC decision and termed it as a victory of justice. “The medical fraternity is a bit relieved today. We believe in our Constitution and it was prudent that someone points out the unlawful threatening approach of the executive to the judiciary,” said VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat. VHA convener Dr Anup Marar added that VHA is going to file similar petitions against the unconstitutional audits done by authorities and illegal vigilant groups. “They are conducting media trials in an autonomous manner and murdering the goodwill of the institution apart from defaming doctors without going through the available legal options,” he said. Secretary, Dr Alok Umre, stated that VHA is also eagerly awaiting the judgement on the suo moto PIL wherein the court has sought a reply from the government as to how it requisitioned private hospitals. “VHA has also demanded compensation for utilization of their premises, interest-free loans, relaxation in NMC taxes/ BMW charges and subsidized electricity and water charges for all private hospitals that are being forced to function as Covid hospitals under capped charges,” said convener Dr Sameer Paltewar. All office bearers of VHA, Dr Shrikant Mukewar, Dr Pramod Giri, Dr Dilip Rathi, Dr Shantanu Sengupta, Ravi Mannadiyar, Dr Avinash Pophali, Dr Prakash Khetan, Dr Deepak Jeswani, Dr Prashant Rathi, Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala, Dr Akash Balki and Dr Amol Deshmukh have thanked the high court for this decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-ima-to-challenge-capped-rates-for-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/78835879.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Departure from tradition in Srirangapatna Dasara upsets historians, residents||Mandya: The decision of the Mandya district administration to go ahead with the annual Dasara celebrations in Srirangapatna sans all the traditional trappings – the fete has been scaled down in view of the Covid-19 crisis – has triggered outrage among citizens and historians. The people are none too pleased with traditions being given the short shrift, which they deem a violation of historical conventions, in the celebrations being organised this year. Their chief grouse is with the changes made to the manner in which the Jamboo Savari will proceed this year. Traditionally, the savari starts at the Srirangapatna palace and end at the Bannimantap, where historically the maharaja offered puja to the shami tree, which signalled the end of the celebrations. However, the authorities have chosen Bannimantap – historically the terminating point of the Jamboo Savari – as the starting point of the procession. The procession will end at the Sri Ranganathaswamy temple. Historians have pointed out that the maharajas, who initiated the tradition of the ‘Naada Habba’ in Srirangapatna before the ritual celebration was shifted to Mysuru, cut a branch from the shami tree that was then taken home to the palace, a tradition that was continued in the Heritage City as well. They are both upset with the authorities’ decision breaking with this centuries’-old tradition in this edition of the festivities. Many residents have also questioned the decision to do away with elephants for the celebration and the truncation of the fete from the customary ten days to just three. A senior official in the Mandya district administration admitted to deviating from tradition in this year’s Srirangapatna Dasara. However, he said that this was not a decision taken by the district administration. “We are only following instructions from the state government. Decisions such as altering the route of the Jamboo Savari and reducing the length of the festivities are taken at the highest levels of the state government,” he said. Hulkere Mahadevu, a retired professor, said that if the state government was truly keen on reviving the Srirangapatna Dasara festivities, the essence and traditions of the historic fete ought to be observed and adhered to strictly. “This is ludicrous. How can the Srirangapatna celebrations be held with so many restrictions, and deviate as much from tradition. It would be better if the government were to scrap the celebrations this year instead of hold it in this manner. It would save a considerable sum of money being wasted,” Mahadevu said. Low-key affair kicks off in Mandya Notwithstanding opposition from many quarters about the celebrations going against the grain of traditions and conventions, Srirangapatna Dasara began on a note of muted gusto on Friday. The annual fete is being scaled down owing to the Covid-19 crisis. The traditional Dasara procession was led, not by elephants, but on a well-adorned motor-powered chariot, which passed through the Bengaluru-Mysuru Highway before heading into the alleys and bylanes of Srirangapatna town. The celebrations were declared open by Covid-19 warriors in the presence of Mandya district in-charge minister KC Narayanagowda. Cultural programmes including music concerts and dance performances were staged at the Old Bathery. Terraces and rooftops of homes served as the pavilion for the residents, who observed the proceedings. The remarkable thing was that most people were spotted donning masks despite watching the whole affair from their own terraces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/departure-from-tradition-in-srirangapatna-dasara-upsets-historians-residents/articleshow/78833565.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Make eco-conservation your passion: Heblikar||Dharwad: Awareness on environment and ecology is the need of the hour for sustainable development, said actor, and environmentalist Suresh Heblikar. He spoke at an awareness programme on ‘Way Forward for Green Initiative: Conservation of Environment and Ecology’ organised by the Institutional Development Plan Project of University of Agricultural Sciences here on Friday. He called upon the youths to make environment conservation a passion. “There is the vast Western Ghats in Karnataka and India is the country blessed with enormous amount of sunlight, rainwater and wind energy, which must be utilized properly. Unfortunately, lot of damage is being caused to Western Ghats despite several organizations launching agitations against encroachment of ghat area and destruction,” he lamented. “The Western Ghats cover 159,000 sq km, traverse 1,600 km through six west coast states – Gujarat, Goa, Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu – and house an incredible diversity of species and some of the finest examples of moist deciduous and tropical forests,” Heblikar said. The ghats, also known as Sahyadri in Maharashtra, has 5,000 species of flowering plants, 139 mammal species, 508 bird species and 179 amphibian species. At least 325 of these are globally threatened species, he added. “It’s a complex network of 22 rivers that provides nearly 40% of India’s water-catchment systems and hence there is an urgent need for policy makers and the government to ensure the treasure is conserved,” he asserted. UAS vice-chancellor Mahadev B Chetti said UAS will develop an Agro Ecosystem Tourism Park for recreation and knowledge of young children. The UAS also wants to push agriculture as one of the subjects in schools to inculcate awareness on environment as well as agriculture, he added. IDP cordinator KV Ashalatha and Jyoti Vastrad also spoke. Caption: Actor, director and environmentalist Suresh Heblikar waters a plant to inaugurate a programme at University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad on Friday. (TOI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/make-eco-conservation-your-passion-heblikar/articleshow/78836474.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Sale of sanitary napkin in Gorakhpur under self-help groups||LUCKNOW: In a major women’s outreach, the district administration of Gorakhpur has decided to carry out the sale and distribution of sanitary napkins to women through self-help groups (SHGs) under the Mission Shakti programme. “Making sanitary napkins available to women in rural and backward regions is one of the biggest challenges. A big napkin manufacturing plant is functioning in Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA). We have asked its owners to create awareness in rural/backward areas under the corporate social responsibility as part of Mission Shakti programme,” a government spokesman said on Friday. The department of women and child welfare also organised a webinar to discuss gender equality and saving women from domestic violence and dowry harassment. Basic education department also organised a webinar on women empowerment and teachers were asked to ensure that women in their region were made aware about child and women helpline services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sale-of-sanitary-napkin-in-gorakhpur-under-shgs/articleshow/78837585.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid caution sounded for festive times||NEW DELHI: Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday asked officials to ensure strict enforcement of preventive measures for Covid-19 during the ongoing festive season based on the revised strategy. The review meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority was attended by CM Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia and senior government officials, including chief secretary Vijay Dev, Dr VK Paul of Niti Aayog, AIIMS director Randeep Guleria and ICMR DG Balram Bhargava. The LG tweeted: “Advised all concerned to intensify surveillance, detection, contact tracing and quarantine of Covid-positive cases while undertaking extensive IEC (information education and communication) campaign. Emphasised on continued and coordinated efforts to combat Covid-19 with regular monitoring and feedback from experts.” “Also interacted with DMs, DCPs and municipal commissioners. Advised field officials to ensure strict enforcement of preventive and protective measures for management of Covid-19, particularly in view of the ongoing festive season,” Baijal further tweeted. Baijal appealed to people to wear masks at all times, practise hygiene and, most importantly, keep social distancing of at least two yards while going about everyday activities and on social and festive occasions. The committee of experts headed by Dr Paul had suggested the government prepare for 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily because winter months make respiratory illnesses severer and patients coming from outside Delhi in large numbers and festival-related gatherings could lead to a sudden rise in cases. This was witnessed after Onam in Kerala and Ganesh Chaturthi in Maharashtra. The administration of all districts is carrying out extensive on-ground campaigns, like meeting stakeholders, conducting awareness campaigns, interactions at religious places, visual messaging, nukkad natak, etc. They are holding dialogues with religious organisations to appeal to people to practise Covid-appropriate behaviour. A total of 129 multi-organisation mobile teams have been formed in the 11 districts for enforcement. Fines are being levied for various violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-caution-sounded-for-festive-times/articleshow/78836835.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Don’t play politics on waste, says Michael Lobo||SALIGAO: Waste management minister Michael Lobo lambasted the Margao Shadow Council for “playing politics on the Sonsoddo garbage dump”. Addressing reporters in Mapusa on Friday, Lobo said that some councillors who have lost the civic elections and those who are interested in contesting the upcoming municipal polls are playing politics on the issue of garbage. “I want to tell the people of Margao not to vote for those who try to play politics on the issue of garbage,” said Lobo, while adding that the Shadow Council has not done anything to find a solution to the garbage issue, which is a health hazard to the people. The minister also stated that inorder “to turn Sonsoddo into a world-class garbage handling plant like Saligao”, all the local MLAs, councillors and citizens in the area should stand united and support the cause. “The Solid Waste Management Corporation will try and bring a solution to the garbage problem in Margao, especially at Sonsoddo, but we require the clearance from the Margao municipality,” said Lobo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-play-politics-on-waste-lobo/articleshow/78836841.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Man gets death for minor’s rape & murder||LUCKNOW: A 37-year-old man from Rae Bareli, accused of raping and killing a one-and-half year old girl, was awarded death sentence while 10 others were handed life sentence in connection with crimes against women in last 24 hours in the state. The prosecution cancelled bails of 142 accused in crime against women while 56 were externed from various districts. Jitendra Kumar, who was sentenced to death, had lured a one-and-a-half year old girl on the pretext of giving toffees and raped and murdered her in 2014. The victim had come to attend a party with her parents in Salon , Rae Bareli. “We ensured that all the evidence was produced properly and witnesses remain protected while deposing before the court,” said SP, Rae Bareli, Shlok Kumar. In Bareilly, one Sonu was sentenced to life for raping a six-year-old girl. The survivor was shown pictures of several people from which she identified Sonu. In Gorakhpur, Kamlesh was given life sentence for raping a five-year-old girl. Similarly, one Umesh was sentenced to life for killing his wife in Maharajganj. In Santkabirnagar, Subhash, a school van driver, was sentenced to life imprisonment for raping a kindergarten student in 2015. In a similar case in Ayodhya, Sadam Ansari was sentenced to life for raping a Class 6 student. Adil of Azamgarh was given life sentence for raping and killing a minor girl by throwing her from a bridge in Phulpur area in 2016. Another man from Agra was given life sentence for shooting a woman dead during a loot attempt in 2016. In other cases, Shahjahan of Muzaffarnagar was awarded 14-year jail term for raping a minor while Ved Prakash of Mainpuri was sentenced to 10-year imprisonment for a similar offence. In Lucknow, Ritu was sentenced to 10-year jail for raping a minor. One person each in four other districts were awarded 10-year imprisonment in rape cases. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-gets-death-for-minors-rape-murder/articleshow/78837601.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Govt says HC’s suo motu PIL in pvt, not public, interest||NAGPUR: Asking for disposing of a suo motu PIL on beds shortage in city hospitals, the Maharashtra government on Friday termed it as “private interest litigation” instead of public interest. A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala then adjourned the hearing till October 28 while directing senior counsel MG Bhangde, who was roped in by the government after advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhkoni couldn’t appear, to take detailed instructions on the issue. The affidavit was submitted in a suo motu plea based on a TOI report where Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. It was clubbed with another plea filed by ‘Viveka Super Speciality Hospitals and Research Centre’ through counsel Kartik Shukul assisted by Abhilash Shriwas. The affidavit by health service director Sanjay Jaiswal on behalf of State Public Health Department principal secretary contended that persons aggrieved by its April 30 and May 4 notifications are private doctors and hospital owners, who should have ideally approached HC with grievances. Through these notifications, the government reserved beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and put a ceiling on charges to be collected from them. “These persons have more than sufficient capacity to approach the judiciary and pray for appropriate relief. Thus, the subject matter of instant case relates to private interest as opposed to public interest. The HC should drop the suo motu PIL, as it doesn’t come under the ambit of PIL’s definition as laid down by the Supreme Court,” the affidavit filed through additional government pleader Deepak Thakre mentioned. The affidavit pointed out that none of the hospitals in Vidarbha had approached HC with grievances that April 30 and May 21 notifications are in violation of their fundamental rights. Instead, the doctors and owners are following directives in both the notifications. Earlier, annoyed over contrasting stand taken by the government on the issue of providing free treatment to Covid-19 patients in private hospitals acquired by it for treating them, the judges flayed the advocate general for misleading the HC on use of DMA’s Section 65 for acquiring private hospitals beds. Further defending its move to cap rates for Covid-10 patients in private hospitals, the government argued it was authorized under the Epidemic Diseases Act’s Section 2 and Disaster Management Act’s (DMA) Section 65 to take necessary actions to prevent outbreak of epidemic and also to determine how the expenses should be incurred. “The rates charged by private hospitals are exorbitant and out of bound for a common man. If the ceiling on charges hadn’t been imposed, it would have deprived poor persons from taking treatment in such establishments and it may have led to spread of the deadly disease and higher mortality rate. The government has executive powers to enact a law regarding public health as per the Constitution of India,” the affidavit asserted. The government added that since the issue of imposing a ceiling on charges of private hospitals was pending in Supreme Court, this court should await its verdict and shouldn’t proceed in the case. 278 more beds can be created at AIIMS: Div Commr Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar in his affidavit informed that 278 additional beds can be created at AIIMS. The HC constituted a task force that visited the AIIMS premises in Mihan and submitted its report affirming that. HC had formed this panel to help augment AIIMS capacity to 500 from 100, as per directives of health minister Rajesh Tope. It currently has 80 beds reserved for such patients and it has informed the court it can create 100 additional beds on immediate basis. AIIMS director Dr Vibha Datta, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra and IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keoliya are other members of the task force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-says-hcs-suo-motu-pil-in-pvt-not-public-interest/articleshow/78835945.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 24, 2020||India||TRP scam: Ninth arrest made, cops look for owner of marketing company||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the TRP scam on Friday arrested one person from Chandivli who is suspected to be involved in making payments for rigging viewership figures of television channels. This takes the total number of arrests in the case to nine. The police are also looking for the proprietor of a marketing company in connection with the scam. The police on Friday also added four more additional penal sections in the case — of harbouring offenders, punishment for breach of trust, punishment for forgery and forgery for the pur pose of cheating. The ninth person arrested is Harish Kamlakar Patil (45), the police said. “The prosecution’s allegations are that my client received Rs 12,500 from Republic TV into his account,” advocate Ajay Dubey for Patil said, claiming his client was innocent. “My client is a vendor not only for Republic TV but for many other channels, so whatever money he has received is for his services. There is no illegality,” Dubey said. The police said that during the interrogations of two of the arrested, Ramji Sharma and Dineshkumar Vishwakarma, they stumbled upon the role of Max Media, a marketing company. “We learnt that there were financial transactions between Max Media’s proprietor Abhishek Kolwade with Patil, which was reflected in his bank accounts. We want to know about these suspicious transactions,” a police officer said. He alleged Patil also helped Abhishek Kolwade to go into hiding. “We are looking for him all over the country,” the officer said. Meanwhile, the police on Friday questioned Republic TV’s CFO Shiva Sundaram. He has been asked to furnish documents such as incometax returns, ledger details, balance sheets etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-ninth-arrest-made-cops-look-for-owner-of-marketing-company/articleshow/78838424.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ex-serviceman nabbed in liquor racket||COLVA: Goa police on Friday arrested ex-serviceman M Maarirajan for allegedly transporting and selling liquor from Goa in Andhra Pradesh. Andhra police arrived in Goa with specific information about the accused, a native of Tamil Nadu, who had served as a serviceman in Panaji and had settled in Benaulim after his retirement, Goa Police sources said. Acting on the tip-off by Andhra police, a Colva police team led by inspector Melson Colaco raided the residence of the accused at Pedda-Benaulim. Police sources informed that they did not find any liquor at his residence. Andhra cops informed Goa police that the accused is an alleged kingpin in purchasing spurious liquor in Goa, transporting it to Andhra Pradesh and selling it to the general public at exorbitant rates. The accused was later handed over the AP counterparts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-serviceman-nabbed-in-liquor-racket/articleshow/78836865.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Forest cover widens, but eco-sensitive zones shrink||Kolhapur: The ministry of environment, forests and climate change has extended the boundaries of the Radhananagri wildlife sanctuary in Kolhapur, and the extended areas will be treated as eco-sensitive zones, putting restrictions on certain activities. According to the notification, the ministry has reduced the area of eco-sensitive zones when compared to the original proposal. However, some activities have been completely prohibited, though infrastructure works will be allowed in the new zone. The notification, issued on October 15, has added a total of 41 villages from Kolhapur and neighbouring Sindhudurg district to the sanctuary. Of these, 26 villages are from Radhanagari taluka of Kolhapur district and 15 are from Sindhudurg district. The villages in Sindhudurg district are in Kudal and Kankavli talukas. The notification states that the decision was taken as the existing Radhanagari sanctuary was close to human habitation and it was necessary to control ongoing developmental activities to ensure proper safeguards to the sanctuary. Clement Ben, chief conservator of forest, Kolhapur circle, said the established residential properties won’t be disturbed. The main prohibition will be for mining and pollution-causing industries. “With the final notification of Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary being published, the deemed eco-sensitive zone of 10 km will cease to exist. The execution of development projects may be smooth outside the notified area,” he said. He added that a committee to implement the ESZ procedure will be formed under the district collectors of Kolhapur and Sindhudurg and comprise forest department officials. In July, 2019, the ministry has called for suggestions and objections over its proposal to increase the area of Radhanagari sanctuary. According to the original proposal, the ministry has planned to extend the area of Radhanagari sanctuary by ten km aerial distance. However, it was opposed by the residents. According to the notification, the eco sensitive zone of the sanctuary has been increased by 200 meter to six km. The state government has now been asked to prepare a master zonal plan of the newly added eco sensitive zone within a period of two years in consultation local people. It has also said that the master plan should not affect existing structures or activities, approved earlier. The notification has listed eight activities, which will be prohibited in the newly included eco sensitive zone. Major activities, which will be banned, include mining and stone quarrying, industries causing any sort of pollution, setting up of hydro-electric projects, use of production or processing of hazardous substances, discharge of untreated effluents in natural bodies or land area, setting up of sawmills and brick kilns, use of polythene bags. The union government, however, has allowed few activities with some regulations and restrictions. These activities are commercial hotels and resorts, any new construction, small scale non-polluting units, felling of trees and collection of forest produce. Samrat Kerkar, founder of Bison Nature Club in Radhanagri, said, “This eco-sensitive zone will not affect local residents much as the periphery was already considered while taking any developmental projects. Now, the industrialisation or pollution causing industries will get a full stop and the residents will have to depend more now on tourism related sector. With mining ban, the wildlife conservation and environmental balance of the region will remain undisturbed.” Several works like new wood based industry, erection of electrical poles and communication towers and infrastructure including civic amenities, widening and strengthening of the existing and new roads, tourism by flying over the zone through hot air balloon, drone, helicopter. The other major activities like movement of vehicles, ongoing agriculture and horticulture operations and establishment of large-scale commercial livestock and poultry farms by firms, corporate will be permissible within existing laws. Radhanagari wildlife sanctuary is known for rich avifauna of about 264 species of birds, including migratory, a number of territorial birds of Indian origin. Honey buzzard, serpent eagle, hawk eagle, white bellied sea eagle are important raptors in Radhanagar. It has about 47 species of mammals, about 59 species of reptiles, 20 species of amphibian and 66 species of butterflies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/forest-cover-widens-but-eco-sensitive-zones-shrink/articleshow/78824231.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Amendment to Kerala Police Act exposes CPM’s volte-face||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The proposed amendment to Kerala Police Act completely contradicts the stand taken by CPM against legal provisions curbing the right to freedom of speech. The election manifesto of CPM during the 2019 general elections, had promised to repeal criminal defamation provision from Indian Penal Code which the party had found draconian. The party manifesto demanded that the Centre should repeal the Section 499 of the IPC that deals with defamation, ‘in defence of the constitution and democratic rights’. While the Section 66A of the IT Act that was struck down by the Supreme Court had specifically targeted those who sent messages by means of a computer or a communication device, the newly being inserted 118A of the KP Act widens the net and cites not only the social media, but “any means of communication” to target those who “threaten, insult or harm the reputation of an individual”. It was CPM leader P Rajeeve who then made a fiery speech in Rajya Sabha against the hidden dangers of Section 66A of the IT Act. Moving a private member’s resolution on December 14, 2012, he said that there is no particular law that protects the freedom of the press and the traditional media is enjoying this freedom, from which the country is also benefiting. He demanded that the same freedom should be given to the social media as well. He added that there should not be any state control, but the restrictions given in article 19 (2) is sufficient. Interestingly, the CPM-led state government has now come out with an amendment which is even worse than 66A or even the 118D of the KP Act, both of which were struck down by the SC. Activist Anoop Kumaran, who fought against the Section 118D of the Kerala Police Act in the SC, said that the new section 118A is nothing but a camouflaged version of 118D. “The government has brought in the same old section that was struck down by the SC citing it anti-constitutional, in a new form,” he said. Kumaran, who was arrested and charged by the police under Section 118D for his comments on Facebook, had approached the SC, and the court had struck down the section itself. Kumaran said that in the latest amendment inserting 118A too, the basic intention of justice for women victims will be side-lined and the section will be a tool for silencing the voices against those in power. An act with good intention, says law minister Law minister A K Balan claimed that the opposition leader’s argument that the amendment to the Police Act was being brought to curb the media was baseless. He said that it was intended to protect the dignity of the citizens. “There are large-scale attempts to spoil the dignity of individuals through social media. There are also attempts to insult the women. The government is unable to take strong action in the absence of a strong law and a government cannot be a mute spectator to this,” Balan said, adding that the government has brought the amendment with good intention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amendment-to-police-act-exposes-cpms-volte-face/articleshow/78834616.cms||KP Saikiran
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||A new feather in Gujarat Technological University’s cap||AHMEDABAD: Globally renowned QS Rating Agency of the UK has chosen Gujarat Technological University (GTU) as one of the leading technical education institutes of India for e-learning excellence for academic digitization. The London-based rating agency has chosen the GTU for its best performance in various areas mainly learning management system, IT support system and best practice in IT, the varsity said in a press statement. The GTU has proven its skills in all these areas. The recently concluded online and offline examinations for more than 60,000 students are a glaring example in this direction, claimed the press release. GTU vice-chancellor Navin Sheth said: “The university has earned international reputation for successfully fulfilling all requirements needed for the IT system parameters at the international level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-new-feather-in-gtus-cap/articleshow/78835958.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Congress alleges model code violation by CM Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat Congress leader Nishit Vyas filed a written complaint with the Election Commission of India (ECI) and Chief Electoral Officer, Gujarat, against chief minister Vijay Rupani, alleging that he “unduly influenced voters using religion” and sought action against him. The complaint objects to CM Rupani’s voice playing as a caller tune whenever people make phone calls to numbers of all service providers. “CM Vijay Rupani is one of the star campaigners of the BJP for the byelections to eight assembly seats. Rupani committed an act applying undue influence on voters in the name of religion by publishing his speech as a caller tune before the ringing of mobile phones of all operators,” Vyas said in his complaint. He added the caller tunes advises voters on the celebration of ‘Navratri, a Hindu festival of Sanatan Dharma’. “Thus, he is influencing voters in the name of religion and depicting himself as a messiah and protector of the Hindu religion, the Sanatan Dharma,” the Congress leader said in the complaint. In his letter Vyas said, “It is the fundamental duty of the ECI to prevent, prohibit and restrain all concerned from committing any corrupt practices during elections or byelections. Powers have been vested in the ECI for laying down the code of conduct for elections.” Vyas contended that although the Covid-19 pandemic has been raging since March this year, this advice by the CM on caller tunes started only after the assembly byelections were announced, when the code of conduct was in force. “Such advice or speeches of the CM were not uploaded as caller tunes earlier. It has been done only after the code of conduct came into force,” Vyas said. “This is a clear case of misconduct and he is required to be prosecuted for an election offence either under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, or the Representation of the People Act, 1951,” the Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/congress-alleges-model-code-violation-by-cm-rupani/articleshow/78835990.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||‘Joblessness behind migration in Bihar’||LUCKNOW: During her rallies in Bihar ahead of the Assembly polls, BSP chief Mayawati focussed on highly emotive issue of migrants. Bihar, which probably has the second highest population of migrant workers in the country after UP, saw a large-scale reverse migration during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The former UP CM, whose party is contesting the elections in alliance with Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samta Party, said that the rate of unemployment was so high in Bihar that migrant workers were once again forced to return to the other states. Interestingly, as Mayawati attacked Congress for misrule and various alliance governments, she stayed clear of the BJP which is a part of the ruling alliance. “Lalu and Nitish have run governments in Bihar for years, but did nothing to create employment. Now, during elections they are promising lakhs of jobs. What had stopped them from giving jobs when they were in power? The result was that lakhs of people were forced to go to other states for jobs,” Mayawati said in a rally in Rohtas. She said that for years people of Bihar kept on hoping that one day a government would create jobs enabling their family to return. Now, those who were forced to return to their state during the lockdown, have no option but to seek jobs in other states as the Bihar government is doing nothing for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/joblessness-behind-migration-in-bihar/articleshow/78837610.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Demand for plasma therapy high, but government doubts efficacy||BENGALURU: Although the Indian Council of Medical Research has trashed plasma therapy, saying it is of no use in treating Covid-19, the demand for the therapy from family members of patients in the state has only risen. However, while doctors in private hospitals say the therapy cannot be dismissed, the state government is not proactively advocating it in its hospitals. “Our doctors are sceptical about it,” said Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department. At Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), the biggest government Covid facility where thousands have been treated till date, only 40 patients have been administered plasma therapy. “Of the 40, 22 survived,” said Dr CR Jayanthi, dean-cum-director, BMCRI. The state was at first keen on the therapy and in April, a team of researchers from HCG cancer hospital, Bengaluru, and BMCRI received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to study the use of convalescent plasma in treating Covid-19 patients. Dr US Vishal Rao, associate dean, HCG and member of the state’s Covid experts’ committee, said the study analysed 900 patients in 55 hospitals who received the therapy and the success rate was more than 60%. He likened the therapy to an orphan drug since it has no backing from the pharma industry. “I am not saying it’s a magic drug, but the ICMR study did not check for antibodies in plasma samples administered to patients,” said Dr Rao. “If plasma does not have the required antibodies, it may not be effective. It’s like giving saline. Lack of evidence is not absence of evidence. Several ministers, top bureaucrats and doctors were administered the therapy. But when it comes to regulations, there is not much support for it.” Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology, Apollo Hospitals, said that with plasma therapy, the higher the antibody titres, the higher the degree of immune response. But this crucial aspect was missing in the ICMR study. “At the beginning of the pandemic, plasma was taken from asymptomatic patients who have lower antibody titres. It was used in multiple stages across hospitals and there was no uniformity, which also adds to the limitations of the ICMR study,” Dr Mehta said. The ICMR study involved only 400 patients. Dr Rao said one can’t “provide patients in ICU with oxygen and then pray”. “If we close plasma therapy research and give away the last ray of hope, I think it is an injustice made to humanity,” he said. Dr Satish KS, senior pulmonologist, Fortis Hospital, said timing matters in Covid treatment. He said plasma therapy works best in the initial phase of the infection, ideally within five days. “ICMR must take another look,” he said. “The antibodies in the form of plasma should be given when the patient is battling infection, not after 10 days, when the virus may not be present in the body and definitely not when the patient is in the ICU or on ventilator. We are all learning. Plasma given at the right time will yield results.” At Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar, 130 of the 1,400 patients treated so far have received the treatment. “We are continuing with plasma therapy. Most of our 130 patients have got two doses of plasma 48 hours apart. It should be used in case by case basis given the pandemic. It deserves a larger study,” Dr Mehta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/demand-for-plasma-therapy-high-but-government-doubts-efficacy/articleshow/78835995.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Over 34k criminals booked, Rs 600 crore mafia property seized since 2017||LUCKNOW: The well-coordinated crackdown on ganglords across the state by the Yogi Adityanath government since 2017 seems to be yielding results. In last one year, at least 34,217 criminals have been booked under the Gangster’s Act and properties worth around Rs 600 crore have been confiscated. Moreover, UP has improved its ranking on all crime charts of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). From 21st spot in 2017, UP moved to 24th rank in 2018 and to 25th in 2019. Ever since the BJP came to power in 2017, as many as 125 criminals were killed while 2,607 were arrested in police encounters. This year, UP police registered 2,778 cases under the Gangster Act and booked at least 9,500 people. According to officials, strict action against Mukhtar Ansari, Sunder Bhati, Anil Dujana, Atiq Ahmad and Khan Mubarak has sent a strong message to anti-social elements. Atiq Ahmad, who is currently lodged in Sabarmati jail in Ahmedabad, has been citing kidney complications, high blood pressure and sugar to seek exemption from personal appearance. Similarly, Mukhtar Ansari, who is currently lodged in Rupar jail in Punjab has also cited health reasons for not appearing before the court. Properties worth Rs 80 crore belonging to Mukhtar Ansari and his aides were seized while Atiq’s assets worth Rs 70 crore have either been seized or razed. Over 200 henchmen of both the ganglords are cooling their heels in jails. Similarly, properties worth Rs 14 crore of the members of Anil Dujana and Sunil Bhati gangs have been seized. The government seized or razed property worth Rs 10 crore. Mubarak has over 50 cases in Ambedkarnagar. Property worth Rs 25 crore belonging to Muzaffarnagar don Imlaqh was also attached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-34k-criminals-booked-rs-600cr-mafia-property-seized-since-2017/articleshow/78837618.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC likely to shut 2 Covid centres in city||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is likely to close two Covid Care Centres (CCC) at government hostel buildings in the city if schools and colleges are allowed to reopen. Of the nine Covid care centres managed and operated by the civic body, two have been set up at the government hostel buildings, including one at the hostel of the Social Welfare department at Nasardi bridge near Dwarka and another at the Panjabrao Deshmukh hospital building in the Meri area of Panchavati. Civic officials said that they will communicate with the government department concerned and will take a call in case schools and colleges reopen. The CCC at Social welfare hostel buildings has capacity of 500 beds. At present, 151 Covid-19 patients are being treated in the said facility. The CCC at hostel building in Panchavati has capacity of 200 beds with 47 Covid-19 patients being lodged for treatment currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-likely-to-shut-2-covid-centres-in-city/articleshow/78833256.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Greens oppose proposed road to Anjaneri hilltop||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The environmentalists in Nashik district are up in arms against the state public works department’s move to construct 14-km road through forest land to connect the Anjaneri hilltop with Muley Gaon village to promote tourism. The PWD is proposing to construct a road from the village located at the base of the hill to the top, which is considered to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. The road construction has been mooted three times in the past and again been sent to union minister of forest and environment for approval. “The base village of Muley Gaon is connected to Trimbakeshwar road by a 5.5 km road. There is neither road nor habitat to the hilltop. The road has been proposed since 1994 and marked as ‘Other District Road’. The locals have also demanded a road to attract tourists,” a senior PWD officer from Nashik said. Of the 14-km road, a four-km stretch will be constructed on the land of revenue department. The remaining 10 km road with 18-meter width is to be built on 17 hectares of forest land. The PWD officers claimed that local villages, the forest right committees have given their ‘No Objection Certificates’ and accordingly, the collector of Nashik has already suggested an alternative land to the forest department. “We have received the proposal from the PWD and the same is being processed. The proposal will be sent to Nagpur office and thereafter to New Delhi, where the fate of the proposal will be decided,” a senior forest department officer said. The environmentalists have vehemently opposed the proposal. “If there was no way for people to travel, we would have considered the ‘fundamental’ right of humans to be supreme. But that is not the case,” said ecologist Jui Pethe of Nisargabhan. She added that the state government had in 2017 declared about 5.67 sq km are of Anjaneri as a conservation reserve – buffer zones that act as connectors to migratory birds. It is also home to important vulture rehabilitation programme in the country. “If nothing can be developed there, what exactly is the purpose of the road,” Pethe questioned. The environmentalists met Nashik MP Hemant Godse to request him to stop the project in the interest of the ecology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/greens-oppose-proposed-road-to-anjaneri-hilltop/articleshow/78833240.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Community-use plots reserved||AHMEDABAD: Following the merger of new areas into the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) limits, the board of the apex planning body, AUDA, on Friday finalized reserved plots for community use across six Town Planning (TP) schemes. In another major decision, nearly 799 hectares of land in Virochannagar in Chharodi, lying north of the Sanand-Viramgam Road, has been converted from agricultural to industrial use. The decision was taken keeping in mind the needs of the Sanand industrial estate. In the case of the six TP schemes, land has been earmarked for various purposes. These TP schemes are Sanand, Lilapur-Ognaj, Ognaj-Chharodi-Khodiyar, Bareja, Manipur- Godhavi, and Jaspur-Khodiyar. Eighteen hectares have been assigned for housing for socially and economically weaker sections, 14 hectares for parks and gardens, and 53 hectares for social infrastructure such as schools, shopping centres, and transport and civic utilities. The AUDA board also handed over the authority to the AMC to prepare TP schemes in the newly merged areas between Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad. The AMC is also empowered to conduct anti-encroachment drives and lay new roads and establish utilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/community-use-plots-reserved/articleshow/78836019.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Four get life term for gang rape of woman in Beed||AURANGABAD: Beed principal district judge Hemant Mahajan on Thursday sentenced four men to life imprisonment for gang-raping a 22-year-old woman in Erandgaon village of Beed district five years ago even as witnesses turned hostile. Public prosecutor Milind Waghirkar said that evidence, including the statements of the survivor and her husband, doctors and the investigation officer, proved vital in nailing the culprits. “They abducted and raped the woman while she was returning to her village from her farm on January 1, 2015,” he said. According to Waghirkar, the woman’s parents owned a ‘garhi’ (village fortress) with open space at Pachegaon in Georai taluka, where she would grow cotton or other crops. On the fateful day, she had gone to the farm to pluck cotton. She decided to return to Beed, about 20 km away from the farm, because it had started raining. At the Pachegaon Phata, she spotted a vehicle that usually ferried passengers. The driver, Jeeja Rathod, offered to take her to the Padalsighi Phata, 7km from Pachegaon Phata on the Aurangabad-Beed road, from where the woman was to take a bus to Beed. Rathod latger picked up Amol Kashte, Navnath Jadhav and Kundlik Rathod from different places on the route. The woman raised an objection when he started driving towards Erandgaon, instead of the destination she had been promised to be dropped off at. The four soon gagged and took her to the Erandgaon grazing ground and sexually assaulted her. The convicts later brought the woman to her farm in Pachegaon, broke open the door of her one-room tin-shed and repeatedly raped her. They then snatched Rs 2,000 from her and escaped. The woman lodged a complaint with the Georai police the following day. The then sub-divisional officer, Gaurav Singh, currently Palghar superintendent of police, investigated the case and arrested the four men. “The woman does not have any relatives in Erandgaon and Pachegaon, where the crime took place, due to which the witnesses from these places turned hostile,” said Waghirkar. The judge, however, considered the other evidence and held the four guilty of abduction and gang rape. Waghirkar said the four had been granted bail, but the magistrate had cancelled their bail about two years ago as they had started threatening the survivor and her relatives. They were sent back to jail about two years ago. The prosecution had sought maximum punishment for the four in view of their heinous crime. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-get-life-term-for-gang-rape-of-woman-in-beed/articleshow/78824243.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Girl dies, father missing as car washed away in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: A girl died and her father went missing after the car they were travelling in was washed away in Chittoor district on Thursday. According to Penumuru police, Prathap from Muthirevula in Chittoor district was returning after attending a function with his family when their car was swept away in the strong currents of an overflowing Kondayavaripalle Vagu in Penumuru mandal. While the driver of the car managed to break open the windows and all five travellers tried to move to safety, Sai Vineetha (15) accidentally slipped into the stream and was swept away. Her father Prathap jumped into the waters to rescue his daughter but both were swept away in the overflowing stream. Meanwhile, local villagers who rushed to the Kondayavaripalle vagu after hearing cries for help, rescued Prathap’s wife Shyamala, Chengappa and the driver Kiran. Police and rescue teams retrieved Sai Vineetha’s body at Kodayavaripalle vagu on Friday morning. Police deployed a drone to locate the body of Prathap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/girl-dies-father-missing-as-car-washed-away/articleshow/78834629.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Erratic power supply||Nashik: The erratic electricity supply continued to affect parts of Nashik city as well as rural areas even as people witnessed power interruptions ranging from a few minutes to hours together owing to heavy rainfall during the last 48 hours. “The failure of power supply was the first indicator that the city was going to witness heavy downpour. As soon as winds started blowing, the power supply got affected. It was followed by heavy thundering, lightening as well as showers, ” said Pushpa Joshi, a home-maker from the Ambad area of the city. The situation was quite similar in the Gangapur Road area of the city. Most Nashik residents were of the opinion that this year, power failure was at its peak along with prolonged duration. Satish Khole of Gangpaur Road said, “I cannot recall having made these many number of complaints to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) during the rainy season in the past. I usually wait for around 10 minutes after power failure and then register a complaint.” The power cuts, however, brought relief to students as they often occurred in the evening or night hours. “We did not miss our online school or exams as power failure occurred largely in the evening. But, we were not able to enjoy our relaxation time watching television owing to the power failure,” said Sanyami Patil, a Class VIII student from Nashik Road. Igatpuri village reels under darkness Khandachi Wadi in Dhargaon village of Igatpuri taluka is living in the dark since October 12. The three phase 25 KVA transformer on Vaitarna Feeder has been damaged with the villagers demanding replacement. “We have placed our demand. But, the officials said there is no ‘oil’ that is the reason the transformer is not being replaced,” said sarpanch of the village Nivrutti Padir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/erratic-power-supply/articleshow/78833288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Chennai||7 industries with Rs 1,300 crore investment begin ops||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday launched commercial production at seven industrial units that account for Rs 1,298.2 crore in investment and have potential to generate more than 7,800 jobs. Palaniswami also laid the foundation stone for nine new industrial projects with a combined investment of a little over Rs 10,000 crore, to generate employment for more than 8,600 people in the state. Prominent among the units that commenced commercial operations include Wheels India’s auto component plant that has come up in Tiruvallur district at an investment of Rs 600 crore and Salcomp’s Rs 500 crore electronic component manufacturing unit for mobile handsets at Sriperumbudur. With Salcomp kickstarting operations, the state government’s efforts to revive manufacturing operations in the defunct Nokia SEZ has finally borne fruit, a release said. Leading the pack of investments for which the chief minister broke the ground on Friday is Vikram Solar’s Rs 5,512 crore solar module/cell manufacturing unit at Oragadam and DP World’s Rs 1,000 crore logistics park at Vallur. A Rs 2,000 crore city gas distribution project, to be implemented in Tirupur, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts by Adani Gas, and Rs 600 crore carbon unit by Philips Carbon Black in Tiruvallur district also commenced initial work. Work on a Rs 150-crore Hyundai Academy for Technical Skills being established by Hyundai Motor India was also inaugurated by the chief minister. While a Rs 70 crore solar power project by Dindigul Renewable Energy, promoted by Kalpathi AGS group, commenced commercial production, CM launched the work for phase-2 of the project at a cost of Rs 300 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/7-industries-with-rs-1300cr-investment-begin-ops/articleshow/78836930.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Helmet-less riders to lose licence for repeating offence||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Motor vehicles department has decided to step up awareness campaign against riding two-wheelers without helmets. The decision is a prelude to implementing a Centre’s notification asking states to suspend the licences of all those who are riding without helmets. Even though the notification has said the state should suspend the licences with effect from October 1, the state has decided to increase the awareness campaign, along with slapping fine. “Fine will be slapped on the two-wheeler riders without helmets. Along with that, we would also give awareness about the law, and that their licence will be suspended if they repeat the office,” MVD sources said. It is learnt that the department’s awareness will continue for the next two months, before strictly enforcing the law. As per the amended Motor Vehicles Act, the licence will be suspended for three months for the first offence and will be cancelled if the offence is repeated. The licence of the rider will be suspended if the helmet is not worn by the pillion rider as well. The law breakers will also be sent for social service and road-safety classes. As per the amended act, those who are riding two-wheelers were also to pay a fine of Rs 1,000. A committee constituted up on the instructions of the Supreme Court had held a sitting in the state last week, in which the committee was highly critical of the state. It is learnt that the committee was of the opinion that the state government is not enthusiastic in implementing the provisions of the act. The committee had even expressed dissatisfaction about the state’s decision to reduce the fine amount from Rs 1,000 to Rs 500. The state cabinet had in October last year decided to reduce the penalty for some of the offences that have been increased through the amended Motor Vehicles Act. The decision was taken in the wake of penalties being increased to exorbitant levels as per the amended act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/helmet-less-riders-to-lose-licence-for-repeating-offence/articleshow/78834637.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||7.8L urban Jan Dhan a/cs close in a yr||Ahmedabad: The financial inclusion programme does not appear to be working well at least in urban Gujarat. Some 7.8 lakh accounts in urban Gujarat, which were opened under Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) have ceased to function in a year. According to the latest report by State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), the state showed a decline of 7.8 lakh PMJDY accounts in April-August 2020 against the same period in 2019. The number of accounts declined from 69.37 lakh Jan Dhan Accounts in Gujarat in April-August 2019, to some 61.49 lakh accounts in the same period this year. According to bankers, the decline in number of accounts can be attributed to the mergers of banks in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/7-8l-urban-jan-dhan-a/cs-close-in-a-yr/articleshow/78836057.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Sale of imported onions brings down prices in Nashik||NASHIK: The arrival of imported onions into the country’s largest wholesale onion market at Lasalgaon in Nashik district has helped bring down the spiralling prices of the kitchen staple. The average wholesale onion prices dropped by Rs 600 per quintal on Friday to touch Rs 5,600 a quintal after the bulbs imported from Turkey and Iran reached Nashik. Private traders started selling the imported onions in the price range of Rs 5,500 and Rs 6,000 per quintal. Around 2,500 tonnes of onions have been imported so far, while 3,000 tonnes of onions are on way to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, Mumbai. On Friday, around 3,500 quintals of onions were auctioned at the Lasalgaon agriculture produce market committee as against the peak trade of 21,000 quintals two months back. APMC officials said that the fresh kharif onions have been damaged to a larges extent in the district due to the heavy rainfall in September and October. This has delayed the arrival of the crop in the market and will continue to impact the trade. Presently, the onions arriving in the market are the summer harvest. However, the stock of this crop is down to 10% and till the fresh kharif stock reaches the market, the average wholesale onion prices are expected to be in the price range of Rs 6,000 and Rs 7,000 per quintal, said APMC officials. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 2,000 and Rs 6,900 per quintal, respectively, at Lasalgaon. The average wholesale onion prices had touched season’s high at Rs 7,100 per quintal on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sale-of-imported-onions-brings-down-prices/articleshow/78833297.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru mayor criticised for questioning Pratap Simha||Mysuru: BJP functionary TS Srivatsa on Friday criticised mayor Tasneem for questioning MP Pratap Simha over rechristening major circles. Speaking to reporters, he condemned the mayor for speaking against the MP, who he said, has done tremendous work for overall development of the constituency. The MP was instrumental in successful implementation of several central government funded schemes including promotion of railways, aviation, highways, surface transport and other work. Srivatsa asked the mayor to come out with the list of her achievements, her contribution for the development of the city including her own ward after she assumed charge. There is no need for the MP to learn protocol from others, he said. He also lashed out at the mayor for discriminating over ward-wise allotment of development funds between first time corporators and those elected multiple number of times. The MCC must allot development grants equally to all corporators irrespective of their seniority, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-mayor-criticised-for-questioning-pratap-simha/articleshow/78834770.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Forester attacked during eviction drive||Chikkamagaluru: Praveen, a farmer from Koove village in Mudigere taluk in Chikkamagaluru, allegedly attacked forester Chandan Gowda during an eviction drive. Koove village is deep in the forest in Mudigere range. There are thousands of acres of forest that have been encroached upon by coffee planters and farmers. As a part of the eviction drive, the forest department asked the forester of Koove village, Chandan Gowda, to demolish a temporary house built within the forest land. Chandan Gowda alerted the encroacher and house owner Praveen earlier regarding this directive, and asked him to remove the house. Some villagers supported Praveen in this matter and said that he had a right to stay on the land, as it comes under revenue land. Chandan Gowda teamed up with forest guards and watchers and started demolishing the house on Wednesday. Praveen’s family members and villagers then rushed the spot and argued for an hour. When the forest staff removed the bamboo from the roof of the house, Praveen took the bamboo and allegedly thrashed Chandan. However, the forest department kept quiet regarding the incident. When a video of the incident went viral, Chandan Gowda filed a complaint against Praveen at Baluru station. Police booked Praveen and are on the lookout for him. Praveen’s family members say that they built the house on revenue land belonging to the village. They said that the forest department’s GPS survey is wrong. Speaking to the media Chandan Gowda said that the land comes within the forest range, and that the house was built recently by felling trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forester-attacked-during-eviction-drive/articleshow/78833110.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Motorcyclist shoved off bike in traffic jam, robbed of cellphone||Pune: A motorcyclist was shoved off his vehicle and robbed of his cellphone while stuck in a traffic jam near Dias plot in Gultekdi on Wednesday. Police said the motorcyclist, Suhail Shaikh, and his brother had left for home from work at a fabrication unit in Deccan Gymkhana. “Around 10.30pm, Shaikh slowed down near Dias plot because of traffic congestion, when a person snatched Shaikh’s cellphone from his shirt pocket, shoved him off his bike and fled,” senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawadi of the Swargate police said. In another development, the Swargate police on Friday arrested five men on the charge of planning dacoity in a housing society. Police have recovered sharp weapons from them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-shoved-off-bike-in-traffic-jam-robbed-of-cellphone/articleshow/78836061.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deemed universities hike MBBS fee by Rs 2 lakh a year||CHENNAI: Deemed universities in the state have jacked up tuition fees for undergraduate medical course by up to Rs 2.75 lakh a year. The fee for 5.5 years of MBBS could now cost up to Rs 13.75 lakh more, excluding caution deposits, hostel, laptop and uniform fee. Chennai-based deemed universities — Chettinad Academy of Research and Education and Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute will charge Rs 24 lakh as annual tuition fee compared to Rs 22 lakh in 2019. The revised fee was published on the medical counselling committee website of the Directorate General of Health Services. Annual tuition fee at the Saveetha Medical University has gone up to Rs 24.75 lakh from Rs 22 lakh in 2019. “I was hopeful that the government will come up with some regulation to cap the fee for all deemed universities. It’s sad that it did not happen,” said Saravana Kumar R, whose son is aspiring to pursue MBBS this year. In February 2019, the UGC Regulations 2019 said no deemed university can charge more than the fee prescribed by the committee constituted under the new rules. Nine months later, on November 27, 2019, UGC placed the draft regulations for observation and suggestions of stakeholders. The regulations said, “the institution shall charge from the students only the fee approved and communicated by the fee committee and no other fee shall be demanded or collected by the institution, either directly or indirectly under any other head of account or guise.” It even proposed to impose a fine of Rs 10 lakh along with refund of excess fee and penal action. On Friday, most deemed universities told TOI they did not hear further from the commission and that there have been no circulars asking colleges to cap the fee. Most colleges in Tamil Nadu charge at least Rs 20 lakh per year. Student counsellors say the fee for lab, library, hostel and other services can cost an additional Rs 2 lakh. “Students and parents should not just go by the announcement on the webpage. They should read the college prospectus carefully,” said student counsellor Sathish K. In the first round of online counselling, students can choose to join or exit colleges allotted to them, but if they don’t take the seat in the second round, they have to pay a fine of Rs 2 lakh, he said. Many meritorious students do not join deemed university in the centralised counselling. In several colleges, seats are filled only during the “stray seats vacancy counselling” done by the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deemed-univs-hike-mbbs-fee-by-rs-2l/yr/articleshow/78836956.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||Netizens catch Dasara action live on Facebook, YouTube||Mysuru: Netizens are responding positively to the government call on watching the Dasara celebrations online — from the comfort of their homes — given the risk involved in crowding at public places to catch the action live. Lakhs of non-resident Indians, mainly Kannadigas settled in the US, South Africa, Canada, Australia and the Gulf, and those in prominent Indian cities like Jaipur, Chennai and Kolkata, are witnessing the celebrations online. As the government restricted the celebrations to be low key, confining Dasara-2020 cultural programmes to Mysore Palace premises with only a few invitees, the district administration had appealed to the public to witness the events online this year. The department of information and public relations has been live streaming the cultural programmes on its official Facebook page and YouTube channel. The department has also given links to other media channels where people can watch the programmes. The ‘Nudi Namana’ programme, organised in memory of S P Balasubramaniam on Wednesday, was live streamed by the information department and other media channels. It was witnessed by over six lakh viewers from across the globe. Over 1.93 lakh viewers enjoyed this event through the information department’s official Facebook page alone. Raju, assistant director of the information and public relations department and the nodal officer for Dasara live streaming, told TOI that around 20,000 people are witnessing the Dasara cultural programme live streaming in their Facebook page and YouTube channel regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/netizens-catch-dasara-action-live-on-facebook-youtube/articleshow/78834434.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Hubballi||Groundwater in 30 villages in Yadgir, Raichur has high arsenic||Hubballi: A study by the Jal Shakti Ministry has lighted upon a disturbing reality: Groundwater in as many as 30 villages in Yadgir and Raichur districts are contaminated with arsenic. In Kakargal and Maski villages in Raichur district, the concentration of arsenic in groundwater was found to be 0.05mg per litre, which is five times higher than what the World Health Organisation (WHO) deems safe: 0.01mg per litre. The addition of these 30 villages, the groundwater reserves of which are found to contain arsenic, has earned Karnataka the dubious distinction of having most areas where the groundwater has arsenic. Of the 30 villages, 25 are in Raichur and five in Yadgir district. The Jal Shakti Ministry report has emphasised the imminent need for action to remove this natural element, which is found in rocks and soil in the two districts. Water samples that were analysed in the course of compiling the report were collected from groundwater observation wells and handpumps. The report has also proffered techniques that can help set right the quality of groundwater reserves in these villages. These include removal of arsenic after extraction of groundwater, locating alternative aquifers for water and diluting the concentration of the contaminants by artificially recharging the aquifers and blending it with potable water. Shashikant R Mise, an expert in the field of environmental engineering, stressed the need to raise awareness about groundwater reserves in the region being contaminated with arsenic. “It will have no effect on one’s health if consumed once in a while. But if it is regularly consumed for seven to eight years, it can lead to problems such as skin cancer,” Mise said. He pointed to a four-year-old incident in Yadgir district, wherein an entire village had suffered after drinking arsenic-contaminated water. “The government subsequently installed arsenic removal plants in some of the places. But it is not sufficient since the presence of the metal is being found in other places every year,” Mise added. Sounding an ominous note, Mise sought to remind the government that there was no treatment for metal poisoning. “Water must be stopped at the source itself. Water that people get at the government or private reverse-osmosis (RO) units too must be tested. Boiling the water will not solve the problem. Removing arsenic from water is an expensive affair. Government must look for other sources of water in the affected areas, and it needs to be taken on a war footing. However, arsenic contamination is not a concern when it comes to surface water,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/groundwater-in-30-villages-in-yadgir-raichur-has-high-arsenic/articleshow/78834952.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath launches women help desks at 1,535 police stations in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Giving another push to initiatives to ensure security to women, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday inaugurated women help desks at 1,535 police stations in all 75 districts of the state under the government’s Mission Shakti project. Launching the help desks from his official residence, Yogi said the help desks would be run by women cops and would cater to women in distress. He said strict monitoring of cases related to crime against women should be ensured and warned senior officials of strict action in case of laxity. Each help desk will have two sub-inspector rank woman officers who will work in 12-hour shifts to attend to the complaints. Highlighting the changes effected by the Mission Shakti programme, the CM said: “People who were trying to blow incidents out of proportion are now on the backfoot.  The police department has done a good job during this period. The activities of various departments related to the campaign and the future action plan should be reviewed by the chief secretary and the Chief Minister’s office.” “Giving respect to women should become a ritual now. For this, Mission Shakti has to trickle down to the level of schools, colleges and other institutions,” Yogi said. “Students should be made aware about the message in morning prayers and other cultural events. More women should come forward and contribute so that we can get better results,” he said. The CM added that a secret glass room would be made for women in every police station. “These rooms will be fully transparent and equipped with basic facilities. Aggrieved women will be able to talk to officers at the help desk without any hesitation,” he said. Emergency numbers like 1090, 181, 112 and 102 would be put up prominently at the help desks so that women could use them in times of distress. “A warning will also be mandated for those who misuse these numbers,” the CM said. He said Mission Shakti should not be limited to government work but implemented in a broader context. “The campaign has been launched to change the people’s thinking towards women. This will happen only when intellectuals and people from all walks of life join the campaign. When people connect with the administration, the initiative will yield desired results,” he said The CM also lauded the efforts of women and public representatives at women help desks set up in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Lucknow, Varanasi, Meerut and Agra. The idea of women help desks at police stations was the brainchild of inspector general of police, Lucknow range, Laxmi Singh. Singh told TOI that Rs 15.84 crore has been released for setting up of help desks and secret rooms. “An amount of Rs 1 lakh will be provided to each police station for glass room, recorders, computers to generate a complaint slip and stationary for writing complaints,” she said. Explaining the utility of the system, Singh said accountability of cops attending cases would be fixed. Director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said: “Our effort is to realise the concept of ‘Mitra Police’. We will leave no stone unturned to make Uttar Pradesh a safe state.” Awasthy also informed the CM about the progress of the campaign. The programme was conducted by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-launches-women-help-desks-at-1535-police-stations-in-up/articleshow/78837630.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Pune||Notices to 7 schools for barring students from online education||Pune: The education boards of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pune zilla parishad have issued show-cause notices to seven schools in the city for halting online education for students who did not pay their fees.The Pune Parents United, an association of parents and education activists, sought action against the schools as per the circulars issued by the state government and instructions from the Bombay high court. Coordinator of PPU, Mukund Kirdat, said, “According to the court, the education authorities now have to take “administrative and criminal” action against schools mistreating them. The government has directed all district education officers to ensure that every child gets education. Issues of payments of fees should be dealt with legally, and separately with the parents.”The show-cause notices to three schools in PMC limits were issued by administrative officer Meenakshi Raut of the PMC education board.“The board had received complaints from parents regarding blocking their children from online education. The schools should talk to the respective parents and offer them concessions in fees or give enough time to pay the fees and resolve the matter. Students should not suffer,” the notice said Four other erring schools are under the Pune zilla parishad. The notice said schools should ensure that education continues for all children. “If schools do not react to this notice and open the online access to the students, legal action will be taken against the school’s management,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/notices-to-7-schools-for-barring-students-from-online-education/articleshow/78836030.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Fire engulfs electric scooters unit||Nashik: Articles worth over Rs two crore were gutted after a fire broke out in an assembly plant of electric scooters in the Pathardi Phata area of the city along the Mumbai-Agra highway on Thursday evening. Officers of the Cidco fire station said that they received a call at around 7:55pm informing about the fire incident at Jeetendra Services. As many as 12 fire tenders rushed to the spot. More than 35 firefighters toiled for more than three hours to bring the blaze under control. Senior officials of the Nashik fire brigade department said that there was no loss of life though damage to vehicles, machinery, etc. is estimated to be over Rs two crore . Senior fire officer of the Cidco fire station Devidas Chandramore said, “The cause of fire has not yet been ascertained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fire-engulfs-electric-scooters-unit/articleshow/78833309.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai has more deaths but fewer cases than Bengaluru and Delhi||MUMBAI: Age combined with underlying comorbid conditions—diabetes, kidney disease, obesity and hypertension — have emerged as the biggest contributors to Covid-19 deaths in the metropolis. Over 85% of the deaths in Mumbai have occurred in age groups above 50 though they account for only 44% of positive cases. A BMC analysis of 9,869 deaths in Mumbai shows the highest case fatality rate (CFR)—deaths as a proportion of cases—is among nonagenarians at 18.3%, followed by those 80-89 years old at 17.5%. This is almost four to five times the city’s average death rate of 4%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The CFR drops as average age decreases. CFR in the 70-79 bracket is nearly 13%; it drops to 8.6% for those in their 60’s. But in absolute numbers, the 60-69 group has the highest number of deaths (2,829). Children and teens, despite being affected in thousands, have a CFR of barely 0.5%. Even among 20-year-olds, fatality rate is below 0.5%. So what are the lessons for Mumbai from the 10,000 lives lost? Dr Avinash Supe, former KEM dean and head of state’s Covid death committee, said that it is now beyond doubt that old-age and co-morbidities are the worst combination. “And some amount of deaths will always remain in these age groups. But bigger worry is even after seven months, we see patients coming late and dying in 24-48 hours of admission,” he said, adding that late admission and detections remain a challenge. But, he said, the city has met with success in its effort to reduce CFR from 7% at the outset of the pandemic to 2% at present.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Doctors say a higher share of co-morbidities combined with stress endemic to Mumbai’s population could be blamed for its higher death toll. Compared to Mumbai which has 2.48 lakh cases in all, Bengaluru urban has nearly 3.2 lakh cases. However, it has about a third of Mumbai’s deaths and a fatality rate of 1.15%. Similarly, Delhi with 3.48 lakh cases has a little over 6,000 deaths. Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, member of a Covid expert committee formed in Karnataka, said, “We don’t know what contributed to deaths in Mumbai but our experience shows that where the detection has been late and patient has come after 7-10 days, saving them has been a challenge”. Dr Nitin Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital, said Mumbai was among the first cities to be hit by the pandemic. “Till drugs like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab arrived in July, we were losing a lot of lives. Higher incidence of diabetes, hypertension and obesity combined with delayed treatment seeking behaviour has cost us lives,” he said. Many slim and fit 80-year-olds have walked out of the hospital, but survival chances dropped by 50% in. say, 55-year-olds with obesity, lung involvement and sugar levels above 700, he said. Infectious disease consultant Dr Tanu Singhal from Kokilaben Hospital too said after they started using Remdesivir on June 17, the ICU mortality fell from 30-50% to 10-20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-has-more-deaths-but-fewer-cases-than-bengaluru-and-delhi/articleshow/78836952.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Educationists want schools to reopen, but doctors feel its unsafe||BENGALURU: While colleges are set to reopen, schools are unlikely to follow suit with educationists and doctors taking diametrically opposite views on resuming regular classes. While the positivity rate in Karnataka is falling, paediatricians say children must be kept away from schools as they can potentially carry the virus and transmit it to parents and grandparents at home, worsening the situation. While suggestions are pouring in to adopt decentralised methods to reopen schools, Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) has opposed it, saying there should be one policy for schools across the country. The Bengaluru chapter of IAP had also written to the CM, urging him not to reopen schools. “Reopening schools in one district because of a low positivity rate is not safe as long as borders are open,” says Dr Geeta Patil, central IAP, executive board member. “The Covid positivity rate should be less than 5% for a minimum of 15 days in a district for a decision to be taken.” However, a group of activists and educationists also wrote to the CM, are demanding reopening of schools. “Children are going everywhere except schools,” Mangaluru-based physician Dr Srinivasa Kakkilaya, who had earlier opposed the lockdown, said. “When everything else has opened, why keep schools shut? Children can get infected at home too. The government has not stopped adults with comorbidities from going around and attending work although they are the most vulnerable.” Dr Kakkilaya said the stand taken by paediatricians in the US and Sweden to open schools is the way forward. “There is no guarantee of a vaccine anytime soon. Keeping schools shut is not going to help anyone. The secondary attack rate in children is 4.5% and 17.1% for adults,” he said. However, Dr KS Satish, senior pulmonologist and Covid task force member, said anything that adds even 1% to the country’s Covid caseload should be avoided. “Children generally will not suffer severe forms of Covid. But they can infect their parents and grandparents who are vulnerable. Also, it is not easy to ensure children wear masks and maintain physical distance.”  Educationists say school development monitoring committees (SDMCS) should be given the power to decide. The key, they say, is to decentralise the system. SDMC is a statutory body that every school has which includes parents, teachers, the local body and the area’s health and anganwadi workers. “The onus will then be on parents and the community and the government need only facilitate,” said Rishikesh BS of Azim Premji University. “It’s important to note that children in rural areas are not sitting at home; they’re out in the open playing and mingling with the community. It will be much safer to have them in an environment controlled by a trained adult such as a teacher.” Niranajanaradhya VP, Centre for Child and Law, NLSIU, said a decision must be based on the number of students. “There are 4,000 government schools with less than 10 children and 9,000 schools which have less than 25 students. There can be enough space for social distancing,” he said. Gurumurthy Kasinathan, founder, Centre for Education and Technology said “grave injustice” is being done as the marginalized have no access to any form of education, while the middle-class access online classes. “We’re not asking to go back to a pre-Covid era, but a complete shutdown of schools is not the answer,” he said. Experts felt that with schools closed, instances of child marriage, child labour and dropouts are already increasing. Even while midday meals are provided in the form of dry rations, experts feel the child’s share will be limited since it would be shared in the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/educationists-want-schools-to-reopen-but-doctors-feel-its-unsafe/articleshow/78836083.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC grants bail to Una flogging case accused||AHMEDABAD: More than four years after the incident, the Gujarat high court has granted bail to one of the prime accused in the Una Dalit flogging case, which had nationwide repercussions. While granting bail to Nagjibhai Vania on Rs 10,000 bond Justice Paresh Upadhyay observed, “…considering the sentence which could be imposed vis-à-vis the period already spent by the appellant in jail by this time, the appellant needs to be granted bail”. Vania was in jail since July 2016. Vania’s name figured among the first six accused named in the FIR lodged in Una town on the day of incident, July 11, 2016, when seven members of Dalit community were flogged and paraded in the marketplace on suspicion of cow slaughter. Vania was among 16 persons who were immediately arrested by the police as soon as the video of the flogging incident went viral. Vania had first sought bail from the high court in 2017 after his plea was rejected by the trial court. He filed another application in 2018, but it was pending in the HC for two years. During the hearing earlier this week, Vania’s advocate complained that the trial court has not been conducting the trial in this case on day-to-day basis, though it has been asked to do so. One of the victims, Vashrambhai Sarvaiya, objected to Vania’s bail application. The state government also opposed the bail plea stating that the gravity of the offence warranted a rejection.The court, after hearing the arguments, concluded that Vania need not be continued in judicial custody any further, also because all 28 co-accused have been released by the high court. The court considered that Vania has already spent more than four years in jail till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-grants-bail-to-una-flogging-case-accused/articleshow/78836065.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Search underway for 4 fishermen||VISAKHAPATNAM: Four fishermen from Vizag city went missing in the early hours of Thursday after, it was learnt, they had ventured into the sea for catch. The missing fishermen have been identified as V Atchuta Rao, V Gurnath, P Veerrajju and Nolli Appa Rao of Peda Jalaripeta in Vizag. According to sources, around 10 boats had ventured out for fishing in the wee hours of Thursday, and all the boats except the boat in which Atchuta Rao and the other three missing fishermen were travelling, returned to coast. “Their mobile phones are switched off and we don’t know what happened to them; whether they faced any technical snag in the boat or any accident took place to the boat,” one of the fishermen from Jalaripeta said. Vizag MP MVV Satyanarayana visited the houses of the fishermen in Jalaripeta and requested district collector V Vinay Chand to locate the missing persons by taking the help of the Navy or the Coast Guard. Meanwhile, local fishermen of Jalaripeta have also started search operations in their boats, however, even after 36 hours, there os no news of the missing fishermen. The mother of one of the missing fishermen, Valisetti Dhana Lakshmi, has lodged a missing person complaint. The matter has also been brought to the notice of the fisheries department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/search-underway-for-4-fishermen/articleshow/78834645.cms||Siva G
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Raising Rs 45k crore through PPP for Ganga Expressway a tall order||LUCKNOW: To ensure that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s dream project 554-km Ganga Expressway, connecting Meerut to Prayagraj, does not face funds shortage the state finance department has put it on the public private partnership (PPP) mode. Earlier, the e-way was to be constructed on the expenditure, procurement and construction (EPC) format. Talking to TOI, sources in the finance department said that just after the outbreak of novel coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent financial crisis, the department decided to stop funding any new project. But the finance department shifted Ganga Expressway to the PPP mode so that it didn’t face any fund crunch. About two days back, the UPEIDA confirmed that the proposed 600-km expressway would be constructed on the PPP mode. For all the ongoing expressway projects, including Purvanchal, Gorakhpur link expressway and the Bundelkhand expressway, being constructed on the EPC format, the state government has borrowed loans from banks and handed over construction and development parts to private companies. On their part the banks have formed a consortium to ensure smooth flow of funds. Rs 18,000 crore Lucknow-Agra expressway in the Akhilesh Yadav government was also built on the EPC mode as despite three tenders, no private company had evinced interest in investing in the project. Meanwhile, a senior UPEIDA officer said that getting funds in Covid times would be a tall order. “When in normal days, nobody came forward to fund the Lucknow-Agra Expressway, raising Rs 45,000 crore through PPP is a tough job,” he said. At the first cabinet meeting held at Prayagrah during Kumbh on January 29, the CM had approved the Ganga Expressway project and since then it is being perceived as his dream project. The proposed eight-lane expressway would pass through 13 districts, 30 tehsils and 566 villages. The 13 districts are Meerut, Ghaziabad, Hapur, Amroha, Bulandshahr, Sambhal, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.The estimated cost of the construction of the e-way is around Rs 36,410 crore, excluding Rs 9,255 crore for the land acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/raising-rs-45k-cr-through-ppp-for-ganga-e-way-a-tall-order/articleshow/78837724.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 24, 2020||Nashik||19-year-old family acquaintance held in 4 minors’ murder case||Nashik: The Jalgaon police on Thursday arrested a 19-year-old youth in connection with the murder of four minors in Borkheda village of Raver taluka last week. Jalgaon superintendent of police Pravin Munde said, “The police have arrested Mahendra Sitaram Barela, 19, who resides in a neighbouring village, for the crime in which two boys and two girls aged under 13 years where axed to death.” The children were killed on the night of October 15 or the wee hours of October 16, when their parents and elder brother had gone to their relatives’ place in Madhya Pradesh for rituals. The murder came to light when the owner of the farm where they lived went to call the children’s family members to work on October 16. The post-mortem report later established the one of the girls had been raped. According to senior police officers from the district, suspect has been arrested on the basis of definite evidence that is technically strong. They said that the family had suspected several people, including minors, to be behind the crime and police were investigating the matter from all possible angles. “The suspect arrested today was missing from the day of the crime and his name had cropped up during the interrogation of some of the people. We then started gathering scientific evidence – including those from the forensic laboratories that pointed toward the involvement of the suspect caught today,” police officers said. The police claimed that the accused was very well known to the family. “The interrogation of the suspect held in the crime will lead us to others involved in the crime,” the police said. A case of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered and clauses of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act were added after the rape of the deceased girl was confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/19-year-old-family-acquaintance-held-in-4-minors-murder-case/articleshow/78824299.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag police set up body to resolve land disputes||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police have developed a new initiative—pre-litigation counselling forum (PCLF)—to handle the increase in cases of land and property disputes in the proposed executive capital. The initiative is the brainchild of police commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha and will try to resolves land disputes and forward them to the Lok Adalat for a final solution. The move is also expected to ease the burden on police who have to prioritise criminal cases. A three-member committee comprising officers from the revenue department, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation and police will form the forum. Special deputy collector Ch Rangaiah from the revenue department, city planner Prabhakar and assistant police commissioner RVSN Murthy, Dwaraka division will address disputes. “The burden on the police personnel has increased so we planned PLCF to address land-related disputes. Both parties would be called through summons and be given counselling,” the city police chief Manish Kumar Sinha told TOI. He added the committee would forward disputes to the Lok Adalat or Legal Services Authority for a final decision. “Our personnel at police stations are not addressing land disputes as they consider them civil disputes that may have legal repercussions,” Sinha said. The forum will start functioning October 28. The forum will have a three-member committee that will hear property disputes and resolve them before forwarding them to the Lok Adalat for a final decision||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-police-set-up-body-to-resolve-land-disputes/articleshow/78834674.cms||Siva G
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Sr citizens oppose women’s hospital||Nashik: The 100-bed women’s hospital, which is being built near Dadasaheb Gaikwad auditorium at Bhabhanagar area of the city, has hit a roadblock as a group of senior citizens moved the Bombay high court on Thursday challenging the construction of the facility at the proposed site. According to senior citizens, the proposed site for the hospital is a residential area. The auditorium has a seating capacity of close to 3,000 and not less than 20 functions are held at the facility per month. The construction of a hospital beside the auditorium will be a violation of existing rules and norms. “As per norms, it is mandatory to have a silence zone within 100m radius of the hospital. The hospital is being constructed on a plot spanning over 10,000sqft near Dadasaheb Gaikwad auditorium. This is a violation of the norms. Moreover, there is no approach road for the hospital. The Nasardi river passes near the proposed site of the hospital and gets flooded during rain,” said Sandeep Shinde, the lawyer representing the senior citizens. When contacted, Vaibhav Patankar, the lawyer representing Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said, “The court has directed the NMC and the state government to submit an affidavit stand about the proposed hospital project. Now, the next hearing is to be held on October 29,” said Patankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sr-citizens-oppose-womens-hospital/articleshow/78833336.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik division registers 93.2% recovery rate||Nashik: Nashik division has registered 93.2% recovery rate of Covid-19 patients across all five districts, including Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon, deputy director of health Mallikarjun Pattanshetty said. Of the 2.16 lakh coronavirus patients identified in the entire Nashik division, 2.01 lakh people have already recovered from the contagion, taking the percentage of recovery beyond impressive figure of 93.2%. Besides, Nashik district , which had registered 90,572 patients so far, witnessed 82,508 people recovering from Covid-19, taking the recovery rate to 91.1%. The district has also witnessed 4,022 Covid-related deaths. At present, the district’s death rate stands at 1.94%. According to statistics, the number of active patients in the division has dropped drastically from 21,000 to 10,440. Pattanshetty said that only 970 Covid-19 patients have been admitted to various facilities in the division. “The current situation is basically due to increased awareness among people such as wearing face masks in public places and maintaining social distancing at all times, which is resulting in curbing the spread of infection. Also, early detection of those affected by Covid-19 by various means, including fever clinics, ‘My Family My Responsibility’ survey and others, has helped in ensuring that the current situation is brought under control,” Pattanshetty said. Of the 7.1 lakh swab samples tested across the division, only 2.1 lakh tested positive indicating 30% positivity rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-division-registers-93-2-recovery-rate/articleshow/78833347.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Multi-level parking opening delayed||CHENNAI: The ambitious multi-level car parking and cycle-sharing system, which was supposed to be inaugurated before Diwali by chief minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami, has now been postponed to the end of November. The construction of the Rs 40.7 crore facility under the ‘smart city mission’ began in February 2018 but got delayed due to issues with the contractor and labour issues. The Covid-triggered lockdown further delayed completion of the project as the company from which the entire framework and automation software was sourced was based in Wuhan. “In fact, the engineers were supposed to visit in March when the lockdown was announced. Now, they are coordinating via video conferencing and instructing officials and engineers here. But testing and trial run will take a bit longer,” said a senior official. The multi-level parking space on Thanickachalam Road in T Nagar will have a capacity for 500 two-wheelers and 200 four-wheelers and would be fully automated. Under the same smart city mission, the cycle sharing system under which 500 e-bikes and 500 eco bikes were to be launched has also got delayed. Dharmin Dontamsetti, managing director of Smartbikes, said the bikes were ready even before Covid. These bikes will be extremely useful for beach goers and those who travel longer distances. “We are first launching it in Chennai and we hope more people will try it. So far, we have had a good response to the cycles. People prefer cycles instead of a crowded public transport. In Chicago and New York, there is 130% increase in cycle rides,” he said. The company has already placed 500 cycles in 78 locations. Another 500 battery operated e-bikes and 500 next generation bikes with aero dynamic vents will be launched in another 23 locations. “The civic body wanted to launch the multi level car parking ansd the cycle sharing system together so we are awaiting the CM’s nod for it,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/multi-level-parking-opening-delayed/articleshow/78836961.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Thol Thirumavalavan booked for remarks on Manusmriti||CHENNAI: The city police on Friday registered a case against Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol Thirumavalavan for his statement that the Manusmriti denigrated women. The party has also announced a state-wide protest on Saturday calling for a ban of the Hindu text. The VCK leader said all women were “belittled and treated badly” as per Hindu dharma and quoted the text as saying “every woman was created that way (parathayar) by God.” He stated this while participating in a webinar ‘Periyar and Indian Politics’ last month. #DemoOCT 24: A GOLDEN DAY in VCK history. Let the fire of feminism & caste annihilation spread all over Tamil Nadu… https://t.co/fe2ARuiyX6— Thol. Thirumavalavan (@thirumaofficial) 1603478669000His comments have drawn protest from the BJP’s latest entrant Khushbu, who has demanded an apology. The actor has accused the dalit leader, who released a provocative video attacking the ancient Hindu text, of making misogynistic remarks. The Manusmriti, an ancient code of conduct, is criticised by sections as regressive for its take on gender and caste. Calling on partymen to participate in the state-wide protest on Saturday to demand a ban on Manusmriti, the VCK leader in a video message he tweeted, said male chauvinists and Manu ideologues “misinterpreted and distorted” his statements, trying to create an image that he was against women. “I said Manusmriti demeaned women. But a casteist, communal group intent on gaining political mileage, is spreading falsehood and creating an impression as if I spoke against women,” he said. “We are fighting for women’s emancipation and those unable to tolerate this are peddling the misinformation campaign to create a flutter within the DMK-led alliance ahead of the polls,” said Thirumavalavan. His VCK is a constituent of the alliance. Khushbu, meanwhile, demanded an apology from Thirumavalavan “for denigrating women and targeting a particular community”. She questioned the silence of VCK’s allies. “Beyond politics, I condemn the VCK leader for making such misogynistic statements. He has chosen to do so without understanding what is in the scriptures,” she told reporters at Kamalalayam, the BJP’s headquarters in Chennai. Khushbu said the VCK’s Saturday protest was “a diversionary tactic” after many women raised the issue over his statement. When asked whether she or her party supported Manu dharma, she said, “I don’t accept everything”. The actor reiterated she was a Periyarist (follower of social reformer and Dravidar Kazhagam founder E V Ramasamy or Periyar), but she never raised her voice against religion or faith. VCK general secretary C Ravikumar said, “The actor should read the scripture once again to understand it better.” The Villupuram MP and writer said his party leader had quoted Chapter 9 of ‘The Laws of Manu’ published by Penguin Classics. “We are raising our voice and protesting to safeguard the rights of women, including Khushbu. But it’s shocking that she is defending the Manusmriti doctrine,” Ravikumar told TOI. The VCK leader was booked based on a complaint from A Ashwathaman, state secretary of BJP's legal cell. Thirumavalavan took a dig at the Hindu text and ‘Sanathana Dharmam’ while speaking at a webinar hosted by a private YouTube channel, Ashwathaman said in his complaint. Charges were filed under sections 153, 153 (A)(1)(a), 295 A, 298, 505 (1)(b) and 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thirumavalavan-booked-for-remarks-on-manusmriti/articleshow/78836967.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Tests back for travellers in Kasaragod||MANGALURU: In the wake of rising cases, the Kasaragod district administration has reintroduced mandatory online registration and Covid-19 tests for travellers who enter Kerala from Karnataka via Talapady and other border checkposts. The district has been recording an average 200 cases per day. Police, revenue and health department officials are jointly manning borders to ensure registration of all inter-state travellers and subject them to tests. Kasaragod collector, Dr D Sajith Babu, said the measure is per a Kerala high court direction. “However, no traveller will be prevented from entering the state,” Babu said. “There will be no special pass system or barricades. Covid-19 test facilities will be made available at checkposts.” The move will hit many from Kasaragod who are employed in private and government sectors in Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada as well as people on the Karnataka side of the border. The Kerala High Court in September had directed the Kasaragod administration to open all roads to Karnataka, facilitating interstate travel. It also directed that there should be no prohibition except for identification of travellers to prevent spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kasaragod-re-introduces-checks-tests-on-interstate-travellers/articleshow/78836102.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai’s death toll rises to 1,000 in 21 days, late detection a worry||MUMBAI: 227 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Mumbai, the city crossed the grim milestone of 10,000 deaths. Mumbai now accounts for nearly 8.5% of all deaths in India and a quarter of those in the state. The severity of the Covid pandemic in the metropolis can be judged from the fact that let alone cities, none of the states barring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have breached the 10,000-mark. TN has recorded 10,891 deaths while Karnataka has 10,872 so far. On Friday, the update said 48 casualties had been added to take Mumbai’s toll to 10,009. Of these 47 victims, 34 were over 60 years of age. The city’s tally of Covid cases, too, is slated to cross the 2.5-lakh-mark, with 1,470 cases recorded in the Thursday-Friday period. The city’s tally so far is 2.48 lakh. Time taken to add the last 1,000 deaths in Mumbai was 21 days. The city crossed the 9,000-mark and had a tally of 9,014 cases on October 2. It has the highest fatalities in absolute numbers across the country, but in terms of Case Fatality Rate (CFR) the city stands at second spot with a CFR of 4%, Ahmedabad is higher at 4.6%. Dr Avinash Supe, former dean of KEM Hospital and head of state’s Covid death review committee, said that the mortality rate for the city has dropped from its initial high of 7% to 2%-3%. “However, we continue to see late detection and arrival to hospitals which leave doctors with little time to save lives,” he said, adding the comorbidities combined with age is a bad combination. In Mumbai, there are 43,363 cases in the 30-39 age group and 43,230 in the 40-49 bracket. While caseload is identical in the two, the 40-49 segment has thrice the deaths (963) compared to 30-39 (333). The grim ‘milestone’ of 10,000 notwithstanding, the city’s Covid graph seems to be stable. “The number of cases daily is coming down. The positivity rate is dropping and we are doing more tests. Mumbai seems to be better,’’ said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The city's recovery rate has climbed to 88%; the number of discharges on Friday – 1,696 -- was higher than the number who tested positive (1,470). The overall growth rate of Covid cases in Mumbai between October 16 to 22 fell to 0.6% and doubling rate soared to 115 days. “We will continue to stay on a high alert as more and more services are opening up. Fewer trains are running, but they are running to full capacity with little space to maintain social distance,’’ said Kakani. Meanwhile, fourth day in a row, the state saw a dip in cases and deaths: 7,347 cases and 184 deaths on Friday taking total cases to 16,32,544 and deaths to 43,015. In a positive trend, the state continued to discharge more than the number of daily detections recorded. MMR region added 2,678 cases and 82 deaths taking total cases to 5.6 lakh and 17,594 deaths. (With inputs by Sumitra Deb Roy & Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mums-death-toll-rises-1000-in-21-days-late-detection-a-worry/articleshow/78836982.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 24, 2020||Amaravati||Now, pre-paid meters mandatory for new connections||AMARAVATI: Determined to bail out discoms, the Centre has decided to move to pre-paid meters system for all electricity connections. The Centre has noted that making pre-paid meters mandatory for all new connections will help consumers and discoms. The Centre, through a communication, has asked state governments to give their suggestions regarding the issue of bringing consumer-friendly reforms to existing laws before November 30. The state government has also decided to fix meters to agriculture pumpsets which had been enjoying free power following instructions of the Centre. The Centre has directed that no power connection should be granted without meter irrespective of the subsidies offered by state governments. The Centre is speeding up the process of bringing in more reforms in the electricity sector by allowing some private players in supply. The Union power ministry has readied the draft Electricity Rules (Rights of Consumers), 2020 and communicated it to states. The rules will be incorporated in the Electricity Act, 2020 after getting feedback from states. The Centre contended that all discoms should create web portals in such a way that applications for new connections can be accepted online. It further said that there must be an application tracking mechanism right from receipt of the application to the site inspection and grant of connection. It said the applicant should get SMS alerts at each level in order to bring transparency to the system. It also said state electricity regulatory commissions should fix the schedule for granting new connections, such as seven days in metros, 15 days in municipal towns and 30 days in rural areas. The draft rules stated no connection should be issued without a pre-payment meter. The Centre asked ERCs to justify exemptions granted on fixation of smart prepayment meters. “If the meter is found defective or burnt due to reasons attributable to the consumer, the consumer shall bear the cost of the new meter and also test fee,” the rules said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-pre-paid-meters-mandatory-for-new-connections/articleshow/78834692.cms||Samdani MN
October 24, 2020||Nashik||419 new cases, 4 deaths in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 419 Covid-19 cases, including 271 from the city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 91,421. The district also reported four casualties, of which, three were from the city alone. The death toll stands at 850 in the city and 1,632 in the district. As many as 477 patients were discharged from across the district on Friday, of which, 281 were from the city. At present, the district has 6,369 active cases, of which, 3,184 are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/419-new-cases-4-deaths-in-nashik-district/articleshow/78833353.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Chennai||35 of 37 districts in Tamil Nadu report zero to two deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 3,054 cases and 33 deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Friday, pushing the state’s case tally to 7,03,250 and cumulative toll to 10,858. There were 32,960 people still under treatment across the state. While all districts reported fresh cases, Chennai reported the highest with 844 people testing positive followed by 280 infections in Coimbatore. Fresh cases were below 50 in at least 20 districts. Of the 37 districts, 19 of them reported zero deaths, thirteen of them reported one death each, and Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tirupur reported two deaths each. With 11 deaths, Chennai topped the toll table followed by Kancheepuram, which reported three deaths in the past 24 hours. The Chennai region reported 1,285 cases and 17 deaths. The three districts adjacent to Chennai – Chengalpet (186), Tiruvallur (168) and Kancheepuram (87) together reported 441 cases and six deaths. The seven other northern districts together reported 296 cases and three deaths. The eleven northern districts reported 51% of new cases and 60% of deaths on Friday. At least 16,982 people in the northern zone, including 10,628 people in Chennai, were still under treatment for the viral infection. “Our recovery rate is steadily increasing. We will be able to bring down active cases below 10,000 across all four zones,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Friday, active cases in the western belt fell below the 10,000 mark to 9,971 from 10,065 on Thursday. The eight districts in the west together reported 928 cases and seven deaths. Coimbatore reported 280 cases followed by Salem (185), Tirupur (130) and Erode (106). There were 281 fresh cases reported by the ten southern districts and 267 by districts in the central zone. In the South, Madurai topped the table with 71 cases followed by 51 each in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin. Thanjavur (78) reported the highest number of cases in the central zone, followed by 53 each in Tiruvarur and Trichy. There were 3,322 cases active in the south and 2,682 in the central zone. In the past 24 hours, 4,262 people were discharged and 6,59,432 people have recovered from the viral infection so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/35-of-37-districts-in-state-report-zero-to-two-deaths/articleshow/78836984.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Salem||35 of 37 districts in Tamil Nadu report zero to two deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 3,054 cases and 33 deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Friday, pushing the state’s case tally to 7,03,250 and cumulative toll to 10,858. There were 32,960 people still under treatment across the state. While all districts reported fresh cases, Chennai reported the highest with 844 people testing positive followed by 280 infections in Coimbatore. Fresh cases were below 50 in at least 20 districts. Of the 37 districts, 19 of them reported zero deaths, thirteen of them reported one death each, and Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tirupur reported two deaths each. With 11 deaths, Chennai topped the toll table followed by Kancheepuram, which reported three deaths in the past 24 hours. The Chennai region reported 1,285 cases and 17 deaths. The three districts adjacent to Chennai – Chengalpet (186), Tiruvallur (168) and Kancheepuram (87) together reported 441 cases and six deaths. The seven other northern districts together reported 296 cases and three deaths. The eleven northern districts reported 51% of new cases and 60% of deaths on Friday. At least 16,982 people in the northern zone, including 10,628 people in Chennai, were still under treatment for the viral infection. “Our recovery rate is steadily increasing. We will be able to bring down active cases below 10,000 across all four zones,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Friday, active cases in the western belt fell below the 10,000 mark to 9,971 from 10,065 on Thursday. The eight districts in the west together reported 928 cases and seven deaths. Coimbatore reported 280 cases followed by Salem (185), Tirupur (130) and Erode (106). There were 281 fresh cases reported by the ten southern districts and 267 by districts in the central zone. In the South, Madurai topped the table with 71 cases followed by 51 each in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin. Thanjavur (78) reported the highest number of cases in the central zone, followed by 53 each in Tiruvarur and Trichy. There were 3,322 cases active in the south and 2,682 in the central zone. In the past 24 hours, 4,262 people were discharged and 6,59,432 people have recovered from the viral infection so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/35-of-37-districts-in-state-report-zero-to-two-deaths/articleshow/78843281.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Erode||35 of 37 districts in Tamil Nadu report zero to two deaths||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 3,054 cases and 33 deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Friday, pushing the state’s case tally to 7,03,250 and cumulative toll to 10,858. There were 32,960 people still under treatment across the state. While all districts reported fresh cases, Chennai reported the highest with 844 people testing positive followed by 280 infections in Coimbatore. Fresh cases were below 50 in at least 20 districts. Of the 37 districts, 19 of them reported zero deaths, thirteen of them reported one death each, and Coimbatore, Tiruvallur and Tirupur reported two deaths each. With 11 deaths, Chennai topped the toll table followed by Kancheepuram, which reported three deaths in the past 24 hours. The Chennai region reported 1,285 cases and 17 deaths. The three districts adjacent to Chennai – Chengalpet (186), Tiruvallur (168) and Kancheepuram (87) together reported 441 cases and six deaths. The seven other northern districts together reported 296 cases and three deaths. The eleven northern districts reported 51% of new cases and 60% of deaths on Friday. At least 16,982 people in the northern zone, including 10,628 people in Chennai, were still under treatment for the viral infection. “Our recovery rate is steadily increasing. We will be able to bring down active cases below 10,000 across all four zones,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Friday, active cases in the western belt fell below the 10,000 mark to 9,971 from 10,065 on Thursday. The eight districts in the west together reported 928 cases and seven deaths. Coimbatore reported 280 cases followed by Salem (185), Tirupur (130) and Erode (106). There were 281 fresh cases reported by the ten southern districts and 267 by districts in the central zone. In the South, Madurai topped the table with 71 cases followed by 51 each in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin. Thanjavur (78) reported the highest number of cases in the central zone, followed by 53 each in Tiruvarur and Trichy. There were 3,322 cases active in the south and 2,682 in the central zone. In the past 24 hours, 4,262 people were discharged and 6,59,432 people have recovered from the viral infection so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/35-of-37-districts-in-state-report-zero-to-two-deaths/articleshow/78843280.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Selfie at dam takes fatal turn||TIRUPATI: Craze to take selfies took a fatal turn for a family of three at a check-dam near Jallipeta in Palamaner area of Chittoor district on Friday. While the husband survived, his wife and their son were washed away in the current. Local police said Moulali, along with his 35-year-old wife Parveen and their eight-year-old son Hameed had gone to Jallipeta check-dam which was overflowing due to rains over the last two days. The family was taking selfies standing at the edge of the parapet wall when Hameed lost balance and slipped into the dam. His mother jumped into the water to save her son. Police reached the spot and engaged swimmers to trathe duo but the rescue operation was callled off after dark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/selfie-at-dam-takes-fatal-turn/articleshow/78834718.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Kolhapur district adds 74 new patients to Covid tally||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district added 74 new Covid-19 cases to its tally on Thursday, even as 71 patients got discharge from treatment facilities. Kolhapur city alone added 40 new cases. The district also recorded three deaths and all of them took place in the rural areas. The deceased were from Shahuwadi, Islampur and Shirol and were senior citizens. According to official information, rural areas of the district added 26 cases on Thursday. All tehsils had single-digit patients, while Kagal did not report any new case. Eight patients were reported from Hatkanangale, the highest on the day. Ajara, Gaganbawda and Radhanagari tehsils reported only patient each. So far, the Kolhapur district has had 47,643 positive cases. Of them, 44,053 patients have been discharged. The district has recorded 1,617 deaths. Kolhapur city has had 14,460 cases and 357 deaths. In Sangli district, 226 new cases emerged. Of them, 23 were within the jurisdiction of the Sangli Miraj Kupwad Municipal Corporation. The district also recorded five deaths. The district has currently 353 critical patients. So far, Sangli district has had 46,653 positive patients and 39,715 have been discharged. Currently, there are 2,366 active patients. The district has also recorded 1,602 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kolhapur-district-adds-74-new-patients-to-covid-tally/articleshow/78824324.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Trichy||TN: Man, 25, arrested for kidnapping, marrying and raping minor girl||MAYILADUTHURAI: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for marrying and sexually assaulting a minor girl in Mayiladuthurai. The accused was identified as Jayasurya. The incident came to light after the 17-year-old girl’s mother lodged a missing complaint with the police on October 19. The woman also raised suspicion on Jayasurya. Police said that the girl and the man were in a relationship, which was opposed by her mother. She informed this to Jayasurya. So, he kidnapped her and married her at a temple in Melmaruthuvakudi on October 19. Subsequently, Jayasurya had sexual relationship with the girl. Jayasurya was arrested on charges of kidnapping the girl, marrying her under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and raping her under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The district child protection unit (DCPU) in Nagapattinam counselled the girl and advised her to go back with her mother. But, she refused. So, police handed over the girl to the child welfare committee (CWC), which ordered her to stay at the government reception home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-25-arrested-for-kidnapping-marrying-and-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/78836968.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Reopen schools, reduce syllabus by 30%||DEHRADUN: The state education department has issued an order to the education officials of all 13 districts for reopening of the schools from November 2 for Classes X and XII. The order adds that the new academic changes announced earlier — including reducing the syllabus by 30% — should also be implemented. Also, the department has asked the various Block Education Officers (BEO), Chief Education Officers (CEO), and other officials to ensure that the new academic calendar is provided to the schools by October 25. Further, directions have been given to conduct a cleaning drive immediately across all the schools run by the state government. Notably, the syllabus for the current academic year has been modified by the SCERT (State Council of Educational Research and Training) where 30% of the academic lessons have been removed in the wake of the late start of the academic year due to Covid-19. The new academic calendar for state schools has been developed by the Uttarakhand Board of School Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/reopen-schools-reduce-syllabus-by-30/articleshow/78834691.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Ex-DGP seeks advance bail in cheating case||CHENNAI: Former DGP Ramesh Kudawla approached the Madras high court on Friday seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered against him based on a complaint by actor-comedian M Soori. The bail petition will be heard next week. The complaint was filed on October 9 against Ramesh Kudawla, Anbuvel Rajan, Ramesh, Ananthan, and Loganathan. The complainant said the former DGP and four other people had promised to get him a property and had cheated him of Rs 2.69 crore. Soori said in his complaint that he was approached by the former DGP, father of actor Vishnu Vishal, in 2015 with a request to cast his son in a Tamil movie.  Soori claimed that former the DGP could easily influence the probe. Hearing his petition, Justice T Ravindran had asked investigation officers of the Adyar police station to submit investigation details and had adjourned the case to November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-dgp-seeks-advance-bail-in-cheating-case/articleshow/78836966.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation nets Rs 4.6 lakh as fine but safety norms still ignored||TRICHY: Even as Trichy Corporation has collected total Rs 4.6 lakh as penalty from offenders violating the Covid-19 safety protocols in the city, the people continue to defy the standard operating procedures (SOPs). As the fresh positive cases in the city has been declining for about a month now, authorities said that people are gradually letting their guards down. On Friday, Trichy recorded 53 new Covid-19 cases. The urban local body, between October 1 and October 21, collected penalties to the tune of Rs 2.3 lakh from people without facemasks and Rs 2.3 lakh was collected from violators not maintaining social distancing. K Abishekapuram and Ponmalai zones have witnessed maximum violations and penalization in the month so far. Shops including mobile service centres and tea shops were the top defaulters. Locals also added that sanitizer dispenser is missing in many of the shops in Thillai Nagar. Thennur and Puthur were identified as localities with the maximum number of facemask violations going unpunished. “Many of the two-wheeler riders are still not wearing facemasks. People have come to the conclusion that Covid-19 is not active anymore,” S Parthiban, a resident of Ponmalai said. “Some are just leaving the facemasks below the chin to avoid penalization, but that doesn’t solve the purpose,” a health official with the corporation said. Workers travelling in load vehicles, street vendors selling vegetables and employees in air-conditioned shops including in pharmacies were among those frequently violating the mandatory facemask rule, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-nets-rs-4-6l-as-fine-but-safety-norms-still-ignored/articleshow/78836973.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 13 arrested for gambling, Rs 1.7 lakh seized from gang||TRICHY: The Trichy city police busted a gambling racket operating in Edamalaipattipudhur area and arrested 13 people on Thursday. Police also seized nearly Rs 1.7 lakh cash and three two-wheelers used by them. The accused were identified as R Muthuraman, 44, C Sakthivel, 57, M Kumar, 33, S Loganathan, 44, M Saravanan, 49, S Moorthy, 55, G Raja, 40, S Zaheer Hussain, 42, S Karthik, 29, M Ravichandran, 40, G Chokkalingam, 47, V Lingesh, 35, and R Subramani, 59. Most of the gamblers were from Ramji Nagar and surrounding areas. Police said that they were involved in odd jobs during the day. It was also the first major seizure of cash (Rs 1,65,850) from gamblers in recent times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/13-arrested-for-gambling-rs-1-7l-seized-from-gang/articleshow/78836969.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Trichy||Kallikudi FPOs see opportunity in strike by Gandhi market traders||TRICHY: Farmer producer organisations (FPOs) at the Kallikudi integrated market have made plans to source vegetables from vegetable markets across the state to meet the city’s vegetable needs if Gandhi market traders refuse to sell vegetables from Sunday. They have also alerted the police to provide adequate protection at the market and for trucks visiting the facility from other markets. FPOs have made agreements with Oddanchatram and Ooty markets to source English vegetables. “It will be advantage for Kallikudi if Gandhi market shuts their business. If FPOs prove their mettle in satisfying the city’s vegetable needs, the integrated market will gain popularity among bulk purchasers,” an official with the agriculture business and agriculture marketing department said. Although the FPOs cannot replace the entire operational capacity of the Gandhi market initially, farmers said that they are prepared to promote the integrated market as an alternative. After an organisation approached Madras high court with a PIL, the court directed Gandhi market to stay closed in the view of the pandemic. As the next hearing is scheduled on October 28, Gandhi market traders announced the strike to pressure the district administration to act in favour of reopening the market. Kallikudi was actually intended to relocate the Gandhi market but at present serves as a base for FPOs to sell vegetables straight from the farms. Out of the 830 shops, 62 FPOs were allotted 207 shops in the market. On an average, at least 30 FPOs sell vegetables, mostly country vegetables, daily to bulk purchasers such as hotels and grocery stores. Soon after the the protest call, Kallikudi FPOs have planned to source vegetables from Salem, Dindigul and Nilgiris markets. “If the demand is desirable on the first day of the protest as announced by the wholesale traders, we will procure more. We expect hotels, event planners and grocery stores to approach us in the absence of Gandhi market,” said S Venkateswaran, secretary, Anthanallur FPO(A) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kallikudi-fpos-see-opportunity-in-strike-by-gandhi-market-traders/articleshow/78836971.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 24, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia firing: Cops recover revolver used in murder||VARANASI: In a major breakthrough on Friday, the Ballia police recovered the 0.32 bore revolver used in the murder occurred in full public view and in the presence of police and administrative officials at Durjanpur village in Revati police station area on October 15. Ballia SP Devendra Nath said that the police have recovered the revolver, which was buried by the main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh under a tree near his house. The police had taken him to his house in search of the arm on Thursday. After the recovery of the arm, a section 30 of Arms Act was added in the FIR lodged against him and others, who were earlier booked under sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 323, 352, 504, 506 of IPC and 7 CLA Act. Dhirendra had opened fire allegedly killing a local resident Jaiprakash Pal in presence of SDM, circle officer, SO Revati, policemen and hundreds of villagers at Durjanpur village during the allotment process of a fair price shop on October 15. Dhirendra, his two cousins and seven others were arrested in his connection till October 18. Following his arrest by STF near Janeshwar Park in Lucknow, Dhirendra was brought to Ballia and was produced before the CJM court on October 19. Dhirendra’s lawyer had submitted a bail plea, which was rejected by the CJM, who ordered to sent him to jail on 14-day judicial remand. Dhirendra was sent to jail on October 19 after which the police started the process to take him on remand for further investigation. The CJM court ordered a 48-hour police remand from Thursday morning. The Ballia police took him to the incident spot and also near his house to search the arms used by him. On Friday, the police recovered a revolver of 0.32 bore hidden under a tree near his house. He admitted that he had buried the revolver before fleeing from the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-firing-cops-recover-revolver-used-in-murder/articleshow/78836108.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||SHRC seeks report on complaint from Peters Colony residents||CHENNAI: The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has called for a detailed report from the principal secretary, Housing and Urban Development Department, based on a complaint from a resident of Tamil Nadu Housing Board quarters in Peters Colony alleging that residents there were being harassed by officials of the department during the pandemic, forcing them to vacate the quarters. The plan is to demolish the quarters to make way for a commercial complex. The commission sought details on action taken against the executive engineer, against whom the complaints were levelled by the residents. SHRC has sought a report in three weeks. The residents’ welfare association had moved the commission against the harassment meted out to them by officials. According to a recent complaint by T S Muthuselvan, secretary, Peters Colony residents welfare association, a pre-dated letter was issued to residents between September 22 and September 30, asking them to vacate the premises. According to the petition, the residents are being alloted quarters at a distant location. Several government employees, frontline workers and journalists and their families live in Peters Colony, and the government engineer’s actions in the time of the pandemic is violative of human rights, the petition stated.  On October 12, the petition said when several of them were away at work, unidentified persons entered some of the unoccupied quarters and began dismantling the doors and woodwork. “This has scared some residents,” it said, while adding that the local police were informed of the trespass too. In the complaint to the SHRC, photographical evidence was also attached, residents said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shrc-seeks-report-on-complaint-from-peters-colony-residents/articleshow/78836972.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Recoveries up, most city zones have 5% or less cases active||CHENNAI: Recoveries have been outpacing the number of fresh Covid-19 cases every day for the past few days, and the number of active cases in 14 of the 15 zones in the city limits is 5% or less of the total caseload. The number of active cases in the city is only 6% of the total cases, shows data provided by Greater Chennai Corporation on Friday morning. Since October 19, the number of fresh cases in the city has been in the 800s. The city last witnessed cases in this range around four months ago, when the testing was not as high as it is now, said officials. For instance, the test positivity rate (TPR) in the city for the last five days has been in the range of 7%-7.3%. TPR is the number of positives that come up for every 100 tests and is a measure of the spread of the infection. Data shows that the active cases in the Royapuram and Tondiarpet zones, which were the biggest hotspots in the city during the first wave of the infection in April and May, are currently 3% of the total number of cases. Teynampet and Kodambakkam zones in central Chennai also have active cases that are only 4% of the total number, while the active cases in Alandur in south Chennai are 7% of the total, the only zone with an active caseload of more than 5%. No zone has more than 1,000 active cases, with Manali in the north having the least at 119 and Sholinganallur in the south 209. On Friday morning, the number of streets with Covid-19 cases was 398, down from 600 around a week ago. The city’s case fatality rate has, however, not dropped and remains steady at 1.85%. Corporation officials said the effort was to bring it down further to around 1.5%. Currently, Thiruvottiyur zone in the north has the highest fatality rate of 2.56%, followed by Teynampet with 2.46% and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar with 2.45%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/recoveries-up-most-city-zones-have-5-or-less-cases-active/articleshow/78836991.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Trichy||BDU colleges to have common question papers for UG internals||TRICHY: Undergraduate students in colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University (BDU) will get common question papers in the internal assessment this year. This was unlike in the past when every department in the colleges was preparing its own question papers for internal assessments. Every semester has three internal assessments and an average two tests worth 25 marks while the semester examination is conducted for the remaining 75 marks. Colleges have been instructed to start three internal assessments from October 31, November 18 and December 10. The decision was taken by higher education secretary S Apoorva at a meeting with vice-chancellors of state universities, said S Srinivasaragavan, controller of examination, BDU. The examination will be held like the end semester examination which students can write from their homes. Question paper will be sent to the principals who will send it to the respective departments. Students will write the answers on white sheets in 90 minutes and hand them over to the respective colleges the same day. No decision has been taken on conducting practical test yet. There will be additional assignments and projects for the students. The internal assessment is only for second and third year students and dates for newly joined first year students, both in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes, will be announced later. The decision will make teachers more accountable towards taking online classes, said the principal of an arts and science college in the city. “A section of students is cut off from the online classes in every college. Passing the internal assessment may not be easy for such students as they have to appear for a common and external question paper. This will now prompt teachers to engage most of the students in online classes or make other arrangements to reach out to them,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-colleges-to-have-common-question-papers-for-ug-internals/articleshow/78836983.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||12 models exhibit talent in VIA LEW’s khadi fashion show||Nagpur: The Vidarbha Industries Association’s (VIA) Lady Entrepreneurs’ Wing (LEW) organized The New Normal Khadi Fashion Show 2020 to promote Khadi among budding entrepreneurs and fashion designers working in the field of khadi. Taking all the Covid precautions, the show was conducted with limited invitees and 12 participants consisting of designer’s round and model round at VIA Auditorium on Saturday. VIA LEW chairperson Manisha Bawankar gave the opening remarks. Chief guest of the show was CP Kapse, divisional director, KVIC of Nagpur. The jury panel included fashion designer Nidhi Gandhi, model and actor Prajwal Bhoyar and sponsors Anamika Rokde, Aditya Jain, Swati Gadewar and Poonam Lala. In her opening remarks, Manisha appealed to everyone not to look at khadi as a cloth but as a movement. Kapse said, “Khadi is just not a cloth but it involves the emotions, passion, love and affection of every person who weaves it by hand unlike the synthetic clothes manufactured by machines. The scope of employment is also huge in khadi industry.” He said that KVIC is giving permission to use khadi brand on a licence fee of Rs10,000 per year for opening khadi boutiques. For the designers and merchandizers KVIC will facilitate the business through 22,000 outlets across India. He suggested the gathering to come up with innovative ideas to make khadi popular. He announced a contribution of Rs25,000 for the development of khadi and its promotion. Project director Madhubala Singh conceptualized the fashion show and emphasized the importance of khadi by coining the term ‘Khadi for nation, khadi for fashion’ reflecting its relevance. VIA president Suresh Rathi spoke about the history of khadi and gave new ideas to promote it. Through a video, actress Pooja Banerjee conveyed her best wishes to all the team members of LEW for motivating lady entrepreneurs of the region as well as promoting khadi. In all 12 contestants participated in two categories. These contestants were selected out of many applicants who sent their audition (video) clips. Of them, Nurul Patel, Mallika Manavendra, came first and second respectively in best video clips category. In the designer category Durgesh Dixit (model Anushree Maitra) emerged as winner and Dr Rupinder Chatwal (model Gauhar Lakhani) finished runner-up. In the model category Shivani Gorle was declared winner while Shayaree Meghe came second. The other participants were Gatha Shivhare, Reena Gulati, Kavita Bansod, in designer’s category, Vidhi Sharma, Muskaan Mansharmani and Natasha Barapatre in model category. Prizes for the fashion show were sponsored by Rokde Jewellers, Tantu, It’s New Always Designer and Creator and Rutrop. Also present on the occasion were VIA vice-president Suhas Budhe and VIA executive committee members, VIA LEW executive committee members Sarla Kamdar, Prafullata Rode, Sarita Pawar, past presidents Saeeda Hakqe, Chitra Parate, Y Ramani, Anjali Gupta, Anita Rao, Vandana Sharma, Shachi Malik, IPP Reeta Lanjewar, vice-presidents Indu Kshirsagar, PRO Yogita Deshmukh, EC member Poonam Gupta. VIA LEW secretary Poonam Lala proposed a vote of thanks. Project directors of the fashion show Madhubala Singh, Neelam Bowade and Shikha Khare took a lot of efforts to make it a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-models-exhibit-talent-in-via-lews-khadi-fashion-show/articleshow/78832089.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||No decision on free Covid-19 vaccine yet; health workers to get it first in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Karnataka is doing the ground work for administering Covid-19 vaccines when they hit the market and healthcare workers will be the first beneficiaries. The health and family welfare department on Friday said in the initial phase, all healthcare workers from private and government sector will be vaccinated. “Other priority groups and populations will be covered in a phased manner," the press release said, adding, “Details of vaccine and date of introduction will be communicated from the government of India.” Data of health workers in districts is being collected as per guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare. October 31 is the last date for the state to submit this data to the Centre. Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said no decision has been taken on free distribution of vaccine for all in the state. “It's a policy decision which will be taken by the government,” he said. The existing cold chain of routine immunisation under Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) will be used for Covid-19 vaccine. The cold chain preparedness and strengthening assessment is being done at the state level and in all districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-decision-on-free-vaccine-yet-health-workers-to-get-it-first-in-ktaka/articleshow/78836158.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Trichy||Teachers must take online classes from college: DCE||TRICHY: The directorate of collegiate education (DCE), Chennai has given strict instructions to teachers of government arts and science colleges in the state to take online classes from their college. When all government staff in secretariat and other departments have started coming for work, there is no reason for teachers to keep off when everything including sanitary fund is provided to the college, it has said. The toughening of stance came after some teachers in a few colleges were found to have skipped admission work for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. A few teachers were also found to be out of station in violation of the DCE instruction to remain in their headquarters. N Ramalakshmi, joint director (planning and development) at the DCE, had in an earlier communique made it clear to principals of all government arts and science colleges a few days ago that teachers have to come to college. However, it did not go down well with the teachers who under the aegis of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA) gave a memorandum seeking rollback of the decision. According to TNGCTA general secretary R Damodaran, teachers risk catching Covid-19 infection if they are made to come to college. He said many of the colleges still remain quarantine centres to accommodate patients. Further, since there were network issues in some colleges it is convenient for teachers to take classes from home. Responding to the memorandum, Ramalakshmi told teachers through an internal communication that colleges have vast campuses which are largely vacant. Teachers could choose any convenient place to take online class without getting infected. Online registration for postgraduate programmes is closed and shortlisting of applications is under way for which teachers have to be present in the college. Teachers can be readily available for admission-related work if they come to college. However, some teachers failed to turn up for admission work and they were also found to be staying outstation. Ramalakshmi said teachers who are unable to come to college must give medical proof of their health condition including their Covid status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-must-take-online-classes-from-college-dce/articleshow/78836985.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Koregaon new hotspot in Satara district||Kolhapur: Koregaon tehsil in Satara district is now recording new Covid-19 cases even as other tehsils are reporting fewer cases. On Wednesday, as many as 45 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Koregaon, while the district recorded as many as 271 cases and nine deaths. Out of the 45 cases in Koregaon tehsil, Koregaon town reported six cases, while Rahimatpur had seven. Kinhai village added eight cases while 10 cases were reported from Madhavpurwadi. Satara tehsil added 81 new patients, out of which 50 were from Satara town. Nagthane added five new cases while Karad tehsil identified 20 new cases and seven of them were from Karad town. Out of 24 cases in Phaltan tehsil, five were from Kalaj. Wai and Khandala tehsil reported eight and 10 cases, respectively. Lonand and Shirval reported four and three cases, respectively. Mahabaleshwar tehsil reported 11 patients and eight of them are from Panchgani. Jawli reported three cases. According to a health official, the district recorded eight deaths on Wednesday out of which seven were senior citizens. “Koregaon reported four deaths, while Satara, Karad, Wai and Phaltan tehsil reistered one death each. The district has so far reported 44,410 Covid cases, out of which 37,693 have been discharged. The district has witnessed 1,466 deaths, while there are 5,251 active patients,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/koregaon-new-hotspot-in-satara-district/articleshow/78824349.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mumbai||State may challenge verdict to not cap non-Covid rates in pvt hosps||Mumbai: The state is likely to appeal against the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court verdict that the government cannot fix rates for non-Covid treatment in private hospitals. While private hospitals expectedly welcomed the high court order, most said they are seeking legal clarity before starting to charge patients the uncapped rates. The state, on May 21, had issued a circular assuming control of 80% beds in the private sector and leaving control of 20% beds to hospital managements. It had fixed the treatment cost of over 270 non-Covid procedures too. After the initial scheme called 80:20 lapsed on August 31, the government tweaked it for Mumbai hospitals. It brought down capping of non-Covid beds from 80% to 50% for Mumbai hospitals, whereas for the rest of the state it continued to control 80% of Covid and non-Covid beds. The scheme is to continue till November end. “We will be appealing against the order. It has come as a surprise to us,” said a state official, adding that the order shouldn’t give an impression that the cap on Covid beds has gone too. Under the scheme, auditors were visiting private hospitals and checking bills. In Mumbai alone, hospitals have been asked to refund bills of over Rs 100 crore, much to the disappointment of private hospitals. Medical associations said that mid-level and small hospitals were not affected by the capping of non-Covid rates as they were “quite reasonable”, though Mumbai’s five-star hospitals were hit by the capping as prices of certain procedures were reduced 3-4 fold for patients getting treated under general category. A member of the Association of Hospital, a group of Mumbai’s leading trust-run hospitals, said, “We will be studying the judgment over the weekend before charging the pre-Covid rates.” Dr Sudhir Naik of the Association of Medical Consultants said they welcome the decision as the government was trying to nationalise healthcare without paying for it or subsidising it. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), that has filed a case in the HC appealing against both the Covid and non-Covid charges, said they were more impacted by the Covid rates. “The court has asked the government to discuss the rates with the IMA and come out with amicable solutions. IMA has submitted the expenses per bed required to run a hospital to which the government has not given any answer. The case is still open,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-may-challenge-verdict-to-not-cap-non-covid-rates-in-pvt-hosps/articleshow/78836998.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 24, 2020||Business||Onion prices soar, govt puts cap on stock with EC Act||NEW DELHI: The government on Friday invoked stock limit norms under the Essential Commodities Act for onions as prices continued to increase across almost all cities. The norms kicked in 31 days after the Parliament passed amendments to the EC Act, which has a provision to invoke this clause in extraordinary price-rise situations. Consumer affairs secretary Leena Nandan said that while retailers could store a maximum of 2 tonnes of onion, wholesalers could keep up to 25 tonnes at a particular time. This restriction will be effective till December 31 to ensure traders do not create artificial condi tions to raise prices. Onion prices increased across cities with the key kitchen bulb selling at a maximum of Rs 105 kg in Bengaluru and Rs 97 a kg in Mumbai. TOIhad reported on Friday how onion prices had doubled across 28 cities in the last month and Bengaluru had witnessed a four-fold rise. The all-India average retail price variation of onions as of October 21 when compared to last year was 22.1 %. Food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said states had intimated that onion harvest was likely to be around 36 lakh tonnes as against the earlier estimate of 43 lakh tonnes. The secretary added that for the first time, the Centre had created a buffer stock of 1 lakh tonnes of onion and it was releasing the stock in a calibrated manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/onion-prices-soar-govt-puts-cap-on-stock-with-ec-act/articleshow/78838436.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Schools look for all ways to help teachers unwind||CHENNAI: In a time when everyone is anxious about the pandemic, worrying about how to teach children effectively online can add to the stress of teachers, leaving them overwhelmed. Schools are working out ways to combat this by reducing class hours, having buddy programs, involving students to teach lessons and also connecting teachers with the school counsellor. Teachers have had to adapt to online teaching amid the pandemic. “This mode of teaching is new not only for students, but for teachers too. It’s a very new challenge that they face on a daily basis,” said Bhavani Shankar, principal of Lalaji Memorial Omega International School. At Omega, students are involved in taking classes and giving assignments. “Students sometimes become content narrators and you can hear the teacher’s voice-over coming in here and there. Senior students also chip in to teach rhymes and other lessons to primary classes. This not only makes learning engaging but also helps teachers from getting overwhelmed and reduces pressure,” said Bhavani Shankar. Mita Venkatesh, principal of Sankara Senior Secondary School said they try to keep classes at a minimum. “For instance, senior students have just four periods a day. This way, teachers get more time to themselves to focus on other things. This year, we have extended Navaratri holidays to teachers too,” she said. A few parents said they have witnessed incidents where teachers have been impatient and hurled abuses on students for not completing their assignments or for asking too many questions. “It becomes more embarrassing because their parents hear it too,” said a parent. Clinical psychologist Samanvithaa Adiseshan said it is imperative to link the teacher with the school counsellor so they get better clarity on their mental health. “Times are hard and teachers are humans too. The key to overcoming these challenges is introspection. They must empathise with the child, it really helps,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/schools-look-for-all-ways-to-help-teachers-unwind/articleshow/78836996.cms||Aditi R
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Lending voice to people facing body shaming||CHENNAI: It was an attack of acne in her mid-20s that made Kruthika Ganesh understand how shaming – of body, skin or hair – can have a huge impact on one’s psychological health. That’s why, on October 10, which was the World Mental Health day, Kruthika along with her husband Arun Sandeep, brother-in-law Rohith and friend Madhumeetha B, launched ‘Petromax Lighteh Dhan Venuma?’, a platform that seeks to break taboos about body and skin, and chronicle stories about body positivity. “We wanted to create a platform for people to share their stories related to body or skin shaming, as all of us have gone through it at some point,” says Kruthika. “We wanted people out there to know they are not alone.” The personal experiences they have gone through was a driving force. “When I was 24, I got acne, and I began getting a lot of unsolicited advice and hurtful comments, which shook my self-confidence so much that I avoided going out or socialising. So, I thought if it is affecting me so much, there must be other people going through similar stuff, whether it’s regarding their weight, or skin colour or something else,” says Kruthika, adding that Madhumeetha had also had to deal with body shaming. On October 10, they launched their first podcast, where they got child psychologist and art and cognitive behavioural therapist Aparna Raghavan to speak about the impact of body shaming on one’s mental health. On October 15, World Students’ Day, they got two collegians – a fresher and a final year student – to talk about whether body positivity needs to be included in the curriculum. “We will be interviewing people from different industries and releasing a podcast every week,” says Kruthika, adding that they want to break standard notions of beauty. Sandeep, who works as a senior graphic designer at an ad agency, says that even men experience shaming. “My brother is 15 but doesn’t look his age, so people comment on it. He used to brush it off as ‘normal’ till we began speaking about body shaming,” says Sandeep. They have also started a campaign, Oru Kadha Sollunga Saar, where they encourage people to share their stories. “They can message us or we have a form where thesy can fill in their stories with photos and we will feature it on our Instagram handle,” says Kruthika. And the response has been encouraging, with people sharing their stories. For instance, a young woman speaks about the time when she was shamed for having an epileptic attack while travelling with classmates. “We started it last week and have got five stories so far,” says Kruthika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lending-voice-to-people-facing-body-shaming/articleshow/78836988.cms||Priya Menon
October 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath speaks to teachers, calls them harbingers of change||LUCKNOW: Happiness knew no bound for the seven newly appointed assistant teachers in government schools as they got the opportunity to interact with chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday. The state government distributed appointment letters to 3,313 assistant teachers on Friday. As a token, CM interacted with five teachers through video conferencing. The recruitments have been done by Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission for government secondary schools. The teachers praised the Yogi government for a fair and transparent appointment process. Nighat Pravin, who has been appointed as English teacher in a government high school in Gorakhpur’s Chargawaha block, said, “It’s a proud moment to get the appointment letter from Yogiji. We are thankful to him for introducing a written test for selection.” During the two-minute interaction with the CM, Nighat, a differently abled person, shared her wish to encourage girl education, specially for those with disabilities. Nighat, who does not have three fingers since birth, said, “I feel that people with disabilities, especially girls, suffer more mentally. I will put in my best to motivate such girls to pursue education.” Falling short of words to express his joy, Manish Kumar Mishra, appointed as biology teacher in Prayagraj, assured the CM of attending the school regularly. Congratulating Mishra, Yogi said, “You have selected teaching as your work. It’s a noble profession, and if you work hard, there are high chances of promotion. You should be happy to receive a job offer during the pious Navratri festival.” Bubbling with joy, Smita Jaiswal, selected as English teacher in Prayagraj, thanked the CM for making the selection process transparent. “We are very happy with the results and job letters. The entire selection process was corruption-free. The changes the government is bringing are for the betterment of public at large. I will work hard in helping students understand the subject, rather than promoting rote learning,” Smita told the CM. To this, CM said, “There is no scope left for any irregularity in the recruitment process in the state, and despite this if some corruption is found in the process, jail is the only destination for the guilty.” The wait, said Hemprabha Ojha, selected as home science teacher in Gorakhpur, was finally over. Yogi said, “The Covid-19 pandemic has made your subject even more important. Home science governs the way of life. You can create awareness among students, not only those who take home science, but others too, by taking up special programme in morning assembly and cultural programmes.” “Topics which are valuable for individual, family and society are included in home science. If you can help create awareness in schools, it will be a big achievement. For this, you, as teacher, should take up the responsibility of creating an academic atmosphere in the school by attending regularly,” Yogi told Ojha. Brimming with enthusiasm, Jyoti Gaur, selected as English teacher in Jhansi, said, ‘The wait was long but the happiness of getting a job letter can’t be expressed in words. Thanks to the government for doing away with the merit and introducing a written test for the selection.” CM said teachers are guides to the children and thus their responsibility increases manifold. “If a teacher imparts education with passion and energy, his/her students will have the ability to bring a positive change in the society. A teacher is not only respected by students but also by society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-speaks-to-teachers-calls-them-harbingers-of-change/articleshow/78837807.cms||Isha Jain
October 24, 2020||Chennai||NHAI floats bids for phase III of Chennai-Bengaluru esxpressway||CHENNAI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has floated tenders for phase III of Chennai-Bengaluru highway under ‘Bharatmala’ scheme. The 24 km four-lane stretch, which will connect Walajapet with Gudipala in Andhra Pradesh, will be constructed for Rs 931 crore. Bids, which opened on October 9, will close on November 23 and can be submitted only online through NHAI e-tendering portal (https://etenders.gov.in). On the proposed safety measures, a senior NHAI official said CCTV cameras will be fixed at various points on the stretch to ensure all vehicles crossing the area are monitored. By this, tracking those involved in accidents, particularly hit-and-run cases, and other crimes will become easy. At present, police mainly depend on cameras in toll plazas for tracking crime.  The project proposal stresses on the need for setting up traffic-aid and medical-aid posts at all toll plazas on the route by coordinating with state governments, so that accident victims can be easily moved to nearby hospitals through ambulances. NHAI has set a 720-day deadline for the bidder to finish the project, failing which action will be initiated against them. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) in February had announced that land acqusition process for constructing the 262-km expressway project was nearing completion in Tamil Nadu and will be ready for public use in the next three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nhai-floats-bids-for-phase-iii-of-chennai-bengaluru-esxpressway/articleshow/78836993.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 24, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Sonia looted nation, Chaiwala doing development work’||GORAKHPUR: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Swatantra Dev Singh on Friday attacked the Congress party saying “Sonia Gandhi looted the nation for 10 years while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has built it”. On the issue of Ram temple, Singh said, “Those who do not believe in Sanatan Dharma have no right to ask the date of temple construction and those who ask for it should go to Ayodhya and see it for themselves.” “Sonia (Congress leader Sonia Gandhi) looted the country for 10 years while the Congress was in power, a poor ‘chaiwala’ (Prime Minister Narendra Modi) is not only executing development work but has also abrogated sections 370 and 35A and built a united India,” he said while addressing the party’s Yuva Sammelan in Deoria where the assembly by-poll will be held on November 3. Singh also appealed to the people to vote in favour of BJP candidate Dr Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi. “Our policies are for the development of the country and countrymen and opposition is limited to their family development. Those who auctioned jobs during power are not able to bear Yogi Ji’s (Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath) corruption-free good governance. To fulfill their political aspirations, opposition parties are trying to divide the country on the lines of caste and religion and dreaming of returning to power,” he said. All the major parties — Congress, SP, BSP and BJP — have played Brahmin card in the present Deoria by-poll to be held on November 3 as the seat became vacant after the death of BJP MLA Janmejay Singh in August due to cardiac arrest. The son of late Janmejay Singh, Ajay Pratap Singh, 45, has decided to contest as an Independent after the party declared Dr Tripathi as the party candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sonia-looted-nation-chaiwala-doing-development-work/articleshow/78836175.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 24, 2020||Nashik||RPF institute gets firing simulator||Nashik: The Railway Protection Force (RPF) zonal training institute (ZTI) at Nashik has got a firing simulator that will help trainees get themselves trained in firing a varied range of weapons. The Railways has moved its ZTI — earlier located at the Chink Hill facility in Solapur — to the current location near the traction machine workshop of the Indian Railways at Nashik Road in 2015, though the RPF training centre had already started functioning in 2006. The ZTI at Nashik, spread across 49 hectares, also conducted a commando training in 2015 for the RPF personnel. Given these developments, the need for a firing range was felt by the Railways. “Our jawans use all kinds of pistols and automatic weapons, including AK-47s, as per the responsibilities and duties handed over to them. Currently, we train our people in at Wadiwarhe — the firing range of the Maharashtra Police academy. A need for a professional scale firing range was also being felt here. We are building facilities, including a swimming pool, an athletic track etc. But the range has no scope here,” the officer said. However, the Railways has decided to skip the firing range for now given that there were two major security institutions — MPA and Artillery School — whose ranges could be made available. The ZTI, therefore, decided to have a simulator, costing nearly Rs 50 lakh, on which the jawans could be trained. “The simulator has arrived at the ZTI and the process of installation is on. It will soon be operational for the jawans,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rpf-institute-gets-firing-simulator/articleshow/78824376.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 24, 2020||Nashik||Over 9,000 helmetless riders in Nashik challaned in Sept||Nashik: The city police are relentlessly continuing their action against bikers and motorists violating the mandatory helmet and seatbelt rules. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has also been observed that a large number of bikers have stopped using the helmets. Taking this into account, the police have started taking strict action against such riders. In September alone, the police had taken action on 9,464 two-wheeler riders caught riding without any safety headgear. In addition, 2,564 four-wheeler drivers who were found driving without seatbelts. Overall this year, the traffic police have taken action against 43,781 bikers for not wearing helmets. Similarly, 10,091 drivers have been booked for not wearing seatbelts. Police said the action would continue even in future as hundreds of people lose their lives in road accidents in the city every year. The police said the highest number of road accident fatalities took place because the riders/drivers were not wearing helmets or seatbelts. The police have conducted hundreds of drives to highlight the importance of helmets and seatbelts for personal safety on the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-9000-helmetless-riders-in-nashik-challaned-in-sept/articleshow/78824369.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital to get 1,500-bed block in around 2 years||NEW DELHI: The foundation stone for construction of a new 1,500-bed block at Lok Nayak Hospital was laid by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday. This will take the overall capacity of the healthcare facility to 3,800 beds, making it one of the biggest hospitals in the country. The hospital block, which will have a modular design and modern medical infrastructure, is expected to be ready in two and a half years. It will have three underground floors and 22 towers above them, making it the tallest hospital in the country. “A state-of-the-art building with cutting edge medical technology is being added to Lok Nayak Hospital. With an additional 1,500 beds, this block will increase the overall capacity of the hospital to 3,800 beds,” Kejriwal said. The fully airconditioned building will have three main departments — medical, maternity and advanced paediatric healthcare. “With 25 floors and the best healthcare available under one roof, this will be an inspiration to all. It is the vision of the chief minister to make world-class healthcare facilities accessible to all Delhiites. It is truly marvelous to see that converting into reality,” said health minister Satyendar Jain. Mentioning that Delhi government utilises funds in an efficient manner, Kejriwal said, “Delhi is the national capital and a microcosm of India. It should have access to everything world-class. This new wing of Lok Nayak Hospital is valued at Rs 462 crore, which comes to each bed costing around Rs 30 lakh. Other governments spend Rs 1-1.5 crore on each bed, but we believe in smart spending and effective utilisation of the budget.” “In the past five years, it has been of utmost importance for us to improve the living standards of Delhi residents. The AAP government has completed projects on time and saved funds too, which are further utilised for the betterment of the city,” added Kejriwal. Currently, Lok Nayak is Delhi’s largest Covid-dedicated hospital. It has been playing a key role in the treatment of not only Delhiites, but also people from other states. Underlined the contribution of healthcare personnel and doctors in fighting the pandemic, Kejriwal said, “The pandemic has had a cascading effect on all of us and I salute all those who have worked hard and put their lives at stake to serve the nation. We are the only government to have given ex gratia of Rs 1 crore to all those who sacrificed their lives during this pandemic. We can’t bring back the heroes, but we can help them in whatever way possible.” The CM also appreciated the work of the health department in providing access to quality healthcare facilities, including the establishment of over 450 mohalla clinics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lnjp-to-get-1-5k-bed-block-in-around-2-yrs/articleshow/78836216.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Tasmac may reopen bars by November first week||CHENNAI: Bars attached to Tasmac wine shops across the state are likely to reopen during the first week of November. Outlets of the state-run liquor corporation have been reopened in phases since May, but bars attached to them remained shut as the state government did not give its permission. Official sources from Tasmac said the reopening dates have almost been finalised for the first week of November. “In the event of bars being thrown open, the existing working hours of Tasmac wine shops would be revised to pre-Covid timings of noon - 10pm,” said a source privy to the developments. Currently, the outlets are operating from 10am to 8pm. The change in timings has been contemplated in the light of the peak business hours for liquor outlets from 6pm to 10pm. There are more than 3,000 bars attached to 5,200 Tasmac outlets across the state. The Chennai region and Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts have about 650 bars. The excise and prohibition department had issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for reopening all bars in September. However, Tasmac bars continued to be shut till date. The SOPs largely stress on hygiene and a cap on number of people entering the facility in order to maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tasmac-may-reopen-bars-by-nov-first-week/articleshow/78836999.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||With thin traffic, trains to southern towns reach early||CHENNAI: The railways is yet to resume all its services, and operating trains has become a breeze for loco pilots. In most of the cases, there are fewer crossings or slowing down and trains to the southern towns have been arriving at their destinations early. “Driving is now stress-free as there is not much traffic. There was a need to be on the watch all the time because of high train frequency on popular routes. There used to be too many trains coming in and going out of Chennai Egmore and MGR Central. That’s not the situation now,” said a loco pilot. He said gap between two services has increased to 20 or 30 minutes from 10 minutes in the pre-pandemic time. “Trains reach destinations early. This is a peculiarity of operations during the pandemic.” A railway official said train operations were smoother, especially in Chennai, because of fewer services and suspension of suburban trains. “There used to be a lot of congestion in the morning when trains arrived in the city. Platforms will be full at the main stations, tracks busy because of incoming and outgoing express trains and suburban services crossing over to the suburban stations. Loco pilots also had to watch out for commuters crossing tracks at stations. These hindrances are not there now.” Traffic is, however, slowly picking up, the official added. A Usha, who travelled from Chennai to Tuticorin recently, said the train reached well before the arrival time of 6.45am at Tuticorin. “The train used to reach late earlier and also slow down before reaching Tuticorin. The speed wasn’t reduced this time,” she added. On the southern route, only seven trains depart from Egmore station and eight trains from MGR Central every day. To show good punctuality, railways had given buffer time in schedules. Running trains during Covid-19 times have shown that route congestion delayed trains, which are punctual otherwise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-thin-traffic-trains-to-southern-towns-reach-early/articleshow/78837004.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Jaipur||Now, parents asked to check 'credibility’ of Rajasthan pvt univs||JAIPUR: The state higher education department has asked parents and students to examine the credibility of private universities before taking admissions in them, questioning the trustworthiness of all 51 private universities functioning in the state. The notice has cautioned students against five universities after receiving serious complaints. The department, which is a regulator of private universities, has asked parents and students to ascertain if a university in which one wants to take admission is following all the rules. ‘Notice an admission that govt has no control over varsities’ By rules it means the regulations set by state and central government educational bodies. The four-point public notice, issued on October 20, asks parents/students to investigate/inquire whether the university in which they are interested has opened any study centre/off-campus centre/offshore centre without the permission of state government and UGC. It directs them to find out if these universities are running programmes after having received due permission from authorities. The department is investigating five private universities, including Sunrise University in Alwar and Sridhar University in Jhunjhunu. “Investigations are going on against five universities. Aspiring students should examine if there are any irregularities before they take admissions in these five universities,” the notice said. Baffled by the letter, Puneet Sharma, an expert on higher education, says that the notice is an admission that the government has no control over these universities. “How can the department conveniently pass the onus of finding irregularities of any private university to parents and students? Does the state expect a parent or a student living in a remote area to run from UGC office to AICTE and from the government department to court to check the credentials of universities before taking admissions? Isn’t this the job of the government? If the state cannot regulate, they should close the department,” Sharma said. Defending the move, state higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati says that the letter is to create awareness of such universities. “The notice was issued after several cases were reported to us of students being taught courses by universities which had no permission for them. It is an alert for students,” said Bhati. When asked if the government is not capable of regulating these private universities, the minister confessed that there were issues. A private university VC, requesting anonymity, said that the tone and tenor of the letter were such that it has put all 51universities under the scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-parents-asked-to-checkcredibility-of-raj-pvt-univs/articleshow/78837005.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Send Delhi University VC on leave, order an inquiry, Centre writes to President||NEW DELHI: The almost comical crisis over Delhi University's top posts deepened on Friday after P C Jha, controversially appointed the registrar, defied the Union ministry of education. On Thursday, the ministry had pointed out that vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi's appointment of Geeta Bhatt as pro VC and Jha as registrar were invalid because these were done during Tyagi's leave of absence. The ministry also wrote to the President of India, the university's Visitor, recommending an inquiry against Tyagi and sending him on leave pending inquiry. The offices of the pro VC and registrar remained sealed on Friday. VC’s faction hits back in letter to ministryMeanwhile, once Bhatt left the office, three persons from the other camp — pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi, director of south campus Suman Kundu and registrar Vikas Gupta — allegedly broke the lock and entered the office. Earlier on Friday, in defiance of the ministry’s letter endorsing the propriety of Gupta’s appointment as registrar by the DU executive council on October 21, Jha, whose appointment by Tyagi as the acting registrar on Wednesday triggered the controversy, wrote to the ministry insisting that he and Bhatt were appointed to their posts in due compliance with the Acts, statutes and ordinances governing the university. Also, at the behest of the VC, a working group committee was formed to expedite the process of recruitment and promotions of teaching and non-teaching staff in the university and colleges, the notification for which was signed by Jha. Explaining his stand to TOI, Jha, who has also been given charge as director of South Campus by Tyagi, said, “The question being raised is about the vice-chancellor’s leave, but who does the VC take leave from? The vice-chancellor is appointed by the Visitor, and DU is an autonomous institution. The moment the vice-chancellor signs a document, it means he has already rejoined office. This is part of the Delhi University Act.” However, Jha refused to comment on the education ministry recommendation to the Visitor regarding Tyagi. Responding to pro vicechancellor P C Joshi’s letter to the education ministry in July that Tyagi had been on leave since July 2 on health grounds, the ministry on Thursday wrote to Gupta that orders issued by the VC during his period of absence without having rejoined office properly and officially could not be valid. The ministry had also written to the President requesting his intervention in the matter. According to a government source, the ministry recommended an inquiry against Tyagi for going on leave without informing the ministry and for administrative lapses. It is also learned that the ministry recommended that Tyagi be sent on leave pending inquiry. The incumbent VC is set to complete his tenure in March 2021. Meanwhile, on the university campus, the war of letters and statements continued, with Gupta issuing a post-midnight statement following the ministry’s letter to say that all orders issued without the approval of pro VC Joshi were null and void. "For the last two days, several notifications have circulated through various media regarding statutory appointments and other related matters," Gupta’s statement said. "This also includes the notifications regarding the appointment of a new pro vicechancellor, registrar and director of South Campus. It is hereby clarified that Prof P C Joshi, pro vice-chancellor, will act as vice-chancellor and is the only competent authority to approve issue orders as per the provisions of the Act, statutes and ordinances of the university." The VC’s office countered Gupta’s statement as "fake" and instructed the director of computer sciences to remove it from the university’s official website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/send-delhi-university-vc-on-leave-order-an-inquiry-centre-writes-to-president/articleshow/78838447.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Six women die in cracker unit blast in Madurai||MADURAI: Six women died in a fire accident at a cracker unit at M Sengulam in Madurai district on Friday where they were making fancy crackers illegally. Police said the accident happened at Rajalakshmi Fireworks which, though owned by one Shanmugaraj, was leased out to Alagarsamy. The unit was licensed by the district revenue officer for making varieties such as walas, chakkars and flower pots alone. Violating the conditions, the unit was illegally manufacturing fancy variety crackers. On Friday, nearly 35 workers were manufacturing crackers in sheds as well as sitting under trees, which is also illegal. When the employees were handling manimarundhu, a chemical required for manufacture fancy crackers, a fire broke out in a shed due to friction. As it started to spread, three working sheds were damaged completely. Five women - Veluthai, 45, of Peraiyur, Lakshmi, 40, of Silarpatti, Ayyammal, 65, of Kadaneri, Suruliammal, 50, of Govindanallur and Kaleeswari, 35, of Peraiyur -- died on the spot. Three more people - Sundaramoorthy, 39, of Venkatachalapuram, P Lakshmi, 45, of Kadaneri and Mahalakshmi, 45, of Kadaneri sustained injuries. The trio was rushed to Virudhunagar government hospital from where they were referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Later in the night, P Lakshmi died at GRH not responding to treatment. On being alerted, fire and rescue services personnel from Virudhunagar and Tirumangalam fire stations rushed to the spot and doused the flames after nearly an hour. T Kallupatti police were conducting investigations. Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar visited the spot while revenue minister R B Udayakumar and district collector T G Vinay visited the injured at GRH. Expressing grief over the deaths, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a compensation of 2 lakh each to the family of the deceased and 1 lakh each to the injured from the chief minister’s public relief fund. He appealed to workers involved in manufacturing crackers to follow proper precautionary steps, and directed the concerned district collectors to carry out inspections at the units to ensure safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6-women-die-in-cracker-unit-blast-in-madurai/articleshow/78837006.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||HC stays demolition of shops at Prem Nagar||DEHRADUN: The suspense over demolition of over 72 ‘unauthorised’ shops at Prem Nagar has further deepened as two shopkeepers secured a stay from the Uttarakhand high court on Friday against demolition of their establishments during the current anti-encroachment drive. The shopkeepers have also submitted a copy of the stay orders to the Dehradun Municipal Commissioner and the District Magistrate. Talking to TOI, Ashish Srivastava, District Magistrate, said, “We will be seeking guidelines from the Uttarakhand high court in the matter. Only after that, such encroachments will be removed from the Prem Nagar area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-stays-demolition-of-shops-at-prem-nagar/articleshow/78834812.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Dehradun||Medicines seized from Roorkee unit fail lab tests||ROORKEE: Several packets of branded medicines, which were allegedly being manufactured in a local pharma factory, have failed lab tests. A joint team of state drug control department and police had seized a high volume of alleged fake medicines worth Rs 1.7 crore from a small-sized pharmaceutical industry in Roorkee in August this year. Police had arrested Praveen Tyagi, the owner of the pharma unit, and his aide on the day of the raid itself. A cash amount of Rs 4.65 lakh was also recovered from their possession. According to reports, the officials from the drug control department and the local police had raided an illegal pharma manufacturing company at Madhopur village near Roorkee and seized medicines of around 200 brands worth Rs 1.7 crore. Police had recovered raw materials, wrappers, aluminium foils, and packaging materials from the spot. “We had sent 10 samples collected from the unit. They have now been found as ‘spurious’ in the state laboratory tests. The accused Tyagi and his associate are in jail. After this report, the release of the offenders on bail would become difficult,” said MS Rana, drug inspector, Haridwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/medicines-seized-from-roorkee-unit-fail-lab-tests/articleshow/78834795.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 24, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses plea of two seeking posting as teachers||MADURAI: Observing that mere participation in the process of selection would not confer on anyone the right to claim for appointment, Madras high court dismissed the plea moved by two candidates who sought their appointment as secondary grade teachers based on call letters issued to them in 2009. The court was hearing the petitions filed by two women — B Malathy and M Rajam Santhabai — who sought a direction to appoint them as secondary grade teachers on the basis of the certificate verification held in 2009 without insisting on writing TET. The petitioners stated that they have completed diploma in teacher education and registered their name in the employment exchange. Though they had received call letters for certificate verification in 2009, they were not appointed. The special government pleader submitted that the procedure for selection to such posts had undergone changes and now the appointments are made only through an open competitive process by issuing notifications. She submitted that since no appointment order was issued to the petitioners, they have no right to seek appointment without even passing TET. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that appointment can never be claimed as a matter of right as all appointments are to be made strictly in accordance with the recruitment rules in force. Mere participation in the process of selection would not confer on anyone the right to claim appointment. The petitioners have received call letters for certificate verification in 2009 and the petitions were filed in March 2014, after a lapse of about five years. The judge also pointed out that the petitioners have to participate in the process of selection for securing appointments since the procedures had undergone changes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-of-two-seeking-posting-as-teachers/articleshow/78837001.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covid+ve man’s body left to rot in flat for 20 hours after wife jumps to death||HYDERABAD: In a sign of apathy and stigma surrounding Covid-19 patients, authorities removed the body of a woman who had jumped to her death after finding her husband dead from coronavirus, but left the man’s body to rot for 20 hours before help arrived. Venkatesh, 55, who had comorbidities and suffered from epilepsy, passed away on Thursday in Ambedkar Colony in Sainikpuri after testing positive four days ago. Venkatesh was a supervisor at a construction site. But in a double tragedy, his wife Dhana Lakshmi (50), unable to cope with the loss, jumped to her death from the third floor of their apartment at around 4 pm the same day. The couple from Nalgonda district had no children. “Even though the cops were at the scene, an ambulance was arranged to pick her body only at 10 pm. We had to regulate traffic when people began to gather around the victim,” said Sridhar Rao M, a local. Some residents alleged they had been asked to make arrangements to take Lakshmi’s body to mortuary. But when it came to removing Venkatesh’s body, locals alleged they had to struggle to get help from GHMC officials. “No one came to take the body. Everyone including the cops and GHMC officials were scared to touch the victim,” said Sridhar Babu who lives opposite the victim’s flat. Locals said that GHMC staff came to disinfect the area, but did not shift the body. It was only around 11.20 am the next day that the body was finally taken in a Gandhi Hospital ambulance. Sai Teja, who is part of the Feed the Needy’s last ride services for Covid-19 victims, said he had been approached to transport the victims. “The body of the victim was not covered and protocol not followed. Usually, only hospitals keep Covid victims overnight. That too in isolation in a body bag. There is no protocol when it comes to patients at home,” he said. Denying any delay, Neredment SI Raghvendra Reddy said the wife’s body was removed after ascertaining she was Covid negative and waiting for her relatives. “The locals were too scared to even sign a panchanamma or provide a sheet to cover the victim,” he added. Other police officials, on condition of anonymity, blamed the GHMC for delay in responding on what protocol to be followed which resulted in confusion. GHMC deputy commissioner for the area did not respond to calls or messages. “We will look into the case, but we were prompt in the case and there was no delay as claimed,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covidve-mans-body-left-to-rot-in-flat-for-20-hrs-after-wife-jumps-to-death/articleshow/78837840.cms||Uttara Varma
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Anna varsity seeks PhD for asst prof jobs, faces opposition||CHENNAI: Citing University Grants Commission’s (UGC) guidelines, candidates who qualified the National Eligibility Test (NET), State Level Eligibility Test (SLET) have opposed Anna University changing the minimum qualification for assistant professors from postgraduation to PhD. They said as per the UGC guidelines, the minimum qualification for arts and science subjects is 55% in postgraduate course and NET qualification. Anna University has notified 312 vacancies including 139 assistant professors, 106 associate professors and 67 professors in four campuses after a gap of six years. The notification said candidates applying for science and humanities teaching posts in the university should have one year experience after getting their PhDs and that all candidates should have secured first class in UG and PG. If the classification is not available, they should have a minimum 70% score in their programmes. Earlier, the candidates needed a first class in either UG or PG. “There is no NET for engineering subjects. But fixing PhD as a minimum qualification for arts and science subjects, assistant librarian posts is against UGC guidelines,” said R Thangamuniyandi, secretary, NET SLET Association. He sought a new notification making 55% marks in PG as qualified for arts, science and humanity subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anna-varsity-seeks-phd-for-asst-prof-jobs-faces-opposition/articleshow/78837008.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||3 goats brought to Rims detention centre for Lalu’s Navami sacrifice||Ranchi: Three goats have been taken to Kelly’s Bungalow, a sprawling duplex on the Rajendra Institute on Medical Sciences (Rims) campus, for incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad to sacrifice on Mahanavami on Sunday. The former Bihar CM has been detained at the bungalow, the vacant official residence of the Rims director, since August, when he was shifted from the hospital’s paying ward to protect him from Covid infection. Lalu’s close aide Irfan was photographed taking the goats to Kelly’s Bungalow on Thursday evening. A security personnel posted outside the bungalow said, “We were surprised when the goats were brought in. We were told that Laluji will sacrifice them as part of the rituals on Mahanavami as it would be auspicious ahead of the assembly polls in Bihar, which will begin in less than a week.” In another violation of the jail manual, RJD functionary Syed Ali posted pictures of his meeting with Lalu at Kelly’s Bungalow on social media on Friday. As per norms, only three visitors are only allowed to meet prisoners on Saturday. Notably, an official from the Birsa Munda central jail had visited Kelly’s Bungalow on Thursday afternoon and expressed satisfaction with the security arrangements in place. IG (Prisons) Virendra Bhushan said: “I do not know of any such developments (goats and unauthorized visitors). However, even in there have been any violation of prison norms, we have no role to play as Rims authorities have declared the bungalow as a special ward for Lalu’s treatment.” When contacted, Rims PRO Dr Nishit M Paul Ekka, said: “We have no information pertaining to the meeting between Lalu Prasad and Syed Ali. However, as per the rules, it is illegal to sacrifice any animal on the hospital premises.” Criticising the state administration on Friday, BJP said that the jail manual was being flouted for Lalu’s convenience. BJP state spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said: “No one is allowed to click a picture with a prisoner. No prisoner is allowed to have any kind of political discussion and an assistant jailer-rank official has to accompany a visitor meeting an inmate. RJD leaders are visiting Lalu Prasad on a daily basis and posting pictures with him on social media. It seems that the Kelly’s Bungalow has become RJD’s election office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-goats-brought-to-rims-detention-centre-for-lalus-navami-sacrifice/articleshow/78837274.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Indefinite strikes by job aspirants called off after Cong assurance||Ranchi: The indefinite strike called by several groups in Morhabadi Ground, which included aspiring home guards, Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP), Teachers Eligibility Test-qualified candidates, for jobs and regularisation of their service was called off on Friday after ruling party Congress assured them of a positive outcome from the mahagathbandhan government soon. A high-level delegation from the Grand Old Party met the protesters in turns to take stock of their grievances before the latter called off the weeks-long protest. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey, who was part of the delegation, said, “The coalition government of JMM-Congress-RJD is committed to providing jobs to them and that is why our party president (and state finance minister) Rameshwar Oraon formed the delegation. We have jotted down their demands and will place them before the CM.” “Besides assuring them of support, we also appealed to the protesters to call off the protest in view of Durga Puja,” he said. The protest was going on in violation of the district administration’s orders which asked them to refrain from hitting the streets in view of the pandemic. Another delegation member, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, said, “We have assured the protesters that whatever issues they are facing because of some poor policies framed by the previous BJP-led government will be sorted out.” Over two dozen home guard aspirants were on a sit-in for the last 20 days to protest against the delay in their appointment. They alleged that they had appeared for the test in 2017, the results of which declared next year, but they are yet to be appointed. Similarly, JAP aspirants demanded for publication of the merit list of the recruitment test held in 2013. They said that the first merit list was published in 2015 but the remaining merit list has been put on hold. The TET aspirants claimed that despite qualifying in the recruitment test that was conducted in 2013, the results of which came out in 2016, they are still awaiting appointment letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/indefinite-strikes-by-job-aspirants-called-off-after-cong-assurance/articleshow/78835212.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi gets model ‘baal mitra’ police station||Ranchi: In order to provide a cordial atmosphere to juveniles in conflict with law, Ranchi Police launched a model ‘baal mitra’ police station at Kotwali. Built under the aegis of non-government organisation Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA), the place has a homely surrounding with beds, attached toilets and facilities to play games. The walls are painted with famous cartoon figures. The room also has educational materials on do’s and dont’s for the children. SSP Surindra inaugurated it on Thursday in the presence of senior officers. DSP Ajit Kumar Vimal said, “A child who stays here in detention will not feel like he is at a police station. This will protect him from adverse psychological effects. The police person on guard will also be trained on ways to behave with kids.” Vimal said this model will be replicated in other police stations of the district as well. Brajesh Kumar Mishra of BBA said, “After cooperating in developing the baal mitra PS, we will now give a proposal to Ranchi Police for training its child welfare police officers to handle children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-gets-model-baal-mitra-police-station/articleshow/78835247.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Crackdown on abandoned vehicles starts||MARGAO: The Margao Municipal Council (MMC) has initiated the process for removal of abandoned vehicles lying along roadsides or in public spaces. While the MMC had issued a public notice last week giving 15 days time to citizens and owners of abandoned vehicles to remove their vehicles from the footpaths and roadsides, the civic body has now displayed the list of 98 such abandoned/scrap/old/unclaimed vehicles identified by it lying on road sides and occupying parking place within the municipal jurisdiction. “The list has been identified by the Margao traffic cell. Owners of the vehicles will be identified through the office of directorate of transport which has been asked to furnish the details of the owners,” chief officer of MMC Agnelo Fernandes said told reporters on Friday. Pointing out to section 122 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, Fernandes said, “Any vehicle found hampering pedestrian movement due to unclaimed, damaged and parked haphazardly by the roadside and obstructing the pedestrian movement, has to be removed.” He said that if the owners fail to remove the abandoned vehicles within 15 days of the notice, the council would take punitive action including seizing the vehicles and auctioning them on as-is where-is basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crackdown-on-abandoned-vehicles-starts/articleshow/78837013.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||JAP shelves ‘shastra puja’ this year||Ranchi: The Durga Puja of Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) organised at JAP- 1 ground, which draws a huge crowd every year, has dropped many of its rituals this year, including the famed shashtra (weapon) puja, due to Covid and the state government guidelines that request keeping the celebrations a low-key affair. This year, there will be no gun salute and devotees wanting to sacrifice animals after fulfilment of their wishes have been asked to drop their plans. The organisers will sacrifice only two goats during the entire celebrations. The crowd-pulling performance of the Khukhri band and other cultural programmes has also been cancelled. An organizer, Sashikant Kshetri said, “Around 80 women used to place kalash and take part in the rituals at the Durga mandap. This year, all devotees have been asked to perform the rituals at home. However, the women have not been barred from coming to be temple, but have been advised to do so in small numbers at a time with proper physical distancing.” The priest of the puja Sahdeo Upadhyaya said, “Around seven men are performing the rituals at the mandap this year while wearing masks. Even though there is no shortage of devotion, the festivity is missing.” The puja committee on Friday took out a ‘sobha yatra’ from the temple to a nearby cluster of trees where they invited invoked goddess Kali through rituals. A palki (carriage) was also taken to the spot for the goddess. One of the devotees said, “It is distressing that Durga Puja is being celebrated with so many restrictions, but they are essential to curb the spread of Covid. We are praying to the goddess to end the pandemic and also ensure safety of the jawans on duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jap-shelves-shastra-puja-this-year/articleshow/78835307.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||PGECET results: 88% students clear exam||VISAKHAPATNAM: A total of 20,157 candidates have qualified the Andhra Pradesh Postgraduate Engineering Common Entrance Test (APPGECET). Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy released PGECET results on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Reddy said that 28,861 candidates applied for the test and 22,911 candidates attended the exam. 27,300 postgraduate engineering seats and 2,787 M Pharm seats will be filled, the vice-chancellor added. The exams were held in six sessions between September 28-30 across 15 towns and cities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In the engineering stream, 14,775 (86.15% students) qualified the exam out of 17,150 applicants. As many as 5,382 (93.42% students qualified in the pharmacy stream out of 5,761 applicants. PGECET convenor Prof P Srinivasa Rao said that counselling dates will be announced soon. The state-wide entrance examination was conducted in adherence to Covid-19 protocol by Andhra University on behalf of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pgecet-results-88-students-clear-exam/articleshow/78834842.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||State Covid-19 tally breaches 75k-mark, death toll near 650||Ranchi: Jharkhand’s Covid caseload crossed the 75,000-mark as the state reported 1,141 fresh infections and seven casualties in 24 hours until 9pm on Wednesday. However, the number of active cases continued to fall with 1,232 recoveries through the day. The state’s cumulative case load stood at 75,089, of which 12882 are active, 61,559 have recovered and 648 have died. Among the casualties, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, West Singhbhum, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Koderma and Ranchi recorded one death each. Ranchi recorded 413 new cases, followed by East Singhbhum with 131, Bokaro with 78 and West Singhbhum with 70 cases. The positivity rate remained consistent as around 5% of 21,755 samples returned a positive result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-covid-19-tally-breaches-75k-mark-death-toll-near-650/articleshow/78284089.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||1 in 5 NIT students did not get job placements due to poor web link||Jamshedpur: Around 20% students in their final year at the National Institute of Technology (NIT-Jamshedpur) couldn’t appear in the virtual campus placement owing to poor internet connectivity. “Owing to the Covid situation, our students have gone back to their native places. Poor telephone and internet connectivity at their homes has prevented many students from taking part in virtual placement interviews,” said the professor in-charge of the placement cell, NIT, Prahlad Prasad. He said that out of the 500 final-year students of B Tech 2020-21 batch, 250 have got the job offers while the remaining are expected to get offers by January-February 2021. “The Covid-19 guidelines have impacted the pace of placement this year, but our institution is still in a better position compared to several other NITs,” Prasad added. The official said that owing to the current industrial slowdown, core sector companies dealing in steel, automobile, manufacturing, construction, among others, have not shown keenness in campus placements. “But we are hopeful that some companies would take part in the placement in the next three-four months,” Prasad said. He added that barring Larsen and Turbo, the rest of the companies that offered jobs to the students are in the field of electronics, computer and business analytics. Amazon offered Rs 30 lakh annual package to 10 computer science students. The salary package offered by the other companies is between Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh per annum. Prasad said that 60 students of computer science have been offered jobs, followed by 40 students from electronics, 30 from electrical and 15 each from mechanical and metallurgical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-in-5-nit-students-did-not-get-job-placements-due-to-poor-web-link/articleshow/78835610.cms||B Sridhar
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Empress land tree felling hearing a ‘sham’||Nagpur: Nearly over an year after the objections were filed, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started conducting public hearing on the issue of large-scale tree felling for a road project over Empress Mills land. Although over 800 objection letters were submitted to the civic body’s garden department in July last year, only one organization turned up for the hearing in the last two days. TOI was the first to report that a 15-metre wide road is proposed to be constructed on Mill land for which the administrative official of the mill sought permission to chop down 380 trees in the lush green area. Following this, green lovers across the city came forward in large numbers to object against the road project. Since last two days, NMC is allegedly calling up individuals and organizations who opposed the project, asking them to come for individual hearings. “Due to the on-going Covid-19 pandemic, we are avoiding a large gathering. Hence, we are making telephonic calls and sending letters to individuals,” said NMC garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar. On Friday morning, members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation received a call from the officials who asked them to come over for the hearing. “During the meet, we raised our earlier concern whether the road is needed or not. It was also discussed that out of the 380 trees to be felled, 315 are subabul species which are considered invasive. We have appealed to the officials to save as many trees as possible, ” said founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee. However, greens alleged the civic body was not carrying out the hearing systematically, which is leading to poor response from citizens. “Instead of informing in advance, the officials are calling us at the last minute. Many people are at present not in the city, many are working. This hearing is a sham,” said Jaydeep Das, honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur. Adding that the area is a rich biodiversity habitat, Das said, “No trees should be felled regardless of species. There are many invasive trees that are home to bird and other species.” According to officials, a decision will be taken after hearing of all objections is over. “We are not forcing people to come on an urgent basis, we are giving time to them. The hearings will go on for almost a week. In case those who have filed objections do not receive call or letter from us, they can directly walk in to the garden department and talk to us,” said Chorpagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/empress-land-tree-felling-hearing-a-sham/articleshow/78834854.cms||Manka Behl
October 24, 2020||Business||House panel calls meet on 5G preparedness||NEW DELHI: The Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT has called a meeting of top telecom companies as well as the department of telecom and regulator TRAI to understand India’s preparedness for 5G mobile technology. Protocols regarding 5G rollout are already delayed, and so are the on-ground used-case testing that was to begin last year. The government has already hinted that Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE will not be called for 5G testing, although there is still no clarity on whether they will be allowed when final rollout happens. The Parliamentary standing committee will hear representatives from Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vodafone Idea on Tuesday as part of the agenda ‘India’s preparedness for 5G’. After this, officials from DoT and TRAI will brief them on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/house-panel-calls-meet-on-5g-preparedness/articleshow/78838449.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tribals seeks Ramesh Tawadkar’s resignation||POINGUINIM: The Gawda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar (Gakuved) Federation has demanded the resignation the chairperson of Goa Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, Ramesh Tawadkar, for allegedly violating Clause 17 of Chapter V of the Goa Commission for SC/ST Act, 2010, by holding a press conference under the banner of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Rupesh Velip, Gakuved’s general secretary, told reporters that as the chairperson and employees of the SC/ST commission are deemed to be public servants under Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. “Tawadkar is not entitled to hold a press briefing under the banner of any political party, as the post of chairperson of the ST/SC commission is a constitutional post, holding powers of the nature of a civil court judge,” said Velip. Gakuved advisor Suresh Palkar, said that if Tawadkar does not resign, he will write to the governor and will also file a public interest litigation in the court to seek his removal from the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tribals-seeks-tawadkars-resignation/articleshow/78837019.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Exams: Who will bear sanitization cost, ask schools||Nagpur: While the state education board has announced that supplementary exams for SSC and HSC will commence from November, schools say there is no clarity yet on who will pay for sanitization. Many of the host centres say their aided status prevents fee collection, thus depriving them of a corpus to fund Covid-19 safety-related expenses. Ashok Gavhankar, principal of Raosaheb Thawre School and Junior College, said, “Who will bear the cost of sanitizing entire campus, dispensable hand sanitizer bottles, masks, body temperature scanners etc? We have absolutely no means of funding these measures. Even if just 150 children appear for the exam, you can expect around one to two litres of sanitisers being used up as there is no control on how much is being pumped out.” Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh branch), said, “Sanitization is a very costly and needs to be done after every single paper. And we don’t want simple assurances from the government, need to see actual funds. Many years ago they promised to pay for generators at exam centres for which not a single penny has come yet.” He added that SOPs are needed on handling students who fall ill after reaching the centre. “Schools are soft targets and so, we require detailed SOPs to avoid problems later,” said Tiwari. Ravikant Deshpande, divisional board secretary, said all host centres will be informed about the updated guidelines soon. “We will have a meeting with our higher officials in the coming week. After that, all the details will be provided to schools,” said Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/exams-who-will-bear-sanitization-cost-ask-schools/articleshow/78834868.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: BJP vice-president convicted in assault case||POINGUINIM: Civil judge and judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Canacona, Shanoor aka Jagdish P Audi, convicted former minister and state BJP vice-president Ramesh Tawadkar in an assault case registered against him in 2017. The court is likely to pronounce the sentence after hearing the parties on October 28. Puno Velip in his complaint to the Canacona police had stated that the incident occurred when he and his friend were proceeding to Chaudi on a two-wheeler. Velip stated that Tawadkar, who was travelling in a government car bearing a red beacon as he was a minister, had threatened to kill him. Based on the complaint, the police had registered a case under sections 341, 352, and 506(ii) of the IPC. A chargesheet was filed after the case was investigated by police sub-inspector Damodar Shirodkar. A total of four witnesses were examined. Stating that he would be challenging the order before the sessions court, the former sports minister in the Manohar Parrikar government, said that it was a politically oriented case filed against him. Tawadkar said there was an attempt to deny him the ticket for the 2017 assembly polls and four cases were filed against him. “I have come out clean in three and this is the fourth one,” he said. Stating he would be challenging the order before the sessions court, Tawadkar said it was a politically oriented case filed against him||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-vice-prez-convicted-in-assault-case/articleshow/78837025.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||‘Fish sale near Malim jetty causing chaos’||PANAJI: Unregulated fish sale causing traffic congestion and unsanitary conditions near the Malim jetty has irked fishermen operating from the landing point. The Mandovi Fishermen Marketing Cooperative Society Limited has therefore written to the Penha de Franca panchayat to intervene in the matter. “There are many tempos from other states and within Goa who are bringing fish for sale outside our jetty gate on the roadside area, which creates a wholesale market,” the letter read. Signed by the society chairman, Francisco D’Souza the letter pointed out that many vehicles are parked on the roadside which creates traffic hazards for pedestrians and vehicles. “They dump unsold fish on the road which creates foul smell and can cause health hazards. Also, there is water stagnation happening around the fish stalls or boxes which may result in the spread of malaria and dengue,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fish-sale-near-malim-jetty-causing-chaos/articleshow/78837030.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Army’s cold shoulder to OFB’s cold weather suit, pvt vendors make hay||Nagpur: After Army vice-chief Lt Gen SK Saini recently raised concern over lack of indigenous cold weather equipment, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) has indicated its eagerness to get a fair chance to prove its products. The vice-chief’s statement was in the light of the stand-off on the Chinese front. In reply to TOI’s query, the OFB has said it had already developed extreme cold weather clothing system (ECWCS), which is meant for -20 degree temperature and altitudes of 8,000 to 12,000 feet. However, when request for proposals (RFP) were invited, OFB could not take part out since only past suppliers and approved vendors were eligible to bid for the deal. As a result only the private sector could take part in the process. It is also learnt that a letter has been sent to the master general ordnance’s (MGO) office recently, in which OFB has requested that the ECWCS made by it should be given a chance too. MGO is in-charge of purchase of ammunition and other items for the Army. OFB’s email to TOI’s query says, “In 2017, the samples of ECWCS developed in collaboration with IIT-Delhi were submitted to Army along with Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) for trials. In May 2018, feedback was received from the MGO. Based on the feedback, modified samples were again sent to the MGO in December 2018. The MGO in turn directed the OFB to submit samples whenever request for information (RFI) is floated.” RFI is a step before RFP, in which the basic information about items is invited for taking a decision before going further in the bidding process. The OFB email said that no RFI was floated for ECWCS but two RFPs were issued. In both RFPs, only past suppliers and user approved vendors were allowed to bid for the ECWCS. As the OFB had only recently developed the product, it could not meet the criterion as a past vendor. Another RFP for 50,000 pieces was floated by the MGO in June 2020, which again was meant for past suppliers and user approved vendors, says the mail. The OFB has already made the modifications pointed out by the Army and the samples are ready for further trials. The OFB has taken part in the RFP for boot rucksack and sleeping bag, and it is under evaluation process. However, a bigger order can come through ECWCS, said sources. Meanwhile, the ITBP has cleared the ECWCS but it will have to go through the Army process for procurement, said a source aware of the developments. The clothing items have been classified as non-core products in recent years. This means the Army can get it from private sector through open bidding. However, the ECWCS developed by the OFB could have been given a chance and put to trials at least. The Army, in this case, did not even issue a RFI for the item and straight went ahead with a RFP. Had the RFI been issued, the factory could have got a chance to present the modified ECWCS before the Army for decision, said a source. Even the unions had taken up the issue, and said the factory should have been given a fair chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armys-cold-shoulder-to-ofbs-cold-weather-suit-pvt-vendors-make-hay/articleshow/78831698.cms||Shishir Arya
October 24, 2020||Goa||PhD admissions for 2020 begin at Goa University||PANAJI: Goa University (GU) has begun the process of selecting candidates for 300 PhD and MPhil seats for 2020. Seats are on offer at the GU campus as well as at research centres in affiliated colleges. The varsity will accept applications online up to October 30. Those who want to apply for doctorate programmes at the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) and the National Centre for Polar and Oceanic Research (NCPOR) will also have to apply through the same channel. Of the 286 PhD seats up for grabs, 133 are available for general category students. The rest are for reserved categories, including 25 for economically weaker sections (EWS). “EWS category candidates are required to submit a certificate issued to that effect by the officer of the rank of mamlatdar or any other authorised officer as notified by the government of Goa,” GU said. Besides, Goa University campus, PhD seats are also available for students at Goa College of Engineering, V M Salgaoncar College of Law, Goa College of Pharmacy, Goa College of Music and government colleges in Khandola, Sakhali and Pernem. The varsity will conduct a Goa University PhD Entrance Test or GU-PET consisting of two of 100 marks each on November 17 and 18. Results will be declared on November 27. For those who qualify at GU-PET, interviews will be conducted from November 30 to December 2. While the list of selected candidates will be out on December 8, the last date for admission and payment of fees will be on December 23, the university said. There will also be a category of those who are exempted from answering GU-PET. For these students, interviews will be held from November 5 to 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phd-admissions-for-2020-begin-at-goa-university/articleshow/78837032.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Minimal invasive surgery performed on diabetic woman with gastroparesis||Nagpur: People living with diabetes face several lifestyle-related problems. Traditional surgical options are not always viable for these patients. But, the minimally invasive, non-surgical process can bring their life to normal. One such rare surgery was recently performed at city’s Midas hospital.Dr Saurabh Mukewar and his team conducted a new minimally invasive, non-surgical endoscopic procedure — Gastric Per Oral Endoscopic Myotomy (G-POEM) — on an elderly woman patient who has been diabetic since years. According to Dr Mukewar, this process was performed for the first time in central India in the city.“The patient was treated for gastroparesis, a condition in which the activity of stomach slows down. Instead of emptying food into the small bowel, the food remains in the stomach for many hours after ingestion,” said Dr Mukewar.Such patients experience significant nausea and often vomit food ingested many hours before, sometimes even from the day before ingestion. There are very few treatment options available for such patients, especially if they have conditions like diabetes and do not respond to routine medications.“During this procedure, a ‘tunnel’ was created in the wall of the stomach using endoscopic tools to facilitate passage of food. The patient had significant clinical improvement and was discharged a few days later,” said Dr Mukewar.POEM is a technically challenging procedure, part of the new and emerging field of “third space endoscopy”. Such procedures are minimally invasive and performed through the natural orifice i.e. mouth without any surgical incision.With these advances in technology, highly complex endoscopic interventions are performed for the treatment of conditions such as achalasia (disease of the esophagus) or removal of small tumours from the wall of the esophagus or stomach. Dr Mukewar has been routinely performing similar complex endoscopic interventions at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minimal-invasive-surgery-performed-on-diabetic-woman-with-gastroparesis/articleshow/78834897.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Online counselling begins for Eamcet||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE) has initiated online counselling process for Eamcet-2020 on Friday. Students who qualified in the examination started submitting their online application forms along with attested copies of certificates. Students had to pay Rs1,200 as processing fee. Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test, commonly called as Eamcet, is an entrance examination held in Andhra Pradesh for admission into various colleges in the streams of Engineering, Medicine and Agriculture. Usually, the counselling process occurs across various centres. But the process has gone online this year owing to concerns regarding Covid-19. However, 25 facilitation centres have been set up where students can go and clear out issues, if any. The decision to go online for the counselling process has found favour with students and parents. M Naveen, a student, said, “We were thinking of going to Nagarjuna University for certificate verification but were scared of the Covid-19 situation. We thank board authorities for arranging the process online.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/online-counselling-begins-for-eamcet/articleshow/78834894.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vigilance squad raids layout site in Vizianagaram, imposes Rs 1.6 crore fine for illegal excavation||VISAKHAPATNAM: The regional vigilance squad of the mines and geology department raided Utkarsha Estates Layout site near Nagarapalem in Vizianagaram district on Friday and imposed a penalty of Rs 1.6 crore on the management on charges of illegal excavation and illegally laying gravel and ordinary soil. Assistant director R Prathap Reddy, who led the vigilance squad in the raid, said that the squad found that the layout management procured illegally excavated gravel and soil and laid it in the 8 acres layout. Reddy said if the layout management fails to pay the fine, the squad will request local authorities to cancel the plan and other clearances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vigilance-squad-raids-layout-site-in-vzm-imposes-rs-1-6-crore-fine-for-illegal-excavation/articleshow/78834923.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pramod Sawant woos Norwegian cos, offers quick, transparent approvals||PANAJI: Goa and Norway explored investment opportunities, with chief minister Pramod Sawant promising quick approvals for Norwegian companies that set up units in Goa. Sawant, who addressed the online round table meeting organised by the Norwegian business association India (NBAI) on Friday, said that Goa offers a lot of opportunities in shipping and renewable energy and is an ideal investment destination. “Through the Goa investment promotion board, all the necessary permissions will be granted as a single window system,” said Sawant. The chief minister emphasised the state government is focused on transparent governance and ease of doing business. Secretary for industries J Ashok Kumar assured the participating Norwegian companies that the state government is formulating investor-friendly policies to boost investments . Norwegian companies have expressed keen interest in collaborating with Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL), a defence public sector shipyard. Chairman and managing director of GSL BB Nagpal said the shipyard is open to work with Norwegian companies and discussed opportunities for joint cooperation. Sawant promised the foreign companies that investment proposals will be cleared on a priority basis, a promise that the state government has made since the ‘Vibrant Goa’ summit held in October 2019. The promise remains unfulfilled and the Goa investment promotion board has not met or cleared any fresh investment for the last nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-woos-norwegian-cos-offers-quick-transparent-approvals/articleshow/78837037.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||RPF adopts ‘My Saheli’ for women’s safety on trains||Nagpur: Railway Protection Force (RPF), Central Railway (CR), has now launched a programme My Saheli for women travelling alone or in group, but not accompanied by men.The RPF has earmarked four pairs of special trains — Howrah-Mumbai, Ahmedabad-Puri, Vidarbha Express and Duronto Express — for this purpose. RPF personnel would also update the women travellers regarding helpline number 182 for seeking emergency intervention.Senior divisional security commissioner, RPF, CR, Ashutosh Pandey, said, “My Saheli was a pilot project of South Eastern Railway, which has been adopted by his unit.” “RPF staffers, preferably women, would attend the coaches to speak to such travellers,” said Pandey. “Announcements would be made regarding helpline numbers and also we will try to ensure the woman traveller is safe and inquire about any issues that she may have,” said Pandey. “We are also keeping a track of women passengers who have to travel daily through Tejaswini WhatsApp group,” said Pandey. “Our primary focus is to ensure that a woman traveller is safe when she is travelling alone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpf-adopts-my-saheli-for-womens-safety-on-trains/articleshow/78834918.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: 142 workers cry foul over retrenchment notices||BICHOLIM: In all, 142 workers from a private chemical manufacturing company at the Bicholim industrial estate have been served notices of retrenchment. On Friday, workers who had gathered outside the factory, told reporters that the “notices were issued without prior intimation”. They also said they have petitioned the chief minister and the labour commissioner. “We’ve always cooperated with the company and even worked tirelessly during the lockdown,” they said. Harish Pawaskar, an official from the chemical company, said they have taken the decision only after following all legal procedures and “this issue is lying with the labour commissioner”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/142-workers-cry-foul-over-retrenchment-notices/articleshow/78837073.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Doctor, brother held for duping 41 tourists||Amravati: Anjaongaon Surji police have arrested a doctor and his brother for duping 41 tourists of Rs40,000 each under the garb of arranging tours to Bangkok and Thailand. The accused, Dr Nandkishor Arun Patil (30) and Vinod Arun Patil (32), have been remanded in police custody for five days. The duo had floated attractive advertisements of tours to the two destinations through their Manav Sewa Vikas Foundation. Responding to the advertisement, the tourists paid for the trip and gathered at the Mumbai airport on June 16, 2019, to board the flight, but the brothers were nowhere to be seen and neither did they respond to calls. Instead, the accused sent messages stating that the tour stood cancelled owing to some technical problems and promised to make a refund within eight days. However, when the money was not returned to the tourists even after more than a year, one of the tourists from Pusad in Yavatmal district, Raju Singh Dhansingh Jadhav (62) and Rajanibai Kalmegh of Jarud reached Anjangaon on October 21 and lodged a complaint against the duo, both residents of Shahapura in Anjangaon. Police registered an offence under sections 406, 420, 468 and 34 of the IPC against the duo and arrested them. Anjangaon court remanded them in police custody till October 27. PSI Rajesh Jaware is investigating the case under the guidance of PI Rajesh Rathod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctor-brother-held-for-duping-41-tourists/articleshow/78834943.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Tungabhadra Pushkarams||Tirupati: District collector G Veerapandian reviewed arrangements for Tungabhadra Pushkarams with the senior officials of the district administration at Kurnool on Friday. Tungabhadra Pushkarams will begin on November 20 and end on December 1. Though Covid-19 related restrictions on religious congregation still exist, officials expect a large number of devotees from Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu for the Tungabhadra Pushkarams. The collector appointed in-charge officers for the 17 pushkar ghats to be set up as part of the Tungabhadra pushkarams on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tungabhadra-pushkarams/articleshow/78834948.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 24, 2020||Goa||Bombay HC slaps cost of Rs 3 Lakh for dragging case||VASCO: The high court of Bombay at Goa imposed the cost of Rs 3 lakh for filing a petition to defend an illegal structure at Vasco and abusing the “process of court bordering on contempt”. While ordering that the amount to be credited to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, Justice Dama Seshadri Naidu stated, “I cannot but deprecate the attitude displayed by the petitioner and the devices deployed by them in securing an ex parte order and, then, trying to drag the proceedings.” The petition was filed by Truptesh Gaonkar and others following action taken by the police to stop the activities of anti-social elements in an illegal structure. On January 20, 2020, police had written to the sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Vasco, complaining about the illegal structure. Following instructions from the SDM, Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) issued a showcause notice to an unregistered society—Murgaocha Raja Sarvajanik Ganesh Mandal. On March 18, the petitioner, as the representative of the unregistered society, filed a reply. Besides defending the structure, he sought additional time to place on record necessary material. Meanwhile, the unregistered association applied to the MMC for regularisation of the structure, but on May 20 MMC’s chief officer declared that the structure is illegal. Aggrieved by this order, 21 persons approached the municipal tribunal, which rejected their claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-slaps-cost-of-rs-3l-for-dragging-case/articleshow/78837120.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Nagpur||Orange train to Desh put off over unloading glitches||Nagpur: Owing to the problem of unloading produce at Bangladesh end, the maiden orange train with 20 parcel vans to Benapole wn’t run any time soon. Exporters are not keen to send the fruit without facilites in place and the train may go only next month.The train was initially set for October 20 run but was deferred to October 25 due to rains. On Thursday, TOI visited Warud to check on the preparations but found exporters apprehensive about transporting the oranges as unloading points at Benapole were inadequate. They do not have capacity to unload entire rake quickly and delay may result in fruit getting spoiled.Raza Jafri, vice-president of MKC Agro Fresh, one of the leading exporters of oranges, said, “The unloading points in Bangladesh have problems. The train will not run soon and we are working for solutions as everyone has common goal.”“The announcement of the train by railways was premature. We were unaware of the problem of unloading points at Benapole earlier. It came to our notice on Thursday-Friday when papers for export and indent were ready. We are in touch with the railway officials who have to find solutions,” said Jafri.Another big exporter Taj Khan, chairman, Riyaz Farmers Producers Co Ltd, Warud, stated, “Transporting oranges by train will be a big boost for us. However, orange is a perishable commodity and if not lifted in time it will be damaged and we will suffer huge losses.” “Already due to incessant rains, the skin of oranges has become weak and there are complaints of juice leakages by consignees. We have huge quantity of fruit but the poor unloading point in Benapole is the hitch. Since last few days we were in touch with Central Railway officials but no solution has been found yet,” said Khan.Nagpur Central Railway SrDCM Krishnath Patil said, “We had sent railway employees from Sealdah to the spot and found that 20 parcel vans, which are to be transported, can be unloaded in eight hours. The only issue is that agents lifting the material will have to deploy additional labour force there. The C&F agent there needs to infuse confidence among exporters.”On the demand from exporters to transport only 5-6 parcel vans on a trial basis, Patil said, “It is not feasible cost-wise. Rules also require running a freight train of minimum 20 parcel vans.”Sonu Khan, director of MKC Agro Fresh, who brought an orange revolution in the region, said, “The train will contain 460 tonnes oranges worth Rs 1.5 crore. If the material is not unloaded in time, the fruit will perish. It will increase the cost by way of demurrage.” “As it is, Bangladesh is charging Rs 30,000 per tonne duty on orange from India while the same product from Bhutan is charged Rs 3,000 per tonne. The Indian government needs to take up this issue as it will not only benefit farmers but also traders in the region,” said Khan.Ramesh Jichkar, CEO of Shramjivi Nagpuri Santra Producers Co Ltd, said, “This year, the demand is less than supply. This has led orange prices falling to between Rs 15,000-18,000 per tonne. Farmers who expected Rs 30,000-35,000 per tonne owing to Covid-19 (orange being a big source of Vitamin C) are disappointed. The main reason behind low prices is a bumper crop, no colour to orange due to rains and fungal disease.”Vidarbha is the leader in orange production. According to Jichkar, 1.26 lakh hectare area in Maharashtra is under orange. Of this, 78,000 hectares is in Amravati district alone. Warud and Morshi tehsils account for 43,000 hectares. Hence, Warud is known as the California of India.Jichkar said, “The research institutes need to work on increasing per acre yield. Places like China, Florida, and Brazil produce 25 tonnes orange in 2.5 hectares while in India it is 10 tonnes.” Everyone though wants to transport oranges by railways as it will save time. A train reaches Benapole in 28 hours while trucks takes 35 hours. Traders also want railways to reduce freight as right now it was same as by road.“More handling of produce is required in railways. Road transportation is door-to-door and costs Rs 4.50 per kg to Bangladesh from our units. However, by railways it is Rs5.50 per kg as Warud railway station is 2km away from the market yard and processing units,” said Sonu Khan.They give example of orange kisan trains, which get 50% freight subsidy. “If similar subsidy is given and unloading glitch removed, the orange train to Bangladesh will click,” they said.Traders said the reason for demand for sweet oranges in Bangladesh was meat. “People there are meat-eaters. Orange helps reduce acidity and hence despite being costly, Bangladesh buys 40% of oranges from here. They are sold at over Rs 200 per dozen there,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/orange-train-to-desh-put-off-over-unloading-glitches/articleshow/78835205.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru rain floods 300 houses, washes away 500 vehicles||BENGALURU: At least 300 houses were flooded, rendering tens of hundreds homeless, and 500 vehicles, including 100 cars, were washed away as heavy rain lashed south Bengaluru on Friday evening. The havoc wreaked by the rain was severe in Gurudatta Layout and Dattatreya Nagar, near Hosakerehalli, and Pramod Layout in RR Nagar where storm water drains breached around 4pm, sending water gushing to houses. Bheemanakatte lake in RR Nagar overflowed, flooding 20 houses in the neighbourhood. “We never expected so much rain. The downpour has put the carrying capacity of our SWDs to test,” BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad told TOI. According to the weatherman, at least 15 localities across the city received more than 50mm of rain; Kengeri and RR Nagar topped the list with 103mm and 102mm respectively, as of 7pm. “A trough is over Bengaluru city. A yellow alert has been issued for the city indicating heavy rain,” the Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-rain-floods-300-houses-washes-away-500-vehicles/articleshow/78838499.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 24, 2020||India||MP no to WFH for govt staff, employees seek more time||BHOPAL: A day after the Madhya Pradesh government suspended work-from-home for its employees, secretariat staff expressed their resentment and demanded that they be allowed WFH for a few more days since Covid-19 cases are still rising among colleagues. So far, 72 people in the three interlinked buildings of the secretariat have been infected with Covid-19, and two have died. Work-from-home kicked in seven months ago. “Even if the government wanted to cancel work from home, it should have not been done with immediate effect, in the middle of the festive season. The government should have waited for the month to end,” said Sudhir Nayak, president of Mantralayin Karmachari Sangh. WFH was in place only for employees while officers were already being called in for 100% attendance. Officials said the decision to call full strength was in compliance with Unlock 5 guidelines of the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-no-to-wfh-for-govt-staff-employees-seek-more-time/articleshow/78838504.cms||---
October 24, 2020||---||Congress forced to clarify position on 370 move||NEW DELHI: Congress on Friday said it only protested the unilateral manner in which the Modi government abrogated Article 370 and never spoke about its restoration, as it accused PM Narendra Modi of raking up the issue to distract voters in Bihar. Reacting to Modi’s remark in an election rally, party spokesman Gourav Vallabh said, “The CWC resolution reflects the party stand on the issue. It only raised a question about how such a decision could be taken without consulting the major stakeholder in the issue — the people. We only questioned the process adopted by the government.” While Modi did not name anyone, his remark that people of Bihar should not vote for those who were demanding revival of Article 370 appeared to allude to a recent statement by Congress veteran P Chidambaram. There was a feeling in Congress that the senior leader had unnecessarily raised a sensitive issue during the crucial state polls and the party had quickly dissociated itself from the former finance minister. In the past, indiscreet comments by leaders on Pakistan have been seen to have given BJP a poll time handle. More recently, BJP and right-wing handles on social media seized upon Congress MP Shashi Tharoor's comments in a seminar in Pakistan where he criticised India’s efforts to contain Covid-19 while praising the neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/congress-forced-to-clarify-position-on-370-move/articleshow/78838512.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||‘Surveys on migrants and domestic staff aimed at policy interventions’||The labour ministry has commissioned three comprehensive surveys on migrants, domestic workers and professional bodies. The ministry has set up an expert group to oversee them. Prof Amitabh Kundu , co-chair of the expert group and distinguished fellow at the Research and Information System for Developing Countries, New Delhi, tells TOI’s Swati Mathur about the scope of the surveys and what they hope to achieve. Excerpts from the interview:What is the idea behind the three labour surveys that have been commissioned by the government?The sight of men, women and children on the roads during the pandemic shook the government as well as the middle and upper classes. The policymakers wanted to do something to correct the situation. As a first step, they passed the labour codes, which to some extent empowers individual labourers. But to do something for migrant labourers, the first thing needed was data on how many people were going back from various parts of the country. This data didn’t exist. To help the government, I put together some information from registrations and data collected by civil societies, but there was no district-to district migration data since 2001. So the labour ministry was asked to get data on vulnerable workers — migrants, domestic workers, professional bodies. What is the survey on professional bodies?This one is not a survey of professional bodies, but to gauge, through professional bodies, the professionals they employ. For instance, people employed at a doctor’s clinic, or a lawyer’s chamber. We know that their working conditions are not very much better than other worker classes. We will try to capture data about employment generated through professional bodies and this will be an exercise updated, as I understand it, regularly. Why have construction labourers been left outside the ambit of this exercise?I don’t know. For now, the expert group has been mandated to oversee these three surveys. The labour bureau may choose to add construction labourers later. Apart from numbers, what do surveys aim to find?There will be household surveys for migrants. For domestic workers, we plan to include both households employing domestic workers and those supplying labour for domestic work. Our aim is to develop some sort of a multiplier, based on which we develop a coefficient and estimate actual number of domestic workers. And the scope?The parameters we want to generate are aimed at driving effective policy interventions. For workers and migrants, we will aim to find out their general socio-economic well-being, the hours they work, the conditions they work in etc. When are the surveys likely to start?We should start by February or March 2021. The results should take a year to publish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/surveys-on-migrants-and-domestic-staff-aimed-at-policy-interventions/articleshow/78838534.cms||Swati Mathur
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa’s recovery rate rises to 92% while positivity drops to 19%||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 recovery rate rose by a point on Friday to 92% while the positivity rate dropped to 19%, also by one point. The total active cases fell marginally to 2,823 with cured out numbering new cases. The day saw 390 recoveries against 227 people testing positive. The Covid-19 mortality count went up to 569 with four Covid-related casualties. Two patients died in the Goa Medical College (GMC), including a 45-year-old man from Bicholim, who was admitted with respiratory failure on Tuesday. He did not suffer from any comorbid conditions other than diabetes. One death each was reported from a private hospital in North Goa and the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said that a death audit is conducted to study when the deceased were admitted, what comorbidities they had if any, and in which age group were the highest number of mortalities seen. The data is being compiled and a study is being conducted to reduce mortality count, Rane said. He was speaking to reporters after the expert committee meeting. The health minister said that it has been decided to monitor patients post recovery. Those who have post recovery complications are being treated under head of pulmonary medicine, GMC, Dr Durga Lawande. There are sixty patients being treated by her presently. Many are coming with post-Covid complications and need to be monitored, he said. Replying to allegations that isolation kits are not being distributed properly, Rane said that the distribution was done taluka-wise to avoid any kind of confusion. They started with Panaji and went to other places, he said. There are more than 4,000 kits available in stock, and more than 3,500 kits have been distributed, Rane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-high-as-goas-recovery-rate-rises-to-92/articleshow/78836729.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Goa||Respite for Porvorim as Covid-19 cases drop after two months||PANAJI: Porvorim which has seen a high incidence of Covid-19 infections as compared to other health centres in North Goa over the past two months is finally seeing a decline in infections. It’s daily case average has fallen to 10-12 cases from 25-30 cases last month.Porvorim which comprises three panchayat areas reported comparatively more cases than other centres. This is primarily because people from outside its jurisdiction test at the Porvorim primary health centre and give their village name as Porvorim. “Today everybody—right from those from Pilerne, Saligao, Sangolda to Reis Magos—says they are from Porvorim, and cases get listed under Porvorim,” said Dr Roshan Nazareth, medical officers holding additional charge of Porvorim primary health centre. Secondly, infections were on the rise because initially people were reluctant to isolate themselves when a family member tested positive. Porvorim also saw many mortalities, including 10 last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/respite-for-porvorim-as-covid-cases-drop-after-two-months/articleshow/78836738.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||4,086 fresh Covid cases in Delhi, tally nears 3.5 lakh||NEW DELHI: Delhi on Friday reported 4,086 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, highest spike in the past 35 days. For over a month, the single-day cases had remained below 4,000 - 4,071 cases were reported on September 19. The number of deaths was 26, lowest in the past one week. The city conducted 58,568 Covid-19 tests, which included 16,874 RT-PCR tests and 41,694 rapid antigen tests. A total of 3,296 patients recovered from the infection in a day indicating that the recovery rate continues to be solid. The positivity rate, however, has been steadily rising for the last three days. It was 6.98% on Friday while 6.61% on Thursday and 6.24% on Wednesday. According to the daily Covid-19 update released by the government, Delhi has 26,001 active cases, the cumulative positivity rate is about 8.2% and case fatality rate about 1.8%. Delhi has so far conducted 42.5 lakh tests and reported about 3.5 lakh positive cases, out of which 3.1 lakh patients have recovered. The city witnessed a marginal increase in the occupancy of hospitals. Compared with 5,116 occupied beds in Covid hospitals of the city a day before, 5,182 beds were occupied on Friday. Delhi has 15,739 beds in government and private Covid hospitals, out of which 10,557 were vacant indicating a huge availability of beds in the capital. Among the 26,001 active patients, 15,483 are currently under home isolation and are being remotely monitored by the government. The recovery of patients under home isolation has been very high in Delhi. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took a review meeting with various stakeholder departments and discussed the Covid pandemic and pollution control measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4086-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-tally-nears-3-5-lakh/articleshow/78838536.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||Recoveries cross 7 million, nearly 90% of all Covid cases||NEW DELHI: The number of patients who have recovered from the Covid-19 infection crossed the 7-million mark, with the country recording 1 million recoveries in the past 13 days. Recoveries touched 70,08,162 on Friday, accounting for 89.7% of all cases. The share of recoveries is set to touch 90% in a day or two as the pandemic continues to slow down in the country. On Friday, 54,350 fresh cases were recorded taking the total caseload to 78,12,911, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. The day’s death toll was 665, staying below 700 for the second straight day. The decline in active cases too continued, with the number falling to a little over 6.8 lakh from nearly 7 lakh on Thursday. India has the world’s highest number of patients who have recovered from the Covid-19 infection. The US, with the highest caseload in the world, has recorded just around 5.6 million recoveries so far. For the fourth time this month, Kerala posted the highest number of fresh cases in the country. With a tally of 8,511 new infections, Kerala pushed Maharashtra (7,347) to second place. Having risen to new peaks for 10 straight days, Bengal’s count of fresh cases on Friday (4,143) was finally less than the previous day’s tally, although the difference was just14 cases. Meanwhile, Mumbai became the first city in India to record 10,000 deaths from Covid-19, 227 days after the first case was reported in the city. Mumbai now accounts for nearly 8.5% of all deaths in India and a quarter of those in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recoveries-cross-7-million-nearly-90-of-all-covid-cases/articleshow/78838541.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Hindu Rao doctors go on hunger strike over dues||NEW DELHI: Doctors of North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital went on an indefinite hunger strike from Friday. The move came a day after resident doctors and medical staff of three hospitals - Hindu Rao, Kasturba and RBTB - protested at Jantar Mantar against the corporation over non-payment of salaries for three-four months. "It's been 19 days since we started protesting over non-payment of salaries, but there has been no solution, which is why we are left with no option but to go on hunger strike. It'll continue till our salaries are released. Other medical staff are supporting us but they won't be sitting on hunger strike for now," said Dr Abhimanya Sardana, president of Hindu Rao Resident Doctors' Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-hindu-rao-doctors-go-on-hunger-strike-over-dues/articleshow/78838542.cms||---
October 24, 2020||India||Cases, deaths up 100% in 10 of 14 Kerala districts||KOCHI: Nearly nine months since the first Covid-19 case in India was detected in Thrissur, 10 of the 14 districts in Kerala have witnessed a 100% or higher surge in both positivity and mortality over the last four weeks. In terms of 30-day moving growth rate mortality, Kottayam leads with 1,033%, followed by Alappuzha (294%), Malappuram (160%), Pathanamthitta and Idukki (133% each), Kozhikode (132%), Kollam (119%), Thiruvananthapuram (102%) and Thrissur (100 %). Kerala accounts for 10 of the 41 districts across 11 states having a 30-day mortality growth rate of over 100%. Six districts of Maharashtra are part of that list. It indicates that in the 10 districts of Kerala, both positivity and mortality has increased by over 100% in the last one month. “The last three to four weeks Covid trend of Kerala is of serious concern,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convenor of Project Jeevan Raksha. “It is imperative for the state government to recognise it and take appropriate action.” The health department has urged people to follow the “break-the-chain” lifestyle to reduce the rate of mortality and positivity. But health experts say that will only be possible if the state government does more testing, and on the right people, besides detecting cases early. “The state is still conducting unnecessary tests to declare that patients have recovered. Such patients are discharged even if they have Covid symptoms and many die of ‘non-Covid’ conditions soon after. Those with symptoms are afraid to get tested due to social stigma,” said Dr Arun NM, internal medicine expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cases-deaths-up-100-in-10-of-14-kerala-districts/articleshow/78838550.cms||Preetu Nair
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rs 1.2 crore cash, 9 kg silver seized from car||CHENNAI: Police on Thursday found ₹1.2 crore unaccounted cash and 9kg silver in a car during a check at Elavur near Gummidipoondi, about 43 km north of Chennai. The occupants of the vehicle failed to produce any valid documents to prove the possession of huge cash and silver articles. Police collected details of all the occupants and handed them offer to the I-T officials for further investigation. Police intercepted the car bearing a Telangana registration number on suspicion and a search led to the seizure of more than Rs1.2 crore and silver articles. The occupants were identified as R Ashok, 40, a resident of Madhavaram, S Sathish Kumar, 38, and K Rahman, 22, both natives of Chirala in Andhra Pradesh and car driver Shiek Ansar, 28. Police, have of late, been seizing large quantities of ganja smuggled from Andhra Pradesh to the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-rs-1-2-crore-cash-9-kg-silver-seized-from-car/articleshow/78838560.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Guwahati||8 days on, Mizoram plans to shut schools as kids test positive||AIZAWL: The Mizoram government has decided to close all schools from October 26 after a number of Class 10 and 12 students, who had been attending classes since October 16, tested positive for the novel coronavirus, education minister Lalchhandama Ralte said on Friday. The decision was taken after a meeting with senior school education officials and teachers’ associations, he added. “Students of Class 10 and 12 will continue to attend classes online. The Mizoram Board of School Education has been instructed to make arrangements so that the students can fill up their examination forms,” the education minister said. Ralte further said that in the meeting it was decided to reopen schools from November 9 unless new problems crop up. The decision for resumption of classes for students of Classes 10 & 12, who are going to sit for their boards next year, was taken in a meeting chaired by Ralte on October 12. On October 16, two students of privately-run St Joseph’s Higher Secondary School in the northern part of Aizawl had tested Covid positive. On October 18, two more students in southern Mizoram’s Lawngtlai town tested positive, while eight other students and the hostel warden of Ebenezer School in Zemabawk locality of northern Aizawl were found infected the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/8-days-on-mizoram-plans-to-shut-schools-as-kids-test-positive/articleshow/78838566.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Guwahati||8 days on, Mizoram plans to shut schools as kids test positive||AIZAWL: The Mizoram government has decided to close all schools from October 26 after a number of Class 10 and 12 students, who had been attending classes since October 16, tested positive for the novel coronavirus, education minister Lalchhandama Ralte said on Friday. The decision was taken after a meeting with senior school education officials and teachers’ associations, he added. “Students of Class 10 and 12 will continue to attend classes online. The Mizoram Board of School Education has been instructed to make arrangements so that the students can fill up their examination forms,” the education minister said. Ralte further said that in the meeting it was decided to reopen schools from November 9 unless new problems crop up. The decision for resumption of classes for students of Classes 10 & 12, who are going to sit for their boards next year, was taken in a meeting chaired by Ralte on October 12. On October 16, two students of privately-run St Joseph’s Higher Secondary School in the northern part of Aizawl had tested Covid positive. On October 18, two more students in southern Mizoram’s Lawngtlai town tested positive, while eight other students and the hostel warden of Ebenezer School in Zemabawk locality of northern Aizawl were found infected the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/8-days-on-mizoram-plans-to-shut-schools-as-kids-test-positive/articleshow/78840448.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||Southern Railway to run special trains in Chennai||CHENNAI: Southern Railway will operate special trains from Chennai to Thanjavur, Kollam and Trichy as part of resuming services. Reservations will open on Saturday. Thanjavur-Chennai Egmore daily special train (06866) will leave at 9.50pm and reach Chennai Egmore 4.30am from October 26. In return direction, Chennai Egmore-Thanjavur daily special train (06865) will leave at 10.55pm and reach Thanjavur at 6am from October 27. Chennai Egmore-Kollam daily special train (06101) will leave Chennai Egmore at 5pm and reach Kollam 8.45am from October 25. In return direction, Kollam -Chennai Egmore daily special (06102) will leave Kollam at 12noon and reach Chennai Egmore at 3.05am from October 26 Chennai Egmore-Trichy daily superfast special train (02653) will leave Chennai Egmore at 11.15pm and reach Trichy 4.45am from October 27. In the return direction, Trichy-Chennai Egmore daily special (02654) will leave Trichy at 10.45pm and reach Chennai Egmore at 4.15am from October 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/southern-railway-to-run-special-trains-in-chennai/articleshow/78838551.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM urges bankers to lend support to farmers||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday thanked bankers for standing with the state government in extending financial support to people, particularly farmers, during the Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent lockdown. Speaking at the 212th State Level Bankers Conference (SLBC) at his Tadepalli camp office, the chief minister said that Covid-19 had caused several hardships to the people. As 62 per cent of the people depend on agriculture, the chief minister wanted the bankers to focus on lending to this sector. He said that the state government had launched several schemes to help the farming sector including Rythu Bharosa through which the government would give Rs 13,500 to every farmer per year towards investment. The chief minister also told them about the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and said that the government had opened 10,600 RBKs to help the farmers. The village and ward secretariats too have agriculture officers who would be working in coordination with the RBKs. The RBKs would help the farmers by giving them quality seeds, fertilisers and pesticides at their door step. Speaking about the e-cropping introduced by the government, the chief minister told the bankers that the agriculture assistants at the RBKs would have all details about agriculture activity in their respective village. Referring to the crop loans, the chief minister once again thanked the bankers for lending Rs 62,650 crore for the 2020-21 kharif season against the target of Rs 75,237 crore. This would mean 83.27 per cent achievement in loan target and Rs 3,000 crore more than the previous kharif season, the chief minister said. The chief minister also told them about the price stabilisation fund and the government’s plans to construct market platforms, cold storages and go downs across the state. He also told them about the proposed Janata Bazars to be opened in every village where the farmers can directly sell their produce to the traders and the consumers as well. This would provide competitive price for the farmers, he said. He requested the bankers to extend their support these activities to stabilise and make agriculture more profitable. The chief minister also requested the bankers to help the government in completing the renovation and upgradation of all government schools, hospitals under Nadu-Nedu scheme, besides establishing village clinics across the state. He further said that the state government had tied-up with Amul, HUL, ITC, Reliance, Allana and other corporate companies to support the women. He wanted the bankers to help these women for their financial requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-urges-bankers-to-lend-support-to-farmers/articleshow/78834710.cms||Gopi Dara
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt sanctions Rs 1,700 crore to upgrade agriculture feeder infra||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has sanctioned Rs 1,700 crore to upgrade infrastructure of agriculture feeders as part of the special focus on nine-hour power supply, said energy minister B Srinivasa Reddy. In a statement here on Friday, he said the state government is taking steps to continue free power scheme for the next 30 years. The government is giving priority for effective implementation of nine hours free power supply during day time to the agriculture sector. “The government wants to make free power a permanent scheme to support farmers in the future. The government is making efforts to ensure farmers get free power for the next 30 years. To achieve this, the government will establish a 10,000 MW solar plant. We are spending Rs 8,353 crore to supply free power to 18.5 lakh agriculture connections and providing Rs 717 crore to aqua farmers to supply power at subsidy rates,” the minister added. He said the government released Rs 17, 904 crore in 2019-20 towards clearing subsidy arrears of discoms. Out of subsidy arrears of Rs 13,391 crore pending as on March 31, 2019, the government released Rs 8,655 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 9,249 crore towards subsidy announced in 2019-20 and other charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-sanctions-rs-1700-crore-to-upgrade-agriculture-feeder-infra/articleshow/78834734.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||On puja eve, wholesale prices of flowers crash in Chennai||CHENNAI: Wholesale flower prices in the city crashed on Friday, ahead of Ayudha Pooja, but customers could not benefit as neighbourhood vendors continued to sell at inflated rates. Heavy rain over the past couple of days had flooded the temporary wholesale market at Vanagaram and left it covered in sludge, preventing retail traders from entering on Friday and leading to a drop in prices. The market had 400 tonnes of a range of flowers, but poor footfalls of retailers led to the prices of all flowers including chrysanthemum, African marigold, Arabian jasmine and rose dropping by ₹40 per kg compared with Thursday. Also, the city has been receiving only 600 tonnes a day against the 1,200 tonnes a day that normally arrive for the Ayutha Pooja season. S Mookaiah, president of the Chennai Koyambedu Flower Traders Association, said traders at the Vanagaram facility gave deep discounts in an attempt to sell of the available stock. “This was unexpected because retailers and vendors could not enter the market that was inundated and sludge had covered the premises. We even faced problems of unloading flower baskets due to water-logging,” he said. Had there been no such issues more retailers would have thronged the market like they did on Thursday, he added. “One kg of Arabian jasmine, whose prices started at ₹750 a kg to ₹900 a kg on Friday morning, sharply dropped to ₹600 around the noon,” Mookaiah said.On the flip side, neighbourhood flower traders continued to sell the commodity at escalated prices on par with Thursday. For instance, one kilogram of Chrysanthemum that was sold anywhere between ₹80 and ₹120 was marketed for ₹160 a kg in the southern suburbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/on-puja-eve-wholesale-prices-of-flowers-crash-in-chennai/articleshow/78838547.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Group I exam schedule to be released on Oct 29||AMARAVATI: Armed with the High Court verdict on Group-I prelims examinations, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) is gearing up to make the examination system stringent and more transparent. Although the commission had to postpone the mains examination scheduled to commence from November 2 as per the advice of the HC, it is readying to complete the process as early as possible. “The HC, while asking us to give reasonable time for candidates for preparation, has left the decision on new schedule to the commission. We will announce the schedule on October 29,” said PSR Anjaneyulu, secretary, APPSC and senior IPS officer. APSSC had decided to conduct the mains by giving tabs to all candidates soon after Anjaneyulu took charge as its secretary. A senior IPS officer, Anjaneyulu had probed several cases of exam malpractices and decided to put an end to such illegal activities through technology. Each candidate would get a separate question paper on the tab giving no scope for copying or getting answers from outside. The HC agreed to almost all of APPSC’s contentions except directing to revise five questions. The candidates who could not clear the prelims had fought for the cancellation of examination saying there were nearly 50 errors in the question paper and calculators were not given to them as per the notification. The HC set all such demands aside. APPSC had applied a 1:50 ratio for the mains while UPSC and many state service commissions had chosen prelims candidates in 1:12- 1:15 ratios to the mains. The candidates, however, appealed to the commission to complete the mains by December and interviews by February. The group-I notification was issued in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/gr-i-exam-schedule-to-be-released-on-oct-29/articleshow/78834759.cms||Samdani MN
October 24, 2020||India||Firm: Covaxin trial on till April, emergency use possible earlier||HYDERABAD: Bharat Biotech, which is developing India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, expects the critical Phase III trials to be completed after April 2021. Only after that will the company go for commercial licensing and WHO pre-qualification, a top official of the company said. However, Covaxin could be available for emergency use earlier if the government decides not to wait for the completion of Phase III studies and invokes an emergency use authorisation (EUA), Sai Prasad, executive director, Bharat Biotech International Ltd, told TOI. “We expect Phase III studies to begin in November and the first set of efficacy readouts will be available only by April or May of 2021. We have been providing all information on all aspects of our projects to the government… there have been discussions within the government on when to potentially introduce the vaccine, so whether they (government) will wait for our Phase III data or introduce it before is their prerogative,” he explained. Prasad said they can churn out 150 million doses per year from their existing facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/firm-covaxin-trial-on-till-april-emergency-use-possible-earlier/articleshow/78838587.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Suppliers await imported onions to stabilise prices||PANAJI: As onion prices in Goa continue to rise owing to shortage, Belagavi-based suppliers are awaiting imported onions in hopes for the market situation to normalise. “We have been informed that the country is likely to import onions from Egypt in order to meet the demand in India. These are expected to arrive in another fortnight or so,” said Sreenath A, who supplies vegetables to Goa. “Due to heavy rainfall, the onion crop in many parts has been destroyed in the farms itself. This has caused onions to be priced at Rs 90 at our end,” he added. Ramesh Pawale, a prominent vegetable supplier in Goa, said that onion prices in Belagavi are currently fluctuating between Rs 85 to Rs 95 per kg, depending on the size. “We are currently reliant on onions coming in from Maharashtra to supply to vendors in Goa. As long as this supply continues, we can fulfil Goa’s demand. The prices, however, will continue to be high,” he said. Pawale said that fresh onions are expected to be supplied from Turkey as well, but he isn’t very confident about the pungency levels of the foreign bulbs. “The taste of spice that Turkish onions generate is different from that of local one. The Turkish onions can therefore be used in salads or side dishes, but wouldn’t be best for use in curries,” he said. Other suppliers said that the prices will remain stable, but they can rise if the rain causes further damage to crops. Abdul Niralgi, who has been sourcing vegetables from Hubbali to market in Goa, said that farmers who had managed to save their crop from the heavy rain lost it during the sun-drying process after it got wet in the rain. “Under these circumstances, the price rise will continue till the end of October. However, if spells of rain do not stop, the farmers will have to bear further losses and there will be no end to inflation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/suppliers-await-imported-onions-to-stabilise-prices/articleshow/78837000.cms||Nida Sayed
October 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Auto drivers protest against hefty fines||VISAKHAPATNAM: Auto-rickshaw drivers’ unions staged a protest in Vizag on Friday against higher fines for traffic rule violations. The state government recently amended the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988 and increased penal amounts. The penal amounts now range between Rs 1,000 and Rs 10,000. RKSV Kumar of CITU and Manmadha Rao of AITUC said that the pandemic and ensuing lockdown have hit the transport sector hard and hefty fines are now burdening people dependent on the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/auto-drivers-protest-against-hefty-fines/articleshow/78834789.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Vijayawada||Navaratri vahana processions||Tirupati: Lord Malayappa Swamy’s vahanam processions held in connection with the ongoing Navaratri Brahmotsavams concluded with Aswa vahanam at Tirumala on Friday. In view of all the processions being held inside the Tirumala temple, Lord Malayappa swamy blessed devotees on the Sarvabhoopala vahanam instead of the golden chariot procession on Friday morning. Bedecked with antique jewellery and special floral garlands, the Lord of the seven hills mounted the Aswa Vahanam and was brought to the Kalyana mandapam inside the Tirumala temple. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/navaratri-vahana-processions/articleshow/78834813.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Bengali families offer pushpanjali at Durgabati virtually||Ranchi: Durga Puja is incomplete for many Bengali families in the capital city without offering pushpanjali at the century-old Durgabati near Albert Ekka Chowk. However, owing to the pandemic this time, many devotees have opted for the virtual mode to keep the tradition alive. Puja rituals like pushpanjali and sandhya aarti, among others, are being streamed live on various social media platforms from Durgabati. Talking to TOI, the assistant secretary of Sri Sri Harisabha and Durga Puja Samiti at Durgabati, Setanka Sen, said: “After the state government announced Puja guidelines barring devotees from visiting pandals, we were flooded with calls from devotees who wanted to know how they would participate in the rituals. We then decided to broadcast the Puja live on our Facebook page.” The Facebook page of Durgabati Ranchi has received more than 12,000 views since going live on Wednesday. “The live darshan will continue till Dussehra. Now, devotees across the world will be able to witness our Puja rituals,” Sen said. When asked about the virtual darshan, Aparna Sen, a first-year college student, said: “I have been taking part in Puja at Durgabati since I was a small kid. In other years, I and my friends participated in cultural programmes here organised during Durga Puja. I’m badly missing those sessions, but then we cannot do anything about it.” Pratima Chaudhary, a 66-year-old devotee, said: “I have been visiting Durgabati for the last 47 years. However, this year, I’m stuck in Bengaluru since the lockdown began. But then I am happy that the Puja committee has made the virtual arrangement. I am following each and every broadcast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bengali-families-offer-pushpanjali-at-durgabati-virtually/articleshow/78834128.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Pvt school teachers in Garhwa not getting salary for 8 mnths||Garhwa: As many as 13,000 teachers in private schools and in coaching centres have allegedly not been paid for the last eight months despite demanding funds from the state government. The district secretary of public school co-ordination committee, M P Keshri, said, “The management committees of private schools had demanded grant from the state government for paying the teachers but the government has not responded yet.” There are about 350 private schools and over 200 coaching centres in the district sources said. “Following the closure of schools during lockdown, the guardians are not paying tuition fees and as a result, the school management is unable to pay our salary,” said teacher Brajesh Dubey. Another teacher named Praveen Mishra said, “Although teachers of some private schools are getting 50% of their salaries since they are conducting online classes. However, that amount is not enough for a teacher to support his/her entire family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvt-school-teachers-in-garhwa-not-getting-salary-for-8-mnths/articleshow/78834116.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Baghel, Pilot among Cong’s star campaigners||Ranchi: The AICC on Friday named Madhya Pradesh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Rajasthan’s former deputy CM Sachin Pilot, among others, as star campaigners for the November 3 bypolls in Dumka and in Bermo. The former forest minister of Madhya Pradesh, Umang Singhar, and former Union minister-cum-Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh are some of the other star campaigners included in the list, which has been notified by AICC’s national general secretary K C Venugopal. The party has also named leaders from the state Congress unit — namely, Rameshwar Oraon (finance minister), Banna Gupta (health minister), Badal Patralekh (agriculture minister), Alamgir Alam (rural development minister) — for campaigning for the grand alliance’s candidates in the two constituencies. State Congress spokesperson Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said, “While the state Congress leaders have already started canvassing in Dumka and in Bermo, we will announce the central leaders’ visits soon.” “We will plan their campaign trail in accordance with the requirements furnished by the candidates,” he said, adding, “One can expect campaigning to get intensified once Durga Puja is over.” He further said that many Congress MLAs have already been assigned to oversee block-wise poll management and some of them are already camping in their respective spots. The party is also planning to conduct virtual rallies, the dates of which will be announced soon, considering the ongoing pandemic, he said. Meanwhile on Friday, chief minister Hemant Soren reached Dumka for a two-day tour to mobilize resources and to woo the voters through a series of meetings and campaigns in JMM’s traditional stronghold. Hemant, who is also the JMM working president, had vacated the Dumka seat to retain Barhait after winning from both the constituencies in last year’s assembly polls. His brother and JMM youth wing president Basant Soren is now contesting from the seat against BJP’s Lois Marandi. Meanwhile, state BJP president Deepak Prakash air-dashed to Dumka on Friday to canvas for Marandi, who lost the seat to Hemant last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/baghel-pilot-among-congs-star-campaigners/articleshow/78834175.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 24, 2020||Ranchi||Couple seeking daughter flock to Bokaro Durga temple||Bokaro: In a country where female foeticide continues to remain a concern, dozens of couples queue up at a 170-year-old Durga temple in a remote village seeking a daughter. The temple, at Chakulia village in Chas block of Bokaro district, has an immense place of pride and faith among the people and hundreds have been granted their wish for a daughter after offering prayers here, village elders said. Like every year, the Durga puja in this village began with ghatsthapana, a ritual where prayers are offered to a 150-year-old copper pot at this temple. “Even though devotees visit the temple through the year, footfall surges during Navratra as hundreds offer prayers to a grand statue of Siddhidatri Durga seeking a daughter,” local said. According to folklore, a villager named Kalicharan Dubey first prayed here for a daughter about 150-years ago and his wish was fulfilled. As the word spread, several couples seeking a girl child started visiting the temple. Manoj Kumar, a villager said, “Every year, several couples come here seeking a daughter. Many of them had their wish granted by the Devi and all the villagers perform Durga puja here with devotion and dedication.” With the pandemic raging, villagers said the puja this year is being done in atoken manner with no frills, he said. A devotee, Suryakant Singh, said, “We had a son, but felt that the family was incomplete without a daughter. After offering prayers here, we were blessed with a baby girl a few years ago. My family has been visiting this temple every year during Durga puja to bow before the goddess.” Another resident, Katayani Devi, said she had named her daughter Bhawani after her wish was fulfilled by the goddess. Devi said, “Like me, several people, even pregnant women who wish to have daughters, come here to take the blessings of the goddess. I treat my daughter as a blessed child.” According to folklore, a villager named Kalicharan Dubey first prayed here for a daughter about 150-years ago and his wish was fulfilled||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/couple-seeking-daughter-flock-to-bokaro-durga-temple/articleshow/78834152.cms||Divy Khare
October 24, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt bars group exercises as gyms open tomorrow||MUMBAI: The state public health department on Friday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by customers and owners after the state government issued a notification to open gyms from Sunday. As per the SOPs, while it is mandatory to use a mask at all times inside the gym, the state government has allowed the use of cloth and tightly woven masks as use of N-95 masks can cause difficulty in breathing. Group exercises and facilities like steam, sauna and shower will not be allowed. Use of locker rooms can be allowed, provided there is enough space for people to move around, in compliance with social distancing norms. People aged above 65 and below 10, and pregnant women, will not be allowed. Gym owners have been told to plan gymnasium areas as per four sqm per person. Also, distance between gym equipment should be at least six feet, but if there are exercises that increase the breathing rate, the distance should be at least 12 feet. Separate entry and exit routes must be marked too. Also, AC should be set between 24-30 degrees, and humidity at 40-70%. Use of common mats should be avoided during exercises, recorded songs should be played during exercises, but shouting and laughing yoga exercises should be avoided. Sanitisation of the premises, entry, exit and even equipment should be regular. “Staggering of gym timings and limiting people per batch will help maintain adequate distance,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-bars-group-exercises-as-gyms-open-tomorrow/articleshow/78838622.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra govt bars group exercises as gyms open tomorrow||MUMBAI: The state public health department on Friday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by customers and owners after the state government issued a notification to open gyms from Sunday. As per the SOPs, while it is mandatory to use a mask at all times inside the gym, the state government has allowed the use of cloth and tightly woven masks as use of N-95 masks can cause difficulty in breathing. Group exercises and facilities like steam, sauna and shower will not be allowed. Use of locker rooms can be allowed, provided there is enough space for people to move around, in compliance with social distancing norms. People aged above 65 and below 10, and pregnant women, will not be allowed. Gym owners have been told to plan gymnasium areas as per four sqm per person. Also, distance between gym equipment should be at least six feet, but if there are exercises that increase the breathing rate, the distance should be at least 12 feet. Separate entry and exit routes must be marked too. Also, AC should be set between 24-30 degrees, and humidity at 40-70%. Use of common mats should be avoided during exercises, recorded songs should be played during exercises, but shouting and laughing yoga exercises should be avoided. Sanitisation of the premises, entry, exit and even equipment should be regular. “Staggering of gym timings and limiting people per batch will help maintain adequate distance,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-govt-bars-group-exercises-as-gyms-open-tomorrow/articleshow/78838657.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra govt bars group exercises as gyms open tomorrow||MUMBAI: The state public health department on Friday issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be followed by customers and owners after the state government issued a notification to open gyms from Sunday. As per the SOPs, while it is mandatory to use a mask at all times inside the gym, the state government has allowed the use of cloth and tightly woven masks as use of N-95 masks can cause difficulty in breathing. Group exercises and facilities like steam, sauna and shower will not be allowed. Use of locker rooms can be allowed, provided there is enough space for people to move around, in compliance with social distancing norms. People aged above 65 and below 10, and pregnant women, will not be allowed. Gym owners have been told to plan gymnasium areas as per four sqm per person. Also, distance between gym equipment should be at least six feet, but if there are exercises that increase the breathing rate, the distance should be at least 12 feet. Separate entry and exit routes must be marked too. Also, AC should be set between 24-30 degrees, and humidity at 40-70%. Use of common mats should be avoided during exercises, recorded songs should be played during exercises, but shouting and laughing yoga exercises should be avoided. Sanitisation of the premises, entry, exit and even equipment should be regular. “Staggering of gym timings and limiting people per batch will help maintain adequate distance,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-govt-bars-group-exercises-as-gyms-open-tomorrow/articleshow/78838656.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Mumbai||BEST buses allowed to run with 100% capacity now||MUMBAI: After allowing women to travel in local trains and starting Metro and monorail services, Maharashtra government on Friday further opened up another mass transit mode of travel. It allowed BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) to operate buses at full capacity. So far, only one person per seat was being allowed along with a limited standees. The state government has told BEST to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols while running buses with full capacity. The state also urged commuters to wear face masks and use hand sanitisers while travelling. “With the state government opening up most economic activities in the city and state, passengers are bound to increase, and with train travel restricted, BEST buses are seeing more demand,” said a senior government official. BEST transport on its official handle tweeted, “BEST BUS will carry passengers with full capacity from today (seating on all seats). All passengers are requested to wear a mask while commuting. No mask, no Entry.” A total of 3,500 BEST buses in the city were operating before Covid struck. They used to carry 30 lakh passengers daily. During lockdown, 1,800 buses operated, which has gradually increased to 4,000 (including 2,700 buses, 800 on wet lease and remaining MSRTC-owned buses), but passengers per day is around 19 lakh. BEST started operations with limited commuters from June 8, prior to which it was plying only for essential services staff. A BEST official said, “With government allowing women and lawyers to travel, we can deploy buses on feeder routes. We will see an increase in passengers due to relaxation by the government. Passengers who used to travel longer distances by bus will switch to trains, allowing us to deploy our fleet on feeder routes .” The state had allowed ST buses to ply at full capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-buses-allowed-to-run-with-100-capacity-now/articleshow/78838641.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 24, 2020||World||Joe Biden pledges free Covid vaccine for 'everyone' in US if elected||WILMINGTON: Democrat Joe Biden said Friday that if elected president he would mandate coronavirus vaccines be free for all Americans, part of a national strategy to "get ahead of this virus." "Once we have a safe and effective vaccine, it has to be free to everyone -- whether or not you're insured," Biden said in a speech laying out his pandemic response plan just 11 days before the US presidential election. President Donald Trump, who trails Biden in the polls, has also stressed that a vaccine -- which he says will be ready in the coming weeks -- should be free. But Democrats led by Biden have hammered Trump for failing to lay out and implement a nationwide response to a pandemic that has now killed more than 223,000 Americans. "Covid-19 dwarfs anything that we've faced in recent history, and it isn't showing any signs of slowing down. The virus is surging in almost every state," Biden said in a speech in Wilmington, Delaware. "We're more than eight months into this crisis and the president still doesn't have a plan," the 77-year-old former vice president said. "He's given up. He's quit on you. He's quit on your family. He's quit on America." Biden said that if elected he would "immediately" put in place a national strategy "to finally get ahead of this virus, and get back our lives." That would include consulting governors of all 50 states during the presidential transition. Were he to take office, Biden would urge Congress to pass a major bill outlining everything needed to combat the virus, implement a national mask mandate in federal buildings and interstate transportation and implement a national testing plan equivalent to a seven-fold increase over today's testing level. Watch US Presidential polls: Joe Biden pledges free Covid vaccine for 'everyone' if elected||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/joe-biden-pledges-free-covid-vaccine-for-everyone-in-us-if-elected/articleshow/78838643.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras to conduct 57th convocation using virtual reality||CHENNAI: The 57th convocaion of IIT Madras on Sunday will be held in a ‘mixed reality’ mode with the help of virtual reality technology where animated avatars of students would receive medals and degrees from dignitaries. For the first time, the institute released a teaser of the new mode of the ceremony scheduled to begin at 6pm. “For the first time in the history of the institute, convocation will be held virtually in aunique ‘mixed reality’ mode, ensuring the safety of all amidst the global pandemic and at the same time enabling our graduating students to have a memorable convocation,” IIT Madras said in an announcement. The unique mode combines the aspects of both real world as well as the virtual world to create a new environment. It will see the interaction of physical and digital objects, it further said. "In every convocation since 1964, everyone looked forward eagerly to the award of the President of India gold medal. It would indeed be very disappointing if the awardee is not present here with us for the first time," institute director Bhaskar Ramamurthi says in the teaser video released on Friday. The video concludes with an animated avatar of a gold medalist appearing on stage indicating that such avatars of students would receive medals and awards. Nobel laureate David J Gross from University of California will be the chief guest. In a communication to students, the institute announced that it had dispatched degree certificates. It also said the convocation would be a short event with only the major prizes being awarded. The department degree distribution programmes will showcase all graduates receiving their degrees and provide a conferencing platform to greet each other and the teachers. IIT-M asked students to take videos of them receiving degrees from parents or grandparents or spouse or persons of choice. The video will be broadcast when the students name announced in the department degree distribution programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-madras-to-conduct-57th-convocation-using-virtual-reality/articleshow/78838653.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: For 7 months now, Koppal family in preventive isolation outside village||KOPPAL: Lockdown and the many phases of unlock have made little difference to Andanappa Dambal’s family in Ghataraddihal village here. For seven months now, the family of seven, including three children and an elderly couple, has isolated itself on the outskirts of the village and is in no hurry to leave the safe space. Soon after the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, the family kept to their home located on the outskirts of the village. They stopped visiting the village and attending social gatherings. Andanappa, a farmer, is a Congress worker, but hasn’t stepped out even during local MLA Raghavendra Hitnal’s visits to the village in the past few months. As of Friday, Koppal has reported 272 Covid-19 deaths and 13,134 cases, of which 555 are active. “This is not fear or panic. I’m just taking precautionary measures,” Andanappa told TOI. “If someone comes to our home, we speak to them from a distance and convince them of our commitment. I go to nearby Mundargi town thrice a month to buy groceries and once to the village to bring vegetables. Before leaving home, I send a list of provisions required on WhatsApp and the shopkeeper keeps it ready. As soon as I reach the shop, they load the items and I pay via apps.” Andanappa’s father, Sangappa, aged 72, says they leave all the provisions in the car for 3-4 days. “We wash the vegetables in water mixed with turmeric powder before using. I go for a walk in the morning on an isolated road,” he said. “I play with my granddaughters to pass the time,” he says. Pragati, Pratiksha and Pratibha, who study in primary school, said they are having a good time in isolation. ‘Isolation made us self-reliant’We are attending online classes. We have stopped calling labourers to our fields so we help out along with our parents and grandparents,” said Pratiksha. “We go to the fields either by tractor or bike.” They are about 3.5km away. Andanappa’s wife Savita says the situation has made them more self-reliant. “Covid motivated us to develop a garden outside our home. We have withstood a lot of pressure and avoided family functions,” she said. Suresh Sangaraddi, a villager, said villagers initially made fun of the family. “Some of us even suspected that they had contracted the infection. But now we appreciate their commitment to preventing the spread of the pandemic,” he said. “It’s not easy to stay at home for seven months, and that too in a rural area. This family has emerged as a role model in the district. We are planning to make a documentary to create awareness on Covid,” said Rajashekhar Hitnal, president of Koppal zilla panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-for-7-months-now-koppal-family-in-preventive-isolation-outside-village/articleshow/78838669.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 24, 2020||World||Xi takes swipe at US, slams unilateralism, extreme egoism||BEIJING: Chinese leader Xi Jinping condemned “unilateralism, protectionism and extreme egoism” in a jab at the US made during a rally on Friday to mark the 70th anniversary of China’s entry into the 1950-53 Korean War. China refers to the conflict, in which it sent troops to aid North Korean forces against a United Nations coalition led by America, as the “War to Resist US Aggression and Aid Korea”. “Let the world know that ‘ people of China are now organised, and are not to be trifled with’,” Xi said at the Great Hall of the People, quoting Mao Zedong, the founding father of the People’s Republic of China. “In today’s world, the pursuit of unilateralism, protectionism and extreme egoism leads nowhere. Arrogance, always doing as one pleases, acts of hegemony, overbearance or bullying will lead nowhere,” Xi said. He repeated his call to expedite the modernisation of armed forces. “Without a strong army, there can be no strong motherland,” he said. Xi did not directly refer to the US, with which relations have sunk to their lowest in years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/xi-takes-swipe-at-us-slams-unilateralism-extreme-egoism/articleshow/78838679.cms||---
October 24, 2020||World||Sri Lanka House strengthens prez powers, oppn calls it ‘push to autocracy’||COLOMBO: Sri Lankan lawmakers approved amendments to the constitution that strengthened the powers of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and took away parliament’s role in making key appointments such as judges and the police chief. The new amendments were passed by parliament late on Thursday with a two-thirds majority after a raucous two-day debate. Rajapaksa, a former defence chief who oversaw the military defeat of Tamil separatists a decade ago, swept to power last November and has since consolidated control. In August, his party and its allies overwhelmingly won a parliamentary election on an election plank that included doing away with a previous constitutional amendment in 2015 that had put more power in the legislature’s hands. Under the new law, Sri Lanka's president will have the power to dissolve the 225-member legislature any time after it crosses the half-way mark of its five-year term. Opposition groups have criticised the amendments, and some wore red armbands in protest in parliament during the debate. Harsha de Silva, an opposition lawmaker from the capital city Colombo, said the Rajapaksa administration was pushing Sri Lanka in the direction of an autocracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/sri-lanka-house-strengthens-prez-powers-oppn-calls-it-push-to-autocracy/articleshow/78838690.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Sexual harassment cases at workplace dip in Bengaluru by 40%||BENGALURU: Sexual harassment of women on public transport in cities across India dipped sharply, while the fall was marginal at the workplace, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data for 2019 revealed. As per the statistics, in 2018, 153 women in different cities filed police complaints about being subjected to sexual harassment on public transport. In 2019, the number dropped to 50. Bengaluru, which did not figure on the list of five cities with most such cases in 2018, was fifth in 2019. But the city reported three cases each in both years. Lucknow which reported most cases of sexual harassment on public transport in 2018, ceded the place to Mumbai the next year and did not even figure among the top five cities under this head. In 2018, 88 women were subjected to sexual harassment at the workplace across the country and the number fell to 84 in 2019, shows NCRB data. During both years, Delhi reported the highest number of instances — 28 in 2018 and 21 in 2019. Mumbai reported the third highest cases in 2018 at 12 and shared the position the next year with Bengaluru. Unlike the national trend, Bengaluru reported a sharp fall in cases of sexual harassment at the workplace: 20 in 2018 to 12 in 2019 (40%). The city reported the second highest such cases in the country in 2018, before slipping to the third position in 2019. Officials and advocates feel media glare on sexual harassment at workplace and public transport is a deterrent for potential culprits. They point out that an American multinational technology company had removed 48 staffers between 2016 and 2018 for sexually harassing colleagues across the world and such developments are reported widely in conventional and social media. Organised private sector has taken the lead in cracking down on sexual harassment at the workplace. The Me-Too movement too went a long way in building public mood against sexual harassment, they explain. Bengaluru-based advocate Vidyashree KS told TOI the crux of the issue — mindset of men — still needs to be addressed. “Unless one’s mindset is free from all unwanted thoughts, such issues cannot die down completely. A working woman returning home at midnight nurses the same fears she did a decade earlier,” she said. IPS officer Rohini Katoch-Sepat, currently serving as SP, CID and formerly a DCP in Bengaluru, said more the awareness, the fewer the cases. “Nothing will change overnight. Change is happening but on a slow note. In addition to being aware of their rights, women now know how to act and pursue the matter to a logical end,” she said. Another police officer said that decline in cases of sexual harassment on public transport is largely due to the ubiquitous smartphone with video-shooting ability. “Miscreants know that everyone carries a mobile phone and whenever something unpleasant happens, people around are quick to take pictures and videos. Within no time, police will be on their trail or they will be shamed on social media. This is one reason why miscreants hesitate to target women on public transport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sexual-harassment-cases-at-workplace-dip-in-bengaluru-by-40/articleshow/78838708.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
October 24, 2020||Noida||Noida: Amazon officials booked as user’s account hacked||NOIDA: A city-based Supreme Court advocate has filed a police complaint alleging her Amazon account was hacked, her email address on it changed and orders placed without her knowledge. An FIR against unknown Amazon officials and a Madhya Pradesh resident has been lodged. In her complaint, lawyer Surabhi Aggarwal said on August 6, she noticed suspicious activity on her Amazon account and was not able to log in. It also asked for Prime Video subscription payment, which she had already bought in February. Aggarwal said when she called Amazon customer care, she was transferred to the accounts team, where a person named Ajay said her email ID was changed on June 25, and that Amazon had emailed her in this regard. When Aggarwal denied receiving any email, she was informed that multiple accounts existed with the same email ID, registered number and billing address in Noida, and that Prime services had been transferred from her own Gmail account to 42h3b2b@ichigo.me. “He said Amazon would suspend/disable my account to carry out the investigation,” she said. An email to reset her password didn’t achieve much, Aggarwal said, as the OTP was delivered to another number insteadof her own. Later, Aggarwal said, Tanvir, a primary department executive, told her that another name and address had been added to her account, which was now registered in the name of one Omkar, a resident of MP’s Shadora. Orders for several items, including Bluetooth headset buds, had been placed too, and the registered number had also changed, he told her. Despite assurances from the Amazon executives of an update, she alleged there was no communication. Instead, on August 8, Aggarwal received an email asking her to clear Amazon Pay Later dues — services she said she never availed. Aggarwal then sent an email to Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos and received a reply from his office that the issue of security breach had been investigated and resolved. However, her account is still suspended, she alleged, adding that she is yet to be informed about the number of products ordered through her account. The lawyer said in September, she had received a call from a UK number, from a person who said he was an Amazon representative. “I told him they should block the orders, but to no avail,” she alleged. The woman filed a complaint with the Sector 20 police on August 25, following which an FIR was lodged under IPC section 420 (cheating) and sections 65 and 66 of the IT Act. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said initial investigation revealed that the Amazon account had been hacked, and that they will contact the company to enquire into any internal fault that may have led to this. “Amazon’s role is being verified. Prima facie, there is ambiguity on their part too. If someone hacked the account, their security mechanism, which could have prevented it, will be looked into,” he said. An Amazon India spokesperson said they “have just been made aware of the matter and are in the process of retrieving the details from the concerned police station to help resolve the issue”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/amazon-officials-booked-as-users-account-hacked/articleshow/78836540.cms||Shikha Salaria
October 24, 2020||World||US Navy: 2 onboard training plane killed in Alabama crash||FOLEY: A US Navy training plane that took off from Florida crashed Friday in an Alabama residential neighborhood near the Gulf Coast, killing both people in the plane, authorities said. Zach Harrell, a spokesperson for Commander, Naval Air Forces, said both people in the T-6B Texan II training plane died, but they weren't immediately releasing their names. No injuries were reported on the ground. Foley Fire Chief Joey Darby said responders encountered a ``large volume of fire'' with a home and several cars engulfed in flames. Firefighters were able to make ``a quick stop on the fire,'' the chief told local news outlets. The crash occurred southeast of Mobile, near the city of Foley and the town of Magnolia Springs. Darby called the neighborhood a ``heavily populated'' residential area. No firefighters were injured, he added. The plane had flown out of Naval Air Station Whiting Field, about 30 miles (48.28 kilometers) northeast of Pensacola, Florida, Navy spokeswoman Julie Ziegenhorn said. The U.S. Department of Defense and the Navy were set to handle the investigation, the Baldwin County Sheriff's Office tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-navy-plane-crashes-in-alabama-extent-of-injuries-unclear/articleshow/78838713.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Fera case: Enforcement Directorate summons Raninder Singh on October 27||JALANDHAR: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has once again summoned Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh in an old Foreign Exchange Management Act case on October 27. He had last appeared before the ED in this case on July 21, 2016. It is learnt that at that time Raninder was asked about the alleged transactions made to Switzerland for creation of a trust and a few subsidiaries in British Virgin Islands during Amarinder’s previous tenure. The ED had recently sought inspection of fresh records of income-tax department in three alleged tax evasion cases against the Punjab CM and his son. While a lower court had allowed ED’s application, a sessions court restrained inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fera-case-enforcement-directorate-summons-raninder-singh-on-october-27/articleshow/78838688.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh: Sukhbir Singh Badal's U-turns on farm laws show lack of moral scruples:||CHANDIGARH: Accusing the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of yet another U-turn on the farm laws, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday lashed out at Sukhbir Singh Badal for “repeatedly compromising the interests of the farmers” with his “brazen lies and petty political games”. In rejecting the state’s amendment Bills, which his party had backed in the Vidhan Sabha, Sukhbir had “not just exposed his lack of moral scruples but had also echoed the recent statements of various BJP leaders”, said Capt Amarinder. It showed a clear collusion between SAD and BJP, suggesting that the entire drama of Harsimrat’s resignation from the Union cabinet and the withdrawal of the Akalis from NDA was nothing but a total farce aimed at befooling the farmers and sabotaging their fight against the central laws, he claimed. “First you actively and wholeheartedly supported the Centre’s malicious Farm Ordinances, then quit the NDA calling their Bills anti-farmer, then indulged in a whole lot of political drama through protest rallies and yatras across the state, then openly voted for the state government’s amendment Bills, and are now rejecting the same,” the CM pointed out, citing the sequence of Akalis’ actions. He refuted Sukhbir’s argument that the Akalis did not get the time to study the state government’s Bills, quipping that this was not possible considering the massive legal and other infrastructure at the disposal of SAD. He took a jibe at Sukhbir’s claim that his party MLAs voted for the Bills without properly going through them, saying, “This might explain why the Akalis have been stamping their approval on all kinds of anti-people, anti-India and anti-Punjab legislations of the Union government over the past 6 years.” He claimed that the SAD chief was blatantly lying with regard to the resolution passed in the assembly. Amarinder said nowhere was it mentioned that the Punjab government was committed to declaring the entire state as principal market area (PMA), as claimed by Sukhbir. “Are you trying to say that your MLAs had trouble reading and understanding the 370-word resolution, of which around 100 words were just names of Ordinances/Acts?,” the CM said. In any case, he said, what was important was not declaring the state as PMA but to protect the MSP. The state government had, after taking legal and expert opinion, chosen the best method to do so, but the Akalis seemed stuck on a particular methodology, he added. Even if the entire state was sought to be converted into PMA, such approach would not have been free from the requirement of presidential consent, he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbirs-u-turns-on-farm-laws-show-lack-of-moral-scruples-cm/articleshow/78837262.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Noida||Noida’s Covid hospitals start pulmonary rehabilitation centres for recovered patients||GREATER NOIDA: With more and more people developing symptoms of lung conditions like cough, breathlessness, lung fatigue after recovering from Covid, more so due to weather change and pollution, GIMS in Greater Noida has started a pulmonary rehabilitation centre (PRC) on Friday in its post-Covid OPD clinic. Other L3 hospitals like Sharda and Yatharth also report 10-15 such patients daily at their PRCs. While about five patients visited the GIMS centre on its inaugural day, among the 2,000 patients who have tested negative so far, about 12 complain about lung complications at the hospital. Doctors recommend physiotherapy, breathing exercises including yoga, dietary guidance, psychiatric counselling and medication for patients with such complaints. “While these are mostly because of post-viral syndrome, we have started the special Covid follow-up pulmonary rehabilitation centre from Friday,” said Brigadier (retd) Dr RK Gupta, director of GIMS. While the centre will run under the supervision of the department of medicine headed by Dr Saurabh Srivastava, chief medical superintendent (CMS) of GIMS, it will be functional from Monday to Saturday from 9 am to 12 noon. Chest physician, Dr Rashmi Upadhyay, will be one of the key experts in Dr Srivastava’s team who will not only provide specific exercises but will also test patients on spirometer, which measures ventilation and movement of air into and out of lungs, and respirometer, used to measure the rate of respiration or the rate of exchange of oxygen or carbon dioxide. “Also, patients will be advised to keep a peak flow metre at home to measure how well their lungs are able to expel air,” said Dr Gupta. According to Dr Devendra Kumar Singh, associate professor, respiratory medicine, School of Medical Sciences and Research, Sharda hospital, “Lung fibrosis is a condition where part of the lung tissues thicken or get blocked making it difficult to breathe. It is common in Covid patients,” said Dr Singh, adding that every day, about 15 such patients visit the Sharda PRC which started a week back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noidas-covid-hospitals-start-pulmonary-rehabilitation-centres-for-recovered-patients/articleshow/78837271.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
October 24, 2020||Mysuru||BARC scientist rode 800km from Mysuru to Vijayawada||MYSURU: A Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) scientist rode over 800km from Mysuru to Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh to go to a cousin’s house. He had gone missing on October 6 from his rented house in Yelwala here and after four days, he was traced to Vijayawada. Abhishek Reddy Gulla, 26, Assistant Scientist Officer in the Rare Materials Project, BARC appeared before Yelwala police to give his statement. The scientist, who is under medication for depression, rode his Honda Activa to his cousin Lalasi’s house in Vijayawada. Police said he travelled from Mysuru to Bengaluru, Kolar and then to Andhra Pradesh. Yelwala police told TOI: “It takes around 10 hours for a four-wheeler to reach Vijayawada. Reddy on his twowheeler took more than 16 hours as he stopped in a few hotels to have food.” Police said Reddy came with his relatives to the station and gave his statement. Superintendent of police CB Ryshyanth said: “The missing person case has been closed. Abhishek Reddy has taken leave from work for a few days.” After Reddy went missing, a complaint was lodged at Yelwala police station on October 8 by BARC administrative officer TK Bose. On October 11, police traced him to Vijayawada. Reddy had been allegedly suffering from migraine and depression for the past five years and was under treatment. He had been absent from work for 20 days before going missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/barc-scientist-rode-800km-to-vijayawada/articleshow/78838745.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: High demand from China to push groundnut oil exports up by 125%||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat oil millers and groundnut farmers have reasons to rejoice as there has been a spurt in demand of peanut and groundnut oil from China. Exporters said that they have confirmed booking of 90,000 tonne of groundnut oil from the neighbouring country, which is 125% higher than last year when 40,000 tonne of groundnut oil was exported. Gujarat accounts for about 90% of the total groundnut oil exported from India to China. Furthermore, the price of exported groundnut oil too has shot up. Floods damaged 35% of groundnut crop in ChinaLast year, the prices ranged from $1,400-1,700 per tonne. This year the export price was $1,550 per tonne in August which rose to $1,800 per tonne last month. The October month booking were done at $2,000 per tonne, mainly due to high demand from China which saw massive damage to groundnut crop to floods. Praful Desai, an exporter of edible oil said, “China’s groundnut production is down 30-35%. Their deficit is equal to Gujarat’s total production. Currently, India has booking of 90,000-tonne groundnut oil out of that 90% is supplied by Gujarat oil millers.” Kishor Viradia, president of Saurashtra Oil Mills Association, said, “We are aggressively buying groundnut from the market because of strong demand from China.” “India’s groundnut oil export is estimated to reach 70,000 tonnes by the end of 2020-21,” said Kishore Tanna of Indian Oilseeds and Produce Exports Promotion Council (IOPEPC), taking a conservative view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-demand-from-china-to-push-groundnut-oil-exports-up-by-125/articleshow/78838734.cms||---
October 24, 2020||Noida||Vendors to get ID cards to avail govt scheme benefits||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida Authority (GNIDA) will carry out an exhaustive survey of street vendors and hawkers as well as set up a town vending committee to pass on benefits under various government schemes. The committee, comprising six members, will represent the issues of thousands of hawkers before the authority. Simultaneously, the authority has also launched the process of registering the street vendors to provide them identity cards upon verification of their applications. Officials said that they want to implement the guidelines framed under the Uttar Pradesh Street Vendors Rules, 2018 and setting up a vending committee is required under the policy. The additional chief executive officer of the authority, Deep Chandra, said: “An amount of Rs 10,000 will be paid to the street vendors under the Prime Minister Svanidhi scheme. The money has to be offered to the vendors since their business was hit due to the lockdown and they need financial support.” The vendors have to submit their Aadhaar card along with two photographs at the authority’s office, for which the deadline is October 28. A team of officials will visit the area to inquire whether the applicant had been carrying out business and will provide financial assistance. “We will be able to dole out Rs 10,000 and also know the exact number of hawkers and vendors active in Greater Noida. They will be given ID cards too,” added Chandra. Earlier this year, the Noida Authority had initiated the registration process for hawkers. More than 2,000 vendors had paid the registration amount and were allocated space to conduct business. The Greater Noida officials will also earmark hawking zones around the town and allocate space to the vendors after the registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/vendors-to-get-id-cards-to-avail-govt-scheme-benefits/articleshow/78837129.cms||Shalabh
October 24, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Early morning snatching on rise, 2 women recent targets||GHAZIABAD: A 60-year-old woman was allegedly robbed of her gold ornaments worth Rs 1 lakh at gunpoint by three masked men early on Friday when she was out for a walk. The woman, Salocnna Kumari, is a resident of Kavi Nagar. She told police that she daily goes for a walk around 5.30am but on Friday around 5.45am, three men came in an i20 car and intercepted her. Two men then stepped out of the car. “One person held my hands and asked me to give them all my jewellery but when I refused, another man pointed a pistol on my head. I tried to shout for help, but they threatened to shoot me and then the third person stepped out and cut my gold bangles and chain with the help of a cutter. Once they snatched my ornaments, they pushed me and I fell on the road before fleeing in the car," as she said in her complaint. Similarly, the principal of a private school in Ghaziabad was allegedly robbed of her gold jewellery at gunpoint on Tuesday morning in Pratap Vihar. Sunita Bhatt (42), the principal of Advance Public School in Pratap Vihar, told police that she was waiting for her brother outside her house gate around 7am when her ornaments were snatched. “My brother was supposed to pick me up and we had to go somewhere to pick some item. On hearing the horn of a car, I went outside the gate of my house thinking it to be my brother, but one unknown man stepped out of the car and pointed a pistol at me and threatened me not to shout else he’ll shoot me. There were two more persons in the car out of which one cut my ornaments before fleeing in the car,” as she stated in her complaint. Bhatt’s family told TOI that initially the accused were booked for only theft. Only after they approached a senior police officer, the charges were extended to robbery. Meanwhile, SP (city) Abhishek Verma suspects the same gang behind both the cases. “Similar cases have been reported in Delhi. The Delhi Police have also recovered a car from their jurisdiction. Police of both states have shared the details of the accused. We have formed four teams separately too to nab them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/early-morning-snatching-on-rise-2-women-recent-targets/articleshow/78837066.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
October 24, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Farm groups block tracks to private power plant, silo & stop train||BATHINDA: A day after resumption of goods trains in Punjab after three weeks, farm outfits on Friday stopped a train heading for a corporate group silo at Dagru village near Moga, disrupted coal supply to the Independent Power Plant (IPP) Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) in Mansa and did not allow an empty passenger train to move out of the state. Farmers protesting against the new central farm laws stopped an empty passenger train at Romana Albel railway station in Faridkot district and forced it to return to Ferozepur. The farmers, assuming that the railways had started passenger trains, stopped the it for three hours. The 30 farm organisations on October 21 had decided to vacate railway tracks and allow the movement of goods trains to bring coal, fertilisers and grains. After vacating the tracks, farmers had started protests at railway stations or vacant places near tracks to check that no passenger trains runs. Thermal plants in Punjab received coal on just 2 daysIt was conveyed to the state government and the railways that only goods trains would be allowed to resume, and that too due to the need to supply coal and DAP," said BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) activists Balwinder Singh and Mohan Singh protesting at Romana Albel railway station. Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) Rajesh Aggarwal told TOI that the train was parked at Ferozepur since October 1. Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) announced its plan to block the rail route used for sending coal to Nabha Power Limited’s thermal plant in Rajpura, Patiala district on Saturday. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said, "Power purchase agreements by previous SAD-BJP government with independent power plants are not in favour of Punjab. We want these to be cancelled and the state government to go in for generating power from its own plants." TSPL had received six rakes of coal on Thursday evening and Friday morning before the farm organisation disrupted rail traffic. Likewise, the L&T plant had got some rakes out of the 22 in transit. "We have sufficient coal to run the plant on partial load for a few days. We are hopeful the government will help resolve this deadlock soon and the situation will normalise," said TSPL CEO and whole-time director Vikas Sharma. On spotting the train headed for Adani group silos, farm activists protesting at Moga railway station headed towards Dagru, nearly 12 km from Moga, on two-wheelers and tractors and blocked the rail track outside the silo plant and bolted the gate on the tracks. They finally agreed to allow only the engine to exit. "We will not allow any train movement at the corporate group businesses," said All India Students Federation activist Vicky Maheshwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-farm-groups-block-tracks-to-private-power-plant-silo-stop-train/articleshow/78838746.cms||---
