October 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru streets come alive with COVID art||Art might primarily be about the aesthetics, but often it has been one of the most profound mediums of social commentary too. Street art, in particular, reflects the changing times, and is used as one of the most effective platforms to share important messages. The past few months have been all about ensuring people remain aware about the safety and hygiene protocols during the pandemic. Thus, it comes as no surprise that most of the graffiti and murals on Bengalurustreets are either aiming at creating awareness or are tributes to the warriors fighting COVID-19. These artworks have used various pop culture references, and are quite out-of-the-box in what they convey. Leading the brigade is one of namma ooru’s favourite artists and social commentators Baadal Nanjundaswamy. “During the initial days of the pandemic, I was quite paranoid about it. And every wall and available material inside my house became my canvas. Gradually, as I mustered up the courage and went out on the streets, I was surprised to see many people wandering around the city without wearing a mask or following other safety precautions. So, I used pop culture references and other interesting ways to tell them how it is important to wear a mask and be safe.” Recently, Bengaluru also got its biggest mural at the Swami Vivekananda Road metro station. This was painted by the Aravani Art Project, and was commissioned by Mirchi 95. A member of the team painting the artwork says, “It was a great way to thank the frontline warriors who are doing so much to ensure our city is safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-streets-come-alive-with-covid-art/articleshow/78847054.cms||Sunayana Suresh
October 25, 2020||World||One month out, battered Trump campaign faces big challenges||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump's long-hidden tax returns leaked out. His first debate performance ignited a firestorm over white supremacy. He was hospitalised for Covid-19 after months of playing down the threat of a pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 Americans. And that was just this week. Trump's reelection team, battered on all sides, now enters the final month of the campaign grappling with deficits in the polls, a shortage of cash and a candidate who is at least temporarily sidelined. The crises, many of Trump's own making, have come so quickly that they are hard to keep straight. Recordings revealed that he acknowledged minimizing the dangers of the coronavirus earlier this year. A blockbuster story raised questions over whether he privately belittled members of the military. And even the first lady was captured on tape expressing disdain for having to decorate the White House for Christmas. "Are the political gods simply saying, 'Your run is over'? That four years of chaos has caught up to you?" asked Michael Steele, former head of the Republican Party. He predicts the President's coronavirus diagnosis will overwhelm all the other massive storylines. "We are a caring, forgiving people," Steele said of the American public. "But while they may show him empathy, they also won't forget that he didn't do all the things he needed to protect himself and the American people." The President's team is launching what it calls "Operation MAGA" to propel his campaign forward, even as he was being treated Sunday at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. Although Trump's medical team raised the possibility that he could be released as early as Monday, significant questions remained about the President's health and schedule. The challenges facing the reelection team are enormous. Both heads of Trump's political apparatus — campaign manager Bill Stepien and Republican national committee head Ronna McDaniel — tested positive for Covid-19 this week. Also infected: several outside advisers who had been involved in the President's debate preparations last week, including former White House senior adviser Kellyanne Conway and former New Jersey governor Chris Christie. And that comes just days after Brad Parscale, who was demoted from his campaign manager post over the summer but remained in a senior role, was hospitalized. Police were called to his Florida home after his wife said he had a firearm and was acting suicidal. Deputy campaign manager Justin Clark is temporarily overseeing the campaign's headquarters in Arlington, Virginia. Stepien organised a late Saturday staff call to project an optimistic tone, even as he acknowledged the loss of the campaign's "best asset," the President. "We built a team that's stronger than any one of us singularly," he said. With early voting already underway in many states, Trump has consistently trailed Democrat Joe Biden in national polling even as the margins in most battleground states have been closer. "This race is going to be super close. This is officially October. It's officially game time," Stepien said. "These are crazy times. These weeks feel like months with the amount of action and news packed into each week." Vice President Mike Pence outlined plans to launch a new effort to ramp up campaign appearances by Trump lieutenants who haven't been infected. Pence himself will star in the new effort, in addition to Trump's children. Pence promised that he and the first family would begin fanning out across the country aggressively in person after Wednesday's vice presidential debate. "We've got a campaign to run," Pence said. "I promise you, this President, as soon as his doctors say so, he's going to be back out there." But Pence's "business as usual" approach faced questions. Although Pence tested negative for the virus on Sunday, Covid-19 can have a lengthy incubation period. Pence attended a September 26 White House event where Trump announced his Supreme Court pick. Several attendees at that event have since tested positive. Pence also has interacted with key aides since then who have also been exposed. With Trump still not "out of the woods," in the words of his doctors, Pence plans to travel to Arizona on Thursday, Indiana on Friday and Florida on Saturday for events rather than isolating himself after potential exposure and trying to protect himself from contracting the virus anywhere else. "We're in a campaign. We have a month to go," senior campaign adviser Jason Miller said Sunday on NBC's “Meet the Press." “We see Joe Biden and Kamala Harris out there campaigning.” The Trump campaign was already facing a significant cash deficit to Biden, and now the President has been sidelined from in-person fundraising as well as his signature rallies just as the campaign was about to ramp up his travel schedule. Plans for upcoming events in Florida, Wisconsin, Arizona and Nevada were all scrapped after his diagnosis, and it remained unclear when — or if — the President would be able to resume campaigning. "He's losing, and the debate was a disaster, and the campaign is imploding," said Republican strategist Steve Schmidt, a vocal Trump critic. The President's hospitalisation also underscores what has long been the Trump campaign's greatest challenge: its inability to shift the national discourse away from the virus. For months, even as the campaign has tried to frame the election as a choice between Trump and Biden, the race has been perceived largely as a referendum on the President's handling of the pandemic. And Trump's tone on the virus has changed little despite his illness. In a video released late Saturday from the hospital, he expressed no contrition for his handling of the virus and still spoke of quickly moving beyond the pandemic. "He is a struggling incumbent, and this all makes reelection much harder. More importantly, the more the nation is discussing the pandemic, the harder the debate gets for the president," said Julian Zelizer, a presidential historian at Princeton University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/one-month-out-battered-trump-campaign-faces-big-challenges/articleshow/78851571.cms||---
October 25, 2020||World||One month out, battered Trump campaign faces big challenges||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump's long-hidden tax returns leaked out. His first debate performance ignited a firestorm over white supremacy. He was hospitalised for Covid-19 after months of playing down the threat of a pandemic that has killed more than 200,000 Americans. And that was just this week. Trump's reelection team, battered on all sides, now enters the final month of the campaign grappling with deficits in the polls, a shortage of cash and a candidate who is at least temporarily sidelined. The crises, many of Trump's own making, have come so quickly that they are hard to keep straight. Recordings revealed that he acknowledged minimizing the dangers of the coronavirus earlier this year. A blockbuster story raised questions over whether he privately belittled members of the military. And even the first lady was captured on tape expressing disdain for having to decorate the White House for Christmas. "Are the political gods simply saying, 'Your run is over'? That four years of chaos has caught up to you?" asked Michael Steele, former head of the Republican Party. He predicts the President's coronavirus diagnosis will overwhelm all the other massive storylines. "We are a caring, forgiving people," Steele said of the American public. "But while they may show him empathy, they also won't forget that he didn't do all the things he needed to protect himself and the American people." The President's team is launching what it calls "Operation MAGA" to propel his campaign forward, even as he was being treated Sunday at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center. Although Trump's medical team raised the possibility that he could be released as early as Monday, significant questions remained about the President's health and schedule. The challenges facing the reelection team are enormous. Both heads of Trump's political apparatus — campaign manager Bill Stepien and Republican national committee head Ronna McDaniel — tested positive for Covid-19 this week. Also infected: several outside advisers who had been involved in the President's debate preparations last week, including former White House senior adviser Kellyanne Conway and former New Jersey governor Chris Christie. And that comes just days after Brad Parscale, who was demoted from his campaign manager post over the summer but remained in a senior role, was hospitalized. Police were called to his Florida home after his wife said he had a firearm and was acting suicidal. Deputy campaign manager Justin Clark is temporarily overseeing the campaign's headquarters in Arlington, Virginia. Stepien organised a late Saturday staff call to project an optimistic tone, even as he acknowledged the loss of the campaign's "best asset," the President. "We built a team that's stronger than any one of us singularly," he said. With early voting already underway in many states, Trump has consistently trailed Democrat Joe Biden in national polling even as the margins in most battleground states have been closer. "This race is going to be super close. This is officially October. It's officially game time," Stepien said. "These are crazy times. These weeks feel like months with the amount of action and news packed into each week." Vice President Mike Pence outlined plans to launch a new effort to ramp up campaign appearances by Trump lieutenants who haven't been infected. Pence himself will star in the new effort, in addition to Trump's children. Pence promised that he and the first family would begin fanning out across the country aggressively in person after Wednesday's vice presidential debate. "We've got a campaign to run," Pence said. "I promise you, this President, as soon as his doctors say so, he's going to be back out there." But Pence's "business as usual" approach faced questions. Although Pence tested negative for the virus on Sunday, Covid-19 can have a lengthy incubation period. Pence attended a September 26 White House event where Trump announced his Supreme Court pick. Several attendees at that event have since tested positive. Pence also has interacted with key aides since then who have also been exposed. With Trump still not "out of the woods," in the words of his doctors, Pence plans to travel to Arizona on Thursday, Indiana on Friday and Florida on Saturday for events rather than isolating himself after potential exposure and trying to protect himself from contracting the virus anywhere else. "We're in a campaign. We have a month to go," senior campaign adviser Jason Miller said Sunday on NBC's “Meet the Press." “We see Joe Biden and Kamala Harris out there campaigning.” The Trump campaign was already facing a significant cash deficit to Biden, and now the President has been sidelined from in-person fundraising as well as his signature rallies just as the campaign was about to ramp up his travel schedule. Plans for upcoming events in Florida, Wisconsin, Arizona and Nevada were all scrapped after his diagnosis, and it remained unclear when — or if — the President would be able to resume campaigning. "He's losing, and the debate was a disaster, and the campaign is imploding," said Republican strategist Steve Schmidt, a vocal Trump critic. The President's hospitalisation also underscores what has long been the Trump campaign's greatest challenge: its inability to shift the national discourse away from the virus. For months, even as the campaign has tried to frame the election as a choice between Trump and Biden, the race has been perceived largely as a referendum on the President's handling of the pandemic. And Trump's tone on the virus has changed little despite his illness. In a video released late Saturday from the hospital, he expressed no contrition for his handling of the virus and still spoke of quickly moving beyond the pandemic. "He is a struggling incumbent, and this all makes reelection much harder. More importantly, the more the nation is discussing the pandemic, the harder the debate gets for the president," said Julian Zelizer, a presidential historian at Princeton University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/news/one-month-out-battered-trump-campaign-faces-big-challenges/articleshow/78851572.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Fresh worries over National Games as Uttar Pradesh show interest||PANAJI : Union Ayush minister and Goa Olympic Association (GOA) president Shripad Naik will lead a delegation to tell chief minister Pramod Sawant that the state should not lose the chance to host the 36th edition of National Games. Goa has come under fire for its inability to host the National Games on different occasions. Originally scheduled to be hosted in 2011, Goa has sought several postponements, even after dates were finalised. Now as Goa prepares to host the National Games next year, the state could face hurdles, particularly with the Uttar Pradesh Olympic Association telling chief minister Yogi Adityanath that UP should host the Games. “We don’t know which edition (UP will host), but given the postponements here, anything can happen. What if the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) decides to snatch the Games away from Goa,” asked GOA general secretary Gurudutta Bhakta. At the general body meeting of the GOA in the city on Saturday, it was decided that a delegation will meet the chief minister. “We cannot afford to lose the Games,” said Bhakta. The GOA passed a resolution that recommends hosting of the National Games in November 2021. “Since the National Games were scheduled to be held here in November 2020, a year later should be good enough. Everything will be ready, and it will come post the Olympics too. The final decision is in the hands of the state government,” said Bhakta. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju had told the Lok Sabha last month that the Games were postponed indefinitely due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Goa was scheduled to host the Games from October 20 to November 4. In the past, the state has often been found wanting in its preparedness. No National Games has seen as many official postponements as the one scheduled to be held in the state. The last edition was held in January 2015 in Kerala. The AGM also saw GOA approving a grant of Rs 30,000 each to 10 athletes for 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fresh-worries-over-national-games-as-up-show-interest/articleshow/78851582.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Romeo Fernandes misses ISL bus, may wait till January||PANAJI: FC Goa have registered 30 players for this season of the Indian Super League (ISL) but there won’t be a romantic return for Romeo Fernandes. Three years after he was allowed to leave the club -- while retaining Mandar Rao Desai and goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani – Romeo and FC Goa were keen on a reunion. Having played little last season, the plan was to have a closer look at him during training. However, given the Covid-19 pandemic and quarantine protocols, the winger has been forced to miss out. “Our plan was to check his match fitness and readiness during a short trial. We wanted coach (Juan Ferrando) to have a look at him and then decide. But the coach won’t be on the field till October 26 and we had to complete the player registration process by October 23,” a FC Goa official told TOI on Saturday. The former FC Goa star was briefly on the radar of SC East Bengal as well. The new entrants in the ISL had 29 domestic players on their roll, many of them now left out of the squad that travelled to Goa. East Bengal have also signed five new domestic players, but unfortunately for Romeo, they didn’t need any reinforcement in his position. “Romeo has offers from I-League clubs but he’s not looking at them at the moment. The I-League starts only in January (2021), so we have enough time till then. We are sure that ISL clubs will need replacements midway into the season. Romeo just needs to be ready,” said his representative Rhys Mascarenhas. The winger’s next shot at ISL will be in January when the transfer window opens again. According to ISL guidelines, the domestic player composition shall remain fixed for the entirety of the season, unless a player has been released by the club. “Romeo may have to wait till January now. If a club, for any reason, does not require a registered player, they can loan him to a I-League club and sign a replacement,” said another official. A darling of Goan football not too long ago, Romeo will hope he gets another chance to win hearts, at FC Goa or elsewhere in ISL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/romeo-fernandes-misses-isl-bus-may-wait-till-january/articleshow/78851974.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 25, 2020||Allahabad||Art and cultural activities have thrived in the city in the past decade: Prayagraj artistes||The cultural scene in Prayagraj has become more vibrant over the last decade. A lot of events are now being organised that have become part of the annual cultural event like the Patharchatti Ramnavmi celebration and Chalo Man Ganga Yamuna organised by North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC), in which both prominent and upcoming artists perform. The NCZCC has been regularly organising cultural programmes in the city since past several years (BCCL)Talking about the turning point for the revival of cultural activities in the past decade, Indrajeet Singh Grover, Director, NCZCC, Prayagraj says, “The city has been culturally rich and aware since decades. But as an artist, I must say that the developments during the Kumbh paved a way for the cultural revolution in the city. It was not only the beauty of the city that was being enhanced at that time but it did wonders for the art community here. These developments are to be appreciated.” Hema Malini performed a dance ballet at the Kumbh (BCCL)He adds, “The four-acre Kala Gram in Kumbh was the biggest crowd puller which had an amalgamation of artifacts, handicrafts, folk artists, tribal artists from all over the country and other such programs at not only on our stage but at other places also. Under NCZCC only, I was managing the cultural events that were going on at three places simultaneously. It took shape of a cultural revolution and after that, there has been a sharp increase in cultural activities. Also, the expectations of the audience has gone up. The increase in cultural awareness has resulted in the increased hunger for quality cultural programmes which I think is a positive sign for the art community.” The Kumbh also witnessed a lot of celebrities and big names staging their power-packed performances, which won the hearts of the city folk. Danseuse and Bollywood actor Hema Malini also regaled the audience with her presentation of ballet on Ganga. In an event organized by the Department of Culture in the Kumbh Mela area, the ace actor gave a captivating performance. Making a splendid use of cinematic effect and drama, the ballet traced the journey of River Ganga from its origin till its present state. The performance witnessed a huge crowd speaking volumes about how the city was culturally being rejuvenated. Cultural activities have formed a huge part of the Kumbh Mela in the past decade (BCCL)Sharing his thoughts on how the budding artists of the city are becoming the flag bearers of this revolution, Anil Ranjan Bhowmick, a veteran theatre artiste says, “In the 80s-90s, people used to participate in art forms while doing their full-time jobs. They took art as part-time and never took the risk. But things have now changed drastically especially in the last decade. The budding artists are now taking the risk and taking up the art forms as a full-time profession and many of them are getting benefitted from that. Also, this wholehearted association with the art forms has made them more creative in the process, which is a good sign. Now the city has a lot of culture and theatre activities giving a boost to art.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/art-and-cultural-activities-have-thrived-in-the-city-in-the-past-decade-prayagraj-artistes/articleshow/78850556.cms||Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Checks on NCR restros increase as a few flout COVID norms||On October 20, a team from the Excise Department sealed a restaurant in Punjabi Bagh for violating social distancing norms. Delhi Police has received similar complaints against two restaurants. With people returning to restaurants and pubs, the two agencies have intensified checks at restaurants. Show-cause notice will be sent to restaurants that violate social distancing norms: Delhi PoliceWhile in some restaurants guests remove their masks upon entering, a few pubs are allowing guests on the dance floor, which is not permitted. And some restros are going beyond the 50% occupancy rule. Suvashis Choudhary, Joint CP, Licensing, says, “We’ve received one or two complaints against restaurants not following social distancing, and we’ll send them a show-cause notice depending upon the violations. However, most restaurants are following safety norms and adhering to occupancy limits. The district police is conducting regular checks, too.” Restaurants violating safety norms are being penalised. Eish Singhal, spokesperson, Delhi Police, says, “We’re conducting checks to ensure restaurants follow guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Those violating the rules will be penalised.” Excise officials said they are conducting strict checks at restaurants. Following all norms, take action if we’re guilty: RestaurateursSome days back, a nightclub in Hyderabad was sealed after a video of people flouting safety norms circulated online. After that, NCR restaurateurs are ensuring that safety norms are followed. “We realise its importance, and we keep reminding one another of that. It’s a good sign that customers are returning and most places have a waiting list, especially on weekends. While trying to revive businesses, we ensure that the safety rulebook is being followed. We’d never want fingers pointed at the entire industry because of a few,” says a restaurateur. He adds that while challans were issued this week, there have been regular checks at malls and nightlife hubs like Connaught Place. Sources say that most challans that were issued on Wednesday were for violating social distancing norms. Restaurateur Varun Khera says, “The only protection against COVID-19 is a mask, and inside restaurants, we have customers without masks. That’s why it’s crucial that safety guidelines are followed. Some restaurants did violate occupancy norms. However, these are just one or two instances. We are a law-abiding industry and are taking all measures to ensure our guests’ safety.” Sandeep Goyle, member of the managing committee of National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) says, “We’ve told officials that we are doing our best to follow safety guidelines. If someone is found violating the norms, action should be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/checks-on-ncr-restros-increase-as-a-few-flout-covid-norms/articleshow/78844229.cms||Niharika Lal
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Low on budget, high on josh: Durga Puja pandals in the city keep celebrations low key this year||Even with low budgets and lots of restrictions, Durga Puja pandals in the city are high on josh. Temperature checks, sanitization, no prasad and offerings being given to the devotees and social distancing being maintained, the puja celebrations are on in the city with full enthusiasm. Adhering to the guidelines laid down by the government, several pandals have been set up in the city. Vinod Kumar Tewari, General Secretary, Model House Durga Puja Committee, says, “The celebrations this year are not grand. However, we are celebrating the most awaited festival for us with great zeal and enthusiasm following all the rules and regulations set up for us by the government Proper social distancing norms and regular sanitization is being done at the pandal.” Charbagh and (inset) a list of dos and don’ts is put up at most of the Durga Puja pandals in the city (BCCL)Jogendra Pathak Road (BCCL)Cantonment (BCCL)“We get the idol made in the club every year but this time we couldn’t, nor could we have the chandi paath. We are not giving the bhog also. But what is new this year is that the visarjan will be done in the club premises only. Given the limitations, we have tried to do the puja as best as we could. What is also very good is that the people are cooperating with us and are just as high on josh as every year,” says Arun Kumar Bannerji, President Bengali Club. Model House (BCCL)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/low-on-budget-high-on-josh-durga-puja-pandals-in-the-city-keep-celebrations-low-key-this-year/articleshow/78846823.cms||Iti Shree Misra
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Six-feet distance, sanitising & face shields: Mumbaikars, get set for new gym etiquette||Fitness lovers in Mumbai have been restless to get back to their favourite gyms ever since Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s announced that fitness centres will be allowed to reopen from Dussehra, as long as they strictly adhere to SOPs (standard operating procedure) for their services. For gyms that have been shut since March, this is a welcome decision as they have their safety strategy in place… Batch-wise entry and educating about safety: Gym ownersPeople will have to wear a mask or face shield in gyms nowLike the hospitality industry, the fitness industry has suffered huge losses owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and gym owners in the state have been asking the government to allow them to resume operations for several weeks now. Says Badal Makwana owner of a city gym chain, “We have been awaiting permission to reopen for two reasons — a bad financial crunch and secondly, our members have been wanting to resume their workouts again. The gym has always been a place for people to destress and stay fit, both of which matter a lot in these times.” With the go-ahead, they are set to put their new plans into action now. He shares, “There will be social distancing of six-feet and a strict record of people coming in and going out. We have also increased our housekeeping team, who will be disinfecting all the frequently-touched surfaces, including cleaning each equipment once it’s used by a person. In addition, members will be educated about safety via signs and through the staff. We will now have reservation slot booking to manage the crowd. The central government has given us a ‘per square feet member capacity’, which is one member per four square metres. Roughly translated, it means 20-25 members will be permitted at one point of time vis-à-vis 40-50 in pre-COVID times. The numbers have been halved, but we are confident and hope to tide over our losses.” Ankush Shedge, owner of a gym at Dadar, plans to handle the crowd batch-wise. “We are going to divide members into five-six batches through the day, so that there are fewer people on the floor at a time. Members will need to wear a shield while working out. They will not be allowed to use lockers, showers, steam facilities or changing rooms." New rule will have trainers guide from a distanceMaintaining a six-feet distance from others is mandatoryMaharashtra Gym Owners Association president, Mahendra Chavan, says, “As per rules, we can allow 10 members per 1,000sqft. Every member will have temperature and oxygen check-up on entry. Masks will be compulsory. Every session will be for 45 minutes only. After each session the whole gym will be sanitised. Since there will be controlled use of AC, every gym will ensure that there is adequate ventilation. Changing rooms are also not allowed in the gyms. We are planning to make gloves compulsory for members. Trainers will guide from five-feet away and will not hand out any equipment to the member. Members also need to get their own towel for the cardio session.” Minissha LambaI’m happy that the gyms are reopening, so many are dependent on it for their livelihood. i’ve also been looking forward to going to the gym. I shall be working out with precautions — like wearing masks and switching to a shield when I am on a machine doing cardio. I’ll also be following the social distancing norms there — Minissha Lamba, actress Expect these safety protocolsSanitising all equipment at regular intervals is a must • Members’ temperature check before entering • Installation of santising stations for members. • Social distancing of six-feet. Equipment, including cardio and strength machines will also be placed at a distance. • Limited members will be allowed to use the gym and according to the slot allocated to them. • Constant sanitising of gym and its equipments. • Gyms will give disposable paper tissues to members, no towels to be provided. • Persons above 65 years of age, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 are advised not to use gyms for the time being • Members and staff to expected to use the Aarogya Setu application for risk identification at all times inside gymnasiums and fitness centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/six-feet-distance-sanitising-face-shields-mumbaikars-get-set-for-new-gym-etiquette/articleshow/78849857.cms||Ismat Tahseen
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||City cyclists got into Navratri mode with a navrang ride||The celebrations of Navratri may have been low-key this time as there were restrictions over outdoor gatherings due to pandemic. Mumbaikars still found a fun (and safe) way to enjoy themselves. So while some continued with virtual sessions of garba and dandiya, others got innovative. Take the case of this group of cyclists who did a navrang ride, where they marked each day of Navratri , dressed in the colour of the day. This community ride ensured a burst of colour, fun and fervour across the 24 wards of Mumbai, including Bhandup, Mulund, Bandra, Borivali and Gorai. It turned out to be a mood-lifter: Mumbai Bicycle mayorDuring the 'white' colour theme rideGiving details of their innovative ride, Mumbai bicycle mayor Firoza Suresh says, “Navratri is all about light, hope and festive bonding. So the city’s bicycle councillors chalked out a plan, where riders wore the specific colour associated with each day of the nine-day festival. It turned out to be a mood-lifter at a time when everything has been low-key, including festivals, due to the pandemic.”  The enthusiastic turnout since the themed rides started last weekend on October 17, added to the excitement. It was a new experience for homemaker Farnaz Adani. “I started riding after 20 years, so it felt good to be part of the community ride. It was nice to see everyone dressed in the same colour.” Firoza adds, “On day one, the colour ode was grey, but the mood was far from that – we all had a blast. Then next day, Sunday, we rode towards Mumbai North, where over 100 riders in orange, from Malad to Dahisar, embarked on a trail that culminated at a joggers’ park in Borivali. The next day, the cyclists wore white and so on. It has been like a blaze of one colour as cyclists did a 8-km ride across all the wards in the city.” They are now looking forward to the culmination of the navrang ride that will take place at Carter Road today. Jalebi-fafda,bun-maska add fun to the festive trailsWhen blue was the colour of the dayThe Ghatkopar cyclists club also undertook a navrang ride, after sharing the plan on their social media group. Informs cyclist Pankit Fariya, “We were missing the usual Navratri celebrations as there were no garba or group gatherings this time. We decided to celebrate it on wheels and make it as festive as possible. So, on day one, all the cyclists brought Gujarati khana from home with dishes like handvo, khichu, patra and jalebi-fafda. We had a traditional breakfast after the ride. And that’s the pattern we followed as we cycled to different places like Haji Ali, Mount Mary’s and Eastern Express Highway among others, in the Navratri colour of the day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-cyclists-got-into-navratri-mode-with-a-navrang-ride/articleshow/78849741.cms||Ismat Tahseen
October 25, 2020||India||India to allow foreign companies too to make and launch satellites||BENGALURU: India’s new space policy will not just open up the sector to private Indian entities but also encourage foreign direct investment and allow foreign companies to set up facilities in the country, department of space (DoS) secretary K Sivan said. These bold initiatives are likely to be part of a policy framework DoS is preparing. These include permitting FDI in the space sector, with or without tie-ups with Indian firms, and allowing international entities to engage in a host of space-related activities. "We are going on full steam now. Foreign firms can set up facilities to make satellites and launch vehicles here, set up ground stations and use our spaceports as long as they invest here through FDI,” K Sivan, secretary, DoS, told TOI. "While policies will enable this, decisions will be taken on a case-by-case basis, given how sensitive the space sector is. National security and interest will be priority, and firms will be required to give undertakings on following all guidelines we lay down,” he added. On partnerships with foreign satellite companies, Sivan said Indian companies can tie up with foreign firms. “For instance, our (Indian) firms can have 60% investment and foreign firms can invest 40% through FDI. But the modalities need to be worked out,” Sivan said. While stating that the department would give more clarity once IN-SPACe (Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre) is completely operational and the other policies in the pipeline are ready to be rolled out, Sivan said many companies have shown interest in the sector. In fact, the newly formed IN-SPACe is already reviewing multiple applications, including one each from UK-based OneWeb, a stake in which is owned by Bharti Enterprises, and Norway-headquartered KSAT, a global telecommunications service provider. Norway firm wants to set up ground stations in India: SivanSivan said Airtel had sought the department’s support in establishing ground stations. “We are reviewing this and there are many more applications that have been received. One major foreign firm is KSAT from Norway, which as part of its worldwide network, wants to set up ground stations in India,” he said. As reported by TOI, industrialist Sunil Bharti Mittal had in August said the firm was keen on partnering with Isro to leverage OneWeb’s constellation. “OneWeb will have the world’s first large constellation in LEO (low Earth orbit). We will have 648 satellites covering the world, and testing will begin next year. We desire to get landing rights (permission to use satellites in India) here and we’ve identified areas in north, south and west for ground stations to start delivering services when constellation is complete,” Mittal said. Stating that the firm understands the challenges of taking optical fibre to some of the remote parts of India, Mittal had said they have earmarked many areas to deliver broadband connectivity, for which too they hoped to work closely with Isro. From its headquarters in Norway, the firm has been in the ground segment business since 1968. As on date, the firm’s website reads: “...Our mission is to be the world’s leading commercial satellite centre. We have heavily invested in, and built a network of global ground stations, consisting of more than 200 remotely controlled antennas.” Watch Foreign firms can set up facilities to make satellites and launch vehicles: DoS secretary K Sivan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-allow-foreign-companies-too-to-make-and-launch-satellites/articleshow/78852193.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 25, 2020||Business||Relief on interest will flow to borrowers’ accounts as ex gratia||MUMBAI: In the next few days, banks will credit lakhs of loan accounts with an ex-gratia payment equal to the interest on interest amount they have paid during the lockdown. The Indian Banks Association has said that the government’s decision to apply a uniform formula for all borrowers below Rs 2 crore will enable them to automate the payments within the government deadline of November 5, 2020. “This is a very straightforward scheme. The outstanding balance has been crystallised as on February 29. Also, any recoveries by the bank during the moratorium period are ignored. A borrower who has paid every single instalment will get the same benefit as those who have availed of moratorium. Calculations will not take time as it will be software-driven. However, eligible customers will have to be certified by auditors (that the loans are eligible),” Rajkiran Rai, IBA chairman and MD of Union Bank of India, said. TOI had in its Saturday edition reported exclusively on the government finalising the scheme. Banks are expected to put in place a portal on their website for redressal of any grievance regarding the ex-gratia payment. In the meantime, they will continue to charge interest in their regular manner. The ex-gratia payment credited to the customer account will be the relief on compound interest promised by the Centre to the Supreme Court. Earlier this month, in the matter of interest relief to borrowers during the moratorium, the Centre had promised to make good the interest on interest. The promise was followed by a communication on Friday to all RBI-regulated lenders announcing the scheme where the government would compensate banks for crediting customers’ accounts with an ex-gratia amount equal to interest on interest on loans during the lockdown. The government is expected to come back with a clarification on the eligibility of credit card outstandings as on February 29, and whether ex-gratia on credit card will be available on outstanding as on that date or on the amount rolled over. Another issue relates to accounts where the loan tenure was completed mid-lockdown and the borrower was no longer with the bank. Of the Rs 100 lakh crore of loans outstanding, the eligible loans are expected to be in the range of Rs 30-40 lakh crore. Assuming a rate of 8%, the interest on the loans would be roughly Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,500 crore. Watch Government has a Diwali gift borrowers who payed timely EMIs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/relief-on-interest-will-flow-to-borrowers-accounts-as-ex-gratia/articleshow/78852413.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 25, 2020||India||Cooperatives absorb Covid shock, help milk farmers beat crisis||NEW DELHI: Like many other sectors in India, the dairy sector faced the heat of Covid-19. But farmer-owned cooperatives shielded dairy farmers from the brunt of a drop in demand from bulk consumers by absorbing the shock at a time when small and big private players, including milk processors, left the field waiting for the market to recover. Though milk as farm commodity can’t be compared with food grains, the management of this perishable liquid through cooperatives may offer farmers and policy makers some insights. The milk cooperative model can be an apt example when the sector, backed by newly enacted farm laws, looks to offer options for small and marginal farmers, accounting for 86% of India’s farming community, through promoting an additional 10,000 farmer producers’ organisations (FPOs) over next five years. “The FPOs may be a game-changer for farmers the way milk cooperatives in different states changed the dairy sector landscape over the years. The model may not only save crop farmers in crisis as we had seen for dairy farmers during Covid-19, but can also ensure economies of scale even in normal situation for getting better price of their produce,” said an official. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesData of first six months (April-September) of current and previous financial years show that dairy cooperatives did not stop procurement despite selling less during the six months in 2020 compared to the corresponding months last year. Ideally, the procurement of cooperatives and sale could have been higher. But, data from milk unions and dairy federations shows procurement remained higher even as sales dipped below the previous year due to Covid crisis. Dairy cooperatives could not sell due to massive drop in demand from bulk consumers — requiring conversion into long shelf life milk powder. This conversion, however, won’t give them immediate returns. Nevertheless, they managed to maintain supply chain for daily retail domestic consumers. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“If supply of milk and milk products were not interrupted during this period of crisis, we should thank the dairy cooperatives and other producer centric organisations who have been resilient enough to work tirelessly as Covid warriors during this emergency to minimise the disruptions in the dairy supply chain,” said Dilip Rath, chairman, National Dairy Development Board which promotes, finances and supports producer-owned and controlled organisations. Rath said the Centre responded to the need of the dairy sector and announced an interest subvention scheme on working capital loans to address the liquidity problem. Most of the private players, including processors, had significantly reduced milk procurement as demand dipped due to closure of hotels, restaurant and catering (HORECA) segment, lack of purchasing power with consumers and aversion to the chilled milk beverages and ice creams during Covid-19. Though the economy is now getting progressively unlocked, the HORECA segment is expected to remain subdued as people will prefer in-home eating. “We should take this crisis head-on and convert these into an opportunity to undertake structural reforms to bring about efficiencies, effectiveness and sustainability across the dairy value chain. On the consumer side, rather than waiting for consumer to reach to us, we will have to reach to consumers through doorstep delivery, use of e-commerce portal, innovations for nutritious and immunity boosting products, and building awareness about the quality of the packaged milk and milk products,” Rath said. Watch Cooperatives absorb Covid-19 shock, assist milk farmers beat crisis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cooperatives-absorb-covid-shock-help-milk-farmers-beat-crisis/articleshow/78852587.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 25, 2020||India||Punjab rape-murder gives BJP ammo to target Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: BJP on Saturday accused Congress of “selective outrage” as the saffron party questioned the main opposition’s silence over the rape and killing of a six-year-old girl of a migrant family from Bihar in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman questioned “tweet-friendly” Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra and asked if the incident didn’t shake the conscience of the “brother-sister duo who rush to every place that can help them politically”, a reference to their visit to the family members of the Hathras victim in UP. Accusing Rahul and Priyanka of going on a “political tour” to Hathras, Union minister Prakash Javadekar questioned the lack of a similar reaction from them to the ghastly crimes against women in Punjab and Rajasthan, where Congress is in office. “They go to places for photo-op,” he said. Sitharaman also took a swipe at RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, questioning if he had asked Rahul Gandhi about the issue while holding a joint poll campaign with him in Bihar. Attacking Yadav, she referred to a 2008 news report over “allegations of eve-teasing and misbehaviour” against him and his elder brother Tej Pratap. “It (the Punjab incident) may not hurt RJD because that is how things were when they were in office,” Sitharaman told reporters while recounting Lalu Prasad’s ‘jungle raj’ in Bihar during 1990-2005. Hitting out at Congress, she said, “Tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi has not tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There has been no outrage. And no picnic either... The Congress party should stand up and answer. Does this kind of selective outrage suit the stature of the party? Why is the brother-sister pair not voicing horror in Hoshiarpur? Why not in Rajasthan? The selective cry of outrage is completely exposed,” she said, adding that crimes like rape should not be politicised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-rape-murder-gives-bjp-ammo-to-target-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/78852612.cms||---
October 25, 2020||India||India to miss goal of 75% reduction in TB deaths by 2025: Experts’ report||NEW DELHI: India is not on course to meet the goal of a 50% reduction in TB incidence and 75% reduction in TB deaths by 2025, a review paper by several experts has concluded. Analysing data up to 2018, the paper points out that deaths were down by just 8.3% and incidence by 5.3% since 2015. For the goal to be met, reductions by 2020 would have to be 35% and 20% respectively. India’s National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP) is focused more on the treatment rather than on social determinants of TB such as under-nutrition and living conditions which lead to a large number of new TB cases being added each year, the paper pointed out. It also referred to a path-breaking study of 2019 that has shown that only around 50% of new TB cases were registered for treatment. The biggest chunk, over 40%,of new cases, were lost due to poor access to diagnostic services or a missed diagnosis. Once diagnosed, several thousands are lost to follow up at every stage, till just about 37% of new cases achieve recurrence-free survival. The paper published recently in the journal Expert Review of Respiratory Medicine pointed out that poor people were often forced to seek expensive treatment in the private sector, especially in areas with poor access to government facilities. In states with better functioning public health systems like Kerala, 78% of TB patients were treated in the public sector compared to just 36% in Bihar. This matters because the loss to follow up of new patients is 4% in the public sector and 19% in the private sector, noted the paper. The paper quoted earlier studies which showed that in patients treatment remained incomplete for a number of reasons including distance, inability to afford repeated visits, the waiting time, behaviour of staff, non-availability of drugs and adverse effects. About 15% recorded as lost to follow up were found to have actually died. The authors stated that in developing countries non-compliance with anti-tuberculosis therapy is more often due to the health system’s shortcomings than to the patient’s failure to comply. Pointing out that poor living conditions, livelihood and under-nutrition translated into biologic risk factors such that the TB infection progresses to disease and often adverse outcomes, the authors urged action on these social determinants to improve outcomes. They noted that the prevalence of TB in a district with higher income individuals was 24 per lakh while that in an indigenous population was 63 times higher at 1,518 per lakh. These differences are not due to genetic or biological reasons but because of conditions of living and the healthcare system. Inequities in health are “systematic, socially produced (therefore modifiable) and unfair”, the paper said. “The recent Global TB report mentions that under-nutrition is the leading risk factor for TB, accounting for 2.2 million cases in the world annually, more than those contributed by HIV and diabetes combined. A balanced diet can function like an oral polyvalent vaccine which is available over the counter and can be safely dispensed to men, women and children.” said one of the authors, Dr Anurag Bhargava. In TB, under-nutrition increases the risk of more severe disease, death, delayed sputum conversion, drug induced hepatotoxicity, malabsorption of anti-TB drugs and relapse after cure, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-miss-goal-of-75-reduction-in-tb-deaths-by-2025-experts-report/articleshow/78852623.cms||Rema Nagarajan
October 25, 2020||India||Three TV channel directors, owners dubbed accused||MUMBAI: In the ongoing probe into the TRP scam, Mumbai police on Saturday referred to “owners and directors” of three channels — Republic TV, Mahamovies and News Nation — as accused in their remand application for extension of police custody of two accused. Nine people have been arrested in the scam so far. This is the first time the police have mentioned the channels’ owners and directors in their remand application. Asked why these additions have been made now, the police said the financial trail in the investigations has led them to believe that the owners and directors of these channels were involved in the manipulation of TRPs of their channels. The police, while seeking extension of custody of Ramji Verma (41) and Dinesh Vishwakarma (37) before the 37th Metropolitan Magistrate, mentioned in their remand application Abhishek Kolwade of Max Media company, one Rocky and the owners and directors of Republic TV, News Nation and Mahamovies as accused. The court extended the police custody of the two accused till Monday. The crime branch is probing the role of five channels, including Republic TV, for inflating viewership figures, a key parameter that media-buying houses consider while placing advertisements. Police said one of the arrested accused, Umesh Mishra, a former relationship manager with Hansa Research, was found to have links with Verma and Vishwakarma. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has installed 2,000 peoplemetres in homes in Mumbai. BARC had given the contract of monitoring the barometers to Hansa Research. “During the course of interrogations of the arrested accused and witnesses, it transpired that Abhishek Kolwade and some accused who are yet to be arrested have connived with and accepted money from these channels to increase their TRPs,” said an officer involved in the probe. The officer said the police are in the process of identifying officials of these three channels who used to pay money to rig TRPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-tv-channel-directors-owners-dubbed-accused/articleshow/78852640.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 25, 2020||Surat||Surat traffic department paid Rs 1.2 crore for towing cranes in five months||SURAT: Even when the nation was under lockdown with people hardly venturing out of homes or breaking parking rules, Surat city traffic police shelled out Rs 37.8 lakh as hiring charges for tow-away cranes in a period of two months. What’s more, in the first three phases of unlock, police paid Rs 82.79 lakh when there were barely sufficient numbers of citizens on the road! In all, traffic police paid a whopping amount of more than Rs 1.2 crore for a total of 22 cranes hired from a contractor in the past five months. The payments also include the month of July when traffic police observed three weeks of no-fine days as part of their ‘i-follow’ campaign from July 7 and vehicles were not towed away from no-parking areas. Despite assistant commissioner of police, planning and administration, A P Chauhan raising serious objections to the payment, the crane providing agency was paid even for July. In his letter, Chauhan stated that the payment should not be made as the cranes were not used during the campaign, but these were overruled by deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Prashant Sumbe. These details were gathered by activist Sanjay Ezhava through RTI applications in which he alleged that money was wrongly paid to the contractor even when towing activity was almost nil. He further alleged serious discrepancies in maintaining log-books. Senior traffic police officials claim that the towing cranes were utilized for shifting of detained vehicles, while some were kept as stand-by and a few others were used for transporting relief material like food, sanitizers and other products. “They have shown in log-books that at many places they detained vehicles when there was almost zero vehicle movement in the city. In a few cases the log-books are left blank to make entries later. While in some cases they just mentioned patrolling or bandobast instead of the number of vehicles detained,” Ezhava alleged. “Over and above the payment for July, if traffic police’s claims are to be believed, discrepancy of Rs 53.9 lakh still exists as per the log-book data,” alleged Ezhava, who has sent his written complaint to city police commissionerate, directorate of anti-corruption bureau, home department, chief minister and Lokayukta as well. “The allegations are baseless and the cranes were in use for shifting of over 37,000 detained vehicles seized by police for violation of lockdown. These cranes were also used for transportion of food, protective material, barricades and others as well during lockdown when the towing of vehicles from no-parking was discontinued,” said Sumbe. He further said that during the ‘i-follow’ campaign, these towing cranes were kept on stand-by as it is an emergency service and so, the department had to pay for the services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-traffic-dept-paid-rs-1-2cr-for-towing-cranes-in-5-months/articleshow/78850172.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: ‘Kanya puja’ marks Ashtami celebrations||PATNA: Devotees performed ‘Kanya puja’ rituals on Durga Ashtami that was celebrated with fervour in the city on Saturday. They worshipped Goddess Mahagauri and observed fast on the occasion. According to a local priest, Ajay Kumar Mishra, many people celebrated Ashtami and Navami together on Saturday. “Maa Siddhidatri, considered to be the ninth form of Goddess Durga, is worshipped on the occasion of Navami. The auspicious day began at 11.27am on Saturday and will continue till 11.14am on Sunday,” the priest told this reporter. Boring Road resident Shambhavi Mishra and her family celebrated Ashtami and Navami together. “I will, however, end my nine-day fast on Sunday,” she said. Meanwhile, a large number of devotees visited temples and worshipped Goddess Durga while following Covid-19 safety guidelines. They maintained distance, wore masks, used sanitizers and underwent thermal screening. 27-year-old Jagriti performed ‘Kanya puja’ on Saturday, but made sure all the girls followed social distancing norms and wore masks. Nehru Nagar resident Shimpy, on the other hand, did not invite outsiders to her home for ‘Kanya puja’ this year. She said, “We cannot risk anyone’s life amid the pandemic. We have also decided not to step out for pandal-hopping.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kanya-puja-marks-ashtami-celebrations/articleshow/78850482.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Now, BJP’s Fadnavis tests positive for Covid-19||PATNA: Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP’s Bihar poll incharge Devendra Fadnavis tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. “I have been working every single day since the lockdown, but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break! I have tested Covid-19 positive and in isolation. Taking all medication and treatment as per the advice of the doctors (sic),” Fadnavis, who is currently in Mumbai, tweeted. Earlier, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former Union minister Rajiv Pratap Rudy and party’s national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain had tested positive for the virus along with several leaders from different parties. Meanwhile, as per the information shared by the state health department, 1,054 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Saturday. With this, the state’s tally has risen to 2,11,443. Officially, the state’s Covid toll has touched 1,042 with eight more people succumbing to the virus on Saturday. However, with 1,99,521 recoveries, there are 10,878 active cases in the state. Altogether 1,41,905 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours. AIIMS-Patna reported six deaths on Saturday and the victims included two from Patna – a 62-year-old man from Rajeev Nagar and a 72-year-old man from Magistrate Colony. The other deceased were a 60-year-old woman from Katra Nawazi Tola in Saran district, a 54-year-old man from Deokunda village in Bhagalpur, a 75-year-old man from Sultanpur Saurahi village in Samastipur and a 40-year-old man from Kasba in Purnia. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported two fresh deaths – a 69-year-old woman from Samastipur and a 75-year-old man from Vaishali. Of the total 1054 new Covid-19 cases registered on Saturday, 239 were from Patna. The district’s Covid tally has mounted to 34,295. However, with 31,490 recoveries and 256 deaths, there are 2,549 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Gopalganj recorded 149 fresh cases, Saharsa 54, Muzaffarpur 48, Bhagalpur 42 and Gaya 42.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-bjps-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/78850438.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 25, 2020||---||RLSP manifesto focuses on educational reforms||PATNA: Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha on Saturday released the 26-point manifesto of his party with emphasis on educational reforms and employment generation. Kushwaha said carrying out educational reforms would be the priority of the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) comprising RLSP, BSP and Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM if it was voted to power. He said residential schools on the pattern of the Navodaya schools would be opened in every district for students from the poor families, Dalits, Mahadalits, extremely backward and backward castes. “Besides, schools will also be opened for Dalits in the name of former CM Karpoori Thakur,” he added. The RLSP chief appealed to the people to give GDSF at least five years to rule the state. “We are urging people to give us an opportunity to form government and manage the state’s affairs for five years to bring about quality changes and transformation in the state,” Kushwaha said. He added his party’s manifesto had been christened as ‘vachan patra (commitment paper)’. Kushwaha said the GDSF government would give employment to youths immediately after assessing the vacancies, and then also create work opportunities by inviting investors to establish industrial units in the state. “The products from these newly established industries will also be used in the government departments,” he added. The RLSP chief said if given a chance, he would exert pressure on the Centre to promote production and storage of vegetables through cooperatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rlsp-manifesto-focuses-on-educational-reforms/articleshow/78856180.cms||Abhay Singh
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 10,000 flood relief amount disbursed in Secunderabad||HYDERABAD: Flood relief amount of Rs 10,000 was distributed to affected victims by minister for animal husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav, minister for labour Ch Malla Reddy and Secunderabad MLA, G Sayanna at ward no. I and VI in Secunderabad. Telangana assembly deputy speaker, T Padma Rao visited areas in his assembly constituency and disbursed flood relief to the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-10k-flood-relief-amount-disbursed/articleshow/78851134.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: Lack of jobs, water stagnation poll issues in Mokama||PATNA: Stagnation of rainwater in around 11,000 hectares of agricultural land in Mokama Tal (diara) area is prominently dominating the electoral scene in Mokama as well as Barh assembly constituencies in Patna district. Some farmers had launched an agitation in Marachi block last week to draw the attention of the government towards the problems faced by the farmers of Mokama Tal area, which covered agricultural land from Fatuha in Patna district to Barahiya in Begusarai. “Senior JD (U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh had visited the dharna site and assured the farmers of financial help. Although the protesters lifted the dharna on his assurance, they threatened to resume it after the elections if their demands were not fulfilled,” Birendra Kumar Singh, a resident of Mokama, told this newspaper. The issue of waterlogging is raised in every election, but the problem continues. “It is an irony that the Tal area is popularly called ‘Dalhan ka katora’ (bowl of pulses), but it has no agro-based industry,” lamented Sardar Daljeet Singh, a 71-year-old farmer of Mokama. He added, “All the four industries — Bharat Wagon, McDowell’s, National Textile Corporation and Bata India — were also closed, compelling hundreds of youngsters to migrate to other states for work.” The lack of jobs has also led to an unprecedented rise in crime in the region. Sardar Gurujeet Singh, who had unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls from Mokama as a Congress candidate in 2005, pointed out, “Even those, who work in agricultural fields, are engaged only for two or three months. During the rest of the year, they depend on other sources for earning money.” It is not that development has not reached the villages in the area. Roads, electricity and drinking water facilities are now available in Gosai, Paiguna, Samayagarh, Kurmichak, Kumhara and Mohanpur. “Villages in Kasaha diara area have also been connected with roads and electricity is supplied for more than 20 hours,” claimed Ganga Nishad, a resident of Mekra panchayat. Some believe that Mokama slipped into the hands of ‘bahubalis’ after Congress leader Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj represented the constituency from 1980 to 1990. Sitting MLA Anant Singh’s elder brother, Dilip Singh, used to capture booths for Dheeraj when the latter contested elections from Mokama. Later, Dilip decided to fight from there and emerged victorious with RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s blessings. He was also elevated to the position of a minister, but lost to Surajbhan Singh, another don-turned politician, in 2000. After Dilip’s death, Anant has been winning uninterruptedly since 2005. Mokama and Barh will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lack-of-jobs-water-stagnation-poll-issues-in-mokama/articleshow/78851198.cms||Ramashankar
October 25, 2020||---||High-profile battle on cards in Jamui||PATNA: Battle lines have been drawn for Jamui assembly constituency, a testing ground for three powerful political families. The prestige of these families is at stake in Jamui where Rajputs and Yadavs are almost equal in number. The constituency has 2.9 lakh voters and it will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. The NDA has pitted ace shooter and former Union minister late Digvijay Singh’s daughter Shreyashi Singh against the RJD’s strongman and sitting MLA Vijay Prakash. While Shreyashi of BJP is a Rajput, her principal opponent is a Yadav. With the entry of BJP rebel candidate Ajay Pratap Singh as RLSP candidate, Jamui constituency is set for a triangular fight. Sitting MLA Vijay, younger brother of former Union minister and senior RJD leader Jaiprakash Narayan Yadav, had won the seat twice – in 2005 and 2015. He also served as minister of labour resources department from 2015 to 2017. Retaining the seat would be tough for Vijay as he is facing Shreyashi, who is clear about her approach. The 29-year-old shooter wants to become the face of PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Amtanirbhar (self-reliant)’ vision. She intends to start this initiative from Jamui. Shreyashi also aims to promote sports and art and culture activities in the constituency to generate employment for youngsters. Besides being a young and a popular sports figure, she is one among the two women candidates on the seat, the other being Sujata Singh, an independent. Ajay Pratap Singh, elder son of former minister for food and consumer protection Narendra Singh, was expelled from BJP after he entered the poll fray against Shreyashi. Ajay had represented Jamui seat in 2010 from JD(U) ticket, while his father had represented the same seat in 2000. This time, Rajput votes could see a division with Ajay and Shreyashi in the fray. However, the EBCs, also called ‘panch-paniyas’ in local parlance, and the Mahadalits are staunch supporters of the NDA. This seat has also become a high-profile as it falls under Jamui Lok Sabha constituency of LJP president Chirag Paswan, who has disassociated himself from the NDA in Bihar. However, LJP has not fielded its candidate in Jamui.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/high-profile-battle-on-cards-in-jamui/articleshow/78853699.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Bypolls: Yogi Adityanath in battlefield, Akhilesh Yadav takes to war room||LUCKNOW: As chief minister Yogi Adityanath holds reins of campaigning to ensure victory of party candidates in the byelections for seven seats, his political rival and national president of the Samajwadi Party, Akhilesh Yadav, is trying to spring a surprise as he did in 2018 and 2019. Only this time the opposition is divided unlike in 2018, when it had common candidates against BJP. Arch-rivals Yogi and Akhilesh are working hard to hold their forts as they know that the outcome of the seven byelections as this is the last big electoral battle before the 2022 assembly polls. In 2018 bypolls for three Lok Sabha seats, BJP candidates were defeated by the SP-BSP-RLD combine, leading to the formation for the SP-BSP pact for 2019 general elections though it did not last long and imploded soon due to contradictions. Though the BJP had to face defeat in the bypolls in 2018, within a year in the 2019 general elections, Yogi magic enabled the BJP to post an overwhelming victory. During his meeting with core members, including state president of the party Naresh Uttam, the SP chief was categorical that they have to ensure victory of the party candidates as they did in 2018 to trigger an anti-BJP atmosphere in the run up to the 2022 Assembly elections. Immediately after the meeting, Akhilesh personally spoke to candidates and district presidents of the party where the elections are taking place and asked them to bury their personal differences if any and unitedly fight against the communal forces. “We have defeated the BJP in every byelection in the state and we should maintain this winning streak,” Akhilesh said, exhorting workers to highlight “developmental works carried out during his regime as the ruling party has miserably failed on this front.” Although BJP is facing some internal bickering in Deoria and Bangarmau, an alert CM is taking no chance this time. Initially, he boosted the booth workers’ morale from digital platforms and now he is addressing rallies in constituencies going to bypolls and has also deployed a battery of ministers to garner support for party candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bypolls-yogi-in-battlefield-akhilesh-takes-to-war-room/articleshow/78852409.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 25, 2020||Goa||Extra monitoring for Covid patients aged 50+ & with comorbidities: Government||PANAJI: With several Covid-19 patients turning up late for treatment, the government has decided to include a separate section on the home isolation dashboard to monitor patients who are above 50 years of age and have comorbidities. Health officers have also been instructed to make phone calls to patients who are above 50 years old three times a day to check on them. The decision to maintain separate information of this segment of patients was taken at the weekly expert committee meeting on Friday. Considering the increased workload, the GMC has offered to assign third year MBBS students to call people opting for home isolation. Several patients tend to seek help after their condition deteriorates, making it difficult for hospitals to help them recover. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar, said they now receive more severe cases and that intensive care units (ICU)s units are full. “This is because patients do not come immediately after they develop symptoms,” he said. Dr Roshan Nazareth, health officer at the Candolim primary health centre, said two patients who were in home isolation in his jurisdiction recently, turned critical within two days and died. “One of the patients who was asymptomatic argued with us at length saying that nothing was wrong with her. Her condition took a turn for the worse within a day and she died in hospital,” he said. Nazareth said he tries his best to monitor patients who are in home isolation within his jurisdiction, with the help of the panchayats’ ward members, and that each patient is contacted telephonically once a day. The recent directive to healthcare professionals requiring them to speak to comorbid Covid-19 patients above 50 years of age three times a day, has increased the burden of officers attached to health centres, specially those dealing with a high number of active cases. A medical officer attached to a health centre in South Goa said it is difficult to call patients three times a day under such circumstances. “At times, contact can’t be made on a single attempt owing to network issues. Other times, patients do not answer calls and we have to keep calling them,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extra-monitoring-for-covid-patients-aged-50-with-comorbidities-govt/articleshow/78851947.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Resume religious services by Nov 15, archdiocese tells churches||PANAJI: The Archdiocese of Goa and Daman on Saturday instructed all parishes to restart religious services “without further delay” by November 15, after obtaining the required permissions. In a circular addressed to all priests, archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao said “fear of contamination” should not deter priests and parishioners from reopening churches and conducting religious services while following safety protocols. The archdiocese asked parishes to observe prescribed norms and cautions but did not elaborate. The archbishop, however, did seem to suggest that special Masses or religious services could be held for those deemed vulnerable to the pandemic. Till date, 91 of Goa’s 160 parishes have begun daily Masses with small congregations. There are 10 parishes in Daman. The archdiocese had stopped all community religious services from March 19 as the Covid-19 pandemic began to make inroads into the country. While priests were allowed to celebrate Masses, people were prohibited from participating. With the Centre gradually relaxing curbs and permitting economic activity to resume, the archdiocese issued a circular on June 24 asking parishes to gradually reopen places of worship while following all safety protocols. Ferrao said a “good number of priests” have yet to seek permission and begin religious services, including Mass, for parishioners. “It is now time to return to being a Church that gathers concretely as an assembled community, even though in small numbers. While people in general are returning to their daily chores and business, frequenting market places and travelling by public transport, we cannot afford to remain as an ‘online community,’ for fear of contamination,” said Ferrao. He said due attention should be paid to ensure that those considered “vulnerable by reason of age or illness” are given an opportunity to take part in the Mass with adequate care to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/resume-religious-services-by-nov-15-archdiocese-tells-churches/articleshow/78851937.cms||---
October 25, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Pre-poll announcements become talk of the town||By Neha NimishaPATNA: With most political parties releasing their election manifestos, the jury is out on who will emerge victorious in the state assembly elections. The pre-poll promises like government jobs and free Covid-19 vaccine made to woo the voters have become the talk of the town, especially among the youngsters. Vicenarian Utkarsh Raj believes parties make promises during elections. He, however, has given up on all of them. “Whoever comes to power should at least provide a better education system that enables youngsters to fetch jobs,” he says. 25-year-old Niket Karn, who is preparing for banking exams, has faith on young leaders. He says, “I hope they will fulfil their promises and introduce new opportunities for youths in the state.” The free Covid vaccine announced by the BJP is also being discussed a lot. Health experts have welcomed the announcement, but claimed that it should be made free for all across the country. Indian Medical Association (Bihar) senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar points out, “Covid-19 is harmful for the entire nation, the economy and the future generations. Hence, the government should give away free vaccine to everyone.” Boring Road resident Gautam also urges the government to provide free vaccine to all the people. Interestingly, the Congress has talked about reviewing the liquor ban in Bihar while the Plurals Party has promised to do away with prohibition. According to former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, most families in Bihar were benefited by prohibition in various ways that includes reduction in cases of domestic violence. Homemaker Anupama considers women’s safety her biggest concern. She says, “This was my mother’s concern and mine too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pre-poll-announcements-become-talk-of-the-town/articleshow/78855568.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: Study suggests ways to safely handle Covid victims’ bodies||PATNA: A team of medical researchers led by a doctor of the AIIMS-Patna has come out with a comprehensive protocol for handling the bodies and other wastes of the people who die due to the Covid-19. The report recommended sealing of all open parts like mouth and nose and also other parts which were punctured as part of treatment. The research was published in the international journal, ‘Bio Protocol’, on October 20. The research team comprised doctors from AIIMS-P, Oxford Policy Management, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh and AIIMS-Bhatinda. Dr Ravi Kant Narayan of AIIMS-P, who led the team, said many untoward incidents were encountered in the past at different places with respect to the last rites of the Covid-19 deceased. “Though various institutions have issued SOPs for handling the bodies and their wastes, but still a comprehensive approach was missing and that is why the team worked out a step-by-step protocol for ensuring 99% check on the spread of the pandemic at hospitals, ambulances and crematoriums,” Dr Narayan said. The report strictly warned the medicos and other staff not to smoke, drink or eat and not even touch their eyes, mouth and nose. Autopsy or embalming the bodies is another high risk for the handlers and they must follow the safety measures, the research said. Another doctor of AIIMS-P in the research team, Dr Ashutosh Kumar, said the vehicle for transportation must be disinfected with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution before carrying the body inside. The research also suggested that body fluids and blood-stained wastes of the deceased are to disinfected first with the same solution and bundled for disposal as biomedical waste. “The steps suggested in the research up to the final destination, burial site, are of great help for any hospital and the local authorities engaged in treatment of the Covid-19 patients. It minimises further spread of the virus,” Dr Ashutosh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/study-suggests-ways-to-safely-handle-covid-victims-bodies/articleshow/78850459.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Varanasi||Ballia firing: FIR against rival faction||VARANASI: Acting on court’s directive, Ballia police lodged an FIR against 21 named and 30 unidentified persons of the rival faction involved in the firing incident during allotment of ration shops at Durjanpur village in Revati police station area of the district. The FIR was registered on Friday evening on a complaint filed by Asha Pratap Singh, sister-in-law of the main accused Dhirendra Pratap Singh. The name of the deceased Jaiprakash Pal also figures in the FIR. Revati police inspector Pravin Kumar Singh said the FIR was lodged under Sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 308, 336, 506 of IPC and 7 Criminal Law Amendment Act on the complaint of Asha Pratap Singh. Cops find revolver used in Ballia firingDhirendra had allegedly killed Jaiprakash Pal in full public view and in presence of SDM, circle officer, SO Revati, policemen and villagers at Durjanpur village during allotment of fair price shops on October 15. Dhirendra was arrested by STF from Lucknow, brought to Ballia and produced before the CJM court on October 19. His bail plea was rejected and he was sent to jail on 14-day judicial remand. Meanwhile, his sister-in-law Asha Pratap Singh filed a petition in the court of judicial magistrate on Thursday, seeking an FIR to be registered against the rivals. The court on Friday ordered the police to lodge an FIR and investigate the matter. Asha had threatened self-immolation with seven women if the case was not register by Friday evening. Meanwhile, police recovered the revolver used in the crime. Police took Dhirendra to the village to recover the arm and found the revolver hidden under a tree near his house. After the recovery, Section 30 of Arms Act was added in the FIR lodged against Dhirendra and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ballia-firing-firagainst-rival-faction/articleshow/78850811.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad researcher’s nanofibre bags end seed storage losses||HYDERABAD: A researcher from Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) has developed neem oil-based nanofibrous bags to prevent post-harvest seed storage losses. Post harvesting, proper storage of seeds is necessary to preserve the active germplasm of crops for longer period without compromising their viability and germination ability. The indigenous seed storage practices utilise various kinds of structures to store grains such as ropes and bamboo baskets, mud and earthen pots, wooden structures, brick structures, underground pits, gunny bags, polypropylene bags etc. Additionally, various natural pest control measures, including dressing the seeds with oils, cow dung, wood ash etc., are practiced by farmers. Despite all these measures, significant seed storage losses are registered. Prof Chandra Shekhar Sharma of the chemical engineering department at IIT-H demonstrated the suitability of neem oil (NO) encapsulated electrospun polyurethane (PU) nanofibrous bags as an ideal storage system. The real time storage experiment carried out for 75 days proved that 90% seeds stored in nanofibrous bags were uninfected, whereas 70% seeds in commercial bags were found to be infected with storage fungi. “The real time applicability of these bags infers that any type of seeds can be stored for a longer duration at normal room temperature conditions. Large-scale production of nanofibers, however, is still a challenge,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-researchers-nanofibre-bags-end-seed-storage-losses/articleshow/78851118.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections 2020: 70 candidates in fray from 5 seats in Nawada district||PATNA: Famous for Kakolat waterfall and scenic beauty of Rajauli valley, Nawada district has five assembly constituencies of Rajauli (SC), Hisua, Nawada, Gobindpur and Warisaliganj. Altogether 70 candidates are trying their luck. The Grand Alliance comprising RJD, JD(U) and Congress had won the Rajauli, Nawada and Gobindpur seats while BJP had Hisua and Warisaliganj in its kitty in the 2015 election. This time BJP is contesting from Rajauli, Hisua and Warisaliganj and JD(U) from Nawada and Gobindpur. In the Grand Alliance, RJD is contesting from Rajauli, Nawada and Gobindpur and its ally Congress from Hisua and Warisaliganj. Rajauli (SC): Famous for stone quarries, Rajauli has the highest number of 22 candidates in the district with RJD’s sitting MLA Prakash Veer pitted against BJP’s former MLA Kanhaiya Rajwar. While upper caste voters seem to be polarized in favour of Rajwar, those from OBCs and Muslims, by and large, may back Veer. Hisua: The constituency with a dominant population of Bhumihar caste has eight candidates in the fray. But the contest is between BJP’s sitting MLA Anil Singh and Congress’s Nitu Kumari, who is the daughter-in-law of former minister Aditya Singh. Anil has been winning the seat since November 2005 and seeking fourth consecutive term. Before November 2005 polls, Aditya had won the seat six times since 1980. Nawada: Once infamous for being represented by rape convict Raj Ballabh Yadav, Nawada has 15 candidates in the fray. JD(U)’s MLA Kaushal Yadav is in direct fight against RJD’s Vibha Devi, the wife of Raj Ballabh. BJP’s former district president Shashibhushan Kumar Babloo is contesting on the LJP ticket. Raj Ballabh had to quit the assembly membership after his conviction and Kaushal won the byelection in 2019 defeating Vibha. Earlier, Raj Ballabh had won the seat in 1995 and 2000. After that, Kaushal’s wife Purnima Yadav won the seat for three consecutive times in February 2005, November 2005 and 2010 elections. Gobindpur: It’s known as the traditional seat of Kaushal-Purnima Yadav’s family. There are 15 candidates in the fray. MLA Purnima s facing RJD’s Md Kamran while BJP rebel and LJP nominee Ranjit Yadav is also in the fray. In 2015, Purnima had won the seat as a Congress candidate. But she joined JD(U) recently. Ranjit’s wife Fula Devi had then contested as the BJP nominee and finished second. Ranjit may dent in the JD(U) vote bank. Purnima’s husband Kaushal Yadav had won the Gobindpur seat in February 2005, November 2005 and 2010 elections. Earlier, Purnima’s mother-in-law Gayatri Devi had won the seat four times in 1980, 1985, 1990 and 2000. Before Gayatri, her husband Yugal Kishor Singh Yadav had won the seat in 1969. Warisaliganj: There are 10 candidates in the fray. The main contest, people say, is between BJP’s sitting MLA Aruna Devi and former MLA Pradip Kumar’s wife Arti Sinha, who entered politics after quitting her job in the agriculture department. Congress’s Satish Kumar Mantan is also in the fray. Pradip had won the seat in November 2005 as an independent and in 2010 on a JD(U) ticket. But he was disqualified from contesting the polls after his conviction in a criminal case. Aruna had won the seat as an Independent in 2000 and on a BJP ticket in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/70-candidates-in-fray-from-5-seats-in-nawada-district/articleshow/78851257.cms||Madan Kumar
October 25, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: Lack of jobs, water stagnation poll issues in Mokama||PATNA: Stagnation of rainwater in around 11,000 hectares of agricultural land in Mokama Tal (diara) area is prominently dominating the electoral scene in Mokama as well as Barh assembly constituencies in Patna district. Some farmers had launched an agitation in Marachi block last week to draw the attention of the government towards the problems faced by the farmers of Mokama Tal area, which covered agricultural land from Fatuha in Patna district to Barahiya in Begusarai. “Senior JD (U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh had visited the dharna site and assured the farmers of financial help. Although the protesters lifted the dharna on his assurance, they threatened to resume it after the elections if their demands were not fulfilled,” Birendra Kumar Singh, a resident of Mokama, told this newspaper. The issue of waterlogging is raised in every election, but the problem continues. “It is an irony that the Tal area is popularly called ‘Dalhan ka katora’ (bowl of pulses), but it has no agro-based industry,” lamented Sardar Daljeet Singh, a 71-year-old farmer of Mokama. He added, “All the four industries — Bharat Wagon, McDowell’s, National Textile Corporation and Bata India — were also closed, compelling hundreds of youngsters to migrate to other states for work.” The lack of jobs has also led to an unprecedented rise in crime in the region. Sardar Gurujeet Singh, who had unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls from Mokama as a Congress candidate in 2005, pointed out, “Even those, who work in agricultural fields, are engaged only for two or three months. During the rest of the year, they depend on other sources for earning money.” It is not that development has not reached the villages in the area. Roads, electricity and drinking water facilities are now available in Gosai, Paiguna, Samayagarh, Kurmichak, Kumhara and Mohanpur. “Villages in Kasaha diara area have also been connected with roads and electricity is supplied for more than 20 hours,” claimed Ganga Nishad, a resident of Mekra panchayat. Some believe that Mokama slipped into the hands of ‘bahubalis’ after Congress leader Shyam Sunder Singh Dheeraj represented the constituency from 1980 to 1990. Sitting MLA Anant Singh’s elder brother, Dilip Singh, used to capture booths for Dheeraj when the latter contested elections from Mokama. Later, Dilip decided to fight from there and emerged victorious with RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s blessings. He was also elevated to the position of a minister, but lost to Surajbhan Singh, another don-turned politician, in 2000. After Dilip’s death, Anant has been winning uninterruptedly since 2005. Mokama and Barh will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/lack-of-jobs-water-stagnation-poll-issues-in-mokama/articleshow/78853643.cms||Ramashankar
October 25, 2020||Kanpur||Child rescued within few hours of kidnapping||KANPUR: A three-year-old boy was abducted from his house on late Friday evening, and was rescued by the Kalyanpur police few hours later. As per police, the prime accused, identified as Aditya Pathak, is the victim’s neighbour who planned the kidnap. Pathak and his accomplice Shailendra have been arrested.. The kidnappers took the child from near his residence on Shivli road to Mandhana, but were nabbed after being informed by an alert meter-reader, said the police. The child identified as Rishi, son of a bakery shop owner Amit Shukla, was under the observation of Pathak and his accomplice Shailendra for the past few days. After monitoring the boy’s routine activities, the accused lured him over some pretext and kidnapped him from near his Shivli road residence on late Friday evening. Shailendra, took the child to a sub-station in Mandhana where his friend’s elder brother Abhishek Soni works as a meter reader in an E -rickshaw. “On seeing the child crying constantly, Abhishek sensed something amiss and immediately alerted the PRV. Following the SOS call, the PRV personnel rushed to the spot and took Shailendra and the kidnapped boy into their custody,m and later handed them over to Kalyanpur police for further investigation,” informed Kalyanpur inspector Ajay Seth. “On the basis of inputs provided by Shailendra, police swung into action and managed to nab Aditya Pathak, the mastermind of the plan and the neighbour of the victim. We have also recovered a letter in which they demanded a ransom of Rs 15 lakh for his safe release. They told the investigators that they were supposed to drop the letter at Rishi’s house soon after the kidnapping, but could not. In the letter, they also threatened the family not to inform the police,” said the inspector. “We have registered a case and booked the two accused under charges of IPC 363 (Punishment for kidnapping). Further investigations are underway,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/child-rescued-within-few-hours-of-kidnapping/articleshow/78850689.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||---||BJP, Congress netas trade barbs in poll-bound Bihar||PATNA: Central leaders of BJP and Congress on Saturday traded barbs while pitching for the victory of their respective alliances in the state assembly polls. BJP national president J P Nadda slammed the Grand Alliance, saying the RJD has been “naturally anarchic” that has now aligned with “destructive force” like the CPI(ML), while the Congress has associated itself with them. Nadda also slammed the Congress for “opposing” the abrogation of Article 370 that gave special status to J&K in the Indian Union, and said Rahul Gandhi’s remarks on Article 370 had been used by Pakistan at the UN. Nadda was addressing a physical rally at Biharsharif, where he urged the people of Nalanda district to vote for the NDA candidates in all the seven constituencies. Referring to the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, Nadda said it was marked by kidnapping for ransom, killing of even dalit DM G Krishnaiyya and firing on the state DGP. Meanwhile, senior Congress functionary and Chattisgarh CM Bhupesh Bhagel countered the NDA by raising the issue of skyrocketing prices of onion, saying it was the impact of three newly made farm laws. “They have annulled Essential Commodities Act. As per the new law, the government will only interfere when there is a war or drought or prices increase by 100%. Now, they have given an order to check onion in godown, going against the laws they have just formulated. They have done this because of elections in Bihar,” Bhagel said. Union minister Smriti Irani took a jibe at incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad, saying Biharis don’t pray for opportunities to earn money via ‘fodder scams’. “Bihar’s self-respecting people don’t pray to God for chance to get money in fodder scam. While praying to goddess Laxmi, they find that she neither comes by holding ‘haath’ of Congress nor brings ‘lalten’. She comes by sitting on ‘kamal’,” she said at Bikram assembly segment in Patna district. Senior Congress leader Alka Lamba, on the other hand, hit out at the state government over crime and atrocities on women in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-congress-netas-trade-barbs-in-poll-bound-bihar/articleshow/78856133.cms||Abhay Singh
October 25, 2020||Patna||BJP, Congress netas trade barbs in poll-bound Bihar||PATNA: Central leaders of BJP and Congress on Saturday traded barbs while pitching for the victory of their respective alliances in the state assembly polls. BJP national president J P Nadda slammed the Grand Alliance, saying the RJD has been “naturally anarchic” that has now aligned with “destructive force” like the CPI(ML), while the Congress has associated itself with them. Nadda also slammed the Congress for “opposing” the abrogation of Article 370 that gave special status to J&K in the Indian Union, and said Rahul Gandhi’s remarks on Article 370 had been used by Pakistan at the UN. Nadda was addressing a physical rally at Biharsharif, where he urged the people of Nalanda district to vote for the NDA candidates in all the seven constituencies. Referring to the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, Nadda said it was marked by kidnapping for ransom, killing of even dalit DM G Krishnaiyya and firing on the state DGP. Meanwhile, senior Congress functionary and Chattisgarh CM Bhupesh Bhagel countered the NDA by raising the issue of skyrocketing prices of onion, saying it was the impact of three newly made farm laws. “They have annulled Essential Commodities Act. As per the new law, the government will only interfere when there is a war or drought or prices increase by 100%. Now, they have given an order to check onion in godown, going against the laws they have just formulated. They have done this because of elections in Bihar,” Bhagel said. Union minister Smriti Irani took a jibe at incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad, saying Biharis don’t pray for opportunities to earn money via ‘fodder scams’. “Bihar’s self-respecting people don’t pray to God for chance to get money in fodder scam. While praying to goddess Laxmi, they find that she neither comes by holding ‘haath’ of Congress nor brings ‘lalten’. She comes by sitting on ‘kamal’,” she said at Bikram assembly segment in Patna district. Senior Congress leader Alka Lamba, on the other hand, hit out at the state government over crime and atrocities on women in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-congress-netas-trade-barbs-in-poll-bound-bihar/articleshow/78850388.cms||Abhay Singh
October 25, 2020||Patna||RLSP manifesto focuses on educational reforms||PATNA: Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha on Saturday released the 26-point manifesto of his party with emphasis on educational reforms and employment generation. Kushwaha said carrying out educational reforms would be the priority of the Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) comprising RLSP, BSP and Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM if it was voted to power. He said residential schools on the pattern of the Navodaya schools would be opened in every district for students from the poor families, Dalits, Mahadalits, extremely backward and backward castes. “Besides, schools will also be opened for Dalits in the name of former CM Karpoori Thakur,” he added. The RLSP chief appealed to the people to give GDSF at least five years to rule the state. “We are urging people to give us an opportunity to form government and manage the state’s affairs for five years to bring about quality changes and transformation in the state,” Kushwaha said. He added his party’s manifesto had been christened as ‘vachan patra (commitment paper)’. Kushwaha said the GDSF government would give employment to youths immediately after assessing the vacancies, and then also create work opportunities by inviting investors to establish industrial units in the state. “The products from these newly established industries will also be used in the government departments,” he added. The RLSP chief said if given a chance, he would exert pressure on the Centre to promote production and storage of vegetables through cooperatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlsp-manifesto-focuses-on-educational-reforms/articleshow/78850368.cms||Abhay Singh
October 25, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Yadav war of words intensifies||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar and Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav continued to cross swords on Saturday as the former addressed five rallies, including digital rally from Patna, while Lalu’s son addressed a marathon 13 rallies. Addressing one of the rallies in Vaishali, Nitish launched a scathing attack on the RJD, saying the ‘lalten yug’ has ended in Bihar. “Forget about villages, even cities didn’t get proper electricity before we came to power. We made gradual improvements and decided to bring electricity to every house. We had set December, 2018 as the deadline for the same, but we achieved the goal in November itself,” he said. In another poll rally in LJP founder late Ram Vilas Paswan’s native Alauli assembly segment in Khagaria district, Nitish refrained from speaking anything either against the party or its president Chirag Paswan, who has been attacking him frequently. Nitish, however, continued to attack RJD, saying it is a joke that those who spent time in encouraging ‘jungle raj’ are today talking about development. “We ended ‘jungle raj’ and established rule of law,” Nitish said and cited the latest report of National Crime Records Bureau that put Bihar on the 23rd position in terms of crime. Addressing another public meet at Teghra seat in Begsuarai, Nitish took a veiled dig at Tejashwi’s poll announcement of 10 lakh government jobs. “Some people who do not even have knowledge of alphabets or experience are talking of providing jobs to others…this is laughable.” Tejashwi also launched frontal attacks on Nitish in his rallies. At a rally in Sheikhpura, Tejashwi alleged 60 scams had taken place in Nitish’s regime involving Rs 30,000 crore. “Where has this money gone? He has done nothing in the past 15 years. Even now people have to go outside Bihar for higher education, treatment or in search of a job. He has not established a single factory in the state. Nitish has become a tired CM,” said Tejashwi. Reiterating his 10 lakh government job promise, Tejashwi said, “Today is Mahaashtami and I have taken pledge to provide 10 lakh government jobs to youths after forming government. This will be done in my first cabinet meeting. Parents will be happy after their children get government jobs.” The younger Yadav scion also mocked BJP-JD(U), saying while he had only one helicopter for campaign, others were using many resources. After finishing his speech, Tejashwi could be seen rushing towards the helicopter to avoid the crowd which tried to get closer to him. His rallies were held in Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Munger and Sheikhpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-tejashwi-war-of-words-intensifies/articleshow/78856362.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Rajkot||Post retirement, CISF soldier in Modasa trains youth to join forces||PALANPUR: With 39 years of service in the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) behind him, Khemabhai Vankar of Tintoda village, a tiny hamlet 16 km from Aravalli district’s Modasa town, decided it was not time to retire to a civilian life. Instead it was time to give back to the country by training youth who can secure the nation. Last month, 60-year-old Vankar, who had retired as CISF soldier three years back, started training village boys to become “true sons of Bharat Mata”. “Vetan nahi watan (not wages, but only nation matters)”, said Vankar, who now coaches 80 boys from poor and needy families from six villages adjoining Tintoda. Every morning, the boys undergo rigorous training sessions including 1,600m run, 100m dash, yoga and acupressure class for two hours. The boys between 8 and 25 years of age are coached to join police, military or paramilitary forces and serve the nation. “I want to catch them young,” said Vankar who by preparing the boys both physically and mentally wants to instil confidence and sense of pride for their future profession. The CISF veteran who had lost his 3-year-old child treats all the boys as his own. “The journey of life should continue doing good to others,” said Vankar, who wants to change the general inclination towards government jobs. “Merely doing a clerical job cannot be the sole aim of life. There is more to do for the country by defending its frontiers or maintaining internal discipline as a policeman,” he said. Pleased by the services that Vankar provides post-retirement, Aravalli district superintendent of police Sanjay Kharat who had recently visited the training ground has assured the retired soldier all the required support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/post-retirement-cisf-soldier-in-modasa-trains-youth-to-join-forces/articleshow/78850762.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Garba lovers swing to music, drums beats in home privacy||VADODARA: As the sun sets on the city’s horizon, she dresses up in her colourful garba attire. When Archana Makwana reaches her friend’s home and passes through the mandatory sanitizer spray, she doesn’t waste a moment in swinging to the garba tunes. The government may have called off public celebrations of Navratri amid the Covid-19 pandemic this year, but that hasn’t dampened the spirits of many Gujaratis. Garba lovers have been enjoying the festival with their friends and family at either their homes or farmhouses over the last five days. “Our group meets in the evening in a very limited number and we play garba together at one of our friend’s house. Of course, social distancing is maintained and all other precautions are followed,” Archana told TOI. “Though the fun of playing garba at our favourite venue is missing, we are happy that we are at least able to play garba,” Archana added. Many Barodians have been organizing garba in their homes and inviting only family members and close friends since the first day of Navratri. The fear of getting infected with Covid-19 has ensured that no outsider is allowed in the private celebrations. “When Navratri celebrations were banned in public, we were disappointed as our group never misses a single garba night,” said Ripal Shah, a resident of Manjalpur, “Ours small group of close friends has been performing garba in a house at Khodiyarnagar every night. We decided to play garba to continue with our tradition but only after taking all the precautions,” she explained. Ripal, though, is upset with the government for banning Navratri. “If politicians can gather crowds for poll campaigning, why can’t they allow people to celebrate Navratri with mandatory precautions?” she questioned. Another group of garba revellers too has been matching steps to the traditional garba tunes in the Wadi area since the first night. “We do ‘sthapna’ of the goddess and hence it is important to play garba in a form of worship. Our group of eight people gathers in my home every night and we all play garba for an hour,” said Dishit Rajput, who runs a beauty parlour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/garba-lovers-swing-to-music-drums-beats-in-home-privacy/articleshow/78850075.cms||Tushar Tere
October 25, 2020||---||Bihar elections 2020: 70 candidates in fray from 5 seats in Nawada district||PATNA: Famous for Kakolat waterfall and scenic beauty of Rajauli valley, Nawada district has five assembly constituencies of Rajauli (SC), Hisua, Nawada, Gobindpur and Warisaliganj. Altogether 70 candidates are trying their luck. The Grand Alliance comprising RJD, JD(U) and Congress had won the Rajauli, Nawada and Gobindpur seats while BJP had Hisua and Warisaliganj in its kitty in the 2015 election. This time BJP is contesting from Rajauli, Hisua and Warisaliganj and JD(U) from Nawada and Gobindpur. In the Grand Alliance, RJD is contesting from Rajauli, Nawada and Gobindpur and its ally Congress from Hisua and Warisaliganj. Rajauli (SC): Famous for stone quarries, Rajauli has the highest number of 22 candidates in the district with RJD’s sitting MLA Prakash Veer pitted against BJP’s former MLA Kanhaiya Rajwar. While upper caste voters seem to be polarized in favour of Rajwar, those from OBCs and Muslims, by and large, may back Veer. Hisua: The constituency with a dominant population of Bhumihar caste has eight candidates in the fray. But the contest is between BJP’s sitting MLA Anil Singh and Congress’s Nitu Kumari, who is the daughter-in-law of former minister Aditya Singh. Anil has been winning the seat since November 2005 and seeking fourth consecutive term. Before November 2005 polls, Aditya had won the seat six times since 1980. Nawada: Once infamous for being represented by rape convict Raj Ballabh Yadav, Nawada has 15 candidates in the fray. JD(U)’s MLA Kaushal Yadav is in direct fight against RJD’s Vibha Devi, the wife of Raj Ballabh. BJP’s former district president Shashibhushan Kumar Babloo is contesting on the LJP ticket. Raj Ballabh had to quit the assembly membership after his conviction and Kaushal won the byelection in 2019 defeating Vibha. Earlier, Raj Ballabh had won the seat in 1995 and 2000. After that, Kaushal’s wife Purnima Yadav won the seat for three consecutive times in February 2005, November 2005 and 2010 elections. Gobindpur: It’s known as the traditional seat of Kaushal-Purnima Yadav’s family. There are 15 candidates in the fray. MLA Purnima s facing RJD’s Md Kamran while BJP rebel and LJP nominee Ranjit Yadav is also in the fray. In 2015, Purnima had won the seat as a Congress candidate. But she joined JD(U) recently. Ranjit’s wife Fula Devi had then contested as the BJP nominee and finished second. Ranjit may dent in the JD(U) vote bank. Purnima’s husband Kaushal Yadav had won the Gobindpur seat in February 2005, November 2005 and 2010 elections. Earlier, Purnima’s mother-in-law Gayatri Devi had won the seat four times in 1980, 1985, 1990 and 2000. Before Gayatri, her husband Yugal Kishor Singh Yadav had won the seat in 1969. Warisaliganj: There are 10 candidates in the fray. The main contest, people say, is between BJP’s sitting MLA Aruna Devi and former MLA Pradip Kumar’s wife Arti Sinha, who entered politics after quitting her job in the agriculture department. Congress’s Satish Kumar Mantan is also in the fray. Pradip had won the seat in November 2005 as an independent and in 2010 on a JD(U) ticket. But he was disqualified from contesting the polls after his conviction in a criminal case. Aruna had won the seat as an Independent in 2000 and on a BJP ticket in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/70-candidates-in-fray-from-5-seats-in-nawada-district/articleshow/78853620.cms||Madan Kumar
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Nearly 450 from Telangana, AP expected to have qualified UPSC prelims’||HYDERABAD: A day after the UPSC announced results of the civil services preliminary exam 2020, IAS coaching institute Brain Tree stated that about 400-450 aspirants are expected to have qualified exam from both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. In the result declared on Friday evening, 10,564 candidates qualified for the main examination. About 80,000 aspirants had applied for the examination from the Telugu states, out of whom, about 38,000 appeared exams from all the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nearly-450-from-t-ap-expected-to-have-qualified-upsc-prelims/articleshow/78851129.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||High-profile battle on cards in Jamui||PATNA: Battle lines have been drawn for Jamui assembly constituency, a testing ground for three powerful political families. The prestige of these families is at stake in Jamui where Rajputs and Yadavs are almost equal in number. The constituency has 2.9 lakh voters and it will go to the polls in the first phase on October 28. The NDA has pitted ace shooter and former Union minister late Digvijay Singh’s daughter Shreyashi Singh against the RJD’s strongman and sitting MLA Vijay Prakash. While Shreyashi of BJP is a Rajput, her principal opponent is a Yadav. With the entry of BJP rebel candidate Ajay Pratap Singh as RLSP candidate, Jamui constituency is set for a triangular fight. Sitting MLA Vijay, younger brother of former Union minister and senior RJD leader Jaiprakash Narayan Yadav, had won the seat twice – in 2005 and 2015. He also served as minister of labour resources department from 2015 to 2017. Retaining the seat would be tough for Vijay as he is facing Shreyashi, who is clear about her approach. The 29-year-old shooter wants to become the face of PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Amtanirbhar (self-reliant)’ vision. She intends to start this initiative from Jamui. Shreyashi also aims to promote sports and art and culture activities in the constituency to generate employment for youngsters. Besides being a young and a popular sports figure, she is one among the two women candidates on the seat, the other being Sujata Singh, an independent. Ajay Pratap Singh, elder son of former minister for food and consumer protection Narendra Singh, was expelled from BJP after he entered the poll fray against Shreyashi. Ajay had represented Jamui seat in 2010 from JD(U) ticket, while his father had represented the same seat in 2000. This time, Rajput votes could see a division with Ajay and Shreyashi in the fray. However, the EBCs, also called ‘panch-paniyas’ in local parlance, and the Mahadalits are staunch supporters of the NDA. This seat has also become a high-profile as it falls under Jamui Lok Sabha constituency of LJP president Chirag Paswan, who has disassociated himself from the NDA in Bihar. However, LJP has not fielded its candidate in Jamui.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/high-profile-battle-on-cards-in-jamui/articleshow/78851185.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 25, 2020||Goa||Ramponkars demand Bharat Ratna for Matanhy||VASCO: Goenchea Ramponkaracho Ekvott (GRE) has urged the government to make a strong case for conferring the Bharat Ratna posthumously on former minister and Cortalim MLA Matanhy Saldanha. The GRE made the request after a ceremony was held to garland Saldanha’s statue at Cansaulim on the occasion of his 72nd birth anniversary on Saturday. Urging the government of keeping its promise of saving Matanhy’s legacy, GRE’s general secretary Olencio Simoes urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to “scrap the Coastal Economic Zones notified in Goa in 2016, in which Sagarmala has planned 30 projects to make Goa a coal hub”. Accompanying Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha and the GRE members, were Velsao sarpanch Hendrique D’Mello, Goencho Ekvott’s convener Cerson Antao and Goa United Workmen Union. “Matanhy Saldanha was like a father to the fishing community of Goa and India. He was the founder of GRE and NFF. It is his 40 years of selfless service that has kept the fishing community still alive,” GRE’s president Agnelo Rodrigues said, while adding that “Matanhy was the first to start the environmental revolution in Goa”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ramponkars-demand-bharat-ratna-for-matanhy/articleshow/78852410.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Pre-poll announcements become talk of the town||By Neha NimishaPATNA: With most political parties releasing their election manifestos, the jury is out on who will emerge victorious in the state assembly elections. The pre-poll promises like government jobs and free Covid-19 vaccine made to woo the voters have become the talk of the town, especially among the youngsters. Vicenarian Utkarsh Raj believes parties make promises during elections. He, however, has given up on all of them. “Whoever comes to power should at least provide a better education system that enables youngsters to fetch jobs,” he says. 25-year-old Niket Karn, who is preparing for banking exams, has faith on young leaders. He says, “I hope they will fulfil their promises and introduce new opportunities for youths in the state.” The free Covid vaccine announced by the BJP is also being discussed a lot. Health experts have welcomed the announcement, but claimed that it should be made free for all across the country. Indian Medical Association (Bihar) senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar points out, “Covid-19 is harmful for the entire nation, the economy and the future generations. Hence, the government should give away free vaccine to everyone.” Boring Road resident Gautam also urges the government to provide free vaccine to all the people. Interestingly, the Congress has talked about reviewing the liquor ban in Bihar while the Plurals Party has promised to do away with prohibition. According to former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, most families in Bihar were benefited by prohibition in various ways that includes reduction in cases of domestic violence. Homemaker Anupama considers women’s safety her biggest concern. She says, “This was my mother’s concern and mine too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pre-poll-announcements-become-talk-of-the-town/articleshow/78850545.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Patna airport to operate 44 flights in winter||PATNA: The number of flights operating from Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here will remain unchanged at 44 during winter As per the winter schedule of the airport, to be effective from October 25, different airlines have tweaked the departure and arrival timings of several flights owing to poor visibility. The flight operating time has been reduced from 4am to 1am to 5am to 11.15pm. The airport’s deputy general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar, said the new schedule has been approved by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and it would be officially released by Patna airport on Sunday. “The flight schedule will remain effective till March 27, 2021 with several changes during the winter. Some airlines have changed their morning and late evening timings,” he said, adding IndiGo will operate 17 flights, SpiceJet 14, GoAir seven and Air India and Vistara three each. Patna airport has direct connectivity to cities like Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Amritsar, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Guwahati and Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-airport-to-operate-44-flights-in-winter/articleshow/78850506.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: No end to drinking water woes in Sasaram town yet||SASARAM: Lack of proper water supply has been a perennial problem for the residents of Sasaram assembly segment, particularly those living in the town area, since several decades. According to 2011 census, the population of Sasaram was 2.47 lakh. Official sources said Sasaram town requires 14 lakh gallons of potable water per day. With the existing supply system, which is at least 60-year-old, the public health engineering department (PHED) supplies only two lakh gallons of water to the town. PHED assistant engineer Narendra Bhargav said the department provided water supply connections to its fullest capacity decades ago. “Way back in 1990, the department stopped giving new water supply connections because its capacity had been exhausted,” he said. Old-timers said the water supply pipeline was laid when Sasaram was a sub-divisional headquarters town of erstwhile Shahabad district. Shahabad was bifurcated to create Rohtas and Bhojpur districts with Sasaram as the HQ of Rohtas district in 1972. “The population of the town has since grown manifold, but the water supply system was neither renovated nor replaced with a new one,” said octogenarian Shamim Khan, a resident of municipal ward number 25 of Sasaram. Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (BUIDCO) not long ago was assigned the task of conducting a survey to assess the potable water requirement of Sasaram. “Approximately 75% of the households were found to be bereft of tap water supply. The town immediately requires 21,000 and odd water supply connections,” BUIDCO assistant engineer Jeetendra Prasad said. Meena Devi, a Madhya Pradesh native and wife of a Sasaram businessman residing in Nawratna Bazar locality, said her family had faced potable water crisis perennially during the 40 years of her marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-end-to-drinking-water-woes-in-sasaram-town-yet/articleshow/78850423.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 25, 2020||Patna||Two held for attacking BJP MLA Subhash Singh’s convoy in Gopalganj||PATNA: Police arrested two people on Friday night for their alleged involvement in attacking convoy of BJP MLA Subhash Singh at Hardiya village under the Thawe police station area in Gopalganj. Two BJP workers had sustained minor injuries in the attack and at least six vehicles in the convoy were damaged. Gopalganj sadar SDPO Naresh Paswan said the arrested people were identified as Zia-ul-Haq and Kuraish Alam, both natives of Hardiya village. He said the two were forwarded to jail Saturday. “The incident took place when a large number of SUVs were passing through the village playing loud music as part of poll campaign of Singh, who is in fray from the Gopalganj assembly seat. This irritated the villagers, who were offering prayers, and they attacked the convoy,” the SDPO added. SHO of Thawe police station Vishal Anand said an FIR was lodged in connection with the incident on the basis of a written complaint submitted by the MLA on Friday night. “Altogether 26 named and 25 unknown people were named in the FIR,” the SHO said, adding raids were on to arrest others involved in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-held-for-attacking-bjp-mlas-convoy-in-gopalganj/articleshow/78850406.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar, Tejashwi Yadav war of words intensifies||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar and Mahagathbandhan’s CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav continued to cross swords on Saturday as the former addressed five rallies, including digital rally from Patna, while Lalu’s son addressed a marathon 13 rallies. Addressing one of the rallies in Vaishali, Nitish launched a scathing attack on the RJD, saying the ‘lalten yug’ has ended in Bihar. “Forget about villages, even cities didn’t get proper electricity before we came to power. We made gradual improvements and decided to bring electricity to every house. We had set December, 2018 as the deadline for the same, but we achieved the goal in November itself,” he said. In another poll rally in LJP founder late Ram Vilas Paswan’s native Alauli assembly segment in Khagaria district, Nitish refrained from speaking anything either against the party or its president Chirag Paswan, who has been attacking him frequently. Nitish, however, continued to attack RJD, saying it is a joke that those who spent time in encouraging ‘jungle raj’ are today talking about development. “We ended ‘jungle raj’ and established rule of law,” Nitish said and cited the latest report of National Crime Records Bureau that put Bihar on the 23rd position in terms of crime. Addressing another public meet at Teghra seat in Begsuarai, Nitish took a veiled dig at Tejashwi’s poll announcement of 10 lakh government jobs. “Some people who do not even have knowledge of alphabets or experience are talking of providing jobs to others…this is laughable.” Tejashwi also launched frontal attacks on Nitish in his rallies. At a rally in Sheikhpura, Tejashwi alleged 60 scams had taken place in Nitish’s regime involving Rs 30,000 crore. “Where has this money gone? He has done nothing in the past 15 years. Even now people have to go outside Bihar for higher education, treatment or in search of a job. He has not established a single factory in the state. Nitish has become a tired CM,” said Tejashwi. Reiterating his 10 lakh government job promise, Tejashwi said, “Today is Mahaashtami and I have taken pledge to provide 10 lakh government jobs to youths after forming government. This will be done in my first cabinet meeting. Parents will be happy after their children get government jobs.” The younger Yadav scion also mocked BJP-JD(U), saying while he had only one helicopter for campaign, others were using many resources. After finishing his speech, Tejashwi could be seen rushing towards the helicopter to avoid the crowd which tried to get closer to him. His rallies were held in Bhagalpur, Banka, Jamui, Munger and Sheikhpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-tejashwi-war-of-words-intensifies/articleshow/78850118.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||SBI gives rations to flood affected in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: State Bank of India on Saturday said it had distributed dry ration kits to 200 families in the flood affected area of Moosarambagh in the city as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR). The kits were distributed by SBI Hyderabad circle chief general manager Om Prakash Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sbi-gives-rations-to-flood-affected/articleshow/78851158.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Kanpur||Prisoner dies of Covid, autopsy conducted on family’s insistence||KANPUR: Postmortem of an undertrial prisoner who died of Covid-19 was conducted after strong insistence of the family of the deceased here on Saturday. A panel of two doctors was constituted for the postmortem, perhaps first of its type in the state, at the district hospital amid Covid-19 guidelines. These doctors, besides other paramedical staff, soon after the autopsy will undergo quarantine procedure. Also, the mortuary will remain shut for a while for sanitization. The Covid-19 patient, a 70-year-old undertrial prisoner of the Kannauj district jail, died due to Covid-19 on October 22. “He was found positive for the disease on October 17 and died during treatment on October 22,” said Dr Navneet Chaudhary, postmortem in-charge. “The undertrial was jailed in a case of murder,” Dr Chaudhary said, adding that his body was to be cremated as per Covid-19 protocol. However, as per the hospital sources, his family refused to receive the body, insisting that a postmortem examination be conducted and pleaded the district authorities to look into the issue. Sources further said that the district officials directed the hospital officials concerned to get the postmortem of the deceased done. “The development attains significance because before this, autopsy of any corona infected has not taken place across the state. Even bodies are not handed over to the families,” the doctor claimed. “Soon after this postmortem, the mortuary was closed. It would be opened only after complete sanitisation of the premises. Also, from Sunday onwards, we would self-quarantine ourselves and a new staff is going to take over the charge of the mortuary,” said the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/prisoner-dies-of-covid-autopsy-conducted-on-familys-insistence/articleshow/78850697.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||This home is nest for avian friends||Davanagere: A family in Yellammanagar layout in Davanagere, which is involved in saving birds by offering them foodgrains, water and space for them to nest in, has become the talk of the town. G T Mallapa, 44, a first division assistant (FDA) in Davanagere Veterinary Hospital, and his family developed his house as a bird sanctuary, by making all the necessary arrangements for birds to thrive in. “Our house has become a haven for hundreds of birds including sparrows, red vented bul buls, mynas, spotted munias, sun birds, tailor birds, ashy prinias, Indian robins, bush chats and a few peacocks,” Mallappa said. Now his house has become a mini-tourist spot, with people thronging from neighbouring areas to see the birds. Broken earthen pots, broken hollow pipes and old nests collected from gardens were hung to their portico roof on a 30 foot by 26 foot space, where foodgrains and water is kept for the birds. “The birds like corn, paddy, ragi and jowar, and hence we get them from farmers who voluntarily donate to feed the birds,” Mallappa said. “I was inspired to save birds after I was associated with local NGO Karuna Jeeva Kalyana Trust, which was doing yeoman service in saving birds and animals, and engaged in environmental protection,” Mallappa said. “We are leading a very peaceful and happy life and living in harmony with birds. If there is noise, the birds fly away as they are very sensitive to sound, thus we live in silence, and our house is like a meditation centre,” said Baramakka Hadadi, Mallappa’s mother. “The birds come to our windows and start chirping at 5 am, which serves as an alarm to wake us up,” said Prakrithi V M, Mallappa’s daughter, who is in the seventh standard. “It is our privilege to shelter birds as they are a part of our family,” said Manjula and Ramesh V M, Mallappa’s wife and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-home-is-nest-for-avian-friends/articleshow/78850449.cms||SA Gangaraju
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Vacation court to work on October 28: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court said a vacation court will function during the ongoing Dasara holidays. The high court is closed for Dasara vacation from October 22 to October 29. The vacation court will function on October 28. A high court bench comprising of Justice P Naveen Rao and Justice Vijaysen Reddy will hear the matters on that day. A single bench headed by Justice A Abhishek Reddy will sit separately to hear urgent cases on October 28. Petitions filed on October 23 will be heard by the two vacation benches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vacation-court-to-work-on-oct-28/articleshow/78851153.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: All eyes on Mallanna Sagar affected voters||HYDERABAD: While the election campaigning has intensified in Dubbak, all the major parties are now trying to woo the voters of six villages which faced submergence while constructing the Mallanna Sagar reservoir, which is part of the mega Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. Officials said the six villages, including some hamlets attached to these villages, account for 20,000 to 25,000 voters. Some of the farmers who lost their land for the reservoir are yet to get compensation and other benefits, which the opposition parties would try to milk. Before the election notification, the government distributed compensation to the oustees, while some litigations on land are in courts. Land in Etigadda Kistapur, Vemulaghat, Palle Pahad, Rampur, Banjarupalli and Laxmapur was acquired for the Mallanna Sagar project. Of the nearly 10 villages that fall under the reservoir, a majority of them are in Thoguta mandal and a couple of villages Erravelli and Singaram are in Kondapaka mandal. State finance minister Harish Rao has said all the submerged villages’ votes are with the TRS. “Palle Pahad and Vemulghat have already extended their support to the TRS. They have full faith in the government. The villagers told us that they were in the forefront to get land for the reservoir and now they support the party candidate Sujatha,” Harish Rao told STOI. On the other hand, Congress leaders, who toured Mallanna Sagar and Konda Pochamma Sagar, said people do not believe the TRS anymore. Congress leader Jagga Reddy recently campaigned in Vemulaghat. “The TRS did not do justice to the Mallanna Sagar oustees. The Congress government will rectify the injustice once we come to power. Congress candidate Ch Srinivas Reddy will get a massive majority in the election,” Jagga Reddy told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-eyes-on-mallanna-sagar-affected-voters/articleshow/78851171.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha govt planning new industrial policy to attract investment||BHUBANESWAR: The state government is planning a new, attractive and progressive industrial policy that will replace the one revised in 2015. The move aims to attract investors in various sectors. Besides the industrial policy, several sector-based policies are also in the pipeline, said a source in the industries department. Even though the government had kept provision of incentives in the Industrial Policy Resolution, 2015, many states have since revised their policies by offering attractive incentives to lure investors. “We are reviewing policies and the incentives (both fiscal and non-fiscal) of various states before coming up with a revised policy. Our proposal is at the discussion stage. Odisha remains one of the favoured destinations of investors. With a revised policy, we will be able to draw more investment. The new policy is likely to be unveiled ahead of the third edition of Make in Odisha conclave,” said a senior official. Official sources in the state industries department said the government has received 286 business intents worth Rs 6.26 lakh crore in the last five years, of which the single window system has cleared 212 proposals worth Rs 5.28 crore. These projects are under various stages of implementation. The revised policy is likely to offer incentives in power tariff and water supply and may allow more tax relief, especially to non-mineral industries. It is also likely to focus on easy availability of land through land bank and industrial infrastructure facilities like dedicated industrial clusters being developed at various places like the petroleum, chemicals and petrochemicals investment region (PCPIR) in Paradip, steel hub in Kalinganagar, aluminium park in Angul, Infovalley near the state capital, food park near Khurda and textile park in Bhadrak. The new industrial policy is likely to focus on growth of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and startups in the state. The official said the state government wants to offer the best incentives to investors in the revised policy. Even as the government has nine sector-specific policies to draw investments in apparel, handloom, textiles, biotechnology, food processing, tourism, pharmaceutical and renewable energy, it has planned to bring about three more sector-specific policies. These include the BPO policy, the Odisha State Data Policy and IT and electronics policy, said an official source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-planning-new-industrial-policy-to-attract-investment/articleshow/78850471.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan mulls opening of schools in three phases from November 2||JAIPUR: The state government has yet again deferred the decision of re-opening of schools in the state on Saturday. Though the state education department on Friday had announced the school reopening layout will be released on Saturday, it deferred at the eleventh hour. “The department will take a final call on the reopening of schools for Class X and XII on Sunday. For other classes, a committee will decide whether the schools will be reopened or not,” a statement released by state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra read. TOI has a copy of a proposal finalised by the state education department as per which the reopening of schools has been planned in three phases. The document, which an official says has the consent of the education minister, says that in the first phase, classes IX to XII are slotted to be restarted between November 2 and 30 following standard operating procedures (SOPs) finalised by the CM office. The second phase will see the reopening of classes VI to VIII between December 1 and 31. In the third phase, classes I to V will be restarted from January 1 onwards. The first phase will impact 30,338 schools and 24.77 lakh students across the state, reads the document. Dotasra has already had two meetings with chief minister Ashok Gehlot over the proposal of reopening schools in three phases. Sources have confirmed that SOPs listed in the document for reopening of schools will remain the same even if the phases change. As per the SOPs, every school is required to make proper arrangement to wash hands, foot-operated sanitiser stand, liquid handwash, soap, water and proper arrangement to maintain social distancing. “Every school has to be compulsorily sanitised before opening. No public programmes will be allowed and every school will have to keep a proper arrangement of medical aid and contact details of nearby hospitals,” said Dotasra. If this decision comes through, the Rajasthan will be first of the very few states in the country to have taken the decision to reopen schools. Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Sikkim reopened schools in October. However, the percentage of students attending classes is reported to be insignificant. The report stressed on how studies and results of around 25 lakh students who are to take Class X and XII board exams next year can be hampered. The department has also considered the independent reports that say learning outcomes in online mode are not convincing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-mulls-opening-of-schools-in-three-phases-from-nov-2/articleshow/78852062.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: TRS, BJP and Congress up the ante||HYDERABAD: With polls to Dubbak nearing, the three main parties are spitting fire on their rivals. Candidates and leaders are trading charges and counter-charges on development and neglect of the constituency by previous legislators. TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha is being constantly attacked by the opposition for her lack of experience in politics and how she is riding piggyback on finance minister T Harish Rao. Not ready to take the criticism lying down, Harish Rao said neither BJP nor Congress had done anything for people when they were in power. BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao has blamed Sujatha’s late husband and former MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy for not doing enough for the constituency. He also blamed the government for paying enough attention towards developing Gajwel and Siddipet, while ignoring Dubbak. While this was so, TRS and Congress are training their guns on Raghunandan Rao. TRS talked about Rao being a non-local and non-resident of the area and highlighted how he spends more time in Hyderabad. Congress, on the other hand, slammed him for making false promises. Its candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy reminded how Raghunandan Rao had promised to stand by the Mallanna Sagar project displaced people but had done precious little for them. He also claimed his father Cheruku Mutyam Reddy had done more to develop the constituency when he was the MLA than Ramalinga Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-bypoll-trs-bjp-and-cong-up-the-ante/articleshow/78851179.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Getting rid of flood water proves costly for residents in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Over a week after heavy rains lashed the city and flooded several areas, colonies in different parts of the city are still struggling to get rid of the muddy water and sewage that inundated their homes by spending hundreds of rupees every day. Scenes of residents gathering their belongings and using water pumps, buckets and other utensils to pump out water from homes can be seen across Yakutpura, Nadeem Colony, Al-Jubail Colony, Saroornagar, Chandryangutta, Bandlaguda, Tolichowki, etc. Many say saving their valuables and pumping out water from the houses is not just time-consuming, but it is also turning out to be a costly affair. Fatima Sultana, a resident of Nadeem Colony said, “Even after we lost our livelihood and all our belongings in the flood water, we are being forced to spend money from our pockets to get our water storage tanks and streets cleaned. I had to pay Rs 1,200 to get the sump in my house cleaned and spend Rs 600 to get sewage cleaned from the refrigerator and repair it.” Meanwhile, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, an organisation that is providing assistance to the flood-affected families is continuing rehabilitation initiatives at Al Jubail Colony, Falaknuma and Chandrayangutta so that residents can resume normal life. “Multiple earth movers of the organisation are at work to clear the debris. The municipal authorities have also done some cleaning but that wasn’t enough. The earth movers charge Rs 800 per house and Rs 1,500 per hour for the tipper. We are now pooling in money so that we can hire these vehicles ourselves and get our area cleaned,” said Mohammad Farhan, a resident of Chandrayangutta. A GHMC official said, “With water-levels receding in colonies, we have directed officials to take up extensive sanitation works, ensure provision of safe drinking water, food and initiate all measures for prevention of communicable diseases. HMWSSB has deployed sewerage labour in all flood-affected areas to resolve sewer chokes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/getting-rid-of-flood-water-proves-costly-for-residents/articleshow/78851187.cms||Moulika.KV
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Gangster Act slapped on don Vikas Dubey’s 30 aides||KANPUR: The district police on Saturday invoked Gangster Act against 30 aides of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, accused of killing eight policemen in an ambush in Bikru village on the night of July 2 & 3. According to SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava, the arrested accused have been slapped with the Gangster Act as the probe confirmed that “they conspired as a gang to commit anti-social and anti-government activities, thereby causing panic in the public”. The gang has been accused of killing eight policemen, including deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra and three sub-inspectors, and injuring seven others in Bikru village on the fateful night. SSP/DIG Dr Preetinder Singh too confirmed that the Gangster Act has been slapped against the 30 accused following the order of the district magistrate. “A separate FIR under the relevant sections of the Gangster Act has been lodged against the jailed accused,” he said. “Under the Act, an administrative officer can order attachment of movable and immovable property if there is enough evidence that it was acquired by a gangster as commission for an offence triable under the Act,” he added. The police had charged 36 persons in the case. Six of the assailants, including Dubey, were killed in encounters. Of the two absconding aides of the gangster, one Umakant had surrendered recently while one other is yet to be arrested. The accused also included four females — Kshama Agnihotri, Rekha Agnihotri, Shanti Dubey and minor wife of Vikas’s aide Amar Dubey. “They, however, have been excluded from the Gangster Act list,” said police, adding that their husbands are also accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gangster-act-slapped-on-don-dubeys-30-aides/articleshow/78852418.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||New Covid-19 cases below 2,000 for sixth day in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: The number of new Covid-19 infections in a day continued to remain below 2,000 for the sixth day in a row on Saturday. Another 1,695 more tested positive for the virus, which raised the case load to 2,79,582. Fifteen patients succumbed, increasing the death toll to 1,229. The health department appealed to the people not to compromise on social distancing norms during Durga Puja. “The public must avoid pandals. Any overcrowding may result in a spike in the number of cases, spoiling the excellent outcome achieved so far,” said additional chief secretary (health) Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra. The government has made Durga Puja an indoor affair by barring devotees from visiting pandals while limiting the number of people in a pandal at any given point of time to seven. Jayant Panda, the government’s technical adviser on Covid-19, said the burden on healthcare infrastructure has been steadily going down as the number of patients needing hospitalisation has been falling. “The downward trend in new infections and deaths will continue in November, unless there is a second wave. The worst may soon be over,” he said. Only four districts — Khurda (183), Balasore (128), Sundargarh (110) and Cuttack (103) — reported more than 100 new cases each. While two persons each died in Khurda, Mayurbhanj and Sundargarh, one each passed away in Angul, Balasore, Bargarh, Bhadrak, Gajapati, Jharsuguda, Kandhamal, Puri and Sambalpur. The number of Covid cured patients increased to 2,62,031 after 2,613 patients recovered on Saturday. The active positive cases in the state fell to 16,269. The recovery rate has improved to over 93%. Meanwhile, the government has decided to inaugurate a 500-bed upgraded facility for Covid care, including a dedicated OT complex for delivery of Covid positive women and neonatal ICU for babies delivered by such women, on Tuesday. It will be the most state-of-the-art facility for Covid care in the government sector, with superspecialty wings for patients with different kinds of comorbidities, government sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-cases-below-2k-for-6th-successive-day/articleshow/78850467.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Girl ‘raped’ by cop now missing||ROURKELA: A minor girl of Sundargarh district, who was allegedly raped, impregnated and then forced into an abortion by the then IIC of Birmitrapur police station, has been reported missing by SOS Children’s Village, Rourkela, where she had been kept by the government for her safety. Police launched a search for the girl on Friday evening. The alleged rape and abortion suffered by the girl, 13, came to the fore when the district child protection officer of Sundargarh had lodged a complaint in Raibaga police station on June 24, naming two policemen of Biramitrapur police station, a doctor of Biramitrapur CHC, two young friends of the girl and her stepfather as the accused. Sources said the girl in her statement had claimed that a police team of Biramitrapur had taken her to the police station while she was waiting at a bus stop. She had alleged she was raped inside the police station by a senior policeman. She said she had been let go then, but was later brought back to the station to undergo the same ordeal repeatedly. After learning she was pregnant, the set of men named in the FIR allegedly made her undergo an abortion at the CHC on June 15. DGP Abhay had ordered a probe into the case on June 30 and had dismissed Biramitrapur IIC Anand Chandra Majhi on July 1. Majhi was also arrested the same day. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/girl-raped-by-cop-now-missing/articleshow/78850483.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer bans use of crackers on Diwali||JAISALMER: The district administration has imposed a ban on sale and use of crackers this Diwali in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It has also prohibited burning of effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad on Dussehra for the same reason. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi called a meeting of the peace committee on Saturday and requested representatives of all religions and sections to generate awareness about the ban on bursting crackers. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had earlier appealed to people not to use crackers this Diwali. Even doctors of Jaipur’s SMS Hospital felt that bursting of crackers would cause problems to patients who have recovered from Covid. On average, firecrackers worth Rs 2.5 crore is sold in Jaisalmer city every Diwali, while around Rs 5 crore is spent on crackers in the entire district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-bans-use-of-crackers-on-diwali/articleshow/78852064.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Not a reality show, but reality: Orlim youth on American Idol audition||MARGAO: In the midst of a global pandemic, Earl Fortes from Orlim travelled across continents for two days straight, with 24 hours in the air, to make his dream come true. Earlier this month, the 20-year-old walked on to the American Idol stage and auditioned for one of the world’s biggest talent shows, before some of the music industry’s biggest names — Lionel Richie, Luke Bryan and Katy Perry. “It was exhilarating,” Fortes told TOI from the US, adding that the feeling couldn’t be put into words. “I’m going to give it my all and make my family and everyone who is supporting me proud.” Speaking about his audition, he said the adrenaline of performing before global superstars kept pumping even though he was recovering from a broken foot. “The memory of singing for Richie, Perry and Bryan gives me goosebumps even now when I think about it,” he said. The journey, however, didn’t start from one side of the globe to the other, but as a seven-year-old whose dream was to be on that stage. “From the time I auditioned for the producers to the day I played on the big stage, I had to pinch myself every morning to remind myself that it isn’t a reality show, but reality,” he said. Fortes said that his nerves crept up the second he was slated to go on stage. “I was freaking out, I had sweaty palms,” he said. “I had a conversation with the judges before my performance, I was extremely nervous when I started strumming my guitar, and the feeling didn’t seem to leave me till I was back in my room.” He said he started off with an original, ‘Any other way’, he penned especially for the audition. “The song means a lot to me because it’s about my life and how I’ve had a bumpy ride full of ups and downs, and how I overcame the obstacles,” he said. “Singing my original to the judges was a satisfying moment and experience.” As a contestant, Fortes said he came across talented musicians from across the world. “We socialised, jammed and learned so much about each other’s genre,” he said. “Everyone I met was just setting a vibe.” But when asked about the outcome of his performance, he was mum. “You are going to have to tune in and watch it next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-a-reality-show-but-reality-orlim-youth-on-american-idol-audition/articleshow/78852428.cms||Nisser Dias
October 25, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Priest thrashed in road rage incident succumbs||KANPUR: A 60-year-old temple priest died of injuries sustained in a road rage attack in Biwar police station area of Hamirpur district. Thrashed brutally with sticks by five men on Thursday, the priest died during treatment at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital in Kanpur late Friday. Police said Ratiram Yadav, a native of Majra Chandauli Aheer village, was priest of Siddh Baba temple at Khadehi Mihuna village in Hamirpur since the past 10 years. On Thursday, Ratiram was going to the community health centre with his relative Anil on a two-wheeler, and was riding pillion.When they reached Maudaha tri-section in Baswari village, Ratiram found a relative riding a tractor engaged in a spat with five men travelling in a Bolero which had been damaged. “He tried to pacify the men sitting in Bolero, but they picked up a quarrel with him instead, asking him to pay for the damage to the Bolero that was hit by his relative’s tractor. The men got agitated and attacked him mercilessly with sticks. Passersby tried to intervene to rescue him but failed. Ratiram started bleeding, slumped to the ground and fell unconscious,” said police. Passersby alerted Ratiram’s family members who rushed to the spot and admitted him to nearby Sadar hospital from where he was referred to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, where his condition deteriorated and he died on Friday. “We have launched a hunt to nab the accused, who are on the run. We have picked up their family members and relatives for questioning. We have received a complaint, but since the postmortem was conducted in Kanpur, we are waiting for the report to lodge FIR,” said inspector Biwar Kotwali Banke Bihari Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/priest-thrashed-in-road-rage-incident-succumbs/articleshow/78850713.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 25, 2020||Kanpur||Bikru ambush: Gangster Act against 30 aides of Dubey||Kanpur: The district police on Saturday invoked Gangster Act against 30 aides of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, accused of killing eight policemen in an ambush in Bikru village on the night of July 2 & 3.According to SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava, the arrested accused have been slapped with the Gangster Act as the probe confirmed that “they conspired as a gang to commit anti-social and anti-government activities, thereby causing panic in the public”. The gang has been accused of killing eight policemen, including deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra and three sub-inspectors, and injuring seven others in Bikru village on the fateful night. SSP/DIG Dr Preetinder Singh too confirmed that the Gangster Act has been slapped against the 30 accused following the order of the district magistrate. “A separate FIR under the relevant sections of the Gangster Act has been lodged against the jailed accused,” he said. “Under the Act, an administrative officer can order attachment of movable and immovable property if there are enough evidences that it was acquired by a gangster as commission for an offence triable under the Act,” he added. The police had charged 36 persons in the case. Six of the assailants, including Dubey, were killed in encounters. Of the two absconding aides of the gangster, one Umakant had surrendered recently while one other is yet to be arrested. The accused also included four females — Kshama Agnihotri, Rekha Agnihotri, Shanti Dubey and minor wife of Vikas’s aide Amar Dubey. “They, however, have been excluded from the Gangster Act list,” said police, adding that their husbands are also accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bikru-ambush-gangster-act-against-30-aides-of-dubey/articleshow/78850704.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Govt hands over IT park land to Software Technology Parks of India||KORAPUT: The Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) recently executed a 90-year lease for 2.8 acres of land with the Koraput administration to set up a software technology park at Phulabado on the outskirts of Jeypore. “All formalities for the land transfer to STPI have been completed,” said collector (Koraput) Madhusudan Mishra. Official sources said a STPI team headed by its director Manas Ranjan Panda had selected the land in 2015 for its proximity to the airport, railway station and NH-26 and had sent the feasibility report the Centre for approval. Panda, who executed the land lease deed with the administration, said the aim of the software park was to act as front-end to the software industry for government policies and approvals and to establish and provide data communication and infrastructure facilities. Also, it aims to promote development and export of software and its services. Official sources said the area was well-connected as it lay on NH-26, making residential accommodation for employees easy. It also has access to water and round-the-clock power supply. Jeypore MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati expressed hope that once established, the park would not only provide a big boost to the local economy and overall educational atmosphere of the area, it would generate indirect employment for hundreds of local youths. The state has a software park in Bhubaneswar, Rourkela, Berhampur and Balasore. The government had approached the department of IT at the Centre to establish similar parks at Sambalpur, Angul, Jajpur, Rayagada, Jeypore and Bhawanipatna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-completes-transfer-of-jeypore-software-park-land-to-stpi/articleshow/78850499.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Greater Hyderabad civic body takes up removal of silt, garbage||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) staffers removing silt and garbage, demolishing old buildings, spraying disinfectants and taking up anti-larval operations was the order of the day on Saturday in several parts of the city. GHMC continued its sanitation drive on Saturday. “Over 11,000 tonnes of silt and garbage has been removed from the city in five days. We have pressed into service 55 mini tippers, 72 earthmovers, 36 trucks and four tractors,” the GHMC said in a statement. In Al Jubail Colony in Falaknuma, a dilapidated building was demolished. This week alone, 66 buildings have been demolished. In an attempt to fight vector-borne diseases, larvicides were sprayed in stagnant water and fogging was taken up, especially in localities which were affected by the recent floods. “ 125 teams have been deployed to prevent spread of vector-borne diseases. In all, 1,400 entomology staffers are on field,” said Ram Babu, chief entomologist, GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-takes-up-removal-of-silt-garbage/articleshow/78851194.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Unnao woman ‘murdered’ two years ago found in Maharashtra||LUCKNOW: A woman, presumed to be murdered two years ago, was found to be alive and traced in Ahmednagar in Maharashtra by Unnao police even as the accused continues to be languishing in jail for 14 months for a crime that never took place. The revelation occurred when the ATM card of a bank account in the woman’s name in Mumbai reached her permanent address in Unnao in September this year. Explaining the sequence of events, superintendent of police, Unnao, Anand Kulkarni told TOI that it all began in March 2018 when Yogendra Kumar of Unnao lodged a complaint alleging that one Pramod Verma had abducted his wife Shraddha Gupta (21). “On April 2, 2018, the charred body of a woman was found in Jurakhan Khera area of Unnao. On the basis of the belongings recovered from the spot, Yogendra identified the body as that of Shraddha. Pramod was immediately arrested and sent to jail,” Kulkarni said. However, the case took a curious turn in September this year when an ATM card of a bank account opened in Shradhha’s name reached her original address on the basis of her Aadhaar card details. “The details were checked and it was found that the account was being operated by Shraddha. Later, a test was conducted in which it was found that the DNA of the body found in 2018 did not match with Shraddha’s daughter and other relatives,” the SP said. During reinvestigation, she was traced in Maharashtra. Shraddha told cops that when she was just one-year old, her parents had given her custody to a childless government teacher who lived in their neighbourhood in Unnao. “Later, her real parents shifted to Rae Bareli. The teacher raised Shraddha and married her off to Kumar. The couple had a daughter but Shraddha was not happy with her marriage and left home on the pretext of appearing for an examination,” the SP said. She took a train to Pune where a woman, Shabana, helped her get a job in Ahmednagar. Cops said they would move the court to ensure the release of Pramod. Repeated attempts to contact Shraddha failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unnao-woman-murdered-two-yrs-ago-found-in-maha/articleshow/78852426.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 25, 2020||Varanasi||Institute owned by Mukhtar Ansari’s aides razed in Ghazipur||VARANASI: An institute of nursing and paramedical college and hospital owned by the aides of jailed don Mukhtar Ansari was demolished in Ghazipur on Saturday. Ghazipur SDM had issued an order for its demolition on October 12 after finding out that it was built illegally. A notice was served to the owners of the institute giving a week’s time before the demolition. Ghazipur SDM, Sadar Prabhat Kumar, told TOI that the demolition of the illegally constructed building was in progress. The Shamm-e-Husaini Institute of Nursing and Paramedical College and Hospital owned by Dr Shadab Siddaqi and Azam Siddaqi of Barbarahna in Kotwali police station area had been built illegally by capturing the land. Siddaqi family came on the radar of Ghazipur administration and police when the committee led by the DM to identify and initiate action against land mafia got evidence regarding its connections with Mukhtar. Besides, the district administration has also ordered for the demolition of Mukhtar’s own hotel in main Ghazipur city. The hotel owned by Don's wife Afsa Ansari and two sons Abbas Ansari and Omar Ansari is situated in a posh locality of Mahuabagh in Ghazipur city. Properties of don, his family members and henchmen are under the lens since the intensifying drive to destroy his economic empire and armoury was started in May. In the first week of September, the don’s men had also demolished an illegally built shopping complex, owned by his wife at Laldarwaja in the main market of Ghazipur after getting notice from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/institute-owned-by-ansaris-aides-razed-in-ghazipur/articleshow/78850835.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||No faculty to teach new engineering courses in Telangana: Experts||HYDERABAD: While the state has granted permission to introduce new courses in emerging technologies in almost all the engineering colleges, experts and faculty said that there are no trained faculty in Telangana to teach these subjects. They said unless the faculty gets adequately trained in the next two years and is capable of teaching these specialisations — artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML), data sciences (DS), Internet of Things (IoT), cyber security, among others, launching these courses will be a complete disaster. “Right now, all the stakeholders are assuming that a computer science faculty will be able to teach all these specialisations. But, in reality, that won’t be the case. There is an urgent need to adequately train faculty members so that they can teach students,” said N Ramana Rao, director, National Institute of Technology, Warangal, which has been conducting faculty development programmes (FDPs) in emerging technologies. Rao said that unfortunately, not many college managements are showing interest to provide required training to faculty. Faculty said although Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad (JNTUH) or other institutes are conducting FDPs, they are not of much use. “Nothing much can be learned in three days or a one-week programme,” said A Santosh Kumar, president, Telangana Schools Technical Colleges Employees’ Association. “Who are going to teach emerging technologies this year?,” questioned Kumar. “For almost all these courses, 60% syllabus is common and will be based on computer science. For remaining syllabus, faculty will have about a year to get trained as specialisations will not be launched in first year,” said M Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-faculty-to-teach-new-engg-courses-experts/articleshow/78851234.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man set wife ablaze over visiting her parents for Diwali||VADODARA: A 35-year-old woman was set ablaze by her husband at Alamgir village of Vadodara taluka on Friday. The woman Anju Nayak and her husband Natu had heated arguments on Friday afternoon as she wished to go to her parents’ house to celebrate Diwali. Police said that while she was cooking lunch, she proposed the idea to Natu and he got enraged. As Natu started abusing Anju, she told him not to abuse her and if he will refuse, she will not go. As Anju was reacting to his anger, Natu was further angered, cops said. Natu took a kerosene bottle in the house, poured it on her, and lit her up. As Anju was started screaming in pain, the couple’s son and neighbours rushed and doused the fire. She was taken to SSG Hospital after a villager called 108 GVK-EMRI ambulance. “The woman is currently in stable condition and gave a complaint against her husband,” said a police official. Based on her complaint, Natu was booked for attempt to murder at Varnama police station. Police said that the couple works as casual labourers and have a daughter and a son. Before Natu, Anju was married to another man in Halol. But the man separated from her to marry some other woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-set-wife-ablaze-over-visiting-her-parents-for-diwali/articleshow/78850083.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Rajkot||Four held for looting Jetpur gold trader||RAJKOT: Just when they were in the middle of dividing the share of the booty, the cops swooped down on them and nabbed four robbers from Barkatinagar main road in Rajkot on Saturday. Robbers had looted a Jetpur jewellery trader of gold and cash worth Rs 30.40 lakh. The police said the accused, Akbar Ringadia, Sakir Khedara, Sameer Qureshi and Tufel Khedara, were arrested from the house of Ringadia where they had assembled to divide the share of the booty. Police had seized robbed gold and cash from the accused. Two of the accused had accosted gold trader Chiman Vekeria while he was on his way to Jetpur from Dhoraji. According to the police, while one of the accused threw chilli powder in the eyes of Vekaria, the other snatched his bag before speeding away on October 21. The bag contained 710 gram gold jewellery worth Rs 28.4 lakh and Rs 2 lakh in cash . “It was a blind case for us. As the accused didn’t have any past criminal records, we had no clue about them,” said A R Gohil, inspector with Rajkot rural local crime branch (LCB). However, Rajkot rural superintendent of police Balram Meena and Jetpur assistant superintendent of police Sagar Bagmar formed six teams from Rajkot LCB, Rajkot special operation group (SOG) and Jetpur city police station officials. The teams started the investigation on the basis of the footages of the CCTVs installed under the Eye-Way Project. “Meanwhile, constables — Naran Pampania and Divyesh Suva — received a tip-off that the accused had gathered at Ringadia’s house to divide the share of the booty. Acting on this information, we raided the house and nabbed the accused. We also recovered the cash and jewellery they had looted,” said H M Rana, sub-inspector with Rajkot rural LCB. The police also seized the bike used in the crime and a knife from the possession of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-held-for-looting-jetpur-gold-trader/articleshow/78850996.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Surat||Civil surgeon, two nurses of Navsari civil hospital booked||SURAT: The in-charge civil surgeon and two head nurse were among the five persons booked on Saturday for abating suicide of 28-year-old nurse of Navsari civil hospital who had ended life on Thursday. Megha Acharya, a staff nurse of civil hospital in Navsari had hanging herself to death at her residence in Vejalpore. The police had recovered a four-and-a-half-page suicide note from the room where she committed suicide. Sources said that the mother of the deceased, Minaxi Acharya lodged a complaint with the Vejalpore police station against five people including the in-charge civil surgeon, Dr Avinash Dubey, two head nurse—Tara Gamit and Vanita Patel—and her daughter’s husband, Ankit Khambhati and his mother Jayshree Khambhati. Rushikesh Upadhyay, superintendent of police, Navsari told TOI, “The complaint is lodged by the mother of the deceased against the civil surgeon, two head nurse, husband and the mother-in-law. We are investigating the entire issue and the guilty will be not be spared. The police is yet to make any arrest in this case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/civil-surgeon-two-nurses-of-navsari-civil-hospital-booked/articleshow/78850195.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Allahabad||Eve-teaser held 10 days after victim committed suicide||Prayagraj: Almost 10 days after a girl committed suicide after allegedly being fed up with harassment by some youths in Pratapgarh, the district’s Baghrai police arrested the main accused from Dhingavas village under Lalganj Kotwali area. Two accused Dabboo Singh and Guddu Singh were arrested within days of the incident, while the main accused Gunnu Tiwari was nabbed on Friday night, said SHO Baghrai Umesh Singh. The 17-year-old girl had jumped into a well after being fed up with continuous eve-teasing and harassment by some miscreants at Puvasi village. The girl’s father had filed a case and named three persons, alleging that they were harassing and threatening his daughter. One of them had even barged inside their house on October 12, but escaped when the family members raised an alarm. The girl committed suicide the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/eve-teaser-held-10-days-after-victim-committed-suicide/articleshow/78850864.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Allahabad||Now, mutation of house possible through online mode from Nov 1||PRAYAGRAJ: Residents will be able apply for the mutation of their house/land through the official website of Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) from November 1. They do not have to visit the PMC office for the same any more. Before this, the facility of online payment of house tax and procuring the birth or death certificates have already been shifted online by PMC. The new online facility, which is slated to start from November 1, will entertain the request of the new house owner and complete the process within a stipulated time period, thereby minimising human interference. Mutation is the transfer of property from its existing owner to a new owner by way of gifting, will, inheritance, partition or sale. Through this process, the property is recorded in the name of the new owner in the land revenue department. So far, in Prayagraj, if anyone wished to apply for mutation of the house or any other property, they had to visit the Nagar Nigam office of their respective ward and fill out an application form. The individual had to submit the photocopy of all the relevant documents at the office. Thereafter, the department would publish an advertisement in the local daily so that if anyone had any objection to the mutation, they could come forward and submit their objection within 90 days from the date of publication of the advertisement. Whereas, now, the entire process has been made available online. The user will just have to log in to the website of Nagar Nigam and apply for the mutation. They have to scan the required documents and upload the same on the window. “Once the online payment is made, the department will start the process and complete the same within the stipulated time,” said chief tax officer of PMC, PK Mishra. “This online facility will come in handy for the residents and spare them the repetitive visits to the Nagar Nigam office. They can keep checking the status of their application on the website,” he added. The official further informed that the initiative is part of the Smart City project in which all the amenities will be made available online for residents. “We are at the final stage of launching the facility online. It will start functioning from November 1,” said Mishra. Earlier, in August, PMC had switched to online payment of house tax and water tax through Bharat Bill Payment System (BBPS). Following this, the residents, living within the municipal limits of Prayagraj district, are able to able to pay their house and water tax through multiple payment modes including nationalised, private banks and online wallets. Moreover, the tax can also be paid through the debit/credit card by swiping it in the smart POS machine provided to the taxpayer at his doorstep by PMC officials. The new mutation facility will not only directly benefit the home owners of the Sangam city, but also reduce the workload of the municipal corporation authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/now-mutation-of-house-possible-through-online-mode-from-nov-1/articleshow/78850852.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP tops in loan disbursal to vendors under PM scheme||LUCKNOW: By disbursing loans among 2.3 lakh beneficiaries since June this, UP has ranked first among states under the Prime Minister SVANidhi Scheme. Seven cities from the state have also ranked in the top 10 in disbursement of loans, with Varanasi on top and Lucknow in second spot. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ensure that disbursals reach at least 2.51 lakh by October 27, which is when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a virtual interaction with street vendors, especially beneficiaries of the scheme. Launched on June 1, 2020, the SVANidhi Scheme is meant for street vendors, to help them in stabilising their work in the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown. Under the scheme, a loan of up to Rs 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest is given to applicants. The government gives a subsidy of Rs 2,500. A government spokesperson said that UP ranked first in all three categories — applications, sanctions and disbursements. “The government received 6,22,167 applications, out of which 3,46,150 applications have been approved for sanction. Out of these, loans have been disbursed to 2,26,728 beneficiaries,” he said. In second place is Madhya Pradesh with disbursements among over 1.25 Lakh beneficiaries, followed by Telangana with 53,777 disbursement, Gujarat with 18,747 disbursements, Andhara Pradesh with 15,992, Maharashtra with 13,021, Chhattisgarh with 8,993, Tamil Nadu with 8,389, Jharkhand with 6,413 and Rajasthan with 5,533. Seven cities from UP have been ranked among top 10 cities. These include Varanasi, Lucknow, Aligarh and Prayagraj as the top four cities, Gorakhpur at the seventh spot, Ghaziabad at the ninth and Kanpur at the tenth. On the fifth and sixth places are Indore and Bhopal from Madhya Pradesh while Hyderabad has bagged the eighth spot. The CM had reviewed the status of the scheme on October 19 when 5.57 lakh applications had been received and 2.83 lakh have been approved. Out of these, loans had been distributed to 99,000 applicants. The disbursal to the remaining 1.27 lakh applicants has been done in the past four days. Directions have been issued to all district magistrates and local bodies to hold meetings with district-level bankers committees and ensure that the work is fast tracked. Targets have been set for each district while the SLBC has been asked to set targets for each bank branch. Watch PM SVANidhi scheme: UP ranks 1st among states in loan disbursal to vendors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-tops-in-loan-disbursal-to-vendors-under-pm-scheme/articleshow/78852434.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||WTPs across Telangana inundated||HYDERABAD: The heavy rains have inundated even the water treatment plants (WTPs) at several places. A WTP at Nasarlapally in Nalgonda district, which was built to treat raw water, was filled with rainwater and overflowed. The authorities had to stop pumping raw water from the main source. The HMWS&SB has mini WTPs on standby to treat raw water. “We have ensured supply of potable water to avoid inconvenience to our consumers,” a senior HMWS&SB official said. The Water Board ensured uninterrupted water supply to meet the demand despite the WTPs facing inundatiom, officials said. In some areas, water supply was affected due to pumplines getting damaged and inundated. However, the board managed to ensure supplies to these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wtps-across-state-inundated/articleshow/78851245.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 25, 2020||Kanpur||Nine topper girls serve as officers for a day in Jhansi||JHANSI: Nine meritorious girl students who had topped in the board exams were made top administrative officers of various departments in Mauranipur tehsil of Jhansi district for a day on Saturday. The event, a brain child of SDM Mauranipur Ankur Srivastav, was initiated under the ongoing ‘Mission Shakti’ programme for empowering women. Sunaina Mishra got the chance to serve as SDM, Nancy Gupta as CO, Diksha Ahirwar as tehsildar, Vanshika as agriculture officer, Kritika as education officer, Kumkum as SHO, Anjali Gupta as BDO, Aashi Gupta as CHC head and Kanchan Agarwal as EO. On Saturday morning, the nine girls who had topped in various schools, were brought to their respective offices from their home in official vehicles and given the opportunity to serve as officers for the day. They discharged their official duties for the entire day under the guidance of the officers who were present to help them. The girls were seen passing orders and marking applications of complainants to the departments concerned with instructions. Sunaina, who was serving as SDM told TOI that she is very excited handling the work. Daughter of a journalist, Sunaina had topped in class X in the tehsil and was second topper in class XII. Though she is preparing for NEET, and after her experience of serving as an SDM, she said she would now definitely appear in civil services examination after completing her MBBS. Nancy Gupta who was CO for the day was also excited after her day’s assignment. Nancy, daughter of a shop owner, was a school topper. She is doing BSc and is aiming to do a PhD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nine-topper-girls-serve-as-officers-for-a-day-in-jhansi/articleshow/78850794.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 25, 2020||Goa||Congress plans solo fight in Goa polls||PANAJI: Rejecting the overtures of Goa Forward Party, MGP and other opposition MLAs, Congress plans to go it solo in the coming state legislative assembly in 2022, said Goa desk-in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao here on Saturday. Rao, who is on his first official visit to the state since he was appointed as the AICC in-charge, has given the local Congress leadership till November end to have every booth committee in place. He said that the party will work towards improving its presence in each of the 40 constituencies. “The Congress should be strong in all the 40 constituencies, and if we are strong and other parties have compromised themselves for their personal gains, how can we align with such people,” said Rao. “We are strong on our own and we will fight on our own.” Rao met with all MLAs, including the defiant Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginald Lourenco. Without directly referring to Lourenco, Rao said that indiscipline will not be tolerated. He did not specify what action would be taken when MLAs or officebearers speak out against the party. The former Karnataka Congress chief said that he is sure that the Congress will have absolute majority in the next elections. When probed about his stance on the Mhadei river dispute between Goa and Karnataka, Rao deftly dodged the question and said that every state would fight for its own right, irrespective of party affiliations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-plans-solo-fight-in-state-polls/articleshow/78852148.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC notice to GFSU over timing of entrance test||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has issued notice to the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University (GFSU) after a couple of students missed its online entrance exam for MSc in forensic science because the time of their graduation exams clashed with the time of the entrance test. The students have approached the high court for a chance to take the entrance test by GFSU. One of them is Zeelkuvar Chhapiya, a martial arts champion and a final year science student at Samarpan Science and Commerce College at Gandhinagar, which is affiliated with the Gujarat University. She had applied for admission in masters in the GFSU and her entrance exam was scheduled on September 18. However, GU had also decided to conduct its offline (pen-paper) exams for Science semester VI on the same day. It was unfortunate for Chhapiya that not only the day of both the exams was same, but the timing too was same. Both the universities fixed the exam time at 3pm. She had to skip the entrance test to appear in the graduation exams. Chhapiya moved the HC though advocate Chetan Pandya demanding another chance for GFSU admission. It was contended that the GFSU was well aware of the GU exam schedule and it could have easily avoided clash of timing by rescheduling the online entrance test. After preliminary hearing, Justice A C Rao on Friday issued notice to GFSU and posted further hearing on October 29. Chhapiya’s plea will be heard with another petition filed by another student, Priyanka Sharma, who too missed the GFSU entrance test and come before the high court with similar prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-notice-to-gfsu-over-timing-of-entrance-test/articleshow/78851247.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||HDSCL wants to install 160 cameras to maintain law and order||HUBBALLI: As part of a comprehensive plan to maintain law and order, the Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd (HDSCL) is going ahead with the installation of 160 pan tilt zoom (PTZ) cameras across the twin cities. Although Hubballi-Dharwad police have installed several cameras, particularly on roads and in areas that serve as entry and exit points to the twin cities, lack of proper maintenance has resulted in many of these devices turning dysfunctional. Many closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed by corporators in their wards too have turned defunct further hampering effective enforcement of the law. HDSCL had initially planned to install smart poles across the twin cities, a project that was subsequently shelved owing to the lack of interest among private contractors to execute the project. Instead, the PTZ cameras, which were originally planned for installation on the smart poles will now be affixed at different locations with a single pole, said HDSCL sources. HDSCL’s deputy general manager Channabasavaraj told STOI that the cameras would be installed in those spots where police deemed them most necessary. He added that a preliminary meeting had already been held between officials of HDSCL and the Hubballi-Dharwad police. Channabasavaraj said that the HDSCL would float tenders inviting bids for the installation of the PTZ cameras. “The agency bagging the tender will have to maintain the cameras. This scheme is part of HDSCL’s local system integration project,” said Channabasavaraj, adding that the cameras would be connected with HDSCL’s integrated command control centre manned by both police and Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) personnel. He said that another meeting was scheduled on Tuesday, to be attended by senior officials of HDMC, HDSCL and police, to discuss the implementation of the project. A HDSCL source said that in the previous meetings with police officials, the latter had pointed to the need for more advanced cameras, a demand that the former agency was mulling over. HDMC is also keen on utilising the services of these cameras to keep an eye on those disposing of garbage in undesignated spots. The civic agency wants these cameras installed at black spots where residents have been found dumping garbage indiscriminately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hdscl-wants-to-install-160-cameras-to-maintain-law-and-order/articleshow/78850551.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Kalapathar cops nab 3 for betting||HYDERABAD: Three persons allegedly organizing cricket betting were nabbed by Kalapathar police on Friday. Cops seized Rs 30,000 and 4 mobiles. The prime accused is yet to be nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-3-for-betting/articleshow/78851251.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 2,544 get Master of Engineering seats, 1,075 Master of Pharmacy||AHMEDABAD: After the first round of admissions, 2,544 Master of Engineering (ME) candidates and 1,075 Master of Pharmacy (MPharm) candidates have been shortlisted for admission to various colleges in the state. For admissions to the two-year master’s degrees for 2020-21, 3,276 candidates for ME and 1,415 candidates for MPharm had made it to the final merit list. The first round of online admissions was to fill 5,219 seats at 70 colleges offering ME programmes and for 1,495 seats at 53 MPharm colleges. Based on choices made by candidates, 3,115 seats of ME and 1,245 seats of MPharm were up for grabs. After the mock round of admissions recently, a total of 3,368 candidates in both the courses were in fray. The results of the mock round were announced earlier this week and saw 2,236 candidates for ME and 1,032 candidates of MPharm being shortlisted. “The results of round one of admissions was declared on Saturday in which 2,544 seats of ME and 1,075 seats of MPharm have been allocated,” said a source in the admission committee. Candidates have to confirm their admission by paying fees online between October 24 and October 26, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2544-get-me-seats-1075-mpharm/articleshow/78851253.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: China companies lent money, shamed defaulters||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad police have found a disturbing trend where Chinese companies involved in illegal online betting are cheating Indians of crores of rupees and diverting the money to app-based financing firms. Also, the financing firms go to any lengths to recover money, including accessing the contact list of defaulters and informing them about the money not being paid despite the amounts often being small. Recently, a recovery agent brazenly insulted a Hyderabad policeman investigating an FIR registered for threatening and said he would continue with his tactics without fear. The police in the charge sheet filed recently in the Chinese online gambling case mentioned that money earned was being re-invested in different businesses, including instant financing with a rate of interest of around 40% to 50%. Usually, the maximum money financed by these apps is Rs 50,000. The Hyderabad police had on August 14 arrested a Chinese national and his Indian associates for running betting rackets online. So far, four FIRs have been registered in the city for harassment and holding out threats after residents and their contacts got calls from different parts of the country, including cities in Madhya Pradesh, Noida, Chennai and Bengaluru. These apps, which gain access to contact lists of defaulters’ phone, shame them in front of friends, family and colleagues. In some cases, the callers have threatened those who have stood surety for the loan. Police officials said that at the time of taking a loan through an app, loan-seekers give the apps permission to access their contacts which the companies then misuse. Though police are aware that these callers, mostly based out of Chennai, Bengaluru, Madhya Pradesh and Noida, are harassing defaulters and their acquaintances, they are not cracking the whip on the tele-callers since the loan values are very small. “Since the loan amounts are small, we have not sent our teams to nab the callers. It is only complainants who are claiming that they are being abused and harassed, but no one has produced evidence. Till now, none of the persons on the contact list of any of these harassed defaulters came forward to lodge a complaint,’’ a senior Hyderabad police officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/china-cos-lent-money-shamed-defaulters/articleshow/78852101.cms||Srinath Vudali
October 25, 2020||---||RJD promises 85% quota for Bihar residents in government jobs||PATNA: Rashtriya Janata Dal kept its focus on employment as its main poll plank as on Saturday it launched its manifesto for the Bihar assembly elections, announcing 85% reservation in government jobs for Bihar residents and reinforcing its promises of 10 lakh government jobs, elimination of contractual employment and an increase in the honorarium for self-help groups. The party said it would spend 22% of the state’s budget on education and open schools in all divisions, three to five residential schools in all districts, and 100 “international level” smart schools in the first three years. Apart from Hindi, English and computer education will be musts in all schools. Launching the manifesto, titled “Pran Hamara, Sankalp Badlav Ka”, the Mahagathbandhan’s CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said, “This is not just a manifesto but our pledge.” The manifesto also promises an allowance of Rs 1,500 for unemployed youths up to 35 years of age and vows to double the honorarium for self-help groups. “The manifesto talks about … equal pay for equal work, tapping industrial sectors and promoting local products, infrastructure and environment, among others,” he said. There are 17 major chapters in the RJD manifesto, which begins with employment and self-employment. Under this section, the party has promised a tax waiver for setting up industries, free forms and conveyance for entrance examinations for jobs, along with 10 lakh government jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-promises-85-quota-for-bihar-residents-in-government-jobs/articleshow/78852694.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||RTI reveals only Rs 2 crore of Rs 46 crore GHMC fines collected||HYDERABAD: While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) slapped fines worth Rs 46 crore for illegal banners and other violations between March 13, 2018 and September 19, 2020, it was able to collect only Rs 2 crore, revealed an RTI query. In its reply, regarding collections by the enforcement and vigilance wing (EVDM) for illegal hoardings, the civic body said it had to collect Rs 46,19,54,300, but collections through fines and challans amounted to Rs 2,36,32,100. The RTI filed by activist Umesh Kumar was answered on October 21. Speaking to STOI, Kumar said, “While the EVDM wing is very active, it has not been able to collect the fines owing to various reasons which probably include the shortage of manpower.” He added that several cases have also ended up in the high court, with parties seeking an exemption considering the lack of awareness of GO 68 and citing huge financial loses incurred already. The GO, issued during the lockdown, states that all advertisement elements that are above 15 feet from the ground level in the GHMC area have to be removed. In the reply, the civic body also mentions that after the imposition of penalties, the ad elements were removed by the DRF teams. Any amount collected is transferred to the account of the GHMC commissioner at the end of every month. In response, to the RTI, the director EVDM, GHMC (@Director_EVDM) said: “The inherent motive behind any penalty levied by the government is to create deterrence and create awareness that their actions are being watched. Collection of the penalty is important but not the only measure of the effectiveness of the system”. He added, “We have teams (for) identification, generation and delivery but not for the collection. This shows that we want to create awareness and deterrence among citizens towards offences but collection shouldn’t and is not the only priority. However, we do send reminders and notices regarding the penalties to all concerned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rti-reveals-only-rs-2cr-of-rs-46cr-ghmc-fines-collected/articleshow/78851262.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Body of drowned man found in Gandipet||HYDERABAD: The body of an Afghanistan national who had drowned in Gandipet on Thursday was recovered on Friday. Narsingi police said that he had gone to Gandipet with four friends. The man had come to Hyderabad to purse education in a local college. A case was registered under section 174 of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/body-of-drowned-man-found/articleshow/78851256.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Card swap, ‘Help’ at ATM costs man Rs 1.7 Lakh||AHMEDABAD: A 79-year-old retired railways employee, Bhikanrao Yevle, on Friday lodged a complaint with Sabarmati police stating that a man dressed in white who was standing in an ATM booth, while pretending to help him, switched his debit card. The man later withdrew money and made purchases using the card, costing the complainant a total of Rs 1.70 lakh. Sabarmati police lodged an offence under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC and have obtained CCTV footage from the ATM booth to identify the accused. Yevle, a resident of Vrajeshwari Housing Society in Chankheda, said he went to the SBI ATM in Ramnagar to withdraw money on October 15. He tried to withdraw Rs 10,00 but could not. He then went to the bank next door. “A bank employee told him the ATM was working and he should try again. Yevle went to the ATM booth again and a man dressed in white was standing there. He told the complainant to withdraw Rs 5,000 at a time. The complainant did that once and withdrew Rs 5,000. The second time, the man did the transaction, withdrew the money and gave it to the complainant. He then took out the card and instead of giving Yevle his card, gave him a card that looked like his. Yevle did not notice this and went home,” said a police official. On Friday, when he went to the bank to get entries done in his passbook, he learned that someone had made withdrawals from several ATMs and made purchases using his card, worth a total of Rs 1.70 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/card-swap-help-at-atm-costs-man-rs-1-7l/articleshow/78851258.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||At Kumari Puja, 5-year-old blesses devotees as Ma||LUCKNOW: Draped in a red saree, with a lotus in hand and adorned with garlands, five-year-old Richa Roy Chowdhary, looked like an incarnation of goddess Durga while a group of senior priests performed the annual ritual of Kumari Puja on Maha Ashtami at Ramakrishna Math on Saturday. Amid resonating sound of ‘ululudhvani’ (a high-pitch sound made by a group of Bengali women), ‘mantras’ and ‘shlokas’, devotees had their eyes fixed on the five-year-old, who sat gracefully through the two-hour ritual. “Kumari Puja symbolizes the special presence of the divine mother within every woman,” said Swami Muktinathananda, president of Ramkrishna Math. As a safety measure, only the priests and 2-3 key people, along with the girl’s parents were allowed to attend the programme. The rituals were livestreamed. “Usually, a month’s training is given to the little goddess to get her acquainted with the idea that the ritual will take place in front of hundreds of people. Her parents were advised to give her an idea of the entire ceremony and treat her like a goddess,” he added. As Richa sat silently, her innocence and piousness attracted the visitors. With folded hands, devotees bowed in front of her. Even the priests offered their obeisance to the little girl. Protyusha Das, a visitor at the pandal, said: “The tradition is an integral part of Durga Puja and is believed to bring good luck to everyone attending it.” Swami Muktinathananda said it was the purest form of ‘Devi Puja’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/at-kumari-puja-5-yr-old-blesses-devotees-as-ma/articleshow/78852484.cms||Aditi Singh
October 25, 2020||Allahabad||UPSESSB to establish pool of experts to expedite recruitment||PRAYAGRAJ: Following the footsteps of Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC), Prayagraj-based Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board (UPSESSB) has decided to set up a pool of subject experts so that the recruitments undertaken by it can be executed speedily. For this, subject experts would be invited online. A decision in this regard was taken at an important meeting of the board chaired by its chairman Viresh Kumar recently and minutes of which had now been confirmed, said a senior UPSESSB official requesting anonymity. UPSESSB undertakes recruitment of trained graduate teachers (TGT), lecturers (PGT) and principals against existing vacant posts in over 4,500 government-aided secondary schools spread across the state. The board has resolved to speed up its recruitment process, and for this, the pool of subject experts would be formed. These experts would be chosen based on their expertise, experience and merit. They would then help the board conduct the recruitments by contributing in the setting of question papers for exams, evaluation and even being part of interview panels, the official said. The meeting also resolved that the board would send a proposal to the state government for amendment in the Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board Rules, 1998, to pave the way for institute allotment and adjustment of selected candidates at the level of the director (secondary education). The need for amendment was felt as often the district inspector of schools (DIOSs) concerned fail to properly scrutinise and send the requisition of teachers as per vacant posts. As a result, often the selected candidates are not allowed to join the institutions allotted to them by the board. Following the Supreme Court ruling, the board has also decided to facilitate provision for ad-hoc teachers to apply online through the e-examination portal of NIC in all future recruitments being undertaken by the board. Provision in the software to allow verification of service by ad-hoc teachers by the DIoS concerned would also be made accordingly. Besides, there is a provision for getting online details if the requisition received online from ad-hoc teacher applicants fail to provide details like the post concerned, subject and reservation etc. in the first go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/upsessb-to-establish-pool-of-experts-to-expedite-recruitment/articleshow/78851195.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Income Tax department searches on BJP vice-president ends after three days||SURAT: After the three days long search operation by the Income Tax department, vice-president of Surat BJP, PVS Sarma took to the social media posting his picture on the WhatsApp groups of his close associates and media persons saying ‘I am doing well and healthy. Nothing to worry at all” on Saturday. BJP’s vice-president from Surat, PVS Sarma was facing the I-T searches at about 14 locations of his associates in Surat, Mumbai and Thane from the last three days after he tweeted to PM Narendra Modi alleging the multi-crore money laundering scam perpetrated on the behest of the senior I-T officers, builders, jewellers, diamond and textile industrialists during demonetization. Sarma posted his pictures on the social media where he was seen all smiling. At a time when the I-T has claimed to have recovered disproportionate assets and cash to the tune of crores of rupees from Sarma and his associates, Sarma said that the claims made by the Income Tax department were far from truth. Talking with TOI, Sarma said, “No cash was seized, no extra property found. The 18 residential plots found during the search operation in Unn are all inclusive 800 square yards. There was no gold recovered.” Sarma added, “All my family properties have been acquired since 1996 and that there are no new property purchased recently. Nothing incriminating was found during the I-T searches. All laptops belong to my children.” Sources said that the I-T searches on Sarma and his associates were over by 5.30pm on Saturday. The I-T department handed over the mobile phone of Sarma after that he posted messages to the media in Surat claiming that he was doing well and healthy and that there was nothing to worry about at all. Official sources said that the scrutiny and assessment of the documents seized during the course of search operation are underway. Talking with TOI over phone, Sarma said, “They have played their bit, now it is my turn to expose the scam.” Meanwhile, Gujarat state BJP President, CR Paatil was summoned by the BJP high command to New Delhi on Friday regarding the I-T searches on PVS Sarma and his tweets to PM Modi regarding the alleged multi-crore money laundering scam during demonetisation. The high command is believed to have sought information on Kalamandir Jewellers Limited, a jewellery firm having retail stores in Surat, Bharuch, Kosamba and Vapi, regarding its alleged involvement in the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/i-t-searches-on-bjp-vice-president-ends-after-three-days/articleshow/78850205.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya’s Ramlila notches record 10 crore viewership||AYODHYA: The grand Ramlila being staged in the temple town this year with several noted stars of the tinsel town playing various roles is turning out to be a huge success, with its organisers claiming the viewership across different media platforms has crossed 10 crore. The nine-day Ramlila being staged at Laxman Qila, a grand temple on the banks of river Saryu, is being live-streamed and has registered a big following with famous Bollywood stars as well as actors-turned-politicians essaying key roles. This year, Ramlila is being telecast in 14 scheduled languages of India, including Urdu. Subhash Malik, the director of Ramlila, told TOI, “Ayodhya has now another record in its name, as the viewership of the Ramlila staged here has crossed the 10-crore viewership mark in just six days. We have taken into account the viewership on Doordarshan, YouTube, other television channels and social media and found it has exceeded 10 crore and is set to increase further.” No spectators were allowed to watch Ramlila physically this year due to Covid curbs. The Ramlila was instead live-streamed. Big LED screens were installed at different places and mobile vans sent to remote areas in villages to enable people watch the epic show. Besides Bollywood actors like comedian Asrani, Raza Murad, Shahbaz Khan, Avtar Gill, Rajesh Puri, Rakesh Bedi, Vindu Dara Singh, and actor-turned-MPs Manoj Tewari, Ravi Kishan, a 120-member crew from Bombay is taking care of production, while a 55-member Doordarshan team is shooting the Ram Lila from nine different angles to make it a great experience for viewers. “There will be ‘Ravan Dahan’ on October 25 for which a 100-foot effigy of Ravana is being prepared. We have sent an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be the chief guest on this occasion,” said director Subhash Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhyas-ramlila-notches-record-10-crore-viewership/articleshow/78852497.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Infant sold for Rs 1.5 lakh, PHC staff under lens||HYDERABAD: A four-month-old baby boy is caught in a fight between his biological parents and a childless couple, who ostensibly bought the infant for Rs 1.5 lakh. At the centre of the controversy that is brewing in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district is a staff nurse and an associate of a primary health centre. Police are looking at their role in the baby selling episode. District authorities have also launched an investigation into the claims of the biological parents and also the role of the PHC in Mahadevpur village. The biological parents, who belong to a nomadic group in Mahadevpur, make a living by selling onions. In June this year, the woman gave birth to a baby boy. Since he was their fourth child, the couple reportedly told the staff at the hospital that they were not interested in keeping the baby with them. A fortnight later, they were approached and asked if they would like to give away their child for a childless couple staying in Vallemkunta village of Mahamutharam mandal. The biological parents were given Rs 10,000 and the baby was taken away. The biological parents later changed their mind, went to Vallemkunta and asked that their child be given back to them. The couple, who have been childless for 14 years, however, refused. The biological parents were willing to give Rs 10,000 to them to take back their child. However, the couple reportedly demanded that Rs 1.5 lakh be paid to them, which they claimed to have given to the hospital staff. The biological parents were in for a shock. They had no clue that the two PHC staffers had pocketed over Rs 1 lakh by selling their child to the Vallemkunta couple. They approached police though they have not filed a formal complaint yet. “They want their baby boy back and it is rightful for them to ask. We have asked the couple in Vallemkunta to hand over the baby to them,” a police official told STOI on Saturday. “If a formal complaint is made against the hospital staff, we will register a case and investigate it,” he said. District medical and health officer Sudhar Singh told STOI that a thorough investigation would be conducted. “We will initiate a departmental action against the erring hospital staff,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infant-sold-for-rs-1-5l-phc-staff-under-lens/articleshow/78852105.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 25, 2020||---||Those involved in irregularities in ‘Saat Nischay’ scheme will be sent to jail: Chirag Paswan||SASARAM/PATNA: A day after PM Narendra Modi heaped praise on CM Nitish Kumar for various development works and also paid tributes to LJP founder and union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan, LJP chief Chirag Paswan said on Saturday that all those involved in siphoning of public funds under ‘Saat Nischay’ (seven resolves) scheme would be sent to jail after proper investigation. Addressing election rallies at Sasaram and Dinara in Rohtas district, Chirag said even CM Nitish Kumar would not be spared for his alleged acts of commission and commission in development and welfare schemes. “The results of the assembly elections will be announced on November 10. Once the poll results are out, Nitish will not remain in power,” the LJP national president claimed. Describing CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar as ‘anti-youth’, Chirag said that he (CM) didn’t intend to create job opportunities for youths, who were forced to migrate to other states for their livelihood. “There is neither any industry nor quality education or health facilities in the state. The state has not progressed in the last 30 years,” he asserted. He alleged that issues of poverty had not been addressed so far. “CM Nitish Kumar’s only mantra is to divide and rule. That’s why he has divided people on the basis of caste and religion. But the people of Bihar will dethrone him after the assembly polls for his anti-poor and anti-youth policies,” the Jamui MP told the gathering. During the rally at Dinara, BJP rebel and LJP candidate Rajendra Singh chanted slogans in favour of PM Narendra Modi. Slogans like ‘Narendra Modi Zindabad’ and ‘Narendra Modi Desh Ki Shaan Hain’ rent the air. However, Chirag reached the venue at Dinara about three hours behind schedule. A few vehicles in the LJP national president’s campaign carcade from Sasaram to Dinara were also carrying flags of the saffron party much to the chagrin of the NDA candidate from Dinara Jai Kumar Singh. Jai, minister of science and technology in Nitish Kumar cabinet, is contesting on JD(U) ticket. The seat went to JD(U) in seat sharing formula in the NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/those-involved-in-irregularities-in-saat-nischay-scheme-will-be-sent-to-jail-chirag/articleshow/78853560.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Four booked for gas operator’s death in chemicals company||VADODARA: Four persons were booked on Friday on charges of negligence that led to the death of a contractual gas operator at a chemicals company in Padra on September 7. Hazrat Nizamuddin Ali (43), a native of Malda district of West Bengal, had died after a conveyor belt at the Huntsman company snapped and he fell from a height of 40 feet. Ali later succumbed to his injuries in a hospital on Sarabhai Road in Vadodara. Police said that Ali and two other persons were working in the power plant of the company when the incident took place and initially registered a case of accidental death. But on investigating it was found that Ali, who was an employee of Genesis Engineering that was hired on contract by Huntsman for all its electrical supervision, died of negligence by the safety supervisors. Cops found that no safety net was installed when the workers were working at a height. Police booked safety supervisor Harshad Kadu and Shivam Jaiswal of Genesis Engineering, and two safety officers at Huntsman company, mechanical engineers Vinod Lande and Krunal Modi, for not following safety protocols. Cops alleged the four accused did not stop Ali from working in the unsafe conditions nor encouraged him to work with safety equipment. “Being safety supervisors and safety officers the four accused were responsible for the safe working conditions in the company but they did not follow any protocol which led to the death of one person,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-booked-for-gas-operators-death-in-chemicals-company/articleshow/78850094.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Patna||Those involved in irregularities in ‘Saat Nischay’ scheme will be sent to jail: Chirag Paswan||SASARAM/PATNA: A day after PM Narendra Modi heaped praise on CM Nitish Kumar for various development works and also paid tributes to LJP founder and union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan, LJP chief Chirag Paswan said on Saturday that all those involved in siphoning of public funds under ‘Saat Nischay’ (seven resolves) scheme would be sent to jail after proper investigation. Addressing election rallies at Sasaram and Dinara in Rohtas district, Chirag said even CM Nitish Kumar would not be spared for his alleged acts of commission and commission in development and welfare schemes. “The results of the assembly elections will be announced on November 10. Once the poll results are out, Nitish will not remain in power,” the LJP national president claimed. Describing CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar as ‘anti-youth’, Chirag said that he (CM) didn’t intend to create job opportunities for youths, who were forced to migrate to other states for their livelihood. “There is neither any industry nor quality education or health facilities in the state. The state has not progressed in the last 30 years,” he asserted. He alleged that issues of poverty had not been addressed so far. “CM Nitish Kumar’s only mantra is to divide and rule. That’s why he has divided people on the basis of caste and religion. But the people of Bihar will dethrone him after the assembly polls for his anti-poor and anti-youth policies,” the Jamui MP told the gathering. During the rally at Dinara, BJP rebel and LJP candidate Rajendra Singh chanted slogans in favour of PM Narendra Modi. Slogans like ‘Narendra Modi Zindabad’ and ‘Narendra Modi Desh Ki Shaan Hain’ rent the air. However, Chirag reached the venue at Dinara about three hours behind schedule. A few vehicles in the LJP national president’s campaign carcade from Sasaram to Dinara were also carrying flags of the saffron party much to the chagrin of the NDA candidate from Dinara Jai Kumar Singh. Jai, minister of science and technology in Nitish Kumar cabinet, is contesting on JD(U) ticket. The seat went to JD(U) in seat sharing formula in the NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/those-involved-in-irregularities-in-saat-nischay-scheme-will-be-sent-to-jail-chirag/articleshow/78851338.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1,200 new Covid cases, 5 deaths reported||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday recorded 1,273 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, taking the total tally to 2,30,274. So far, 1,303 deaths have been reported in the state and 2,09,034 patients have recovered. On the positive side, the number of active cases in the state dropped from 22,050 to 19,937 over the last week. Also, the case fatality rate has now dropped to 0.56%, indicating that less than 1% of patients are succumbing to the virus. The recovery rate has now improved further to 90.8% as against the country average of 89.7%. On Friday, a total of 35,280 samples was tested. With this, the number of samples tested so far have crossed 40.5 lakh. GHMC recorded 227 new cases — the highest among all districts, followed by 104 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri and 102 cases in Rangareddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-2k-new-covid-cases-5-deaths-reported/articleshow/78851283.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Drunkard throws acid on wife and son, held||AHMEDABAD: In a ghastly case of familial violence, a man from Bapunagar, Vinod Chik (Agrawal), threw acid on his wife and 18-year-old son at about 1.30am on Saturday. While the mother and son suffered burns on the face and eyes, police arrested the accused. Inspector Nirav Vyas of Bapunagar police station said they lodged an offence under Section 326 (b) against the accused. The complainant lives in a rented house in Bapunagar with her 19-year-old daughter and 18-year-old son. She married the accused 24 years ago. They have three children. According to police sources, as the accused was a drunkard and did nothing in the house, his wife had evicted him. She worked at an incense stick factory to feed her family. The accused lived alone near Viratnagar. The complainant stated that the accused used to come to their house and say that he wouldn’t let them live in peace and would one day throw acid on them. According to the FIR, the accused came to their house on Friday evening and asked them to let him live with them and apologised, but they refused. The accused went away while threatening them. On Friday night, when the woman, her son and her daughter were asleep on the floor of the house. They left two windows on the iron door open. They accused then allegedly threw acid on them from the open window. The acid fell on the face and eyes of the complainant and her son. As they screamed in pain, the daughter, who was sleeping nearby woke up and opened the door only to see her father running away. The daughter called a relative who first took them to Shardaben Hospital and from where they were shifted to Civil Hospital. Vyas said they immediately formed a team and apprehended the accused from near his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunkard-throws-acid-on-wife-and-son-held/articleshow/78851284.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Only 65,000 students join Intermediate first year in government colleges||HYDERABAD: Despite over five lakh students clearing SSC examination, hardly 65,000 students have secured admission in Intermediate first year in government junior colleges for the academic year 2020-21 till date. The board has extended the last date for admission till October 31. Lecturers and principals said majority of students are still in wait and watch mode and added that they did not take admissions either in private or government colleges. “As physical classes are yet to begin, parents are not showing interest to take admissions. Many are also scared to send their children to colleges this year,” Telangana Government Junior College Principals’ Association president KS Rama Rao said, adding that if not for Covid-19, admissions would have crossed at least one lakh mark this year. He said although they expected the admissions to increase significantly this year, there was no response from students and their parents. Every year about 1.1 lakh students secure admissions in government junior colleges. “We have been requesting the state to permit online admissions since August, but permission was given only in September. In the meantime, a few students joined private and corporate institutes,” Telangana Government Colleges Contract Lecturers’ Association general secretary K Suresh said. They said that while the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) takes data of class 10 students from the school education department to connect with students every year, the exercise was not carried out this year. The BIE should immediately get data and pass it on to district-level officers so that they could reach out to students, the lecturers added. Lecturers also said the board should organise a meeting with students and lecturers’ association and come out with a plan to improve admissions. BIE secretary Syed Omer Jaleel, meanwhile, said they were reviewing admissions on daily basis with all district officials through video conferencing. “In the first year, 65,000 plus have got admitted till date. The process isn’t completed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-65k-students-join-inter-first-year-in-govt-colleges/articleshow/78851288.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Osman Nagar submerged in knee-deep water||HYDERABAD: Residents of Osman Nagar said the area got inundated on September 20 after the region experienced the first spell of heavy rains and since then, they have been trapped in their houses. STOI’s visit to the area revealed that the entire area was submerged in knee-deep water and residents struggling to even step out of their houses. With no electricity for over a month or clean drinking water, residents of every single house were requesting help from authorities. “In some areas, the water has reached up to 10 to 12 feet height. The inundation intensified after rains lashed the city last week. Our children are already suffering with fever and nausea,” said Mushtaq Begum, a resident of Osman Nagar. “We visited the area and have started supplying relief material to the families. The inundation will also be taken care of,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/osman-nagar-submerged-in-knee-deep-water/articleshow/78851303.cms||Moulika.KV
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||464 seats in IITs vacant after first round of admissions||Mumbai: A total of 464 seats were lying unfilled after the first round of admissions at the Indian Institutes of Technology. Of these, 189 are from the open category with students who did not opt for a seat, either for not getting an institute or branch of their choice. Last year, close to 630 seats were vacant in the IITs after the first round of centralised admissions. In 2018, the vacancies after the first round stood at 600. This year, the biggest chunk of seats is unfilled in IIT (ISM) Dhanbad which has 59 vacancies, followed by 49 in IIT (BHU) Varanasi. The oldest IIT in Kharagpur has 44 unfilled seats. IIT Madras has 30 and IIT Bombay has 25 that are still up for grabs. Despite the increase in number of seats in IITs, the vacancies post round one are a lot lower that what they were in the previous year. “The vacancies in IITs will get filled in the subsequent rounds,” said a JEE (Advanced) chairman. The Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) is a centralised process for admissions to IITs, NITs, IIITs and other GFTIs. The vacant seats were reallotted in the second round. If one looks at the category-wise break-up of vacant seats, 114 seats for the OBC category were unfilled. As per the JoSAA rules, a student who has been allocated a seat but, instead, wants a change in preference for a seat in another institute or a stream of his/her choice, is allowed to upgrade the choice in the subsequent round, based on the number of vacancies. A student is also allowed to withdraw admissions after every seat allocation round, and such seats, that go vacant due to withdrawal and upgradation of seats, are reallocated in the subsequent rounds. This year, JoSAA will conduct six rounds of seat allocation to ensure that the admission process concludes before Diwali. Those students whose names have appeared in the second seat allocation list have time until October 26 to complete the admission process, when the third seat allocation round will be conducted to fill up the remaining vacant seats, if any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/464-seats-in-iits-vacant-after-first-round-of-admissions/articleshow/78847713.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Kurti trader cheated of Rs 95 lakh||AHMEDABAD: Sunil Sabnani, 50, a resident of Anurag Bungalows on Thaltej-Shilaj Road, lodged a complaint on Friday against three persons — Hitendra Singh Rathod and Sanjay who are the owner of Mahaveer Traders in Surat, and Jyoti Soni, a resident of Jodhpur — for cheating him of a total of Rs 95 lakh. Navrangpura police registered an offence under Sections 406, 420 and 114 of the IPC and are searching for the accused. According to the complaint, the accused, who claimed to be the owners of Jain Traders in Surat, since 2018 took kurtis worth Rs 60.08 lakh from Sabnani’s shop at Amola Chambers in Navrangpura but never paid the money. “Similarly, Sanjay who claimed to be running a clothing store in Jaipur took goods worth Rs 11.44 lakh from the complainant and Jyoti Soni of Jodhpur took goods worth Rs 21.40 lakh from the complainant but never paid him,” said a Navranpura police official. The accused had given the complainant cheques which bounced. “The complainant had earlier submitted an application, based on which the we registered an FIR after a preliminary inquiry and are hunting for the accused,” said a senior police official of Navranpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kurti-trader-cheated-of-rs-95-lakh/articleshow/78851294.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19 is fourth spoilsport in Mysuru Dasara history||Mysuru: This is for the fourth time that the public Dasara celebration is confined to the premises of Mysuru Palace. Nevertheless, the private Dasara celebration by the Mysuru royal family has remained uninterrupted since 1610, when maharaja Raja Wadiyar started the tradition in Srirangapatna. The earlier instances when the public Dasara did not live up to its name: in 1898 due to plague, in 1977 due to an agitation, and in 2003 due to severe drought and Cauvery crisis. There are two Dasara celebrations — the one by the Mysuru royals, which is limited to the family members, invitees and guests, and the other is for the public. “Here, procession of caparisoned elephants, cavalry, cultural troupes and carnival floats is taken out. Various events are also organised,” explained historian Echanur Kumar. For the first time — when Kempa Nanjammani was the queen regent in 1898, the celebration was confined to the premises of the palace following an outbreak of plague. It was students’ agitation in 1977 and the drought in 2003 that paused the public Dasara. It is being restricted after a gap of 17 years, this time due to the pandemic. Echanur added: “During Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar’s reign, public Dasara celebration was successfully conducted for nearly four decades. It was discontinued in 1967 due to cyclone in a neighbouring state.” In all public Dasara celebrations, the maharajas of Mysuru rode on elephant’s back all along the procession route. Jayachamaraja Wadiyar was the last to be part of the procession that way. He announced in 1969 that he won’t sit on the elephant as the then new law had curtailed the power of monarchs. Since 1610, as many as 13 maharajas of Mysore conducted celebrations in Srirangapatna, Mandya, and Mysuru (the venue was shifted to Mysuru in 1805). “Even during the reign of Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan, Dasara celebrations went on,” the historian claimed. There were no grand public celebrations between 1799 and 1805, when the royal family was relocating to Mysuru. But it regained grandeur thereafter. Pujas are performed only for nine days, while the procession is taken out on the 10th day. Earlier, maharajas ascended the throne and addressed the public. This practice was gradually stopped after Independence. Maharajas used to personally examine the nitty-gritty of the preparations. In 1936, Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar had observed a slight tilt in the arch built over Albert Victor Road. “He got it fixed properly by the workers before the procession commenced,” Echanur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-19-is-fourth-spoilsport-in-mysuru-dasara-history/articleshow/78850600.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||NSA Ajit Doval visits native village in Pauri, expresses desire to make his house in village||DEHRADUN: National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, along with his wife, visited his native village Ghiri in Pauri district on Saturday to perform Kuldevi (local deity) puja on the occasion of Navratra. During his two-and-a-half hours stay in the village, he met the locals, heard their problems, and also went to his ancestral house, which is currently in a dilapidated state. The NSA said that he plans to reconstruct his house in the village so that he can come here often. He also told the locals that the map of the house would be prepared soon and he wanted the house to be made early so that he can spend more time in his native village. For Doval, this was the third visit to his native village after taking charge as NSA. In an interaction with the locals, he also expressed his desire to build a guest house near the traditional temple of the village. During interaction with Doval, the locals raised the issue of bringing the link road to the village. The villagers also spoke about the poor health and education facilities in the area and sought his intervention to improve both sectors. On Friday, Doval and his wife had performed a prayer ceremony in the temple of Jwalpa Devi, located near Pauri. He had earlier participated in Ganga aarti at the Parmarth Niketan ashram in Rishikesh before going to his village and on Saturday, took part in the aarti at the ashram again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsa-ajit-doval-visits-native-village-in-pauri-expresses-desire-to-make-his-house-in-village/articleshow/78849838.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Bagru residents complaint of absence of civic amenities||Jaipur: Residents living in different wards of Bagru legislative assembly area are questioning former councillors for their neglect in maintaining roads, street lights, sanitation, drainage and sewerage.Ishwar Lal Sharma, a resident of the area said, “Our former councillor didn’t concentrate on any kind of development work in the area. Our colony is newly created and lack basic civic amenities.”A month ago, garbage collection vehicles were not coming in most of the areas. After several complaints to officials, the trash vans started coming but not regularly.“Drainage is another important issue of the area. Most of the areas in Bagru do not have drainage system which leads to waterlogging in monsoon. During the floods this year, the entire area was under water. There is an urgent need to invest for a proper drainage system,” said Manisha Pareek, a resident. Bagru legislative assembly comes under Jaipur rural and being on the city outskirts makes it easier for the authorities to neglect it. Residents have complained that in most area of the region, there are no sewer lines and people have to get the septic tank cleaned every week. Most of the time, authorities do not reply on time and dirty water keeps flowing on the roads. Ganga Devi is the current MLA of Bagru legislative assem,ly. In the last elections, out of seven wards, five were won by BJP councillors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bagru-residents-complaint-of-absence-of-civic-amenities/articleshow/78851332.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||SFI asks UGC to release scholarships immediately||HYDERABAD: With the University Grants Commission not releasing Junior Research Fellowships (JRF) and Senior Research Fellowships (SRF) since July, members of the Students Federation of India (SFI) on Friday demanded that the scholarships be released immediately. They said that thousands of research scholars have been going through the worst crisis in their lives without access to campus facilities and hostels and not distributing scholarship is just adding fuel to fire. “While the pandemic has paralysed the lives of almost everyone in the country, the central government continues to make it worse with anti-people actions and policies, one after another. It is highly condemnable that the researchers are denied their fellowships for more than four months now,” said RL Murthy, state president, SFI and research scholar, Osmania University. They said that fellowships are essential for many to carry out their research activities and for some to survive during the pandemic. “Research scholars, many of whom left a job and pursued research with the help of fellowship, are now in distress, especially because of the hardship and financial crisis during the Covid-19 period,” he added. SFI demanded immediate disbursal of UGC fellowships and urged the Centre to maintain a system to ensure timely disbursal of the fellowships. “Thousands of students hailing from socially and economically deprived backgrounds were denied entry to research due to this rampant seat cut in recent years. Now the withholding of fellowships has virtually displayed exit points to those bright, economically backward students who were already continuing their research work breaking glass ceilings and now struggling with the financial back up denied to them,” said T Nagaraju, general secretary, SFI Telangana. The federation appealed to students to raise their voice for the research scholars who are denied justice by sending letters to the Union education minister and also to take part in the social media campaign demanding the disbursal of fellowships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sfi-asks-ugc-to-release-scholarships-immediately/articleshow/78851334.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Read signs and treat kids at home, say sleep-deprived doctors||Nagpur: The change in weather has reportedly increased cases of fever, cough and even vomiting among kids. Paediatricians in city are having a tough time dealing with worried parents who are rushing their kids between six months to 16 years to clinics and hospitals as soon as the child gets unwell.Some doctors say they are having sleepless nights as parents are calling them up at odd hours even though there is no need to worry unless there are red-flag signs.Well-known child specialist Dr Satish Deopujari has released a video and started a YouTube channel to help out parents who are worried about their kids developing sudden fever in the backdrop of Covid19.Dr Deopujari feels home-centric care must be preferred at least for a couple of days before parents take their kids for a doctor visit.Maintaining a proper temperature chart after first episode of fever, giving WHO ORS and use of nebulisers or inhalers can be handy in initial phase.“Fever is a symptom and not a disease,” he said, adding that by curtailing visits, unless really needed, parents can minimize their as well as of the doctor’s exposure to Covid 19.“Parent-physician interaction is key in home-centric care. The Covid pandemic has brought about several changes in managing treatment. In first 24 hours, paracetamol can be given for 100 temperature and bath if above it,” Dr Deopujari said.GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande, who is a paediatrician, said prevention must be priority. “Crowding must be avoided. Covid is not over yet, and distancing, mask and hand hygiene are essential. Parents can prefer steam inhalation with euplitus oil, milk with turmeric powder, honey with ginger at home,” he said adding that hospitals visit is necessary when things are not under control.Paediatrician Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala said Covid could be one of the reasons playing on parents mind. “Some of them even ask but it is difficult to tell without a test. More number of children with cough and cold are being reported. This is mainly because of increase in pollution due to vehicle pollution and changing weather. It is a good idea if parents can handle them at home. But doctors need to explain redflag signs in their language or otherwise it may be risky. Normally, seasonal flu take 5 to 7 days to get cured with or without medication. If parents are preferring not to give medicine, then they have to be very careful.Senior consultant at department of paediatric and neo-natal at Kingsway Dr Kuldeep Sukhdeve said there is no right answer as to when parents can stay back or visit doctor. “Redflag signs are popular among the educated and health conscious. For many things, a professional diagnosis is needed. But if with mild fever, and cough kids are able to eat and drink satisfactorily they can stay on teleconsultation,” he said.Padetric intensivist at Seven Star Hospital Dr Vivek Charade to agreed that mild symptoms can be managed on phone. “But if condition doesn’t improve after 3 to 4 days then examination is must. “If it is mild virus it should subside in few day. A high fever indicates severe infection,” he said.WHAT TO DOCOMMON TIPS *Normal skin temp is 98.4* Fever is a symptom, not disease* Measure temperature* Above 100 give paracetamol* Sponge/bath above 101* Keeping temperature recordPARACETAMOL DOSE*15mg per kg per dose. For a 10kg child it will be 150mg*With history of convulsions, follow you drug for preventionDIARROHEA *Most important treatment is WHO ORS*Give as much as possible*Replace the fluid loss*Observe for urine output*Ondenstron syrup dose 15mg/kg per dose . 15kg child will need 2ml. Repeat after six hours if neededCOUGH*coughing child usually is not an emergency*See a doctor if acute cough following a choking episode associated breathlessness*In this case, consult paediatrician*Avoid cough syprup*Nebuliser. Inhalers are safe but with proper prescriptionWARNING SIGNS* Age less than 1 year age, any fever which goes above 101* Refusal for feeding* Increase in rate of respiratory without fever* Lethargy or child is drowsy* Not responsive, irritable, urine output less, any unusual observation keep paedertician informed(As per informative video ‘Home Care for Kids’ prepared by Dr Satish Deopujari. Available on YouTube)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/read-signs-and-treat-kids-at-home-say-sleep-deprived-doctors/articleshow/78849855.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 25, 2020||Mysuru||Sakrebailu tusker killed by wild elephants||Shivamogga: Wild elephants killed a elephant from the Sakrebailu camp. Ranga,35, who was born at the camp, was found dead, and had wounds on her body. The elephant camp has lost its second elephant in a week. The total number of elephants in the camp has been reduced to 23 following the death. “The elephant’s death is a tragedy,” said DRFO of Sakrebalu, Manjunath. “The elephant was in good health, and was born at the camp 35 years ago. He was calm and always a centre of attraction during festivals. Wild elephants killed Ranga in a narrow ditch behind the camp,” said the official. According to forest officials, three wild elephants roaming in the Shettihalli forest killed Ranga, whose legs were chained. Nitin, a wildlife lover from Gajanur village near Sakrebailu camp said that the government should create a favourable environment for camp elephants. “If they are unable to provide a good environment, it is better they relocate to a different place. The Sakrebailu forest is also too small to keep elephants,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sakrebailu-tusker-killed-by-wild-elephants/articleshow/78850619.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Candidates educating voters about new ward numbers||Jaipur: Municipal elections in Jaipur city’s two corporations are just round the corner and candidates are trying to woo their voters at any cost. However, there are many voters, who due to their busy lifestyles aren’t even aware of their wards after delimitation.After realising the situation, candidates have started an awareness drive to educate voters about their ward number. Many contestants are messaging the ward map of the area on WhatsApp and other social media platforms to make voters well-versed with the new municipal limits.Taking a cue from metros like Delhi and Mumbai, the state government divided the corporation into two in Jaipur and increased the ward numbers from 91 to 250. However, even six days before voting, majority of voters are not aware about their wards.Kanta Sharma, a contestant from Greater Jaipur, said, “The existing wards are newly formed and half of the population know their previous ward numbers. As this could be deterrent in voting percentage, we are sending and sharing new maps on WhatsApp and social media.”In August 2019, the delimitation exercise took place in Jaipur for the fourth time. The number of wards was increased from 91 to 150. However, even before the elections, the state government decided to form two corporations in Jaipur and the number of wards reached 250 after fresh city limits were drawn.Kamal Singh, a resident, said, “Earlier, if a person was not aware about the ward number, he could recognise his area’s councillor. However, in present times, many new faces are contesting elections. As there is no campaigning in Covid times, we neither know our candidate, nor ward number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/candidates-educating-voters-about-new-ward-numbers/articleshow/78851335.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Mukhyamantri Amrutam, Vatsalya cards to merge with PM-JAY||AHMEDABAD: Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and state health minister, on Saturday announced that the Mukhyamantri Amrutam (MA) and MA Vatsalya cards issued by the state government for free hospitalization, will be merged with the Ayushman Bharat (PM-Jan Aarogya Yojana) scheme of government of India. “With the initiative taken during Navratri festivities, now the citizens can avail free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh when they present the card and Aadhar card at the member hospitals,” Patel said after inauguration of the new building of UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre (UNMICRC) at Civil Hospital campus. The deputy CM said that there were a few complaints of non-acceptance of the cards. “It had taken place due to the integration process. The software upgrade is complete and now there will be no glitches,” he said, adding that the benefits will remain the same for the patients. Talking about the newly inaugurated hospital, Patel said that it has added 800 beds to the existing capacity at the cost of Rs 470 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ma-vatsalya-cards-to-merge-with-pm-jay/articleshow/78851353.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Tribute to Pakistan war hero at Landour||MUSSOORIE: Hero of the 1965 Indo-Pak war, Abdul Hamid, who was awarded India’s highest military decoration Param Vir Chakra posthumously for the bravery he displayed in combat, will receive a memorial at Landour cantonment. The gun used by Hamid will be put on display, along with a brief history of the soldier, to commemorate the 55th anniversary of his death. The decision was taken at a board meeting on Friday. Speaking to TOI, Mahesh Chand, a member of Landour cantonment and former vice-president of the board, said, “Hamid’s gun and his biography will be on display at the hawaghar (view point) at Mullingar Chowk. The hawaghar will also be beautified.” Another notable decision taken at the meeting was to establish a museum showcasing the history of Landour. “This will help preserve the history and culture of Landour,” said Pushpa Padiyar, another member of Landour cantonment. Meanwhile, the Institute of Technology Management (ITM), which is located in the cantonment, will undertake widening of the narrow road from Mullingar to Char Dukan at a cost of Rs 22 lakh. Roadside parking on the road will also be prohibited in order to prevent traffic jams. Development of a smart parking lot and implementation of the government’s bed and breakfast and homestay schemes are also in the pipeline in the cantonment area. “These initiatives will contribute significantly towards attracting tourists to Landour cantonment,” added Chand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landour-cantonment-to-display-gun-used-by-param-vir-chakra-awardee-abdul-hamid/articleshow/78849848.cms||Anmol Jain
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Indo-Tibet Border Police celebrates 59th foundation day||MUSSOORIE: The Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) celebrated its 59th foundation day at the ITBP Academy in Mussoorie on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Brigadier Ram Niwas, deputy director of the academy, urged the officials and the jawans “to perform duties with complete sincerity and dedication”. He said that since its establishment, the ITBP has been serving the nation with utmost sincerity and urged the officers and jawans to bring more laurels for the country. A total of 29 officers and jawans were also felicitated on this occasion for their meritorious service over the years. Among those felicitated were inspector general PS Papta, the present director of the academy. Notably, ITBP was formulated in 1962 for ensuring security along the Indo-Tibetan border. The academy at Mussoorie was set up in 1978 for training the officers and jawans of the force. The ITBP is deployed from Karakoram Pass in Ladakh to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh covering 3,488 kilometres of the Indo-China border. This force is also stationed at the border outposts in high altitudes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/itbp-celebrates-59th-foundation-day/articleshow/78849853.cms||Anmol Jain
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||JMC to complete renovation of heritage headquarters before election||JAIPUR: Before the civic polls, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) officials plans to complete the headquarters building of the newly formed Heritage Municipal Corporation (HMC), which will be the office for 100 elected councillors and official staff. On Saturday, an inspection was carried out to take a stock of the progress. The JMC had identified the old police headquarters near Hawa Mahal to be developed as the head office of the HMC. An official said 83 rooms on the ground floor and 93 rooms on first floor have been renovated. In this quaint building, room number 101 has been earmarked for the mayor and room 176 for deputy mayor. The HMC commissioner will sit in room number 201. An official said, “The building also has a 125 seating capacity meeting hall. However, it is not that big and maintaining distance as per Covid protocol will be difficult. As the building is located in the heritage area, scope of expansion is limited,” sources said, adding the councillors will utilise Lal Kothi headquarters hall for general body meeting (GBM) and others. The old building of police headquarters near Hawa Mahal was not utilised since 2012 after the office was shifted to Lal Kothi. Officials said that conversion of building into the civic body office has helped in maintaining the heritage building status as it was left unattended for many years. An official said, “A proposal to develop an underground parking inside the headquarters is also being explored. Renovation has been carried out following the heritage norms.” As many citizens will visit the headquarters, the JMC will develop and widen existing gates opening towards Hawa Mahal side, Tripoliya Market and Jantar Mantar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-to-complete-renovation-of-heritage-headquarters-before-election/articleshow/78851343.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 150 flood-hit colonies face drinking water crisis||HYDERABAD: Over 150 residential colonies in some areas of the city and peripheral areas of Greater Hyderabad continue to reel under drinking water crisis. Tankers are operated to meet the needs of over one lakh consumers in these colonies. Even after 10 days, these areas, which were flooded, are yet to get rid of sludge and sewerage water. All the water sumps are filled with mud and silt. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has cautioned the consumers that water stored in these sumps is not fit for consumption due to contamination. According to officials of HMWS&SB, more than 30 to 40 colonies in Chandrayangutta, Bahadurpura, Tolichowki, Karwan, Langer Houz, Hyderguda, Mehdipatnam, Moosarambagh, parts of Malakpet, Yakutpura, Balapur, Aliabad and other areas were severely affected. In Greater Hyderabad periphery, a total of 70 to 80 colonies were hit badly. Uppal, Peerzadiguda, Boduppal and Jawaharnagar have been affected severely due to Gurram Cheruvu breaching. “Though flood water has receded, we cannot clean the water sumps as they are filled with mud and silt. We are getting drinking water, supplied by the Water Board through tankers,” Mohammed Pasha, a resident of Ahmed Colony, told STOI. Some residents are worried about fresh alert of floodgates of Osmansagar getting lifted to let out excess water. “Weather is playing hide and seek with us,” said Syed Azeem of the same colony. When STOI contacted HMWS&SB OSD TV Sridhar, he said: “We are providing free tankers to all the affected areas without interruption. Pure and safe drinking water is also supplied through hundreds of water cans to inaccessible areas.” Officials said specific instructions were issued to Water Board officers of affected areas to ensure uninterrupted supplies till the situation comes under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/150-flood-hit-colonies-face-drinking-water-crisis/articleshow/78851342.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Allow direct sale of roughs in Special Notified Zones, demand Diamantaires||SURAT: With the diamantaires in Surat facing acute shortage of rough diamonds due to restriction on international travel, the industry leaders have demanded that the government allow direct selling of rough diamonds at the Special Notified Zones (SNZs) at Surat and Mumbai. Currently, diamond mining companies including De Beers, Alrosa, Rio Tinto etc. only display the diamonds for viewing purpose at the SNZ. According to the SNZ norms, the trading entity is considered as permanent entity (PE), which attracts 40% duty on its turnover. So, selling diamonds at the SNZ is impractical for the miners due to the high tax structure. The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has urged the central government to allow the direct sale of rough diamonds by the miners at the Special Notified Zones (SNZs) in Surat and Mumbai. Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “We have demanded that the government must allow turnover tax instead of customs duty on the mining companies for the direct sale of rough diamonds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/allow-direct-sale-of-roughs-in-snzs-diamantaires/articleshow/78850220.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Upcoming digital museum in Kaginele to pay tribute to Kanakadasa’s legacy||Haveri: Although it is in the Sri Krishna temple in Udupi that the saint-poet Kanakadasa is immortalised – the opening through which one glimpses the deity at the temple is called ‘Kanakana Kindi’ – it was Kaginele in Haveri that was his ‘karmabhoomi’. Kanakadasa’s compositions enriched both Kannada literature and Carnatic Music. In acknowledgement of his greatness and honour his legacy, the Karnataka Kaginele Development Authority (KKDA) is developing the Kanaka Digital Museum at the Kaginele Eco Park that is spread across 138 acres. A sum of Rs 1.5 crore has been earmarked for the project. The building that will house the digital museum has already been completed, and work on the interior design is likely to commence soon. Not only will the museum provide visitors all the necessary information on the life and works of Kanakadasa at their fingertips but also have interactive features providing interesting nuggets of information on science and geology. KKDA commissioner Malleshappa Horapete rued the lack of knowledge among the children about Kanakadasa. Highlighting the need to inform the younger generation about his life and works, Horapete said, “The digital museum will attract both children and tourists. The museum will provide all information on the saint-poet right from his birth to the end of his life.” The authority is now searching for experts to turn the completed building into a museum. “Once we finalise the concept of the museum, we will invite bids. We are hoping the museum attracts both students and tourists once it is completed,” Horapete added. Kaginele, a historic site, has become quite the popular tourist destination in Haveri. In addition to its historical importance, places such as the Eco Park, Music Fountain, Kanaka Hall are among the many spots that now have a place on the tourist itinerary. “The digital museum will be an added attraction, which will attract lots of kids. We are grateful to the KKDA for developing the museum,” said Gagan Kulkarni, a resident of Haveri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/upcoming-digital-museum-in-kaginele-to-pay-tribute-to-kanakadasas-legacy/articleshow/78850436.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||JDA gears up to prepare vision document 2050 for city||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will start an extensive exercise to prepare the draft of the Pink City’s vision document till 2050. A planning for future land utilisation of Jaipur region will be done after knowing about various parameters through surveys such as population estimation, habitation, density, historical achievements, investments, land use and others.Chief town planner RK Vijaywargiya said there’s a provision in Jaipur Development Authority to review the master plan of the city in every 10 years.An exercise to analyse the achievements of the previous master plan and prepare Vision 2050 document of the city has been initiated. “The horizon year for the master plan will be 2050. It will aim at transforming the city into a vibrant and economic hub as it is counter magnet city of Delhi. The focus will also be on improving quality of life in an inclusive manner along with smart and sustainable green and clean infrastructure and resilient environment.” At present, the JDA a total area of 2,945 sqkm area including 800 sqkm U1 area. The town planners will contemplate that there will be a requirement to include more areas in the JDA in the next 25 years. The civic body has earmarked 457.46 sqkm land for residential and 72.22 sqkm for commercial in the master development plan of 2025. An official said, “It appears after the implementation of model bylaws, the requirement of land for city’s expansion in 2050 will be less as vertical and compact growth is promoted. Till date, habitation in outer JDA region is scanty.” In the master plan 2025, the JDA has marked the area which is densely populated as U1. The U2 area is mostly rural where land is vacant and agricultural activities are not taking place. The JDA has described land use till U2 area. As per the 2025 master plan, 65 lakh is the projected population by 2025 of Jaipur region. However, at present, more people are staying in Jaipur district. “It is required to develop the infrastructure, junction and crossing improvement, develop green city for growing population. The surveys will be completed by 2022. Following, which 2050 document will be prepared,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-gears-up-to-prepare-vision-document-2050-for-city/articleshow/78851352.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||New mom recovers from rare syndrome and Covid||Nagpur: Covid-19 period is full of heartbreaking stories where many people have lost their near and dear ones. But, timely hospitalization and skilled medical help are bringing out some heart-warming incidents too.Recently, a new mother defeated Covid-19 and three different ailments together after a struggle of more than four weeks in city’s Krims Hospital.Doctors said that apart from their medical excellence, the mother’s willpower and love for her newborn played an important role in this story of rare recovery. The 32-year old, 8 months pregnant woman, living in Katni (MP) was referred to the city for Covid positive delivery in September when Covid was at its peak. After caesarean delivery, she gave birth to a premature baby. The baby was kept in NICU for five days. But soon after the delivery, the mother started having difficulty in breathing, speaking and severe generalized weakness.She was immediately shifted to Intensive care unit (ICU) where she received cough cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) because of bradycardia and respiratory arrest.Here, she was diagnosed with guillian barre syndrome and was also found to have left-sided pneumonia. Because of complete respiratory failure, she was put on ventilatory support.“Such a scenario is rarely encountered in clinical practice,” said Dr Sameer Arbat, who treated the patient for Covid pneumonia.“Covid patients requiring ventilator support fall into severe category. Any complication related to Covid in pregnancy is a big challenge for the doctors. It was 30 days of rigorous efforts put in by three specialities of Obstetrician, Neurologist and Pulmonologists,” said Dr Arbat.The woman was gradually weaned off from ventilator after 28 days. Gradually, her health started improving. After 7 days, she was discharged from the hospital when she was able to stand with support and move the upper limbs.“Body’s immune system is altered during pregnancy and response to viral infection can cause more severe symptoms. There is possibility of transmitting disease to baby also. Early identification and assessment of her symptoms played key role in her treatment,” said Dr Dipti Shende who was the primary doctor to attend to this case.Neurologist Dr Anand Somkuwar who clinically suspected guillian barre syndrome as the cause of her weakness and respiratory failure, said its rare complication. “Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare disorder in which your body’s immune system attacks your nerves. The exact cause of Guillain-Barre syndrome is unknown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-mom-recovers-from-rare-syndrome-and-covid/articleshow/78849868.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Onion price set to cross Rs 100/kg mark in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Heavy rains in Bhavnagar and Saurashtra have stoked fears that the onion price will cross the Rs 100 per kg mark in Ahmedabad retail markets in about a week. The retail price has already crossed the Rs 90 per kg mark in the city. APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) sources said that Navratri has pushed down onion consumption across India, so prices were under control though on the higher side. In the Ahmedabad APMC, the onion price reached Rs 60 per kg on Saturday while app-based platforms were selling at Rs 86 per kg. In retail markets, the price was Rs 95 per kg. APMC officials said that from Monday the demand will increase and wholesale prices will rise, resulting in the retail price crossing the Rs 100 per kg mark. During the lockdown, the consumption of onions and potatoes spiked, as they can be stored for long. So about 20% of the stock was pumped into the state markets, including those in Ahmedabad, to meet the demand. Ghyanshyam Patel, the chairman of the Mahuva APMC, the biggest for onion trading in Gujarat, said: “Onion crops sown in the kharif season have failed in Mahuva, Karnataka, and Maharashtra.” Patel added: “So farmers have begun sowing again and the yield is likely to hit the markets by February. Because of crop shortage, we expect the onion price in Mahuva to reach Rs 100 per kg by mid-November.” Patel said that in Karnataka, heavy rains in August had washed out onion crops. The produce was to be brought into Gujarat markets in early September. At present, only Maharashtra farmers, and some in Gujarat, have stocked the produce harvested in March and April. Bhikhabhai Jhagadiya, an office-bearer of the Bhavnagar APMC, said that there has been a rise in demand from international markets such as the Gulf countries, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh. “I don’t think prices will stabilize with the ban on exports as supplies will remain poor,” he said. An office-bearer of the Mahuva APMC said that the situation this year is as bad as it was in 2018 when prices in Mahuva touched the Rs 100 per kg mark in the first week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/onion-price-set-to-cross-rs-100/kg-mark-in-city/articleshow/78851396.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 25, 2020||Rajkot||In Morbi town, people made to clean road if caught littering||RAJKOT: Those littering the roads in Morbi town will not only have to pay fine, but also clean the garbage themselves. This is what the civic body of the erstwhile princely state has decided in a bid to make the city clean before Diwali festival. The Morbi municipality began this special drive from Saturday and on the first day six traders of the main market were asked to clean the garbage they had thrown on the roadside. Civic body officials said that it was observed during routine surveys that a few traders on Sanara road threw garbage on the road once the sanitation worker had cleaned it. On Saturday the civic body officials asked traders to clean the road themselves. Talking to TOI chief officer of Morbi municipality Girish Saraiya said, “It has been often observed that people litter the roads soon after our workers clean it. We have now decided to make those littering the road clean the filth themselves. If they refuse to clean the garbage they will be warned and fine accordingly.” “Our current focus is on commercial areas and complexes which will witness huge rush due to the festive season,” added Saraiya. Jayesh Gwalani, a readymade garment shop owner on Dr. Takhtasinji Road said “One of my new staffer made a mistake and threw the garbage on the road. So, I did the cleaning and also paid a fine. But the action of the municipality was an eye-opener. The drive by the civic body has forced traders to buy eight dustbins for the market for garbage collection.” The civic body usually collects Rs 200-500 fine for littering on roads. But from Saturday, it has been decided that if anyone is found throwing garbage on road, the local sanitation worker will approach him along with a civil body official and provide the culprit with a broom to clear the garbage. Currently, 39 vans are involved in door-to-door garbage collection. The citizens are required to segregate wet and dry waste, which is later dumped at the Rafaleswhar dumping site. Morbi, which was a part of Rajkot district, became a separate district in 2015. This city is known for its historic places like Mani Mandir, Jhulto Pul and Wanakner palace. It’s famous around the world for its ceramic and clock manufacturing industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/in-ceramic-town-people-made-to-clean-road-if-caught-littering/articleshow/78851008.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Ex-AAP member now receives death threats||VADODARA: Former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member who was fired upon by her brother-in-law and one more person last month received death threats on Friday. Ameena Sheikh, who lives in Yakutpura, told police that when she and her son were present at home, a man named Kadar Sheikh came to their house. Kadar asked Mukhtyar, who works at Ameena’s house, to pass on his threat to her. The accused said that Moin failed last time, but he will not spare them. Moin is Ameena’s brother-in-law and Kadar is his friend. Ameena’s husband Naeem is involved in a legal dispute over ancestral properties with his brother Moin and other siblings. Naeem lodged a complaint against Kadara at City police station and also submitted footages of CCTV cameras in which Kadar is seen talking to Mukhtyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-aap-member-now-receives-death-threats/articleshow/78850103.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Drive against non-insured vehicles gains momentum||HUBBALLI: After a hiatus owing to Covid-induced lockdowns, traffic cops are back to business. They have intensified the drive against motorists roaming on the city roads without proper documents. Despite the Supreme Court guidelines that every vehicle plying on the roads should have a valid insurance, many vehicles are not insured. This has forced police to intensify their drive to check vehicles, said a cop. Another traffic constable said, “We have received orders from higher officials to verify documents of vehicles, especially for insurance. If any rider is caught without insurance or if the insurance has expired, the vehicle will be seized. It will be released only the insurance is renewed,” he said. The document checking drive was necessitated as increasing number of vehicle theft cases are being reported. Recently Town Station police nabbed three accused, who had stolen an Enfield bike. Police in the past have also found that stolen vehicles were used in crime, said deputy commissioner RB Basaragi. The commissionerate did not go easy on traffic offenders even during the lockdown, he said. Data sourced by the commissionerate indicates that 50,773 cases were booked from March to September this year and Rs 2,68,80,950 fine was collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/drive-against-non-insured-vehicles-gains-momentum/articleshow/78850572.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Cases spike mildly in south Tamil Nadu, dip in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state recorded 290 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Saturday. Meanwhile, the eight central districts recorded 253 Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 63,733. Though the number of cases in the south is below the 300-mark since Wednesday, the cases have been marginally on the rise from 259 on Wednesday, to 267 on Thursday, 281 on Friday and to 290 on Saturday. The deaths include two in Tuticorin and one each in Madurai, Dindigul and Kanyakumari districts. It includes two 49-year-old men in Tuticorin district of whom one did not have comorbid conditions. The man without comorbid conditions tested positive on Thursday and was admitted to a private hospital in Vellore where he died in the night. He suffered breathing difficulty for seven days and cough for a day. No deaths were reported in six districts. Among the fresh cases in the region, Madurai recorded the highest with 77 cases. This is the highest number of fresh cases in the district in the last six days. Madurai was followed by Kanyakumari (52), Tuticorin (39), Virudhunagar (26), Tirunelveli (25), Sivagangai (20), Theni (19), Dindigul (16), Ramanathapuram (9) and Tenkasi (7). The number of active cases has dipped to 3,240. Eight districts recorded less than 50 fresh cases and have less than 500 active cases. The numbers of cases in the central region fell below 300 a few days ago as all the eight districts including Trichy reported a decline in fresh cases every other day. The number of active cases also slipped further on Saturday to 2,554, while the number of discharged patients touched 60,340. Ariyalur and Perambalur recorded three and four cases making them the lowest numbers on Saturday. The highest number of fresh cases was reported in Thanjavur where 61 patients tested positive, followed by Trichy with 50 cases. The death toll due to Covid-19 was also reduced to three, which were reported in Nagappattinam and Thanjavur districts. A 58-year old man and a 63-year-old man from Nagappattinam died on October 23 and October 22. The deaths were caused by Covid-19 and they had diabetes mellitus. Both patients had fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for four days. Thanjavur district also registered the death of a 70-year-old man on October 22. He was down with coronary artery disease (CAD) besides having Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-spike-mildly-in-south-tn-dip-in-central-districts/articleshow/78852158.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Goa ideal for logistics, export hub: Ex-Union industries minister||PANAJI: Calling Goa an ideal location for a logistics hub, former Union minister and current Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Prabhu on Saturday said that Goa has all the factors to become a multi-modal logistics and export hub which will boost the state’s industrial economic activities. Prabhu, who was speaking at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) conference on logistics, said that he is willing to assist Goa with the required support to develop a multi-modal logistics hub. “Goa’s strategic location makes the state ideal for a logistics hub,” said Prabhu, India’s sherpa for G20 and G7 Summit. “In my opinion, Goa is the right place to have warehouses with logistical support.” The former commerce minister said that Goa has a major port, a proper road and rail network and also has an international airport, ingredients that can help promote exports and logistics. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who also spoke at the event, agreed that the logistics sector can be a catalyst for Goa’s economic growth. “We welcome all sectors especially the sectors of logistics and shipbuilding which will help to increase employment in many areas. The fruitful deliberations at this conference will help us develop a roadmap for a multi modal-logistics hub which will definitely be a game changer for Goa,” he said. Promising his support, Prabhu said, “Once you do that you will see employment rising, tourism rising, job creation and economic activity rising, small startups and MSMEs will come.” Welcoming the proposal for a multi-modal logistics park in Goa, Sawant said that the green field airport under construction at Mopa will be a cargo hub and the cargo movement could increase due to the road connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-ideal-for-logistics-export-hub-ex-union-industries-minister/articleshow/78852236.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Winter schedule of Jaipur airport has 56 flights||Jaipur: The winter schedule of the city airport kicks off from Sunday during which it will operate 56 inbound and the same number of outbound flights.The new schedule includes six new flights, while flights to three cities will remain terminated.As per the new schedule, flights to Indore, Pune and Hyderabad will be terminated till further orders. “Since the inception of these flights, passenger load was almost negligible which prompted operators to withdraw flights to these destinations,” said a senior officer of air traffic control on Saturday.As a good number of tourists plan a visit to Jaisalmer during winters, three flights to Jaisalmer have been added in this schedule. “This is a good addition as several tourist plan to have visit Jaisalmer after they land in Jaipur,” said Amandeep Singh, a travel agent.Last winter, Jaipur airport was operating nearly 65 inbound and the same number of outbound flights daily. “We have got good connectivity to the cities, including Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata as more flights to these destinations have been added,” said a senior officer.Airport authorities stated that till Diwali there is a possibility of increase in the number of passengers. “Hopefully, more flights would be added gradually when the passenger load would increase,” said Jagdeep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport.However, there is some disappointment for travelers looking for the flights that were operating twice or thrice a week. “As we are witnessing domestic tourists in Jaipur there was a need of increasing the frequency of many flights which has not been increased in this schedule,” said an officer.The schedule would be applicable till March 27. “Also this would be seen on Sunday that how many flights would be operated by various airlines as everything depends on passenger load,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/winter-schedule-of-jaipur-airport-has-56-flights/articleshow/78851365.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: One more dead as cracker unit blaze toll mounts to 7||MADURAI: The death toll in the cracker unit blaze at M Sengulam village in Madurai district rose to seven on Saturday with the death of M Mahalakshmi, 45, of Kadaneri village who was being treated for burn injuries. The incident that took place on Friday had left five women dead on the spot and three injured. Among the injured, only Sundaramoorthi from Venkatachalapuram is alive and undergoing treatment now. Madurai district police registered a case against three people - licence holder Shanmugarajan, manager Vairamani and foreman Sundaramoorthi. They were booked under IPC sections 304 (ii) – culpable homicide not amounting to murder, 308 – attempt to culpable homicide, and under the section of the explosives act. Meanwhile, C Sylendra Babu, director of fire and rescue services, visited the spot and conducted an inquiry on Saturday. He said that all district units of fire and rescue services have been instructed to conduct inspections in cracker units under their control and ensure all safety precautions are in place. With Diwali fast approaching, frequent inspection will be conducted at cracker units, he said. Controller of explosives Karunamay Pandey and deputy controller Nitin Goel also visited the cracker unit. Karunamay Pandey told TOI that fancy items were manufactured in the unit for which they had not obtained permission. Huge quantity of semi-finished goods was found stored at unauthorized places including the laboratory and store room. Though it is a small unit, manufacturing was taking place in large quantities. They had also leased out the facility to two or three people, which is another violation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-more-dead-as-cracker-unit-blaze-toll-mounts-to-7/articleshow/78852192.cms||S Lenin
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Local body polls in 21 districts in 4 phases||Jaipur: The state government on Saturday announced to conduct local body polls in 21 districts in four phases — November 23, 27, December 1 and 5. Over 2 crore voters will exercise their franchise in these polls which will be conducted under Covid protocol. The model code of conduct has come into effect with the announcement of election dates in the respective districts, an official said. The nomination process for the first phase will begin from November 4.In view of the pandemic, the election office has reduced the number of voters from 1,100 to 900 in every booth. In all, 33,611 polling booths will be set up in poll-bound areas. Also, the time for polling has been revised from 7:30 am to 5 pm so that social distancing can be followed properly. The election office has directed local administrations to ensure proper Covid guidelines.The election-bound districts are Ajmer, Churu, Nagaur, Banswara, Dungarpur, Pali, Barmer, Hanumangarh, Pratapgarh, Bhilwara, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Jalore, Sikar, Bundi, Jhalawar, Tonk, Chittorgarh, Jhunjhunu and Udaipur.The state election commission has opened a control room to respond to complaints. The help line numbers are 0141222786, 2385067 and 2385059. The election office has put a cap on the campaign expenses. For candidates contesting municipal wards, the upper limit is Rs 1.50 lakh while those contesting panchayat samiti polls, the expenses have been capped at Rs 75, 000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/local-body-polls-in-21-districts-in-4-phases/articleshow/78851391.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||This surgeon uses legal tools to fight regulations afflicting doctors||Nagpur: In May this year, when Vidarbha Hospitals Associations (VHA) held a meeting over state government’s move to cap price of non-Covid treatment, its president Dr Ashok Arbat presumed that a well-known lawyer was in attendance. Dr Arbat had met the man a year ago at a function and was introduced as someone who “knows the law well”.On October 23, Dr Pradeep Arora — the same man — helped VHA win a writ petition in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, which as per Dr Arbat not many reputed HC lawyers were keen to fight because of “poor chances of victory”.Knowing Dr Arora quite well now, Dr Arbat says, “Once he decides something, he accomplishes it. He was completely committed to the cause. We had met three to four lawyers from city who said it would be very difficult to get a favourable decision, beside quoting a very high fee.”Dr Arora didn’t charge any fee from VHA for the case and plans to fight more legal battles. “We have won this battle, but the war will continue. I take up rights of doctors not because I am one of them. I am having a holistic view of health care. Fundamental rights of doctors are regularly and thoroughly exploited because of their vulnerability, nature of their profession and no control over outcome. This is because of heavily biased regulations,” he says.Originally from Haryana, Dr Arora (63) is a general surgeon and paediatrician who has been practicing in the city since 1993. Before the historic success in the price cap case, Dr Arora had developed a niche in legal studies while fighting a personal property case in the civil court around 2016.Though his previous cases are yet to be decided, he has been able to get interim relief in all of them. In his first appearance in the HC in 2017, Dr Arora highlighted a loophole in civic norms while giving registration to nursing homes. The interim relief paved way for not just his nursing home but also several others which were at the receiving end of alleged civic high-handedness.Another reason for the doctor’s interest towards practicing law was the state’s tightening grip on medical fraternity. “In the last 10 years, the degree of regulations has increased. One such case was renewal of my nursing home’s registration. As per rule book, there was a provision for three years but the local supervisory authority under the NMC gave it only for one year,” he said.In April 2017, Dr Arora moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay HC against the civic body. “Justice BP Dharmadhikari gave interim relief. It had become a tradition for NMC to give only one-year registration but it has stopped since then,” he said.Dr Arora’s confidence to stand in-person before the HC came from a property case in civil court a year before. “My lawyer was not able to continue. Finding no alternative, I started pleading my case. I appeared in person for the first time before a senior civil judge in May 2016,” he said.Until then, Dr Arora found law a boring subject. While pleading his property case, he found law very simple and easy. He started reading law books as leisure activity and soon he developed command over the subject. “As I became a victim of injustice, I greatly craved for justice and studied law,” he says.Dr Arora took up multiple cases and also intervened in matters of medical interests at all levels.His next aim is to help private hospitals compensation for the financial burden from price capping.+++QUOTE BLURBI take up rights of doctors not because I am one of them. I am having a holistic view of health care. Fundamental rights of doctors are regularly and thoroughly exploited because of their vulnerability, nature of their profession and no control over outcome. This is because of heavily biased regulationsDr Pradeep Arora | general surgeon and paediatrician||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/this-surgeon-uses-legal-tools-to-fight-regulations-afflicting-doctors/articleshow/78849876.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 43% clear Class XII supplementary tests||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) on Saturday announced results of Class XII (general stream) supplementary exams where 43.37% candidates cleared the test. The examination, held in the month of September, saw registration of about 1.22 lakh candidates. About 10.36 lakh candidates took the exam of which 44,948 could crack the board exam for higher secondary candidates. Girls outshone the boys. Out of 66,296 boys who took the test, 26,020 or 39.25% managed to clear. In comparison, out of 36,483 girls, as many as 18,508 or 50.73% girls in the general category cleared the supplementary examination. “For differently-abled candidates, a provision of 20% pass-through benefit has been applied. The total number of candidates to avail this 20% benefit is 118,” read a statement issued by GSHSEB. The candidates were to obtain the mark-sheets from the designated distribution points in their respective districts between 9am and 5pm on Saturday. The state education board has this year for the first time conducted supplementary exams for candidates who failed in two subjects. The results have been prepared by the board in a short span of 18 days after taking the test. The board had earlier announced to hold exams for candidates who had failed in one subject. The exams were to be conducted along with Class X and Class XII supplementary tests. The board however revisited its decision and this led to reshuffling of the exam dates. The exams were held from September 28 to October 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/43-clear-class-xii-supplementary-tests/articleshow/78851440.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid panel predicts cases may rise in December||JAIPUR: The advisory committee constituted by the state government for Covid-19 has anticipated that cases might increase in December due to increase in concentration of suspended particulate matter in the lower layer of atmosphere due to fog and smog. On October 2, the daily new infection touched the peak and since then cases have been decreasing. The committee has already informed the government about the possibility of increase in cases next month. “In December, the concentration of suspended particulate matter goes up. Recently, there was a hypothesis that higher particulate matter 2.5 are associated with higher morbidity and mortality. In Rajasthan, Jaipur and Jodhpur are the two cities with highest particulate pollution. If this hypothesis holds true, we may have a second peak in December,” said Dr Virendra Singh, pulmonologist and member of advisory committee constituted by the state government. According to health department figures, the pandemic situation is worse in Jaipur and Jodhpur. The report shows that Jaipur’s cumulative Covid count breached the 30,000 mark taking it to 31,010 while in Jodhpur’s cumulative cases were 27,605. Health experts claimed that during winters, fog engulfs the city and pollution and harmful gases and suspended particulate matters remain in the lower layer of atmosphere The panel had earlier anticipated that rain was associated with higher number of flu pneumonia and since Covid is also a type of flu, cases and deaths might increase in rainy season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-panel-predicts-cases-may-rise-in-december/articleshow/78851403.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mysuru||Face recognition tech to mark MCC workers’ attendance||Mysuru: In a first-of-its-kind move in the state, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) will introduce attendance system based on face-recognition technology for pourakarmikas. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said they will invite technology service providers for a demonstration in the next one month, after which a tender will be floated. “Presently, biometric attendance system is in place. It has several disadvantages, including pourakarmikas not being able to register their attendance (it is said the system is not capturing the thumb impression). The new system will be a solution for all of them,” he explained. MCC has 2,409 pourakarmikas, including those on the civic body’s rolls and those hired through contractors. The issue of having a new attendance system has been discussed and approved at the council. MCC chief health officer Dr M S Jayant said the new system will be implemented that in 2-3 months. “It will help MCC monitor the works of pourakarmikas easily,” he said, adding: “We will soon start paying salaries to all pourakarmikas online. We are adopting the new technology to streamline the works.” As per the plan, attendance will be registered once a pourakarmika reports to the duty at the allotted attendance spot using facial-recognition technology. The civic body is planning to capture the attendance twice a day. MCC Pourakarmikara Union president Narayana said that introduction of new technology will not be a problem for the civic workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/face-recognition-tech-to-mark-mcc-workers-attendance/articleshow/78850636.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Tributes paid to Marudhupandiar brothers||MADURAI: The 219th death anniversary of the Marudhupandiar brothers, who had fought fearlessly against the British, was observed on Saturday. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, ministers R B Udayakumar, Sellur K Raju, O S Manian, R Kamaraj, Dr C Vijaya Baskar and Kadambur C Raju, paid tributes at the Marudhupandiar memorial in Thirupathur in Sivaganga district. Later, the deputy chief minister inaugurated a new modern Aavin parlour. The descendants of the two brothers cooked pongal and made an offering at the memorial. Sivaganga collector J Jayakanthan, hoisted the national flag at the memorial. The two chieftains from Kalayarkoil, were hanged in Thirupathur along with 500 freedom fighters on October 24, 1801.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tributes-paid-to-marudhupandiar-brothers/articleshow/78852197.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid cases taking more days to double||JAIPUR: The significant dip of Covid-19 cases since October 2 has also reduced the doubling rate of cases in the state. On October 10, the doubling rate was 42 days, on October 16 (44 days) and on October 24 (47 days). “It is a good sign that the cases are now doubling in more days that before. It shows that declining trend in cases,” said a health department official. Doubling of death cases is now taking more days. On October 10, it was 59 days, October 16 (61 days) and October 24 (65 days). In the last 24 hours, 12 persons died taking the overall toll to 1,826. As on Saturday, 1,852 persons were found infected with the virus taking the cumulative count to 1,84,422. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (209), Bikaner (202), Sriganganagar (186), Sikar (117), Ajmer (100), Alwar (99), Jalore (98), Kota (62), Nagaur (57), Jhunjhunu (45), Udaipur (45), Bhilwara (43), Pali (39), Bharatpur (31), Barmer (29), Churu (20), Dausa (15), Chittorgarh (15), Hanumangarh (15), Dholpur (14), Rajsamand (12), Jhalawar (10), Dungarpur (9), Karauli (7), Jaisalmer (7), Baran (5), Tonk (5), Bundi (5), Pratapgarh (3), Sawai Madhopur (2) and Sirohi (1). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 361, with two deaths Jodhpur’s fatalities rose to 176, Ajmer’s casualties touched 134 with two more deaths, Kota 115th, Udaipur 66th, Nagaur 56th, Alwar 53rd, Sikar 51st and Churu reported 21st Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-taking-more-days-to-double/articleshow/78851418.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Maratha Kranti Morcha wants quota increased||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: The Maratha Kranti Morcha on Saturday passed a resolution demanding that the Union government increase the limit of reservation. Rajendra Date-Patel said that the conveners also want the two bills involving the suggestions of a MPs committee for enhancing the reservation limit be passed by both the houses of the Parliament in the winter session. The Morcha has warned of staging a protest in Delhi if their demand is not met. “We have also passed a resolution demanding the government to extend the reservation limit to 75% so that all those communities seeking reservation will get it,” he said. Date-Patil had approached the Supreme Court seeking a review of its order staying the Maratha reservation. “We also want the state government to address other demands, which are not embroiled in any legal controversy like providing funds to Sarathi as well as Annasaheb Patil Financial Corporation, scholarship for the research students,” he said. The members have also planned to meet all the MPs from Maharashtra to urge them to write to the prime minister and the president to ensure that the pending bills related to reservation be approved in both the houses of Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maratha-kranti-morcha-wants-quota-increased/articleshow/78852227.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: For elders smitten by app bug, food, leisure and health just a click away||CHENNAI: Vijayalakshmi R, 65, based in Chennai starts her day scrolling through recipes on Instagram to decide on what she’s going to make for lunch. After placing her grocery orders on Dunzo, and a customary WhatsApp video call with her son, who lives in Bengaluru, Vijayalakshmi and her husband go about their daily routine that includes a live yoga class via Zoom, movies on OTT platforms, and a game of Ludo on their phones to end the day. Covid-19 has pushed senior citizens to embrace digital solutions for being self-reliant and beat boredom while being confined to their homes. Armed with smartphones, a large section of senior citizens has gone digital for most of their needs — from buying essentials to staying in touch with family, meeting physical fitness goals, and satisfying entertainment needs. Grocery and food delivery apps, payment services, digital health platforms and other digital providers TOI spoke to said new user sign-ups and usage of such services by seniors have gone up by an average 20% to 30% from pre-Covid days. Online grocery delivery service Grofers says it has observed a 40% increase in monthly purchases in terms of cart size from existing users in the 55+ age group. “This age group had a 3% contribution to our new users every month. It has now increased by 2x and contributes to 6% of our first-time users post Covid,” Saurabh Kumar, founder, Grofers, said. Concierge services app Dunzo said it has seen growing adoption by seniors during the last few months. “With new users logging into the app for the very first time, Dunzo has been able to serve as a lifeline for many in the elderly community,” a spokesperson at Dunzo said. Yoga chain Sarva says there has been a “very positive adoption” among the seniors for its app-based yoga and personal training sessions during the lockdown. “Over 5% of all our online customer base today are senior citizens,” Sarvesh Shashi, founder, Sarva, said. Food delivery app Swiggy has also seen an increase in the number of senior citizens adopting its service to get OTC medicines, send and receive food packages from family and friends, among others. “The time spent by seniors on their smartphones has increased by around 70% today from pre-Covid times and now stands at roughly 1 hour and 45 minutes,” Shashank Shwet, partner Design Experience, EY India, said. Increased familiarity with smartphones and the emergence of the youngsters in the house as the controller of the digital accounts has made the transition to digital smoother for the elders, he added. The emergence of UPI-based digital payment systems has been a critical factor in inspiring confidence in seniors to go online, analysts said. For instance, payments platform PhonePe says half of its new users added during the pandemic are completely new to digital transactions and are from an elder age-group. “Categories like money transfers, recharges, bill payments are most popular on the app and we are seeing the same trend in this [seniors] age-group as well,” a spokesperson said. Healthcare too has gone digital, pushing the elder generation out of their comfort zones. Digital health platform Portea Medical has seen around 60% increase in demand for remote healthcare after the pandemic and senior citizens have been open to services such as physiotherapy remotely. “I was not too comfortable consulting my doctor via video call for the first time in the month of May, but after three consultations since then, I am more used to it now,” Ramamoorthy S, 67, said. Prior to the pandemic, it would have been impossible to see the elder population keeping their houses clean with robot mops, but this has turned a reality today. Milagrow, the maker of floor cleaning robots, says around 25% of its new buyers have been senior citizens compared to 5% pre-Covid. A lot of NRI kids have been gifting this product to their parents in India urging them to use it, Rajeev Karwal, founder and chairman, Milagrow Robots, said. Most importantly, technology has helped the senior community stay more connected with their loved ones and not miss out on the important family occasions, in turn helping them tackle increased loneliness brought on by Covid-19. Bhanumati R, 72, who has only used her phone for calls earlier, said she was able to independently use her smartphone to witness two engagements in the family, thanks to Zoom. “This way I could see a lot more members from the extended family, who I have not met for many years now,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-elders-smitten-by-app-bug-food-leisure-and-health-just-a-click-away/articleshow/78851428.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
October 25, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Waqf board office will be moved to Mumbai’||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: State waqf minister Nawab Malik on Saturday declared that the headquarters of the Maharashtra State Waqf Board would be shifted from Aurangabad to Mumbai soon. Space has been earmarked for it in the premises of the Mumbai district collectorate, he said. Speaking to newsmen here, the minister said that shifting the office would primarily address the issue of finding a deputy secretary-level official to be the board secretary. It would also help address issues raised in petitions, which were pending in different courts, including the apex court. Malik also said that MIM MP Imtiyaz Jaleel too has agreed to the plan to shift the board headquarters to Mumbai. The minister said that a new board would soon be constituted and Jaleel and Parbhani MP in Rajya Sabha would be incorporated as members. Apart from these MPs, who would be selected following due procedure, the board would have two MLAs as its members, representatives of Shia and Sunni communities, as well as a member of the bar council. He also claimed that the former chairman of the board M M Shaikh’s appointment was illegal, while another member had taken away some crucial files. Malik said that much of the process involving change reports and mutwalli (caretaker) schemes got stuck due to the Covid-19. Since the government is reopening all activities gradually, all these issues would be settled expeditiously. He also regretted that the board members as well as the chief executive officers of the board so far have not understood their powers and authority. He also said that the government has made some changes in the rules to specify the powers vested in these positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/waqf-board-office-will-be-moved-to-mumbai/articleshow/78852216.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Woman poisons two daughters, self to death||THENI: A 29-year-old woman murdered her two daughters aged seven and 10 by feeding them poison and committed suicide near Andipatti in Theni district. The woman was identified as S Shenbagavalli of Alagar Nagar in Ammachiyapuram village and her daughters as S Surena, 10, and S Suresri, 7. Shenbagavalli was married to Sureshkumar, a mason, from the same village 11 years ago. In his complaint, Shenbagavalli’s father Muniyandi, 51, said his daughter has been suffering from stomach ache for the last two years. She went to various hospitals to get treated but nothing worked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-poisons-two-daughters-self-to-death/articleshow/78852234.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Missing youth’s boots, scooter found in Narol||AHMEDABAD: The scooter and boots of Asad Memon, 22, of Shah-e-Alam were found from near Cozy Hotel in Narol on Saturday. ACP, K division, Milap Patel, said Memon, had gone missing on Friday afternoon after leaving on his scooter to deposit Rs 10 lakh at an angadia firm. A missing-person report was filed at Narol police station after Memon, who worked at a private company, didn’t return home, and his family failed to trace him after searching. Inspector of Narol Police station SA Gohil said that they are probing all angles. “We have found his boots and his scooter from near Cozy hotel on Narol-Vishala Road. We have asked for his call detail records and will take help of city crime branch to trace him. Till now we have no clue of what has happened to Memon,” Gohil said. Sources in Narol police station said they are not ruling out any possibilities including kidnapping, robbery or murder of the youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/missing-youths-boots-scooter-found-in-narol/articleshow/78851407.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Rs 2 crore fine netted so far in Madurai for flouting Covid-19 safety rules; vigil to be stepped up||MADURAI: Fines collected from people for flouting Covid-19 safety norms crossed Rs 2 crore in Madurai district on Saturday, and the district administration has said that that vigil during the festive season would be stepped up. The state government had announced that fines would be slapped on those who violate Covid-19 safety norms in May this year. Though Madurai started collecting fines from May, it was implemented in letter and spirit from June 13. All departments, including corporation workers, revenue staff, and police have started keeping an eye on those who flout the mask norms. Ten flying squads, led by tahsildars were also constituted by the collector for the purpose. The mask fine was increased from Rs 100 to Rs 200. Shops and commercial establishments not following social distancing norms are also slapped with fines of more than Rs 1,000. Warnings were also issued to them that the buildings would be sealed for continuous violations. The total fine touched Rs 2.04 crore on October 23. On Saturday, Madurai district collector Dr T G Vinay said that the people should adhere to the rules strictly during the festival season. The fine for spitting in public as per the second amendment to the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act of 1939 is Rs 500. Flouting mask norms will attract a fine of Rs 200 and saloons, and spas and commercial establishments will have to pay a fine of Rs5,000 for not following the SOPs. On Saturday, officials slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 on the employees of the Kappalur toll gate in Madurai for not wearing masks. Many shopkeepers and petrol bunk employees in the city no longer wear masks. Social activist V P Manikandan says that it is good that the Madurai district administration, corporation and police are closely watching the situation. “Festive season is dangerous as we have learnt it from Kerala, hence people should be warned and a lot of awareness needs to be done in villages,” he said. “Still there are people who continue to keep masks in their pockets or below the chin. They don’t seem to understand the danger,” said geriatrician Dr N Raja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-2cr-fine-netted-so-far-in-madurai-for-flouting-covid-19-safety-rules-vigil-to-be-stepped-up/articleshow/78852224.cms||S Lenin
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Shatabdi to be back on tracks again||AHMEDABAD: After nearly seven months, the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Shatabdi Express will be back on the tracks again. The Western Railway (WR) announced on Saturday that the train would run as per the schedule. The WR said that barring Sunday the train would run on all days. According to the WR officials, Shatabdi will make its first journey from October 28. The train will leave Mumbai at 6.25 am and reach Ahmedabad at 1.10 pm. From Ahmedabad, the train will leave at 2.45 pm and reach Mumbai at 9.20 pm. The train will have regular halts at Borivalli, Vapi, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara and Anand. The WR has also announced festival trains between Bhuj and Bareilly. The train is scheduled to run between October 28 and December 2. The train will leave Bhuj on Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday at 5.05 pm, and will reach Bareilly, the next day at 8.35 pm. On its return journey, the train will leave Bareilly at 6.35 am and reach Bhuj, the next day at 9.30 am. From Bareilly the train will run on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. The train will halt at Palanpur, Abu Road, Falna, Marwad Junction, Phulera, Jaipur, Gurgaon, Delhi, Sarai Rohilla, Gajrola and Muradabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shatabdi-to-be-back-on-tracks-again/articleshow/78851445.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||10 plasma donors rejected for not having sufficient antibodies||Jaipur: State BJP chief Satish Poonia, who reached SMS medical college on Saturday to donate his plasma for helping Covid-19 patients, was found ineligible as he did not have sufficient antibodies.A health department official said Poonia had wished to donate plasma as he has already recovered from Covid after being infected recently. But when doctors conducted a test, his reports showed that he did not have sufficient antibodies for donation.While a lot of debate is going on over usefulness of convalescent plasma therapy for Covid, a camp of plasma donation was held at SMS medical college on Saturday.Mega blood donation drive’s national coordinator Hitesh Bhandia said out of the 25 recovered patients, who reached to donate their plasma, 10 were found ineligible as they did not have sufficient antibodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-plasma-donors-rejected-for-not-having-sufficient-antibodies/articleshow/78851426.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Positivity rate dips to 15%, 218 new cases in Goa||PANAJI: A week after showing a declining trend, Goa’s Covid-19 positivity rate dropped to 15% on Saturday as the state reported 218 new cases. With 348 recoveries, the recovery rate was pegged at 92%. A total of 42 patients were hospitalised. With recoveries outnumbering new cases detected, the state’s count of active cases too dropped to 2,691. The mortality count rose to 571on Saturday with two deaths. A 30-year-old man from Mobor, was brought dead to Hospicio Hospital, Margao while a 60-year-old man from Valpoi, who had been detected with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) at the time of admission last week, succumbed to the virus at GMC. The latter also suffered from hypertension and diabetes. A week ago, the state’s positivity rate was also reported to be 15%, the lowest since August. But the number of samples tested on October 18 stood at 1,246 as against the 1,445 samples tested on Saturday. In a sigh of relief for its residents, Porvorim, which had been recording a high number of cases right since August, saw its count fall to 200. The number of cases in Sakhali too, which reported high positivity in August and September, are on the decline. The caseload in Bicholim, however, which had fallen below the 100-mark, is yet again on the rise. On Saturday, a total of 126 active cases were reported. With six people testing positive, Panaji’s caseload went up to 130 and that of Chimbel to 158. Two travellers were among those who tested positive on Saturday. In South Goa, meanwhile, Margao continues to remain a cause of concern. With 242 cases, it has the highest caseload among all centres. Cases in Vasco and Cortalim, the two centres that witnessed a massive spike in June, declined to 127 to 126 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/positivity-rate-dips-to-15-218-new-cases/articleshow/78851419.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Agra||Construction work on 29.4 km corridor of Agra Metro to kick off in Dec first week||AGRA: The construction work on the much-awaited Agra Metro is likely to kick off in the first week of December with the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) finalising an alignment plan for two corridors in the city. The first phase — a 29.4-km-long corridor with three metro stations — is likely to come up in 26 months at an estimated cost of Rs 272 crore. A large part of the corridor — 78% — would be elevated while only 28% tracks would be underground, said well-placed officials with the UPMRC. However, there will be — in all — 27 stations on the corridor. “All required arrangements have been made to kick start construction work on the corridor in the first phase in December,” confirmed UPMRC managing director Kumar Keshav. “The three metro stations include Taj East Gate, Basai and Fatehabad Road and they will be ready within 26 months. We are in the process of setting up a metro rail casting yard and a metro depot.” The Agra district administration has, meanwhile, identified land to set up the casting yard. “We have identified seven hectares in Etmadpur block for the development of a metro casting yard, while the first metro depot will come up at PAC ground. Later, another depot will be constructed in Kalindi Vihar. Once operational, the metro rail project work will gain momentum,” said district magistrate Prabhu N Singh. Keeping environmental concern in mind, said officials with the district administration, 21 hectares in Matgai village in Fatehabad sub-division will be developed as a forest area to compensate for the felling of 1,823 trees for the project. Besides, 21 hectares barren land in Gadhwar village under Bah sub-division has also been identified for the same purpose. The administration has sent a proposal to this effect to the state government. “The move to develop forest areas is in accordance with a Supreme Court ruling, wherein the court orders planting of at least 10 saplings for one tree felled,” said Agra Development Authority secretary Rajendra Prasad Tripathi. On February 28, 2019, the Union Cabinet had approved the Rs 8,379.62-crore Agra Metro Rail Project with two corridors connecting public places, government offices, hospitals, market places, tourist spots — such as the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Etmaddulah and Sikandra — and city cluster areas. The distance between Sikandara and Taj East Gate corridor will be 14 km — partly elevated and partly underground — and comprise 13 stations (six elevated and seven underground). The length of the second corridor from Agra Cantt to Kalindi Vihar will, however, be 15.4 km and comprise 14 stations — all elevated. Once operational, the metro rail will substantially cut travel time in the city and help reduce pollution and traffic snarls. According to UPMRC officials, the metro rail will cover 1 km in two minutes. Thus, the distance between Sikandra and Taj East Date will be covered in just 28 minutes and travelling from Agra Cantt to Kalindi Vihar will take 32 minutes, which on an average takes an hour by road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/construction-work-on-29-4-km-corridor-of-agra-metro-to-kick-off-in-dec-first-week/articleshow/78849889.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Rs 6.5cr crop loss in Kolhapur dist, Rs 250cr in Sangli||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district has reported crop loss worth Rs 6.5 crore due to the recent bout of heavy rainfall in Kolhapur district. Sangli district, on the other hand, reported crop loss worth Rs 250 crore as per primary estimates. The survey of the damage is in the last leg of completion and is expected to complete by the end of October. While less damage to properties has been reported in both districts, some houses in Solapur have been affected. The state government has announced compensation package of around Rs 10,000 crore, of which, around Rs 3,000 crore is set aside to compensate damage to properties. The rest of the sum is only for the crop damage. Kolhapur district agriculture superintendent Dyandeo Wakure said, “We are yet to complete the survey. So far, we have estimated that crops of around 27,000 farmers over 6,000 hectares have been damaged. The estimate for the crop damage is around Rs 6.5 crore. Maximum damage has been caused to paddy crops.” The government has fixed compensation amount depending on the type of crop. For fruit bearing crops, the compensation fixed is at Rs 25,000 per hectare while for other crops, the compensation amount is fixed at Rs 10,000 per hectare. The compensation will be applicable for only two hectares. Farmers who have more than two hectares of farm with all crop destroyed will be eligible for the compensation up to two hectares. In some places in Sangli district, farmers, especially grape growers, have complained that they are not being considered for compensation. Agriculture officers claim that the compensation is applicable to grape farms damaged at the flowering stage only. However, owing to rain forecast, many grape farmers have postponed the stem cutting stage. Vishal Mali, farmer from Palus in Sangli said, “My grape plants were not in flowering stage. However, waterlogging in farms has led stems getting damaged. In such situation, it is difficult for the plants to bear fruits in the season. Therefore, we should not be left out of compensation package.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rs-6-5cr-crop-loss-in-kolhapur-dist-rs-250cr-in-sangli/articleshow/78852235.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Trivendra Singh Rawat: Take action against those flouting Covid-19 norms||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, in a review meeting on Saturday, said that the number of Covid-19-positive cases has gone down considerably in the state but officials need to remain alert. “Police and district authorities need to act tough against those violating social distancing norms or not wearing a mask. In order to make masks, the assistance of women self-help groups can also be taken,” said the CM, who was in Bageshwar on Saturday. The CM also directed officials to issue a challan to people who do not wear masks and asked the police teams to provide free masks to the needy. The CM added that health teams should be equipped with the required number of medicines and directed officials to frequently take updates. Earlier on Friday, the CM had announced in Bageshwar that at least 3 lakh farmers in the state will be given interest-free loans. The government aims to bring the Kisan Yojana and Saubhagyawati Yojana on November 9 – the statehood day, he said. Under the Kisan Yojana, the state government aims to provide interest-free loans to 3 lakh farmers in the state. Under the Saubhagyawati Yojana, food kit and clothes would be given to pregnant women and newborn children. CM Rawat said that it is an important project as nutritious food, dry fruits, toiletries and clothes will be ensured for women and their newborn children. Under the project, two separate kits would be distributed — one for women and the second for children. The family and dependents of all government employees paying income tax would not be covered under the project. The kit would also include clothes according to weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/take-action-against-those-flouting-covid-19-norms-cm/articleshow/78849890.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard kills woman in Nainital, third such death in a week||DEHRADUN: Yet another woman was killed in a leopard attack in Nainital district’s Okhalkanda block on Saturday. This is the third such death in a week. On Saturday, Khimuli Devi (45), a resident of Dehna gram sabha of Okhalkanda block, was cutting fodder for her livestock when a leopard on prowl attacked her, killed her, and dragged her body to a nearby forest. After villagers started screaming and shouting, the big cat left the body in the forest and fled. “We have sought permission from senior officials to either trap or tranquilise the animal. A team of around a dozen people are actively scanning the forests and are on alert to trap the leopard,” said Mayank Jha, DFO, Champawat. Notably, all the three victims have been women who had gone out to bring fodder for their livestock. Earlier on Thursday, an 18-year-old girl, who had also gone to bring fodder, was killed by a leopard. The attack took place in Bajwan village which also falls under Okhalkanda block. On Wednesday, too, a 13-year-old girl was attacked and killed by another leopard in Tushran village of Okhalkanda. “The first attack occurred about 40 kilometres away from the second one. This suggests that probably there are two leopards which are active in the area currently. We have sought permission to either trap or eliminate the animal. A shooter from Bijnor is already on the task,” said TR Bijulal, DFO, Nainital. It is worth mentioning that two leopards in the area have already been declared as man-eaters and sharp shooters have been deployed at different locations to either tranquilise or eliminate the big cats. Meanwhile, the carcass of a leopard was also found in the forests of Birbhatti area of Nainital. According to the forest department, it was an adult male leopard. The big cat is believed to have died in a mutual fight. Its carcass was sent for postmortem at Ranibagh rescue centre. This year, the state has already lost more than 18 people to leopard attacks and at least 65 others have sustained injuries in such attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-kills-woman-in-nainital-third-such-death-in-a-week/articleshow/78849900.cms||Shivani Azad
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Tenkasi MP seeks faster electrification of two sections||MADURAI: Tenkasi MP Dhanush M Kumar has written to the divisional railway manager of Madurai to expedite electrification of the Virudhunagar – Rajapalayam – Tenkasi – Sengottai and Tenkasi – Tirunelveli sections. The MP pointed out that the electrification of the Madurai – Manamadurai – Mandapam, Manamadurai – Karaikudi – Trichy sections are fast under progress. At this juncture, he said that the electrification of the Virudhunagar to Sengottai and Tenkasi to Tirunelveli sections are still at the design stage and work has not begun. He said that the speedy completion of electrification of the said sections will enable operations of Silambu, Pothigai and Kollam mail by electrical locomotive, thereby helping people save time in an eco-friendly manner. Meanwhile, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has written to the railway minister to resume the suburban train services in Chennai for the convenience of commuters. He recalled the request made by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami for the same and condemned the delay in resuming the services for nearly two months. Venkatesan pointed out that suburban trains are operated in large numbers in Mumbai. He also questioned the railways for giving reasons that are unacceptable for the delay and listed out hardships faced by the public due to delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tenkasi-mp-seeks-faster-electrification-of-2-sections/articleshow/78852238.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Festive season fails to boost vehicle demand; 25% slide likely||AHMEDABAD: The Navratri festive season failed to infuse any optimism or enthusiasm in the automobile sector, particularly for passenger vehicles. Estimates by Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA) suggest that the demand for passenger vehicles i.e. two-wheelers and four-wheelers is expected to decline by 25% this Navratri-Dussehra season, as compared to last year. “Last year, an estimated 1.09 lakh vehicles were sold throughout the season in Gujarat. However, this year, the number is expected to limit to 85,000 looking at the trend of bookings. Two-wheeler demand is expected to take a bigger hit this time whereas car sales will be almost at par with last year across the state,” said Pranav Shah, chairperson – Gujarat, FADA. With cost of vehicles and cost of ownership of vehicles going up, and people’s incomes shrinking, demand has remained low-key. Sharing more details, Malav Shah, partner at a city-based dealership group, said, “In the two-wheeler segment, there is a greater decline in sales as compared to four-wheelers. This is because a large section comprises students, which is missing this time around due to online education. Moreover, average cost of vehicle has also increased by at least 30% in the two-wheeler segment.” Two-wheeler dealers claim that the drop is greater for mopeds and gearless scooters as against motorcycles. Dealers have rolled out a slew of offers to woo customers into making purchases on the auspicious muhurat. “There are cashback offers on two-wheeler purchases, in addition to free insurance and accessories. However, we expect at least a 30% decline in two-wheeler sales against last year’s Navratri-Dussehra season,” said Shah. Four-wheeler sales on the other hand have revived well over the past few months, reaching figures close to last year’s numbers. According to data by FADA, two-wheeler registrations declined by 47% in September 2020 against the same month last year. Jayesh Nanda, director, Nanda Automobiles, said, “With easy financing options and growing preference for personal vehicles, the demand for cars has been buoyant at our dealerships and we expect a good festive season. This is also because of the wide price range starting from Rs 3.5 lakh. The demand for two-wheelers is also looking good however, it is growing faster in rural areas as compared to urban belts of Gujarat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/festive-season-fails-to-boost-vehicle-demand-25-slide-likely/articleshow/78851450.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 25, 2020||Goa||Agrarian communities mark Dussehra with rituals||KERI: Dussehra this year is being celebrated amid Covid-19 protocol. The seventh month of the lunar calendar, Ashwin, has great importance as far as farmers are concerned. The paddy is ready for dehusking. The first crop is offered to the presiding deities of the village -- a tradition followed in Goa. On the ninth day of the first fortnight of Ashwin, sweet dishes are offered to the deities which are then relished on by the members of village community. In Mayem, the entire village remains occupied in farming activities during the rainy season. As Navratri approaches, community members visit fields and bring panicules in procession and offer it to the deities. Speaking to TOI, Suryakant Gaonkar from Bhuipal Sattari, said, “Goa is an agricultural state. Villagers remain busy with farms activities during rabi and kharif seasons. Dussehra is the occasion to express gratitude to the mother earth for its life and livelihood sustaining abilities. Insignias (Tarangas) are taken into procession to express thanksgiving.” From Canacona to Pernem, villagers celebrate Dussehra with varied festivities and rituals. Savaloram Mandrekar from Nagzar-Pernem said, “Every year, ritualistic marriage between feminine and masculine principles representing Mauli, Bhumka, Sateri and Ravalnath, Bhutnath and Mahadev, respectively, is performed.” In the past, after celebrating Dussehra, communities indulged themselves in warfare for safeguarding honour and sovereignty by displaying their bravery. The occasion was considered auspicious to start new ventures. For Dhangar community, Dussehra festival is the occasion to pay respect to the Mhalchi pandhari, the iconic form of mother goddess. Two days before Dussehra, this community performs different rituals, and on the day of festival, they take out sacred cane box (Devacho pood) and worship clan deities. To mark the occasion, the Gajanrutya, a folk dance is performed by wearing the traditional attire and head gear on the tune of percussion instrument Dhol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agrarian-communities-mark-dussehra-with-rituals/articleshow/78851446.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Woman loses life, 2 injured as car falls in Pasarani ghat||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: A woman died on the spot, while two others were seriously injured when the car they were travelling in fell into a 200-ft gorge in Pasarani ghat in Satara district on Saturday morning. The deceased woman and the two injured men are from Mumbra in Thane district. The Wai police have identified the woman as Neha Mohmmad Chaudhari (22). The injured have been identified as Mohmmad Irshad Chaudhari (36) and Siraj Hanif Shaikh (30). The Wai police said that the accident took place in the Pasarani ghat that connects Wai town with Mahabaleshar hill station in Satara district. Police said that Chaudhari couple was headed to Wai when the driver, Siraj, allegedly lost control of the car and the vehicle fell in the gorge. A group of local trekkers helped in retrieving the woman’s body and rescuing the injured from the deep gorge. The injured have been admitted to Mission Hospital in Wai for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-loses-life-2-injured-as-car-falls-in-pasarani-ghat/articleshow/78852239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Water cuts in A, B and E wards in Kolhapur city||KOLHAPUR: A, B and E wards in Kolhapur city will face water cuts on Monday and Tuesday owing to the repair work undertaken by the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) at Puikhadi water filter plant and Aptenagar substation. The water scarcity problem, especially during the festive season, has irked citizens who have demanded that the civic body should supply water at least once a day for minimum two hours. Meanwhile, civic officials have said that the supply will be hampered on Monday and there will be supply at low pressure on next day. A senior official of water supply department, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Citizens residing in these wards should not worry about water supply. We will provide tanker water to the residents within half an hour after the demand is placed. We have started additional supply to these wards so that the citizens can store water for their household use.” He said that the demand for water increases every year soon after Dasara. Wards A, B and E constitutes around 70% of city’s population with E ward housing the maximum habitants. \Already, some areas of E ward receive water at low pressure owing to leakages in supply pipelines. Besides, the suburban and fringe localities in the city are also going to face water cuts as they too are dependent on Puikhadi plant which is part of Shingnapur’s water supply scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-cuts-in-a-b-and-e-wards-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/78852237.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Agra||Hathras BJP councillor booked for rioting, thrashing a woman, gets awarded under UP’s Mission Shakti||AGRA: A BJP councillor from Hathras, Babita Verma, who was booked by the police for rioting, criminal intimidation and house trespassing after she thrashed a woman last week, was awarded with a “commendation certificate” under UP government’s Mission Shakti programme for women safety and empowerment on Friday. The certificate was handed over to the BJP councillor for her "overall contribution to the society", under the UP government programme, which intends to raise awareness among people regarding the woes of women and conducting activities to ensure their safety as well as empowering them. However, just a week back on October 16 — a purported video had gone viral on social media — showing the councillor beating a woman, Rukmani, when she opposed some men who demolished the wall of her rented house. Rukmani could be seen crying and pleading with the councillor and others not to demolish the wall. Instead of listening to her plea, Verma beat her up. District magistrate (DM) Praveen Kumar Laxkar took cognisance of the video and announced on social media that action had been taken against her and others under sections 145 and 151 of the CrPc. Ironically, he, too, was present on the dais when Babita Verma was presented the certificate. Replying to the UP Congress tweet "hooliganism by Hathras BJP councillor Babita Verma… BJP house capturing gang..", the DM Hathras said that there was a land dispute case and the FIR has been registered under various sections of IPC 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 448 (house trespass) against Verma and her husband along with three others on a complaint filed by the victim's family. Rukmani told media persons that a large number of Nagar Palika officials entered her house and demolished the wall. She said, “Despite the matter being in court, they did that without listening to anything.” Rukmani expressed dissatisfaction with the administration’s step of praising her who beat up another woman. When contacted, Verma refused to comment on the matter. While Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal said that he was not aware of the matter and will inquire about it. The state government is committed towards ensuring that every woman in the state is respected and can be self-reliant, the chief minister said in a series of recent tweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-bjp-councillor-booked-for-rioting-thrashing-a-woman-gets-awarded-under-ups-mission-shakti/articleshow/78849902.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Action will be taken against Yatnal after bypolls, says deputy CM||Dharwad: Deputy chief minister C Ashwath Narayan stated that the BJP high command will take action against Vijaypura MLA Basavaraj Yatnal for his remarks on change of chief minister after the bypolls. Speaking to media persons in Dharwad on Saturday, he said the state BJP president Naveen Kumar Kateel has already summoned Yatnal and has sought an explanation from him. No leader in the party should make such remarks, he said. He further said that change of guard is just a rumour and no such discussion has taken place at any level in the party. Referring to council polls and bypolls, Ashwath Narayan said that voters trust BJP and hence the saffron party will romp home comfortably in four council elections and two by-polls. On Congress leaders backing KPCC president as the next chief minister, the deputy chief minister said that there is factionalism in Congress and it is a divided house. Siddaramaiah claims that he will be the next chief minister and now Shivakumar's name is being heard. Until election names of many more Congress leaders will figure for the post of chief minister, he chided. On rumours about former minister Vinay Kulkarni joining the saffron party, Ashwath Narayan said that the party will welcome all those coming to the party unconditionally. However, BJP central leadership will take a final call on Vinay joining BJP, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/action-will-be-taken-against-yatnal-after-bypolls-says-deputy-cm/articleshow/78850461.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Parents urged to keep watch on teens using social media||Aurangabad: Assistant commissioner of police Dinesh Kolhe has urged parents and guardians of teenagers to be cautious about their children spending time on social media platforms. Citing a recent case in which a girl was harassed by one of her Instagram friends, Kolhe said that police had arrested a Hyderabad-based man named Mohammed Sohab Saleem for threatening the girl about leaking her photographs and chats. Kolhe said that Saleem was arrested by the cyber crime police under the provisions of the Sections 354 (A), sexual harassment and 506 (criminal intimidation) as well as under the provisions of POCSO and IT act. According to police, Saleem had befriended the teenager from the city by sending a friend request on Instagram. He had created a fake account on social media. Unaware of Saleem’s intentions, the girl accepted his friend request and sometime later shared her photos with him. Saleem then started threatening to upload her pictures online. In view of the incident, police have requested parents and guardians of children to keep an eye on their wards when they use mobile and internet. Teenagers often fall prey to such conmen on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, share chat and other platforms, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parents-urged-to-keep-watch-on-teens-using-social-media/articleshow/78852242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 600-crore data centre coming up in Greater Noida||LUCKNOW: The Hiranandani Group will be setting up UP’s first data centre in Greater Noida. The centre will come up over an area of 20 acre with an investment of Rs 600 crore. The company had approached UP Government about three weeks ago and due to the size of its investment, the proposal was fast-tracked and land allocated to it almost immediately. A government spokesperson said that the Hiranandani Group had set up similar data centres in Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad. The government has already received proposals of about Rs 10,000 crore from companies like Adani Group, RackBank and Earth Company. Sources say that there is likely to be major movement in this industry once the state’s data policy is ready, expected to be released within the next few weeks. Even as India is still a growing digital economy and has a huge potential for data generation and storage, only about 20% of the data generated within the country is stored domestically while the rest is stored in data centres located in other countries. While giving the company clearance to set up, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the data centre would open up several avenues for generating employment and give a boost to IT companies which are likely to come up around the data centre. “These data centres have a massive electricity consumption and so it has been decided to give them open access connections,” a government spokesperson said. Additional chief secretary (IT) Alok Kumar said that a bill on data was pending in parliament and with UP’s own policy under preparation, there was tremendous interest in setting up centres and parks in the country. “The department has drafted a policy on data but it is in the process of being finalised. Other than land, these projects, which have a massive power consumption, will require special arrangements for power supply, an affordable tariff, etc. All these aspects will be addressed in the policy. Once that is announced, we can expect more projects to come up, along with a host of other IT companies,” Kumar said. Data centres are a collection of servers where data, related to social media, banking, retail activity, health services, etc is stored. These are highly capital intensive projects with limited scope for direct employment but lead to huge indirect employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-600-cr-data-centre-coming-up-in-gnoida/articleshow/78852541.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gold sales to decline 50%||AHMEDABAD: While stability in gold prices coupled with the auspicious muhurat of Dussehra are expected to infuse the much-needed optimism for gold demand, yellow metal sales are expected to take a major hit this festive season. Estimates by India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA) suggest that gold sales are expected to decline at least by 50% against last year. Gold price stood at Rs 52,800 per 10 gram on Saturday. Haresh Acharya, director, IBJA, said, “Gold sales will be at least half of that last year. However, it will be mostly driven by jewellery sales  “With the government announcing 100 persons permitted in wedding occasions, people are out to make purchases,” said Manoj Soni, an Ahmedabad-based jeweller. “Pent-up demand will play a major role in driving jewellery purchases. Moreover, since it is a Sunday, people will come in to make purchases” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA). “There has been good traction in the jewellery market over the past one and a half months. The sales are expected to improve on the auspicious day of Dussehra,” said Shantibhai Patel, president, Gems and Jewellery Trade Council of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-sales-to-decline-50/articleshow/78851459.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Central unit to monitor security and affordability of pharma drugs in Goa||PANAJI: In an effort to monitor prices of pharmaceutical drugs and to ensure availability of crucial medicines, the Centre has setup a Price Monitoring and Resource Unit (PMRU) in Goa under the aegis of National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA). The PMRU will function under the direct supervision of the Goa’s drug controller, the Food and Drug Administration. Since the start of Covid-19 pandemic, NPPA has been working in close coordination with state governments to ensure seamless availability of life saving medicines including HCQ, paracetamol, vaccines, insulin and medicines required for treatment of Covid patients, including medical oxygen. Working together with the Goa government, NPPA has strived to ensure that there is no shortage of drugs throughout the country. NPPA, which reports to the Union ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, has set up PMRUs in 15 different states and union territories and now plans to set up PMRUs in all the 36 states and union territories in the country. The primary function of a PMRUs is to assist NPPA in monitoring drug prices, ensuring availability of critical drugs and raising consumer awareness. The units, which function as societies with a board of governors, act as collaborating partners of NPPA with information gathering mechanism at the grass-roots level. “They will render necessary technical assistance to both the NPPA and the respective state drug controllers,” the department of pharmaceuticals said in a statement. The board of governors of PMRU includes the representatives from central government and state government along with other stakeholders. Goa has around 75 licensed pharmaceutical manufacturing units and employs anywhere between 10,000 to 12,000 workers. The sector accounts for 11% of India’s pharma exports and estimated yearly revenues of the sector amount to approximately Rs 7,500 crores ($ 1.35 billion). Out of the 75 licensed manufacturers, Goa is host to 35-odd multinational pharma firms, including Cipla Limited, Lupin Ltd, Sanofi India, Wyeth Lederle Ltd,Merck India Pvt Ltd, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals and Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-unit-to-monitor-security-and-affordability-of-pharma-drugs-in-goa/articleshow/78852280.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Vasco vendors turn back flower sellers from Maha||VASCO: Local flower sellers at Vasco on Monday turned back around 13 flower-laden trucks belonging to vendors from Maharashtra who had come to the port town to sell marigolds for the upcoming Dussehra festival. Sources said the local flower vendors sent back the trucks claiming that they will not allow outsiders to do business in the port town. However, residents of the port town complained that the local vendors were selling flowers at exorbitant rates at the Vasco market. When buyers questioned the vendors for hiking the prices of flowers from Rs 120 per kg to Rs 200-250 per kg, the vendors shot back saying they were affected due to the pandemic and that the customers should not complain. While the buyers debated that they too were too going through hard times, at some places the flower vendors were seen threatening customers of complaining to some municipal councillors. “For almost 20 years vendors from Maharashtra have been coming down to the Vasco to do business before Dussehra, and there has never been a problem. The civic authorities should have control over the local markets,” Pradeep Gawas, a buyer, said. When contacted, Mormugao civic body’s vice-chairperson Reema Sonurlekar said, “Whatever has happened is absolutely unacceptable. If at all they wanted to hike the prices, they could have done so by Rs 20-30. I will put up this matter before the council so that this doesn’t repeat again, as very soon we will have special markets for Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-vendors-turn-back-flower-sellers-from-maha/articleshow/78851452.cms||Ruvina Khan
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Govt to prepare database of healthcare workers to be given vaccine||DEHRADUN: The health department officials are preparing a database of both private and government healthcare workers who would be provided Covid-19 vaccines. The orders in this regard were passed by secretary (health), Amit Negi on Saturday. State information officer, GC Pandey, told TOI that the database would include frontline healthcare workers — including ASHAs, ANMs and their supervisors. All nurses and healthcare staff working in basic clinics, district hospitals, and medical colleges, paramedical staffers, medical students, and research staff would be included in the database to be prepared for the Covid-19 vaccine. “Not just allopathic, but also the ayurvedic and homeopathic doctors, support staff like drivers, data entry operators and other clerical and administrative staff in the healthcare department or in any medical services provider institution will also be given Covid-19 vaccine,” said Pandey. Further, secretary (health) Amit Negi has asked the health department officials to prepare a similar database for all private doctors as well as the healthcare workers and others staffers in private hospitals, clinics and medical colleges. “Only institutions like military hospitals, AIIMS, EIC hospitals, ONGC, Survey of India department, and DRDO hospitals will not be included in the database as they are central agencies which are already covered in the Centre’s Covid-19 vaccine scheme,” added Pandey. Meanwhile, 359 fresh infections of Covid-19 were reported on Saturday, taking the case tally of the virus to 60,155 in Uttarakhand. Among the fresh infections, 90 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 63 from Haridwar, 48 from Nainital, 31 from Chamoli, 24 from Pauri, 20 from Uttarkashi, 18 cases each from Almora and Udham Singh Nagar, 13 cases each from Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag, 12 from Bageshwar, seven from Tehri, and two from Champawat. “With 451 people recovering from Covid-19 infection, the total recoveries shot up to 54,169 in the state. With this, the recovery rate crossed the 90% mark in the state,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. He added that five more fatalities on Saturday took the death toll of the virus to 984 in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-to-prepare-database-of-healthcare-workers-to-be-given-vaccine/articleshow/78849914.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 25, 2020||Rajkot||Mission ‘aadhaar’ for bovines gets momentum in Gujarat||RAJKOT: ‘Moo. I too have it!’ Can you ever dream of a cow proclaiming that she too has an aadhar card? Well, all cows and buffaloes in the state will soon have their unique identity. After initial delays, the central government is finally pushing for implementation of its much-touted animal unique identification (UID) – Pashu Aadhar – project in Gujarat. Under world’s biggest project of its kind, the centre has plans to tag every bovine in the country. The ear tags will have a bar coded UID containing information such as artificial insemination, vaccination and diseases that will help owners of the animals to avail compensation in the event of loss of their livestock. “This ear tag will help the government in detecting diseases like foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis prevalent among bovine. The government aims for complete eradication of FMD by 2025,” a release issued by the state government said, adding that the project is being carried out under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP). A total of 21 districts of Gujarat have been covered under NADCP which the centre wants to roll out in 600 districts of the country. In the first phase, 20,000 animals of Amreli district will be ear-tagged. The state animal husbandry department has appealed farmers for their co-operation in the ear tagging drive. NADCP will be rolled out in two phases. While the first phase aims to eradicate FMD and brucellosis, the second phase aims at linking the UIDs with productivity of the bovine and with focus on indigenous breeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mission-aadhaar-for-bovines-gets-momentum-in-gujarat/articleshow/78851016.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: One held for running prostitution racket||VADODARA: A Delhi resident was arrested on Saturday for allegedly running a prostitution racket in the city through WhatsApp. Two women from Sikkim whom he had forced in the flesh trade were also rescued. The accused Jeevan Bhul was nabbed after cops sent a dummy customer to trap him. Police said Bhul was arrested last year by Sayajigunj police and Gorwa police for running a similar illegal activity through WhatsApp. A dummy customer sent by cops approached Bhul through WhatsApp. The accused sent photos of the women to him. After selecting one of the women’s photo, it was decided to meet on VIP Road. On Saturday, Bhul reached there with one of the rescued women. As he was introducing the woman to the dummy customer, cops, nabbed him. “On different websites of escort services, the accused’s mobile number was mentioned. Since he had not changed his WhatsApp number after the previous arrests, we became suspicious and laid a trap to arrest him,” said a police official. Bhul was booked under The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and Information Technology Act. During primary investigation, cops learnt that while coming from Delhi, Bhul used to live at a hostel in Sayajigunj while the women he used to bring were kept at a hotel in the same area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-held-for-running-prostitution-racket/articleshow/78850115.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man threatens to publish private photos if wife doesn’t withdraw case||AHMEDABAD: A 33-year-old woman from Naranpura lodged a complaint with Naranpura police on Friday alleging that her husband threatened to publish their private photos on social media if she didn’t withdraw the case she filed in family court. Naranpura police registered an FIR under Section 506 of IPC and different sections of information and technology act. According to the FIR lodged by the complainant, who works as a sales coordinator in a private company, she had first met her husband about 12 years ago, when they were living in the same society. “They wed in October 2018 in court and both went to their respective homes thereafter,” said a police official. In December 2018, they wed again with the permission of their parents and went to live in a rented house. Soon after the wedding, her husband told her that he wants to start a business of tours and travels and needs money. “The complainant mortgaged the jewellery which her parents had given her and gave Rs 2 lakh to her husband. Thereafter, the accused also took loans in the name of his wife to buy a bus for the travel business, the FIR states,” said a police officer. In the same month, the accused told her wife that people in his community have come to know about there marriage and their community opposes marrying someone from another caste. Hence, she should stay with her parents for 15 days and after that they would settle somewhere else. Police sources said that the accused never came back and instead demanded divorce from her to marry his former wife again. The FIR states that the complainant then filed a petition in the family court and pleaded that the accused should return her money and pay the loans he had taken in her name. “This enraged the man, who sent their private photos to her and threatened that if she doesn’t withdraw the case, he will make the photos viral and defame her in the society. We are investigating the details of the FIR and gathering proof before taking action,” said a senior official of Naranpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-threatens-to-publish-private-photos-if-wife-doesnt-withdraw-case/articleshow/78851487.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMTS bus kills woman||AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old woman, Geeta Devipujak, a resident of Madhavlal Kumbhar Chawl, was crushed to death by a speeding AMTS bus at about 7.15am on Saturday near the New Cotton Mill bus stand. The bus was going from Vastral to Laldarwaja. I Division traffic police inspector J B Buval said the driver and conductor of the bus fled as a mob gathered at the accident site. “We brought the bus to the police station and the driver will be arrested soon,” said Buval. According to the FIR lodged by the deceased’s son, Mukesh Devipujak, the speeding bus hit his mother while she was going to work. She fell and was crushed under the right-side wheels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amts-bus-kills-woman/articleshow/78851505.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal lauds HCG Manavata Cancer Centre||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday inaugurated the nuclear medicine department at the HCG Manavata Cancer Centre. He said cancer patients from north Maharashtra will now no longer need to go to the bigger cities, like Mumbai or Pune, for treatment. HCG Manavata Cancer Centre’s nuclear medicine department will be the first in the region to have state-of-the-art services including two PET scan machines, a gamma camera, gallium generator and four iodine therapy wards under one roof for better services to the patients. Raj Nagarkar, MD and chief surgical oncologist of the cancer centre, said since 2013, more than 16,600 patients have taken benefit of the PET CT scan. He said even during the lockdown period, they could perform three bone marrow surgeries and 315 robotic surgeries. Sameer Chandratre, president of IMA Nashik, also expressed his views on the occasion saying that the cancer centre not only has a name of Manavata attached to it, but it has lived up to its name by showing full support to the cancer patients even during the time of the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-lauds-hcg-manavata-cancer-centre/articleshow/78852248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Ramanathapuram district inches closer to malaria-free status||RAMANATHAPURAM: Steps taken by the Ramanathapuram district administration to control mosquito breeding for the last five years has enabled the district inch closer to being declared a ‘malaria-free’ district, with only one malarial fever case having been reported till September, this year. Last year, the district reported 43 cases. Deputy director of health services, Dr K Senthil Kumar said they had been taking various preventive measures in the last five years to ensure that the Anopheles mosquito— the vector for the malarial parasite was controlled in the district, after thousands of malarial fever cases were reported at the beginning of this decade. One of their initiatives is to bring guppy fish from the Ayyankulam tank in Tiruvannamalai district and let them into all wells and tanks of the district in 3:1 ratio (one male for three females). The fish thrived, eating the mosquito larvae and eggs and the incidence of malarial fever came down in the district. These fish were also introduced in temple tanks in Rameswaram, including the 22 holy wells and those in the neighbouring temples as a preventive measure. They had brought 15,000 fish into the district initially, and now they have about 15 lakh of these fish, thriving in the tanks and also in the special tanks constructed for rearing them. District malaria control officer, P Udhayakumar, says that their role did not end with introducing the fish in the tanks and water bodies. “These fish turn cannibalistic and eat each other when the water recedes during the summer months and we have to monitor it and reintroduce the required numbers when the water level improves,” he said. As an additional measure, the health department had sought Long Lasting Insecticide Treated Nets (LLIN) to be distributed and they had received it from the central government this year. Villages where the annual parasite index is more than two for 10 years were identified and it was distributed to the locals.  Till date, they have distributed over 1.27 lakh which is about 60% of the requirement. “These nets have the ability to kill any mosquito that enters the net,” said Udhayakumar. In 2010, the district reported 2,988 cases of malaria, which came down to 292 five years ago after the introduction of the fish. In 2017, 227 cases were reported, 49 in 2018, 43 in 2019 and just one till October 1, this year. If all goes well and no cases are reported for the rest of the year, the district could bag the malaria-free district status, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramanathapuram-district-inches-closer-to-malaria-free-status/articleshow/78852249.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No queue, Fafda-Jalebi Dussehra sales to be halved||AHMEDABAD: Given the ongoing pandemic and rules to not queue up outside stores, sales of fafda-jalebi the hot favourite sweet-savoury on Dussehra is expected to decline by 50% according to industry estimates. AMC officials have decided that not just the health teams but even JET and those of Solid Waste Management Department will be out in the city to ensure that people coming to purchase wear masks and maintain social distancing. AMC has specifically instructed popular outlets to have a couple of staff members who have to be deployed to ensure that social distancing is maintained. The rules will dent sales, according to farsan and sweet shop owners. Minesh Modi, director, Vipul Dudhiya, said, “We will be making seating arrangements in a defined waiting area near our stores so that there is no crowding.” According to industry estimates, roughly 200kg fafda and 100kg jalebi are prepared and sold from each store in the city on Dussehra day alone, clocking a total revenue of Rs 25 crore in a single day. However, this time around, given social distancing norms, the same will be reduced to half. Hiren Gandhi, chairman, food committee, GCCI, said, “We have instructed all the members to make arrangements for social distancing and extend home delivery services. We have guided them for proper packaging norms to ensure freshness and hygiene of the food items being traded through our committee.” Given the lack of demand, traders have also limited their inventory because it will not be viable for them to store hot-selling items in such huge quantities if they remain unsold, given the widespread public apprehensions about the pandemic. AMC has also made it clear that shopkeepers will be responsible for maintaining social distancing and ensuring customers wear masks. AMC officials said that the owners have been informed that they should not allow crowding. The staff will have to ensure that no customer stands outside the shop and eats fafda jalebi. AMC officials said the outlets have been asked to make marks on ground to guide social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-queues-fafda-jalebi-dussehra-sales-to-be-halved/articleshow/78851539.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: No respite to stray cattle menace as commuters suffer||MADURAI: Stray cattle menace in several parts of the city is taking a toll on commuters, especially two-wheeler riders with many of them getting injured after being chased by cattle or hit by them. Residents have alleged that representations to the Madurai Corporation to curb the menace, have not seen any inroads. Commuters said the menace is more threatening at nights as it becomes difficult for them to spot the animals, due to poor visibility. Acknowledging that incidents of bikers falling off their vehicles after hitting stray cattle is a regular affair, a police officer said that most of them do not get reported unless the victim or the vehicle are affected badly. In September, a couple of accidents were reported in which a 62-year-old from Othakadai and a 26-year-old from Anaiyur suffered injuries after falling of their bikes in Melur main road and Anaiyur-Kulamangalam Road, respectively. K Thilagar, a former councillor from Sellur said, “Someone known to me died early this month after falling off from his bike, when a cow chased him in Sellur. Corporation officials should step in and take stringent measures against those who let their cattle outside.” P Vadivelmurugan, a resident of Koodalpudur said the careless attitude from owners can harm the animals too. “They let them out to bring down the cost on animal fodder. Such owners must be dealt with an iron hand,” he said. A corporation official said they have been taking action regularly against stray cattle by impounding them and levying fine on the owners. Drives are conducted periodically also whenever there is an increase in complaints. People can raise the issue on the corporation complaint number, which will be attended to immediately. He also said that cooperation from the public is needed to control the menace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-respite-to-stray-cattle-menace-as-commuters-suffer/articleshow/78852253.cms||V Devanathan
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Kolhapur district adds 34 cases||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported 34 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, inlcuding 13 from the city, the lowest ever single day cases in recent months. The daily death count, however, continues to be a cause of worry for district administration. On Saturday, eight patients succumbed to the contagion. One of the deceased was from the Shahupuri area of the city while the rest were from rural parts of the district. The total number of cases has reached 14,495 in the city and 47,742 in the district. Of the total number of coronavirus patients in the district, 1,629 have succumbed to the infection. At present, the district has 1,355 active cases with 630 patients being discharged from various facilities on Saturday. So far 44,758 patients have been discharged in district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-adds-34-cases/articleshow/78852250.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Despite USFDA nod, check Remdesivir use, say doctors||The US Food and Drug Administration’s approval to Gilead’s anti-viral drug, Remdesivir for adult and pediatric (12 years and above) Covid-19 hospitalised patients, may not lead to its rampant use as a treatment option in India. Doctors say only restricted or emergency use of Remdesivir in Indian patients should continue till more robust data emerges. As against this, Remdesivir has been granted a full regulatory go-ahead on October 22, becoming the first drug for Covid-19 to receive USFDA approval. The approval comes even as the recent World Health Organisation’s Solidarity Trials showed that the drug was ineffective in reducing mortality or duration of hospital stay. Earlier in May, Veklury or Remdesivir was authorised only for emergency use by the US regulator. Indiscriminate use of the drug in patients here in India needs to be curbed as nearly all scientific studies showed it was ineffective in reducing mortality or duration of hospital stay, doctors told TOI. It is approved for only restricted emergency use at present. “India needs scalable, affordable, and equitable treatments. The WHO Solidarity trial has generated data that is remarkably clear, independent, and robust. I do not think that we should let the US FDA drive our treatment protocols. Physicians have a moral imperative and an ethical obligation to use interventions that are proven, are known to save lives and are cost-effective,’’ Dr SP Kalantri Professor of Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram said. Experts argue about the need for earlier use of Remdesivir but, even if it brought modest benefits, the absolute numbers of lives saved are very small. “Since August, Maharashtra has issued a warning against its rampant use, and advised only a restricted use policy in moderate to severe hospitalised cases,’’ Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state’s Covid-19 task force said, adding that the drug, if used early, in the first nine days of the illness, can enhance recovery. The USFDA approval was supported by the agency’s analysis of data from three randomized, controlled clinical trials that included patients hospitalized with mild-to-severe Covid-19, it said in a statement. Approval won’t see price hike in India Prices of Remdesivir in India will not increase with the drug being granted regulatory approval in US. There was speculation that Gilead will start charging royalties from its licensee companies here in India, once the USFDA go-ahead comes. “We have negotiated long-term voluntary licenses with nine manufacturers to supply generic remdesivir to 127 low-and middle-income countries. The licenses are royalty-free until the World Health Organization declares the end of the Public Health Emergency of International Concern regarding Covid-19, or until a pharmaceutical product other than remdesivir or a vaccine is approved to treat or prevent Covid-19, whichever is earlier,” a Gilead spokesperson told TOI. At present, the price of Remdesivir ranges from Rs 2,900-5,000 per vial, with patients typically requiring about six doses. In May, it had licensed domestic companies including Cipla, Hetero, Dr Reddy’s, Jubilant Lifesciences and Zydus Cadila to manufacture and market the generic version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-usfda-nod-check-remdesivir-use-say-doctors/articleshow/78847844.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Active patients in Solapur city drop to 535||Kolhapur: With 56 more Covid-19 patients getting discharged from various facilities, the number of active cases in Solapur city has dropped to 535. The city, however, registered 28 patients and one death on Saturday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in Solapur city has reached 9,394 with 525 casualties recorded so far. Solapur rural, on the other hand, registered 125 new cases while it witnessed 192 patients getting discharged. At present, Solapur rural has 3041 active patients. Solapur rural recorded nine deaths on Saturday. Five of the deceased were senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/active-patients-in-solapur-city-drop-to-535/articleshow/78852252.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara adds 203 cases, 12 deaths||Kolhapur: Four talukas in Satara district — Patan, Khandala, Jawli and Mahabaleshwar — have registered single digit Covid-19 cases since Friday night. The district, however, registered 203 fresh cases along with 12 deaths. While Satara taluka added 45 new cases, Patan and Khandala reported five cases each. Jawli identified six cases while two patients each were found in Mahabaeshwar. With this, the total number of coronavirus cases in the district swelled to 45,070. Of these, 38, 661 have already been treated and discharged from various facilities after successful recovery. The district has reported 1,492 deaths so far while 4,917 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Of the 12 recent casualties, ten were senior citizens. Satara taluka reported six deaths while Koregaon and Phatlan witnessed two casualties. Wai and Patan, on the other hand, reported one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-adds-203-cases-12-deaths/articleshow/78852254.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mysuru||Actor Dhanveer, 5 aides booked for riding on elephant||MYSURU: Kannada actor Dhanveer Gowda, who on Friday was accused of going on a night safari at Bandipur Tiger Reserve, has been booked along with five others for another offence — for riding on a camp elephant almost a month ago. While he was declared not guilty in the safari controversy, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve (NTR) foresters on Saturday said they have booked a case against the actor and five others under Wildlife Protection Act (1972) for riding on camp elephant Mahendra on September 25. Dhanveer and five of his associates are said to have visited Mathigodu elephant camp coming under Anechowkuru forest range. NTR director D Mahesh Kumar said summons has been issued to them and an inquiry will be conducted. The director said that a video clip, that went viral on social media on October 23, showed Dhanveer and his associates riding on the camp elephant. Mahesh said they sourced the addresses of the associates through the video clip. A case has been booked against actor Dhanveer, his associates Vishwas Aiyar, Darshan, and three others for illegally entering the elephant camp in Nalkeri reserve forest area. The forester has also served a notice to the staff who was in charge of the camp, and directed action if found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/actor-dhanveer-5-aides-booked-for-riding-on-elephant/articleshow/78850676.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||PMRDA master plan to be ready by March next year||PUNE: The development plan for the 6,000sqkm Pune Metropolitan Region would be ready only by February/March next year, PMRDA officials said. The concept plan was prepared by Surbana Jurong — a Singapore agency — and submitted earlier this year, but a detailed plan was delayed by the pandemic, officials said. The development plan — being prepared under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act — will map out development for the entire region for the next 20 years, including hill stations Lavasa and Aamby valley, PMRDA officials said. “All the hill stations and townships that come under our jurisdiction be covered in the DP; the concept has already been received by the Singapore agency. We will study it and prepare a detailed plan by the start of next year,” an official close to the development said. The plan covers residential areas for a projected population of two crore, a logistics park and container depots, water supply and solid waste management and connectivity to Purandar airport. The plan is aimed at boosting tourism and generating employment through new growth centres. A joint working group comprising representatives of both the governments was set up to prepare the DP in January, PMRDA officials said. The DP would be in effect for the next 20 years, the PMRDA officials added. The previous BJP-led government had entered into the agreement with the Singapore government to nominate one of their prominent entities to prepare and draft a concept and detailed land-use plan for key growth centres in the region. The plan also includes demonstrative centres, which are intended to serve as models for the future development of similar centres across the state. The joint working group would ensure that the projects enlisted are implemented in a time-bound manner, officials said. Surbana Jurong had also executed planning for Amaravati, the legislative capital of Andhra Pradesh, and is the largest Asia-based global urban, industrial and infrastructure consulting agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrda-master-plan-to-be-ready-by-march-next-year/articleshow/78851537.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 25, 2020||Pune||Longer business hours for bars, eateries to help revive nightlife in Pune||PUNE: The nightlife is set to revive in the city, though partially, after over seven months with the eateries, bars and lounges getting the permit to operate till 11.30pm from Sunday. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s notification on Saturday on extending the business hours of these establishments would be a major push to resuscitate the buzz well after the dusk. Several working professionals and businessmen, who remain busy till 8-9 pm, would lap up the opportunity to step out after work. City-based working professional Shaheen Ghasia said, “The extension in business hours of eateries and bars will provide a boost to the city’s nightlife, which had come to a standstill because of the lockdown, and the subsequent time restrictions in the unlock phases. People will now be able to have food and beverages away from home longer. Hopefully, the time limit will be extended further in the coming days so that we can return to the pre-Covid normal.” Ghasia said the time relaxation would draw more patrons to restaurants and bars. “Many preferred to stay home or have a house party because restaurants had to close early. Now, more people will start heading out,” she added. Sources in Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) claimed that the restaurants were operating at 50% losses with the 10pm deadline. The extension in the deadline would help plug it, they stressed. It would also ensure more time for tipplers to order drinks and chill out a bit longer at their favourite joints, they added. Ganesh Shetty, president, PRAHA, said, “The takeaways/parcels constitute only a small percentage of the business. Also dine-in operation limited till 10pm had discouraged customers from walking into restaurants. The 10pm deadline was not helping the restaurant industry to revive. We had, thus, requested the authorities to allow us to keep our dine-in facilities open till 11.30pm, as we feared many of our members would have lost their livelihood because of low recoveries due to the 10pm deadline. We brought to their notice that Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation and Thane Municipal Corporation had permitted restaurant dine-in operations till 11.30pm.” Shetty thanked the authorities for supporting the hospitality industry in Pune and giving extension in restaurants’ operation timing till 11.30pm. “This is a boon for our industry and will help us recover from the losses incurred during the lockdown,” added Shetty. Preet Singh Ahluwalia, owner, Nawab Asia, Balewadi High Street, told TOI, “The 10pm deadline was too early to shut, compelling restaurants to not take in guests after 9pm. We were not even covering our costs with that deadline. With the extension till 11.30pm, we hope to see a 15% increase in sales. Also, the 10pm deadline caused restaurants to take the last order at 9.15pm — a big downer for guests who wanted to order more than one drink. With the closing deadline extended now, guests will have more time to sit and enjoy their meal and drinks.” Prasanna Parmar, a trader, said, “Extending the timing for restaurants and bars is a good decision as many people were unable to dine out because of the restricted timing. I could eat out only on Sundays as I have work throughout the week. We would earlier close the shop at 7pm, but we had back-end work and would be able to wrap up for the day only by 8.30-9pm. As restaurants used to shut at 10pm, my family and I hardly had the chance to go out to eat. This extension will definitely help families and working professionals, who enjoy dining out, but were unable to do so because of the time restrictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/longer-business-hours-for-bars-eateries-to-help-revive-nightlife/articleshow/78852256.cms||Neha Madaan
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Forest department gives new lease of life to mangroves in Ramanathapuram||RAMANATHAPURAM: The Forest Department in Ramanathapuram has successfully created 100 acres of mangroves and also rejuvenated another 100 acres that had become barren spending Rs 10 lakh. The authorities are also creating awareness among local people about the need to protect the natural wonder. Mangroves are very important in maintaining the ecological balance and the sea wealth. The forest department under the guidance of Ramanathapuram Wild Life Warden A S Marimuthu had decided to rejuvenate mangroves on 100 acres, and create another forest on 100 acres in a novel attempt. Ramanathapuram forest range officer S Satish told TOI that while the mangroves in Pitchavaram and Muthupettai, were better known, Ramanathapuram also has more than 1,000 hectares of mangroves. But, large areas had turned barren as the salt content went beyond 40 ppt in the region, resulting in the mangroves dying. “We found that there had been eight different species of mangroves in the region, but the predominantly two existing species are Avicennia marina and Avicennia officinalis. Other varieties had been destroyed due to the high salt content, and we decided to rejuvenate and create new forests,” he said. The rejuvenation of mangroves was taken up in Uppur and new forests have been created in another 100 acres in Karankadu, Gandhi Nagar and Kadalur. Satish said that they had used the modified Fishbone Channel technique for developing the forests and this helped ensuring better salinity levels, and also proper water current for the forest to thrive. The planting process was started in December last year and the trees have grown now, and showing a survival rate of 95%. They had decided to go with the two surviving species initially, but have also brought seeds of Rhizophora apiculata from the islands in Gulf of Mannar Marine National Park and planted them on 35 acres in Karankadu, where they have seen a 95% survival rate. “We are not in favour of promoting monoculture, but want to see how they survive and that has given good results, and next year we plan to try and replant Ceriops tagal and Excoecaria in the area, he said. Shrimp farms that let their untreated effluents into the sea, and firewood collection are the major threats to mangroves, and now the department is creating awareness about the importance of protecting the forests, which could protect people from natural disasters like tsunamis. Mangrove protection committees have been created at village levels. The rejuvenated forests have now started attracting migratory birds, the feces of which is a rich source of nutrients for sea life. Crab and fish spawning is increased near the forests and the biodiversity is protected. In Karankadu, the mangroves have helped develop ecotourism, enhancing the livelihood of the local people, especially women. Jerald Mary of Karankadu is one of them, who is an expert in digging out crabs from the mangroves with her hands and selling them. “A good crab catcher earns between Rs 300 to Rs 500 per day,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/forest-dept-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-mangroves-in-ramanathapuram/articleshow/78852257.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||No post-mortem in 57% unnatural deaths due to Covid norms: RTI||NAGPUR: An RTI reply has revealed that post-mortem was not conducted in 57% cases of unnatural deaths in the city between March and August due to Covid-19 guidelines. The police department, in an RTI reply, has stated that 1,522 unnatural deaths, including 295 suicides, had taken place between March and August this year. But post-mortem was done only in 650 cases, as per the RTI reply. It is learnt, post-mortems were avoided in cases where police department ruled out any foul play taking into account circumstances leading to the death and statements of the relatives. The Covid guidelines to treat unnatural deaths as ‘accidental’ increased their number by 101 between March and August, as per the RTI reply. This means there were 1,522 accidental deaths between March and August this year as compared to 1,421 registered in the corresponding period in 2019. The reply also revealed that 1,843 cases of unnatural deaths were registered between January and August this year and post-mortem was done in 976 cases only due to Covid guidelines. Post-mortem was essentially avoided in cases of unnatural deaths in which the victims were found to be Covid positive but exceptions were made in cases of murders, few suspected deaths, including suicide. “Post-mortem was done for murder victims and in some suspected cases despite Covid positive status as such matters are considered sensitive. So, no chances were taken by avoiding the process. Several forensic experts and their colleagues also subsequently tested positive,” said a forensic department source from a government hospital. “We wore PPE kits, N95 masks and used to frequently sterilize our tools with sodium hypochlorite. The entire premises used to be sanitized, yet many got infected,” he said. According to a forensic expert, the first guidelines regarding Covid were issued by the Indian council of medical research (ICMR) following which the director of the state health department too had issued similar advisories on similar grounds asking to ‘avoid’ post-mortem where it was feasible. “In many cases post-mortem is just a formality even when the cause of death is apparent and clear like in burn cases taking treatment for several days at the same hospital and so on. Police department mainly insists on post-mortem to avoid allegations,” said a forensic expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-post-mortem-in-57-unnatural-deaths-due-to-covid-norms-rti/articleshow/78850683.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 25, 2020||Agra||Miscreants barge into class XI girl’s house at midnight, shoot her dead for resisting sexual harassment||AGRA: A 16-year-old Dalit girl was shot dead by three miscreants at her home in Firozabad district late on Friday for resisting an attempt of sexual harassment. The victim’s mother said that the accused used to harass the girl, a class XI student, while on her way to and from the school. She added that the girl had recently got into an argument with the youths over their abusive language after which they decided to take revenge. Meanwhile, police claim to have arrested one of the accused and one of his associates on Saturday. The victim’s father who runs a shop said that the men barged into his house in Prem Nagar locality at midnight and shot the girl while she was in her room. “Some people came to my house On Friday and shot my daughter in the head. Manish Yadav, Shaupali Yadav and Gaurav Chak killed my daughter. My daughter was a Class 11 student. These people used vulgar words for her when she was coming home from school. My daughter responded and opposed the harassment,” he said. He further added that his daughter was killed for resisting an attempt of sexual harassment. Senior superintendent of police Sachindra Patel said four teams have been formed to arrest the accused. “We reached the spot after receiving information about the murder. The father of the deceased had given the names of three people, accusing them of entering the house and killing the girl. One of the accused Manish Yadav and his associate Nitin Savita have been arrested. They are being questioned about the crime.” Additional superintendent of police Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Shaupali Yadav and Gaurav Chak, the two accused absconding, are neighbours of the deceased girl. We will be arresting them very soon. There are contradictions in the statements of her family members and neighbours. It will take time to reach a conclusion about the reasons behind the murder.” Deputy superintendent of police (city) Hari Mohan Singh said, “On the basis of the father’s complaint, a case has been registered against three main accused and few others under IPC’s section 302 (punishment for murder), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with a deadly weapon), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and the SC/ST Act. The matter is being investigated in detail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/miscreants-barge-into-class-xi-girls-house-at-midnight-shoot-her-dead-for-resisting-sexual-harassment/articleshow/78849994.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 25, 2020||Mysuru||128 isolation coaches idling in Mysuru division will be used to transport freight||MYSURU: As many as 128 isolation coaches, which the South Western Railway (SWR) got ready to treat Covid-19 patients soon after the pandemic struck, are lying unused at eight stations across the Mysuru division. Besides those in Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hassan, Arasikere, Nanjangud, Birur, and Chamarajanagar stations, 11 coaches are idling at Ashokapuram station alone. The officials have now decided to convert them as New Modified Goods (NMG) rakes to transport freight. Of the 128 coaches, 32 were modified at the station workshop, while the others at Ashokapuram railway workshop. The Railways had spent about Rs 35,000 on each isolation coach so it provides basic amnesties required to treat infected patients. According to sources, the initiative was taken when there was no provision for home isolation of Covid-19 patients. To ensure that there won’t be shortage of institutional isolation centres, coaches which were 18 years old were converted into isolation coaches. But these coaches remained unutilised as asymptomatic and mild-to-moderate patients were allowed for home-isolation. “Life of a coach is 25 years. Now, we are planning to convert them into NMG rakes for transporting goods,” said Shantibabu, senior divisional mechanical engineer (Mysuru). Sources said only non-AC coaches were converted into isolation coaches by removing the middle berth. Washroom, dustbin, window mesh, etc, were provided in these isolation coaches so as to treat 7-8 patients. Special arrangements had been made for medical and para-medical staff and emergency treatment. “The state government didn’t show any interest in utilising these coaches. It was not an easy task to arrange medical and para-medical staff for isolation coaches. But still, these coaches will not go waste as they will now be used for goods transport,” the authorities explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/128-isolation-coaches-idling-in-mys-div-will-be-used-to-transport-freight/articleshow/78850686.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 25, 2020||Pune||State directed to address Lavasa residents’ grievances||Pune: The Central Public Grievance Portal (CPGRAMS) has directed the state government to address the grievances of Lavasa residents.In a reply to a complaint filed by Lavasa resident Suresh Goswami, under the apex association of Lavasa property owners, the centre has said that ‘land and colonization’ being state subjects should be addressed by the state government. Residents of the Lavasa hill station project had launched an online petition addressed to PM Narendra Modi to save the city facing infrastructure issues and liquidation last year. The residents filed a complaint with the central government’s public grievance department this year.The department of administrative reforms and public grievances replied to the complaint filed by Goswami on October 14. The CPGRAMS in its reply has directed the state government to address the issue terming it a state subject.Goswami had written to the housing and urban affairs ministry and the prime minister’s office last year and, having received no response, he approached CPGRAMS. “The state government’s housing ministry will now have to address our issues,” he said.Lavasa residents are having a difficult time with the management of the private hill station under the Resolution Personnel (RP) appointed by National Company Law Tribunal for the last two years.Association members are demanding that the state government take over the control and administration of the place. “We are neglected of our basic rights, whether it is motorable roads, reliable utilities, security, uncollected garbage are just basic issues,” apex body members stated in the letter. While maintenance charges are regularly paid by most residents, there is no news of unfinished buildings. “While around 1,300 home owners were given possession, all of them have grave warranty defects, such as heavy seepage and cracks. Of these, 300 owners are senior citizens,” stated the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-directed-to-address-lavasa-residents-grievances/articleshow/78851540.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Govt hosps record 3.8 times Covid deaths than private ones||NAGPUR: Government-run Covid hospitals have registered 3.8 times the number of deaths than that of private hospitals. The fatality rate is also 3.7 times more. As per data available from the district civil surgeon, there were 3,027 Covid-19 fatalities in the district as on Friday. One positive patient had died in Covid Care Centre (CCC). Remaining 3,026 deaths were registered in either government or private hospitals. There are eight government Covid hospitals — GMCH, IGGMCH which is run by state, AIIMS and Military Hospital at Kamptee run by centre and four by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Out of the 2,406 deaths in government hospitals, GMCH registered 1,277, IGGMCH 1,117 and AIIMS 12. This is 79.49% of total fatalities. Hospitals run by NMC and Military did not register any death. Covid-19 treatment is going on in 75 private hospitals. There were 620 deaths in these establishments — 20.48% of total fatalities. The IGGMCH was the first to start admission and treatment of positive patients of corona from March 11. It was followed by GMCH and AIIMS. The first of NMC’s hospitals started in late August and the other three in September and October. The government-run eight hospitals recorded 13,571 patients of which 6,248 were in GMCH, 5,931 in IGGMCH, 613 in AIIMS, 484 in NMC hospitals and 295 in Military Hospital. With 2,406 deaths, fatality rate of these hospitals comes to 17.73%. 75 private hospitals had registered admission of 13,245 positive patients which is slightly less than the number in eight government-run hospitals. The hospitals started to get permission from first week of August and many started services from mid September. With 620 deaths, the fatality rate in private hospitals is very low at 4.68%. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande and IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande told TOI that there cannot be any comparison between government and private hospitals as far as deaths is concerned. “We registered many brought dead which private hospitals will not do. We also accepted home deaths and tested for Covid-19. Tests of few unnatural deaths also came positive,” they said. Government hospitals are supposed to “admit and treat” all types of patients, “private hospitals took selective patients”. “Almost all patients in critical conditions were admitted in our hospitals. Cases from rural and other districts were also referred here in critical stages. Besides, private hospitals referred many patients in last stage to our hospitals,” they said. Dr Gawande and Dr Pande added that IGGMCH and GMCH also admitted and treated the highest patients than any other hospitals. Consultant physician and intensivist from private hospitals Dr Nikhil Balankhe too says there can be no comparisons. “Treatment for Covid-19 was similar in all hospitals. The number of deaths could have been less than that registered in the district had patients tested and reported in early stages,” he said. Overall 26,816 positive patients were admitted and treated in hospitals of which 3,026 died. Thus, fatality rate in hospitalization cases is 11.28%. The case fatality rate of the district was 3.25% (3,027 deaths against 93,055 positive cases) as on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-hosps-record-3-8-times-covid-deaths-than-private-ones/articleshow/78851542.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Africa in your living room||Chennai: Deepa Narayanan always dreamed of going to Paris. But with two kids, a full-time job and elderly parents to care for, she never found the time or money. In the past two months though, the 35-year-old IT professional has been to the city of love as well as explored Greece and gone on a safari in South Africa — all from the comfort of her couch in her home in Anna Nagar."I get an insider’s view of the places, plenty of travel tips, and will know exactly what I want to do there once I actually get to travel. And most important, it’s free," says Deepa.The travel and tourism industry has been hugely impacted by the pandemic. And with people still hesitating to fly to international destinations, companies are trying to engage through virtual tours. Stunning views, a local tour guide and interesting insights have been packaged to woo back the Indian tourist.Munyaradzi Pakamisa, 36, who has been a professional safari guide in Zimbabwe for the last 10 years, decided to take a route less travelled once the pandemic hit and began doing virtual tours."I realised the impact the pandemic had on people who would have loved to travel to scenic Zimbabwe and elsewhere around the globe. I felt that the only way to bring them closer to their destinations was to give them the feeling of being virtually present there," says Pakamisa, who is also a photographer. "And once the world gets back to normal, people can travel with their destinations knowing exactly what to expect."Pakamisa, who has done virtual tours of Hwange National Park and taken tourists on safaris, uses Zoom to reach out to the audience. "I do the guests’ orientation, using videos to show it happens in reality," he says. A mix of slides and videos gives a feel of the safari, and of connecting with the wildlife and plants, and experiencing the sundowners, and bush lunches, while discussing the local culture and people.."My virtual tours are free but tips are always appreciated," says Pakamisa.Tourism Australia too has launched a series of immersive videos — www.australia.com/8Descapes — that use the innovative 8D audio technology to take viewers on a sensory journey of Australia’s unique sights, sounds and textures.Each video is themed by a colour — blue, red, magenta, green, black and white — while the 8D audio ensures a surround sound effect when the viewer puts on headphones. "The colours play a massive role in this virtual journey because of the varied feelings and emotions that they evoke among us," says Nishant Kashikar, country manager (India & Gulf), Tourism Australia, adding that the video can be enjoyed on Australia.com and YouTube. "Virtual tourism has seen considerable growth on account of the restrictions on international travel," says Kashikar, adding that prior to the border closures, India was Australia’s fastest growing tourism market and has been so for the last three years.The 8D videos have been produced primarily with the aim of providing inspiration to keep Australia on top of the mind for a holiday. "For the year ended December 2019, Indian visitors spent around `9,000 crore on their Australian trips, an increase of 9% over the previous year," he says.Their instincts telling them that the demand for domestic travel, especially outdoor travel, will increase, Paras Savla and Jinay Parekh launched Virya Wildlife Tours two months ago. The two began their road trip 45 days ago, recording their journey on social media, and giving followers a virtual taste of what they can expect, whether it’s the wildlife or places to stay."So far, we have covered national parks in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and are on our way to Madhya Pradesh. People can follow us and see exactly what they can do in these places, and we hope it will encourage them," says Paras, adding that they are also partnering hotels and local tour guides. "Tourism has taken a big hit but we believe we have spotted an opportunity," says Paras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/africa-in-your-living-room/articleshow/78849989.cms||Priya Menon
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-employee dupes tour operator of Rs 18 lakh||NAGPUR: Shilendra Sahare, who worked as an assistant senior executive with an international tour operator, allegedly duped his employer of Rs18 lakh by siphoning off the amount for his own use. Sahare, during his stint with the tour operator, dealt with several clients of the company for whom he booked several packages between August 2018 and October last year. The company had sacked Sahare after his fraud came to fore. Sahare also furnished in writing in a notorized document about his embezzling of the fund. Subsequently, Sahare gave five cheques to his company as compensation but they all bounced. An offence of criminal breach of trust was registered by Ambazari police against Sahare following a complaint from his former employer Manoj Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-employee-dupes-tour-operator-of-rs18-lakh/articleshow/78850687.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Feel like criminal for doing my job: College professor||PANAJI: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has made a representation to V M Salgaocar College of Law, complaining that an assistant professor “is promoting socially hateful thoughts about a particular religion” during her online lectures. While the college has given the teacher, Shilpa Singh, a week’s time to respond to the complaint, Singh told TOI she feels harassed and intimidated. The AVBP – a student wing affiliated to the RSS – has asked the college to terminate the services of the assistant professor and has threatened to file a police complaint against her. “As of now we are waiting as the college has told us it is investigating the matter. We have evidence in the form of recorded clips. During her lectures, she says many anti-religious things, and, when I say anti-religious, it should not be taken as anti-Hindu. What she said was not relevant to the lectures,” said Konkan state joint secretary for ABVP, Prabha Naik, who has made the representation to the college. Singh, 31, called the complaint vague and that just for doing her duty of delivering a lecture, she has “turned from a serious academic to a criminal overnight”. “I have been taking online lectures since the last one-and-a-half months in political theory for first year students at the college. Students are given sufficient room to express their views. All of them have been given my personal number to raise any difficulties. But not one student told me they have an objection or asked for a clarification. I was shocked to read the letter and its language,” Singh said. She stated she is being targeted for reasons not related to her work, but because of the views she shares on social media platforms. “In 2018 too, I was trolled by right-wingers for one of my social media posts. The complaint now has only been made to tarnish my academic credentials,” said Singh. At present, political science teachers from Pune have started an online petition to garner support for Singh, while academics of the subject from Goa have already submitted a resolution to V M Salgaocar College of Law supporting her. “I have been told that some references I made to Rohith Vemula and Manusmriti in a particular context are being objected to. The letter, however, does not mention such things. I have not spoken anything out of context from what I am supposed to be teaching. I have started recording my lectures from Monday as evidence of my teaching methods,” said Singh. In the meantime, the college said if the lectures conducted via Google Meet have been recorded by a student, it is violation of the college’s code of conduct and will invite action against the student. “During the orientation on online classes, students have been told they cannot record lectures. If a lecture has been recorded, it is a violation of the code of conduct. Just as a physical lecture cannot be recorded, the same applies to online ones,” said senior professor from V M Salgaocar College of Law, M R K Prasad. “We have forwarded a copy of the complaint to the professor and asked her to respond. We have given her a week’s time. In the complaint, no concrete evidence has been provided and so we will ask the complainants to provide the evidence they have with them. We have to hear both sides. Once we receive the evidence, we will also have to verify it as to where and in what context the statements have been made,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/feel-like-criminal-for-doing-my-job-college-professor/articleshow/78851545.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Use lull in cases to gauge herd immunity, say experts||PUNE: The administration should immediately use the lull in new Covid-19 cases to launch sero surveys to determine herd-immunity levels in the region, experts have now said. These experts, including veteran epidemiologists, said the sustained drop in Pune’s positivity rate, despite easing of restrictions, suggests something very important is at play. “We lifted the lockdown, but cases continue to dip. This is a strong indication that we are approaching some level of herd immunity,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. Disease experts said a sero survey now would be a very good idea. “This is the right time for Pune because there are fewer new cases,” said senior microbiologist and virologist Suvarna Joshi. “But the survey, to arrive at any insightful conclusion on herd-immunity levels, needs to analyse a statistically significant portion of the population,” she said. Joshi added that a community generally achieves herd immunity when 40% to 50% of the population surveyed has virus-specific antibodies in the blood. Indian cities — mainly due to extremely congested living and working conditions — have had higher prevalence of antibodies in their populations than many regions in the West. “In fact, lockdowns led to increased crowding within our densely populated slum areas and middle-class homes. This led to efficient transmission indoors,” Banerjee said. Results from Pune’s first sero survey, released in August, showed seropositivity rates nearing 60% in some pockets with an overall 50% positivity. But that survey was limited to just 1,644 citizens across five high-incidence zones of the city. “It was not at all representative of its population. Data could not be extrapolated for the whole of Pune Municipal Corporation limits,” Banerjee said. A much larger survey, with a sample size of 5,000 people, recently concluded within Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. This survey, experts said, could provide a bigger and more detailed assessment on the extent of Covid-19’s overall spread in the region. The population sample for the PCMC survey covers residents of slums, tenements and large housing societies. Zones with high, medium and low transmission levels have also been included in the study. “Results from this survey will give us an idea of infection spread, fatality rates and help us determine if we really are vulnerable to a second wave. The data is being cleaned and tabulated before analysis,” said Banerjee, who heads the community medicine department of D Y Patil Medical College and hospital, Pimpri. The department is spearheading the PCMC serosurvey. Serological studies are massive health programmes that estimate antibody levels against infectious diseases within a community. Essentially, these programmes trace the spread of a mass infection event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/use-dip-in-cases-to-check-for-herd-immunity-levels-experts/articleshow/78852266.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Drive to enrol kids, who missed out in June, in school on Vijayadashami||MADURAI: The school education department has directed government primary schools and anganwadi workers in Madurai district to conduct door-to-door survey in villages and create awareness to ensure that children above five years, who had missed out joining school in June, are enrolled on the auspicious occasion of ‘Vijayadashami’ on Monday. Government school teachers said that though admissions have been already been completed, it is an opportunity for those who may have missed out. “We are not expecting too many admissions as we have already had a spike in admissions this year as many parents were preferring government schools over private and there was more time for admissions. But, we expect those who are sentimental to enrol for admission on Vijayadashami day,” said a teacher at a government primary school. Parents can get their child aged above five years admitted by visiting the schools on Monday. All children will be provided free textbooks the same day. Covid-19 safety precautions like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, hand washing etc., are to be followed. Some government-aided and private schools have separate admissions for Vijayadashami as parents consider it auspicious to begin schooling. “We always expect a good number of admissions for Vijayadashami. We had a recent interaction with parents encouraging them to get children admitted to school on Vijayadashami day,” said K Saravanan, headmaster, Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drive-to-enrol-kids-who-missed-out-in-june-in-school-on-vijayadashami/articleshow/78852263.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||New device to remove arsenic from water||PUNE: Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune, have developed a low-cost hybrid material, akin to a sponge, that can effectively remove arsenic from water, thereby making it potable. The research paper, titled, ‘Nanotrap Grafted Anion Exchangeable Hybrid Materials for Efficient Removal of Toxic Oxoanions from Water’, authored by Samraj Mollick, Sahel Fajal, Satyam Saurabh, Debanjan Mahato, and Sujit K Ghosh, was published in the ACS Central Science, a journal of American Chemical Society, in August. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the states of West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Chhattisgarh in India are most affected by arsenic contamination of groundwater above the WHO-set permissible level. The groundwater in these areas has arsenic content above the standard of 10 parts per billion (ppb), as per the WHO report. Samraj Mollick (28), the first author of the paper who hails from West Bengal, said, “Since a vast majority of the Indian population are still dependent on untreated groundwater, it was important to find a simple, low-cost means of water purification.” The team tested the material’s efficacy on drinking water samples procured from two locations of West Bengal’s Malda district — English Bazar and Kaliachak-II — both reported to have high arsenic contamination in the drinking water. “During our laboratory tests, when we passed 250 ml of water containing more than 50 parts per million (ppm) arsenic content through a 20mg hybrid material, the resultant water had somewhere between 3-5 ppb arsenic content,” said Mollick, who will be soon moving to University of Oxford for his post-doctoral studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-device-to-remove-arsenic-from-water/articleshow/78851563.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 25, 2020||Surat||Surat: Forest team rescuing ‘man-eater’ leopard attacked||SURAT: On Friday, a mob of at least 1,500 people under the leadership of about 15 villagers attacked a team of forest officials that had gone to shift a caged leopard from Madharkui village of Surat district. The team could leave the spot only after the forest officer fired five rounds in the air from his firearm. Mandvi police booked one Girish Chaudhary and at least 1,500 others on Friday for allegedly attacking the forest team and rioting. Cops claimed that the Madharkui villagers wanted to kill the suspected man-eater leopard which killed a four-year-old girl earlier this month and injured an elderly woman in nearby Kolsana village. Based on a complaint lodged by U D Raulji, range forest officer, of south Mandvi, altogether 15 persons who took leadership in the fracas were named in the FIR. Forest department will register a separate complaint for violation of Wildlife Act, while the villagers will be booked for attempting to kill a wild animal and torturing it, a forest official said. Meanwhile, forest officials claimed that the pugmarks of the rescued wild cat matched with those of the leopard involved in the recent attacks in the area. The pugmarks were of a female leopard of around 3 years of age which matched the caged leopard’s details. After the killing of four-year-old Aarohi Gamit on October 15, the wild cat attacked an elderly woman on October 19 in Kolsana village. After this, forest department placed around 15 cages in the area to rescue the leopard which was caged on Thursday evening. The villagers informed the forest department as well as gathered at the spot till they arrived to take it in a truck. However, irate villagers tried to pull down the cage multiple times demanding to kill the leopard. When the forest team resisted their attempts they started hitting the cage with sticks to kill the leopard and also pelted stones on it. In a bid to set it afire, villagers also placed wood and grass around the cage with the leopard in it. "The restless crowd wanted to kill the leopard. They also led a violent attack on the forest team and all our staff members suffered injuries," said Raulji. “Villagers continued rioting for over three hours and due to timely move by our officer they could save the animal. It is the same animal that attacked two people," said Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/forest-team-rescuing-man-eater-leopard-attacked/articleshow/78850235.cms||Gaurang Joshi
October 25, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: New hill station project plan moves slowly||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is yet to receive a plan for the Maharashtra Valley View Hill Station Project, cleared by the state government in 2018. The proposed hill station was to be developed in Mulshi across 2,623 hectare area. PMRDA officials said that while they have received no proposal yet, they have managed to get environmental and other clearances. The development authority is yet to submit the plan and the pandemic has caused further delay. “The market condition too is not very favourable,” a PMRDA spokesperson added. He said that all seven villages have agreed to the project. “Nearly 88% project area will remain open and various planned steps will contribute not only to preserve but enhance the bio-diversity in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-hill-stn-project-plan-moves-slowly/articleshow/78851544.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 25, 2020||Pune||PCB to start 20-bed OPD for non-Covid patients||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to roll out a 20-bed outpatient department (OPD) for non-Covid patients under its limits. The board will set up the facility at Bhimpura, a densely populated area, which has recorded many Covid-19 cases in the last few months. The health committee of the board, headed by the deputy commandant of the Southern Command Hospital, sanctioned the proposal at a recent meeting. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, PCB, told TOI, “We have decided to convert Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar cultural centre into an OPD. The facility is unutilised. The OPD will have 10 beds each for men and women.” The decision was taken in view of the inconvenience faced by non-Covid patients. A team of doctors from the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel General Hospital cantonment inspected the facility recently. “We will have to construct proper toilets with attached bathrooms. A proper nursing room and other facilities are also needed before commissioning of the OPD,” said VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer, cantonment hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-start-20-bed-opd-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78852261.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 25, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: As rain brings dengue threat, doctors call for heightened vigil||MADURAI: With intermittent rain lashing the district during the last few weeks, district health officials are taking measures to prevent spread of both dengue and Covid-19. Doctors and experts stressed that following preventive measures is the best way to prevent an outbreak. “No successful vaccine has been found for dengue so far even after decades. Even in case of the vaccines for which clinical trials were carried, there was less than 10% success rate. The disease, from affecting around 25 countries, is now is prevalent in more than 140 countries. The only way to tackle dengue is by carrying out preventive activities. Similarly, for Covid-19, until a vaccine is out, onus is on prevention,” said Dr T Mariappan, an expert on vector-borne diseases and former scientist at Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) – Vector Control Research Centre (VCRC). He stressed that despite efforts of the government, it is essential for the public to cooperate and protect themselves at individual levels to prevent an outbreak. “The most important preventive measure for dengue is removing any source of mosquito breeding like open water barrels, uncovered water pots and improperly stored rubber tyres Removing them is a domestic task,” he added. A senior health official meanwhile said that incidences of dengue in Madurai and across Tamil Nadu hav been considerably less this year. “Studies have been carried out in countries like Brazil by correlating prevalence of dengue and Covid-19, which indicated cross-protection in patients. However, in India, there is yet to be significant research done,” said the official. Health officials also said that, so far, among the dengue cases reported in Madurai no patient has tested positive for Covid-19. In some parts of north India, there have been cases of both dengue and Covid-19 infections being reported. In such cases, the chances for mortality is extremely high since only supportive treatment is available for both diseases. “When someone has fever with thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), they must be tested for dengue. Treatment will be difficult in a patient with both dengue and Covid-19. While oxygen and steroids are given for Covid-19; for dengue, fluids and blood products need to be given,” said Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, IMA Madurai chapter president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/as-rain-brings-dengue-threat-docs-call-for-heightened-vigil/articleshow/78852279.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: T1 expansion delayed by a year as Covid-19 hits air traffic badly||NEW DELHI: With Covid severely crippling air traffic, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) has slowed down the ongoing expansion work at terminal 1 (T1). The June 2022 completion date has been deferred by a year. However, other infra augmentation work, such as the fourth runway and the elevated cross taxiway, are proceeding as per schedule and will be completed by next year. Comments from Delhi International Airport Ltd were awaited till the time of going to press. IGIA was operating only T3 for all domestic and international flights till September-end. T2 was put into use only from October 1 for handling some domestic flights of IndiGo and GoAir. “Given the revised traffic projections during the pandemic, the existing capacity of T1 (which is used for domestic flights only) is going to be sufficient till FY 2022-23. So the ongoing expansion work to double T1’s existing annual 2 crore passenger handling capacity to 4 crore has been slowed and now, completion is targeted for June 2023. Work on T1 has not been stopped, it has only been slowed down,” said sources. IGIA has projected a precipitous 73% fall in traffic this financial year with an expected total (domestic plus international) passenger number of 1.8 crore — down from 6.7 crore in the April 2019-March 2020 period. DIAL now estimates post-Covid recovery in air travel only by financial year 2023-24 when it expects 7.3 crore flyers.  DIAL’s plan for T1 includes expanding the departures and arrival buildings with a new architectural facade on the city side, and the integration with the existing terminal. The terminal area will then increase to over 1.9 lakh square metres. The number of entry gates will increase from 8 to 13 and of arrival baggage carousels from 8 to 10. While Mumbai Airport has proposed to levy an ad hoc user development fee on flyers due to revenue crunch caused by the pandemic, DIAL has so far not done so. “Every airline, every airport operator, whether PPP ones or state-run Airports Authority of India (AAI), has been badly hit. They are all looking at ways to somehow survive this crisis and will think of revival once — and if — they do so,” said an aviation insider. AAI chairman Arvind Singh recently said the PSU’s “revenue was down by 80% in April-June, 2020, quarter over same period last fiscal. We are yet to cross 50% mark of revenue of last year and had to take working capital loan.” AAI is looking at Adani Group taking over the six airports it had won in a bid to get an upfront payment of Rs 1,000 crore followed by another Rs 1,300 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/t1-expansion-delayed-by-a-year-as-covid-19-hits-air-traffic-badly/articleshow/78851581.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 25, 2020||Pune||Without vaccine, don’t try herd immunity plan: WHO scientist||PUNE: World Health Organisation chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan has said countries should not consider the herd immunity option without a vaccine. Some governments have considered proposals to let the new virus run its course in their populations — in hopes of creating large pools of immune people that can break the chain of transmission. But Dr Swaminathan warned that such a course of action, without a vaccine, would lead to scores of deaths. She said, "We think at least 60% to 70% of the population needs to have immunity to truly break the transmission chain. If you allow this to happen naturally, it will take a long time. But there will be collateral damage. So even if .5% to 1% of infected people are ultimately going to die then this adds up to a huge number of people when we consider the global population." This is why she said the World Health Organisation has warned against trying to achieve herd immunity by just letting the virus run wild. "But with a vaccine, one can achieve population immunity, or herd immunity, safely. There has never been any infectious disease for which immunity was achieved through natural infection," she said. She used measles as an example to explain immunity. It's a common childhood illness caused by a virus against which there is a vaccine. “Now we say that to achieve herd immunity in the population, for measles, you need about 95% of the people to have immunity or antibodies. Even if you have 5% of children who are not vaccinated, the others actually provide enough protection in the population to prevent the measles virus from actually going from one person to the next. So it’s really like having a barrier of people who are protected; who can break that chain of transmission," Dr Swaminathan said. The way ahead before vaccinesThe WHO scientist said that the other measures that are proven effective are the public health and social measures which include physical distancing, wearing a mask in indoor and in crowded settings, and washing your hands frequently. Those are modes by which you can actually reduce the risk of the virus from transmitting from one person to the next. Further, the government should be able to detect rapidly those who are infected, making sure that enough testing is available in the community so that you are able to detect and diagnose people, be able to isolate them, test their contacts and quarantine them. Results of tests should come back within 24 hours and contact tracing should include tracking clusters and avoiding further amplification. Mass gatherings and situations that can produce super spreader events should be avoided. These are the measures that have been shown to be successful. They involve hard work and are difficult to implement but it's worth doing because then you are saving lives until the time that we have more effective medicines to treat this disease and a safe and effective vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/without-vaccine-dont-try-herd-immunity-plan-who-scientist/articleshow/78852278.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 25, 2020||Goa||Goa’s own forensic lab to soon test seized drugs||PANAJI: Following delays in obtaining test reports from other states in drug seizure cases, Goa State Forensic Science Laboratory (GSFSL), Verna, will soon begin with drug testing in the state itself. So far, Goa police has seized drugs worth Rs 6 crore from January to October 15. Goa Police has floated a tender inviting bidders for supplying narcotic and psychotropic standard reference samples to GSFSL. The police want the bidder to supply standard reference samples of heroin (diacetylmorphine), morphine anhydrate, thebaine, dihydrocodeine hydrochloride, lysergide, cocaine hydrochloride (cocainhydrochlorid), etc. Most of the seized drugs are presently being sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Hyderabad for testing. Currently, ganja and charas are being tested at the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) laboratory in Goa. Chemical drugs are sent out of the state for analysis, which is time-consuming and hinders investigations as well as filing chargesheets or closure reports, a police officer said. Police have seized ganja, methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA), cocaine, charas, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) liquid, LSD paper, heroin, amphetamine, ketamine and dimethyltryptamine (DMT) in various cases. Synthetic drugs are imported by foreigners, and are mostly used during parties. “Such drugs are sold in Goa during the peak tourist season when foreigners are in the state,” said the officer. He also said that after analysing data, the anti-narcotics cell found that 30 foreigners who were arrested in drug-related cases had entered the state via Dabolim airport. In 2018, CFSL’s Delhi and Hyderabad units stopped accepting drug samples due to unavailability of reference material for identification of the seized narcotics. Thus, many cases pertaining to drugs like LSD, MDMA, etc, have hit a roadblock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-own-forensic-lab-to-soon-test-seized-drugs/articleshow/78851573.cms||Murari Shetye
October 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Like in swine flu, stomach trouble seen as potential Covid symptom||PUNE: Doctors in Pune have recorded instances of people testing positive for Covid after displaying only gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms such as diarrhoea, vomiting, and stomach ache. These individuals did not have fever or the other common signs of the illness. Such symptoms — especially diarrhoea and vomiting — were seen in swine flu patients as well. The doctors discussed two cases. Rafique (name changed), a 54-year-old diabetic, underwent treatment for stomach ache and loose motion for three days before testing positive for Covid via RT-PCR. He had no fever or signs of respiratory distress — two ‘standard’ coronavirus symptoms. The second patient, Rishab, first approached doctors with complaints of severe abdominal pain and vomiting. A lab investigation indicated swelling of the pancreas — medically termed as pancreatitis. Doctors, who were unable to find what had caused the condition, then asked the 27-year-old to undergo a CT scan. The report revealed signs of Covid pneumonia around the lungs. And an RT-PCR test that followed, confirmed the illness. Doctors said the two patients are not isolated cases. Quite a few individuals who went on to test positive for Covid, they said, had come in with only GI symptoms such as diarrhoea, vomiting and stomach ache. Most did not exhibit fever or other flu-like symptoms, commonly considered as the earliest warning signs. “Absence of fever is a hallmark of atypical presentations of Covid-19, in which patients only show GI symptoms. I have been seeing quite a few patients with such baffling presentations,” said Ruby Hall Clinic’s physician, Abhijit Lodha. This emerging subset of patients - with non-specific Covid symptoms - has become a challenge for doctors, particularly general practitioners. "Our GPs are often the first point of care for many. They will have to quickly determine if these symptoms are flare-ups of underlying disease or the result of SARS-CoV-2 infection," Lodha said. Doctors will have to maintain a high degree of suspicion to ensure early diagnosis and prevent transmission, Lodha said. Infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag said, "Diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting and stomach pain must be kept in mind as possible Covid symptoms. Doctors should keep a high index of suspicion when patients show symptoms. About 5% of patients in our programme have had GI symptoms. But it is rare to have only GI symptoms. Also, we have seen GI complications, like pancreatitis, during Covid." Diagnosing gastrointestinal symptoms that precede respiratory problems has become extremely necessary for early detection. "The most common GI symptom being reported is diarrhoea, followed by nausea or vomiting and abdominal pain," said Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati hospital, a dedicated Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sans-fever-patients-with-just-loose-motion-belly-ache-show-covid-19-infection/articleshow/78852283.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Home cooks hit melting point||Chennai: For Keerthana R, her cooking habit began as a fun experiment of recipes when the lockdown began. Seven months down, it has reduced to an exhausting chore.The first few months of the lockdown, the freelance digital marketing executive from Padi was fascinated with the idea of preparing snap-worthy dishes covering everything from sourdough bread to dalgona coffee, and uploading them on social media. "But as I had to continue cooking meals on a daily basis, I began to abhor it. It became frustrating," says the 30-year-old, who cooks for her husband and six-year-old daughter.After months of being home, the excitement of whipping up new and exciting dishes has worn off for city residents. Many are experiencing cooking fatigue or burnout, as a result of the stressful restrictions that came with the pandemic, including meal monotony, absence of cooks and few functional restaurants. Lack of assistance in the process of cooking has also led to increased irritability in some. "Why should my husband ‘help’ me when it is equally his duty to do these chores? I hate that word," says Keerthana.For Barath Ramesh, who lives alone in his Saidapet apartment, meals were prepared by his cook during pre-Covid times. "After Maheshwari akka stopped coming, I began cooking and continued till the end of June. But now, I have lost the will to even enter my messy kitchen. I miss her, as she used to cook as well as clean," says the 26-year-old advocate. In the initial months of lockdown when work was minimal, Ramesh had the time to video call his mother and ask for recipes. Now with increased workload, he’s resorted to either skipping meals or eating junk food.According to Anusha Rajagopal, a social media influencer and food blogger, pre and post-cooking chores such as washing vessels are more challenging than the process of cooking itself.As she’s involved in the food industry, the 33-year-old cooks meals for her family and for her blog separately. "Meal preps during the weekend save me. The weeks I don’t do these preps are the most stressful," says the mother of a six-year-old, who moved from Coimbatore to Singapore a few years ago. "At times, I find myself staring at the open refrigerator for a long time," says Anusha, who uploads fresh cooking content every week on her blog ‘Tomato Blues’.When the initial novelty of staying at home, relaxing and cooking wanes, it’s natural for frustration and exhaustion to set in, says Adambakkam-based clinical psychologist Khushali Manikandan."Negative emotions towards an everyday activity can result in irritability, stress, anxiety, physical exhaustion, lack of proper sleep, loss of appetite and even depression," says Khushali. "Preparing the mind and body for daily cooking can help in overcoming the burnout. Connecting with loved ones, pampering oneself, or even reserving some quality time will help," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/home-cooks-hit-melting-point/articleshow/78850004.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
October 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: 5 men held in 2 cases of drug possession||CALANGUTE/SALIGAO: Four persons from Telangana were arrested by the Calangute police late Friday evening for being in possession of the hallucinogenic drug, lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD).  In another incident on the same day, Mapusa police arrested a native of Karnataka from Parra after finding him in possession of 1kg of ganja worth Rs 1 lakh. Calangute police said the four Telangana natives, Bharat Ambudipudi, 26, Sainitini Ambudipudi, 24, Sandeep Vanga, 26, and Vinesh Morey, 26, were stopped near a popular restaurant at Agar Vaddo, Calangute, while they were moving in a car and LSD worth Rs 20,000 was found when the car was searched. They were booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act. Police sub-inspector Jatin Potdar is investigating the case. Meanwhile, Mapusa police inspector Vijay Chodankar said Ashok Gullar, 24, of Karnataka has been booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act for possessing ganja. Gullar worked as a waiter, Chodankar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-men-held-in-2-cases-of-drug-possession/articleshow/78851584.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Winter solution for poor? Jacket by day and warm bed at night||NEW DELHI: An idea that crept into Srinath SL’s head when, as a schoolboy, he saw homeless people sleeping on the roads will probably help many spend the night in peace this winter. Because of the Covid-19 imperative for physical distancing, the night shelters cannot accommodate as many homeless people as earlier. But Srinath’s affordable jacket that doubles up as a sleeping bag could help those who don’t find shelter at least feel warm at night. It was in his fourth year at the National Institute of Creative Communication at International College of Design, Bengaluru, that Srinath designed the jacket. “As a child growing up in Rajouri Garden, I used to feel very sad seeing the homeless, especially children, sleeping in the open at the peak of winter,” the 24-year-old said. As part of his research before embarking on his prototype, Srinath met and interviewed homeless people in Tagore Garden and Nizamuddin. “I got the idea of the sleeping bag from nature,” the young designer explained. “I thought if snails and turtles have shells that they carry around and take shelter in, why couldn’t a jacket-cum-sleeping back become a similar shell for the homeless?” The jacket is unique in that it is fabricated from high-quality polyester that is waterproof and breathable, leaving the user dry and warm in rainy and chilly conditions. “The jacket is padded with polyfoil fibres. Polyfoil is known to be an effective insulator because 97% of its volume is air. The jacket can be worn as a normal jacket during the day and opened out to create a sleeping bag or folded into a pillow at night,” explained Srinath. Because the homeless often have no space to store their meagre goods, the jacket has several pockets to carry things. It also has special pockets for a baby to be kept insulated and dry. The jacket is washable and requires little maintenance. It comes in a universal size, but an inbuilt design feature can reduce or increase the size. “The jacket also sports reflectors for visibility in the dark as a warning to vehicles or to assist rescue teams,” said Srinath. These features and the 3.5 metres of cloth required make the cost price of the jacket around Rs 500. The innovator hopes he is able to mass produce the jacket jointly with an NGO. “I also intend to hire homeless people to assemble the jacket by creating a for-profit social enterprise,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/winter-solution-for-poor-jacket-by-day-and-warm-bed-at-night/articleshow/78851589.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Rain in evening delays monsoon withdrawal||PUNE: An intense rain early in the evening on Saturday, followed by consecutive spells of showers, further delayed the monsoon withdrawal from the city. Weather forecasters had initially predicted the withdrawal of monsoon from Pune and Mumbai around October 24 — a delay of about a fortnight. Now, they expect it to happen around October 27. The city is likely to experience mostly dry weather then. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI, “A cyclonic circulation over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off the Goa-Karnataka coast has been pumping in moisture into the southern parts of the state. This, coupled with high day temperature, is causing convective rainfall activity, including thundershowers, in parts of the state.” Till 5.30pm on Saturday, Shivajinagar recorded 25.4mm rainfall with a maximum temperature of 32.3°C. Pashan recorded 25.7mm precipitation and a maximum temperature of 31.3°C. In Lohegaon, the day’s highest temperature was 32.5°C. It recorded 1.2mm rainfall. Kashyapi said Vidarbha was mostly dry on Saturday and Marathwada could experience similar weather conditions after Sunday. “Konkan-Goa and Madhya Maharashtra are expected to be mostly dry after Monday. So, withdrawal of monsoon from Pune is likely on/around October 27,” said Kashyapi. IMD on Saturday said conditions were becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from remaining parts of Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and the entire north Arabian Sea, and from some parts of Odisha, north Maharashtra and central Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours, and from the entire country during the subsequent two days. Thus, southwest monsoon was likely to withdraw from the entire country around October 28, the IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-in-evening-delays-monsoon-withdrawal/articleshow/78852287.cms||Neha Madaan
October 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops arrest man on cheating charges||Aurangabad: The city police have arrested a man on the charges of cheating after he allegedly availed a loan of Rs 70, 000 from a private financial institute by mortgaging duplicate gold ornaments. The accused has been identifed as Ajay Laxman Choudhary (32) a resident of Itkheda area of the city. Pundaliknagar police team led by assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne nabbed the accused. Sonawne said the accused had managed to obtain a loan against gold by mortgaging duplicate ornaments. After he defaulted on the instalments, the financial institution was going to initiate the process of selling the mortgaged ornaments for recovering the loan amount. “The accused feared that the move to sell off the gold would expose him and so he hatched a plan. He reached out to another private financial institute and offered to mortgage half a dozen duplicate gold bangles to get a fresh loan of Rs 1.50 lakh,” said Sonawne. The accused told the private financial firm’s sales executive Rahul Shinde that some of the bangles are mortgaged in another financial institute and convinced him to pay Rs 70, 000 so that he gets them released.  Shinde paid the amount. Choudhary and he were heading to his office for mortgaging the bangles, when Sonawne’s team intercepted them and got the ornaments tested, only to find them to be duplicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-arrest-man-on-cheating-charges/articleshow/78973493.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Ex-Vice Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Medical University gets two-year jail for graft||CHENNAI: A special court has convicted Meer Mustafa Hussain, a former vice-chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University, on charges of corruption. He was found guilty under sections of the prevention of corruption act including criminal breach of trust (Section 409 IPC) and the court sentenced the medical professional to two years imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs 14,000. The charges moved by the state against the former vice-chancellor pertains to him fraudulently claiming Travel Allowance (TA) using cancelled business class tickets that were booked for him for his foreign trips during his tenure as VC. The directorate of vigilance and anti corruption had initiated investigations after their office received information regarding gross irregularities. The state, after investigations, submitted that Meer Mustafa Hussain had committed a criminal breach of trust and misappropriated funds to the tune of Rs 5.8 lakh. Meer Mustafa Hussain, who is also a recipient of the prestigious Dr B C Roy award, was the VC of the university between 2006 and 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-vc-of-state-med-univ-gets-2-year-jail-for-graft/articleshow/78850008.cms||Srikkanth D
October 25, 2020||Chennai||NEET Tamil Nadu ranks not out, candidates in dark||CHENNAI: More than a week after NEET 2020 results were released, medical aspirants said they are yet to get information on their state ranks — vital statistics that will help them make smart choices when locking seats during the centralised online counselling by the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS). As per schedule, students will have to start locking their choice of colleges from Tuesday. The National Testing Agency, which conducted the entrance test, had released students’ scores along with their all-India rank. “Students will be able to use this information for admission in central universities in the counselling conducted by the Medical Counselling Committee, but they will be shooting in the dark when they opt for seats in government colleges or deemed universities,” said Manickavel Arumugam, who counsels students on medical and dental admissions. Some meritorious students may not get admission in colleges of their choice and many may lose the chance of admission, he said, demanding transparency from the central agency. For instance, the state surrenders about 37 of the 250 seats in Madras Medical College to the DGHS. While top 37 students will get admission, the student ranking 38 may have to wait for state counselling for admission at the same college or they will be allotted their next choice. “When allotted their next choice, students don’t know if they should accept it or wait,” said R Saranya, a parent. In 2018, Saranya’s niece had to join Omandurar Medical College Hospital though she was among the top 70 students in the state. While NTA officials said the data will be sent to all state governments, the state selection committee in TN said it is yet to receive any information from the agency. “Students here usually know their status once we put out the state merit list based on applications we receive,” said committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan. By then, the two rounds of counselling for the all-India quota is likely to be completed. On Saturday, parents’ groups were putting out data they received from different tutorials on social media with a disclaimer that it would be risky to rely on it. Guessing the percentage based on the previous year’s cut-offs is often misleading. “Last year, the cut-offs went up by nearly 100 marks,” said S Vishwanthan, whose son is awaiting MBBS admission this year. “My son has scored above 550 marks this year, but I don’t know if he is eligible for a seat in a government college or self-financing college. I don’t want to make a wrong choice in the first round, but his counsellors say many students with similar scores will wait. That will push up the cut-off for the second round,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/neet-state-ranks-not-out-candidates-in-dark/articleshow/78850014.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Agra||37 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, 2 SNMC staff infected||AGRA: At least 37 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening, taking the district tally to 6,980. These included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC). Moreover, a 69-year-old woman died during treatment at the SNMC on Saturday. The resident of Trans-Yamuna colony was suffering from diabetes, pneumonia, refractory hypoxemia and respiratory ailment. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 142 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 48 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Saturday. Of the 6,980 cases, 6,416 [91.9%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district decreased from 434 on Friday, to 422 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/37-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-2-snmc-staff-infected/articleshow/78850012.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman loses Rs 1 lakh to KYC update trap||PUNE: The Warje police on Friday booked a person on the charge of siphoning off Rs 1 lakh from the bank account of a 27-year-old woman by tricking her into downloading a remote access software on her cellphone. The woman in her complaint stated that the suspect, posing as a call centre executive of a telecom company she is a customer of, had contacted her in June this year. The suspect told the woman that her SIM card would stop functioning if she did not complete her Know Your Customer (KYC) procedure soon. “The fraudster told the woman to click on a link he had sent on her number to complete her KYC procedure. The woman opened the link and downloaded the software, which, in turn, gave the fraudster remote access to her device,” an officer from the Warje police said. The officer said the person then asked the women to transfer Re1 to a contact number using her UPI application. “Within a few minutes of transferring the amount, Rs1 lakh was debited from the woman’s bank account. The suspects had noted down her PIN for the debit card while she was transferring a rupee to the phone number provided by the suspect,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-loses-rs-1l-to-kyc-update-trap/articleshow/78852288.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||‘Govt must rethink, review & relax curbs on foreign funding of NGOs’||Project director of NGO Sahyadri Foundation, advocate Sakshi Kshirsagar, and director Devendra Kshirsagar have been active in helping homeless wanderers since 2002. The NGO was in the forefront during the lockdown helping migrants and their families by catering to their needs — mental, physical and skill development at different shelter homes in the city. While the NGO was planning to stretch its outreach, the foreign contribution regulation amendment act (FCRA), 2020, restrictions on funding came as a big roadblock. Kshirsagar feels that the government must rethink, review and reassess its decision for the betterment of society, especially the downtrodden. In an exclusive interview to TOI, Kshirsagar shares her thoughts on the burning issue as well as the mission and vision of her organization. Excerpts... Q. What are the key issues regarding the amended FCRA Act restricting funds from global agencies to Indian NGOs? A. The big NGOs, which receive substantial foreign funds, will not be able to channelize and allocate funds to smaller NGOs which in turn will suffer from resource crunch. The smaller NGOs, which took various projects and benefits to the interiors and are scattered across the nation, will find it difficult to sustain their work and hence, the humanitarian causes will take a hit. Also, capping of 20% funds for administrative use will cripple the functioning of NGOs. There will be budgetary constraints for office expenses, travelling, manpower and so on. If the budget for administrative expenses overshoots the limit then there would be a fine of Rs one lakh which is demotivating. Even if permission is sought for extending the limit of the administrative budget, we do not how it would be allowed and for how long. Q. Do you feel the amended FCRA law is unconstitutional? A. It is up to the judiciary to decide whether FCRA amendments are unconstitutional or not but all we can say is that a few of them certainly poses challenge to many constitutional provisions like right to life under article 21 as NGOS may not be able to help their beneficiaries to overcome critical health conditions, adverse situations or emergencies. The restrictions also seem to be contradicting article 47 which suggests that states should raise the standard of living, improve public health and also the level of nutrition. State could have at least helped the NGOs to fulfil the constitutional mandate. Q. How will these amendments affect NGOs in the country? A. The future of the smaller NGOs or non-profit making organizations (NPOs) is in doldrums as a substantial chunk of their budgets come from the bigger NGOs whose funding from international sources or agencies would now be affected due to the restrictions. The NGOs will have to do away with their administrative expenses in a big way which means less support staff, limited expenses on travel, maintaining offices, records, data, collection of information and so on. The accountability and transparency were already in place and audited from time to time but NGOs will now feel too much of interference and intervention by the government. These challenges would have to be tackled now. Even some of the government-owned or controlled agencies or bodies which depended on foreign funding would be affected by the amended law. Q. Why were these changes stringently incorporated into the FCRA Act? A. There were some adverse findings by the government about the misuse of funds by some NGOs that were blacklisted. There were raids, legal actions and seizures by the investigating agencies probing misuse by NGOs. We do not deny that there were some NGOs who were violating laws for ulterior motives but why push the genuine ones to a tight corner. Those who were functioning honestly are now under severe restrictions. The law was already there but it has become too stringent now. Q. Do you feel the Indian government’s role in restricting the foreign funds will attract international criticism? A. In the international arena, the government’s role of restricting foreign funds would be criticized because we are seeing it happen at various forums. It would be considered as a hounding ‘police watch’ by a ‘police state’. This would discourage foreign funding agencies who may rethink their support to projects in India. Foreign agencies would not want to get involved in any ugly controversies with the government. They would focus elsewhere. Q. Which are the key NGO sectors which will get affected? A. A substantial number of NGOs working in the health sector, rural development, education and projects related to women and children would be affected. NGOs like our Sahyadri Foundation, which helped migrant workers and their families by engaging professionals and specialists will now have to re-think before hiring expensive support systems. The government, too, must start rethinking on its decision. It must be reviewed and relaxed. Q. Do you feel NGOs will have to compromise on their qualitative and quantitative work? A. There would be no option left but to compromise on several aspects like research, report writing, advocacy and so on, which will have to be accordingly curtailed to fit into the legal regime of the present law. It would be a challenge to adjust the budget without compromising on the quality of the humanitarian work NGOs do to reach the benefits to the poor and needy. The outreach work would get affected. The vision will have to be modified and the spectrum of activities will have to be well managed. Q. What would be the future of the NGOs if the current law remains? A. The smaller NGOs or NPOs would face the brunt. The bigger NGOs or the central fund receivers would find it difficult to reach or penetrate deeper into rural India. The NGO sector would have to sustain under strict budgetary provisions and the humanitarian works on the ground will suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-must-rethink-review-relax-curbs-on-foreign-funding-of-ngos/articleshow/78850733.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 25, 2020||Goa||Centre offers equity support to Verna maritime cluster||PANAJI: Sagarmala Development Company Ltd (SDCL), a special purpose vehicle set up by the Union shipping ministry to develop Sagarmala projects, has evinced interest in funding India’s first maritime cluster, which is coming up at Verna, through the equity route by offering to take up to 49% stake in the project — Konkan Maritime Cluster. SDCL has sought additional information from the government and from Konkan Maritime Cluster based on which the final decision will be made, SDCL managing director and director of projects Dilip Kumar Gupta said on Saturday. “We will be happy to provide equity support for the maritime cluster so that it will help the state,” Gupta said at the CII Goa conference on logistics. “We have asked a few questions and once we get that we will provide the equity. I hope an early reply will come to us and we will be able to finance the project.” The maritime cluster, a consortium of 49 Goan enterprises, is coming up at Verna industrial estate where the Goa Industrial Development Corporation has allotted 14,380sqm land to setup a common facility for manufacturing, design and allied services for the shipbuilding industry. The foundation stone for the project will be laid on Sunday. “I would like to appreciate Dilip Kumar Gupta, the MD of Sagarmala Company, for agreeing to provide equity support for the maritime cluster,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Projects in which SDCL takes an equity stake, are expected to give returns only after five to six years of operations. According to norms, equity contribution from SDCL will be decided based on the detailed project report and generally does not exceed 49% of the project shareholding. Gupta said that the Union shipping ministry is creating a Rs 25,000 crore Maritime Development Fund (MDF) which will provide low-cost, long term financing for the shipping sector. He said that ship builders and companies associated with the shipping industry often find it difficult to obtain funding from banks and financing institutions. “We will be providing a much cheaper fund where we will charge maybe 50-60 basis points above the cost of borrowing for us from the market. You can use the funds to develop maritime infrastructure,” the SDCL managing director said. The Union Cabinet is likely to approve the fund within two to three months, he said. Panaji: Sagarmala Development Company Ltd (SDCL), a special purpose vehicle set up by the Union shipping ministry to develop Sagarmala projects, has evinced interest in funding India’s first maritime cluster, which is coming up at Verna, through the equity route by offering to take up to 49% stake in the project — Konkan Maritime Cluster. SDCL has sought additional information from the government and from Konkan Maritime Cluster based on which the final decision will be made, SDCL managing director and director of projects Dilip Kumar Gupta said on Saturday. “We will be happy to provide equity support for the maritime cluster so that it will help the state,” Gupta said at the CII Goa conference on logistics. “We have asked a few questions and once we get that we will provide the equity. I hope an early reply will come to us and we will be able to finance the project.” The maritime cluster, a consortium of 49 Goan enterprises, is coming up at Verna industrial estate where the Goa Industrial Development Corporation has allotted 14,380sqm land to setup a common facility for manufacturing, design and allied services for the shipbuilding industry. The foundation stone for the project will be laid on Sunday. “I would like to appreciate Dilip Kumar Gupta, the MD of Sagarmala Company, for agreeing to provide equity support for the maritime cluster,” chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Projects in which SDCL takes an equity stake, are expected to give returns only after five to six years of operations. According to norms, equity contribution from SDCL will be decided based on the detailed project report and generally does not exceed 49% of the project shareholding. Gupta said that the Union shipping ministry is creating a Rs 25,000 crore Maritime Development Fund (MDF) which will provide low-cost, long term financing for the shipping sector. He said that ship builders and companies associated with the shipping industry often find it difficult to obtain funding from banks and financing institutions. “We will be providing a much cheaper fund where we will charge maybe 50-60 basis points above the cost of borrowing for us from the market. You can use the funds to develop maritime infrastructure,” the SDCL managing director said. The Union Cabinet is likely to approve the fund within two to three months, he said. Gupta said that SDCL is willing to fund building new fishing trawlers or providing fishing trawlers on lease for local fishermen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-offers-equity-support-to-verna-maritime-cluster/articleshow/78852297.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Stolen articles worth Rs5.78L recovered, two held||Pune: The arrest of two criminals on record and recovery of stolen gold ornaments and motorcycle, collectively worth Rs 5.78 lakh, from them has helped the Hadapsar police in detecting nine cases mostly related to burglaries. Ajaysingh Dudhani (20) from Manjri and Surjitsingh Tak (30) from Hadapsar were arrested by a police team on Thursday following a tip-off. Dudhani and Tak are criminals on record on Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural police. Senior inspector Ramesh Sathe from Hadapsar police in a statement on Saturday said the suspects, during questioning, have admitted their involvement in nine offences, including seven at Hadapsar, and one each at Khadki and Lonikand in rural Pune during the lockdown. Sathe said the suspects are also involved in a case relating to an ATM theft at Nigdi. The Pune rural police had earlier taken action against them under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act in a case registered with the Talegaon Dabhade police station a few years ago, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stolen-articles-worth-rs5-78l-recovered-two-held/articleshow/78852290.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Stepfather rapes 13-year-old minor for over a month||PALANPUR: On charges of raping his minor stepdaughter for over a month, police have arrested a 30-year-old man on Saturday. “We have arrested Naresh Rajput from the outskirts of Karjoda village for raping his minor stepdaughter,” said police sub-inspector of Taluka Police Station Palanpur, AK Desai. According to police, Rajput had kept the 13-year-old survivor and her mother at his house in Rawal locality in Karjoda village, nearly 18 km from Palanpur. However, the mother of the girl, a Dalit, had left Rajput around a month ago and taking advantage of the girl staying alone with him, started assaulting her sexually. When she could no longer endure the trauma, the minor narrated her ordeal to the landlord of the rented accommodation they were staying and he helped the minor lodge a rape compliant with the taluka police late on Friday night at about 11.30 pm. Police arrested the accused and booked him under section 376 of IPC and POCSO besides provisions of Atrocity Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stepfather-rapes-13-year-old-minor-for-over-a-month/articleshow/78851034.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Hydrophonic fodder cultivation gaining acceptance among farmers||HAVERI: From the simplicity of the underlying technology involved, the shorter quantum of time needed for cultivation to the evidently superior quality of produce, hydrophonic fodder cultivation is gaining in popularity across the state, more so among dairy farmers. Peasants in the state who have adopted this method swear by the benefits including higher content of protein and vitamin. However, what makes this method most attractive for the agrarian community is the reduced time needed for growing fodder. Moreover, the subsidy offered by the state government for the setting up of hydrophonic fodder units has helped further popularise the technique, as evidenced by the setting up of 852 of them with the assistance of the department of animal husbandry and veterinary sciences in 2018-19 and 2019-20 financial years. Dr HC Patil, chief veterinary officer in Shiggavi in Haveri, said that ignorance of the method among the farmers was gradually receding. “Yes, it is slightly expensive but even the small farmers can adopt this new system, along with dry fodder cultivation. This will help boost milk production, not to mention enhance its quality,” said Dr Patil, adding that the government was providing up to 90% subsidy for setting up of these units as part of its push for increased use of technology in farming. Venkatesh Solagi, a dairy farmer in Hirekerur in Haveri, is among those who has benefitted from the installation of the hydrophonic unit on his farm. “I have eight animals, all of whom are now getting quality fodder, and it is taking me very less time to grow it, and the whole unit occupies little space. It has also helped increase the yield we get from the cows. The fodder from these units helps increase the content of fat in milk,” Solagi said. Basappa Hirur, a farmer in Sammasagi village in Hanagal taluk in Haveri, said that nearly two-fifths of the fodder for his livestock, he was obtaining through hydrophonic method. “I want to cultivate fodder using this method on 600 trays, which I am sure will help improve the yield in milk,” he said. Joint director of the department of animal husbandry and veterinary sciences for Haveri Dr Manjunath Palegar attributed the overwhelmingly positive response to the advantages that the small farmers derived from it. “But this method can only supplement dry fodder cultivation. It is not a feasible alternative to the conventional method,” Dr Palegar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hydrophonic-fodder-cultivation-gaining-acceptance-among-farmers/articleshow/78850561.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 25, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections 2020: RJD promises 85% quota for natives in govt jobs||PATNA: Keeping its focus firmly on employment as its main poll plank, RJD on Saturday launched its manifesto announcing 85% reservation in government jobs for Bihar residents, apart from reinforcing its promise of 10 lakh government jobs, elimination of contractual employment and an increase in the honorarium of self-help groups. The party also announced to spend 22% of the state’s budget on education and open schools like Simultala and Netarhat in all divisions, three to five residential schools in all districts and 100 smart schools of “international level” in the first three years. Apart from Hindi, English and computer education will be a must in all schools. Launching the manifesto titled ‘Pran Hamara, Sankalp Badlav Ka’, the Mahagathbandhan CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said, “This is not just a manifesto, but our pledge which is soon going to become a reality. We will make a happy, prosperous and developed Bihar.” He added, “Some people were making fun of the 10 lakh government jobs which we have promised. Let me make it clear that we are going to give government jobs, unlike others we are not talking about generating employment, which also means frying ‘pakoda’ and cleaning drains.” The manifesto also promises a Rs 1,500 allowance for unemployed youths up to 35 years of age and has vowed to double the honorarium of self-help groups. Elaborating on his party’s other promises, Tejashwi said, “The manifesto talks about creating smart villages, increasing the honorarium of self-help groups, equal pay for equal work, tapping industrial sectors and promoting local products, infrastructure and environment among others.” There are 17 major chapters in the RJD manifesto which begins with employment and self-employment, which Tejashwi has made a poll issue this time. Under this section, the party has promised a tax waiver for setting up industries, free form and conveyance for the entrance examination for jobs, along with 10 lakh government jobs. In the health sector, it has promised a dialysis centre in all district hospitals and improved treatment facilities at the Sadar hospitals along with a medical college and hospital and a nursing college in all districts. The party has also stressed on promoting animal husbandry, fisheries, honey production and promotion and sale of locally grown litchi, Zardalu mango, banana and its products, silk and local art forms. The manifesto has messages from the party’s founder Lalu Prasad and former chief minister Rabri Devi, promising that all promises made in the document will be fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-promises-85-quota-for-natives-in-govt-jobs/articleshow/78853512.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh witnesses 26% drop in road accidents||VIJAYAWADA: Owing to the Covid-19 lockdown, there has been a substantial decrease by 26% in road mishaps in the state this year compared to last year. According to the latest police data, between January to September this year, the state saw 11,998 road mishaps which is a five-year low. In terms of deaths arising due to road mishaps, the state saw a 19% decrease in the last nine months this year compared to the corresponding period of 2019 which is a three-year low. As far as injuries due to mishaps are concerned, AP saw a 29% decrease this year. Police officials say that the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic had played a key role in reducing mishaps to a large extent but believed that there could be an increase of similar proportions next year as situation normalises. However, they also said that a lot of initiatives have been brought in during the lockdown to ensure the control of road mishaps. These include rectification of black spots on the highways, accident mapping, correcting road engineering defects and conducting special enforcement drives. In the last five years, 2016 saw the highest number of accidents which is 32% more than the current year. Cops recollect that the year saw a large inflow of traffic from other states due to Krishna Pushkarams that took place in August 2016. Contrary to the trend, the state did not see most number of fatalities during 2016, instead 2019 saw more deaths and injuries despite having fewer mishaps. In fact, recent NCRB data showed that out of all kinds of accidental deaths, 93% of them happen to be due to road mishaps. And, 60% of them involves two-wheelers. Andhra Pradesh ranks seventh in the country in terms of accidents and accounts 4.3% of overal mishaps in the country. Officials also note that a significant number of mishaps in AP takes place on National Highway 65 and 16 due to speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-witnesses-26-drop-in-road-accidents/articleshow/78853962.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 25, 2020||Amaravati||Team from Centre to visit flood-hit areas in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: An inter-ministerial team from the Centre, constituting representatives from the ministries and departments of agriculture, finance, water resources, power, road transport and highways and rural developments, will visit flood-affected areas in the state next week. The team will be headed by Rakesh Kumar, joint secretary, Union ministry of home affairs. The government initially estimated the loss to various sectors at Rs 4,500 crore and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had written to Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking an immediate relief of Rs 1,000 crore to mitigate the damage caused by the floods. Agriculture and horticulture have been hit as well as roads and electricity supply, the chief minister had said in the letter. Several people have lost their homes and houses have to be rebuilt, the chief minister had mentioned. In response to the chief minister’s letter, the Centre constituted the committee. Sources said the committee would visit the state for an on-the-spot study of the damage. The government has already prepared an initial report based on reports sent by district collectors, sources said. The report will be submitted to the central team during its visit. Senior officials have also been asked to give a presentation to the team on damages to agriculture, roads and losses to homes. The government has till date identified 14 persons who died in the floods and paid a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased. The chief minister had last week requested Union minister for surface transport, Nitin Gadkari, to release funds to the state for laying new roads and repairing roads damaged in the floods. Responding to the request, the Union minister had promised assistance to the state and asked the chief minister to visit the national capital with a detailed report on the facelift required. Sources said the government will also give a presentation to the central team on damage caused to the road network, including national highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/team-from-centre-to-visit-flood-hit-areas/articleshow/78853965.cms||Gopi Dara
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Registration begins for Kharif crops in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has come up with a new mechanism to prevent farmers from falling victim to middlemen while selling their agriculture produce. The new scheme will help farmers register their crops in advance and sell it at the procurement centres, after which the support price announced by the government would be credited directly to the farmer’s bank account. Around 76,000 farmers have already registered their crops in CMAPP for this kharif season. A senior agriculture marketing department official said due to heavy rains and floods, farmers are focusing on safeguarding their crops, considering which the government has extended the registration date till October 26. More registrations from farmers are expected by the end of the registration date, the official added. “To enable farmers to sell their agri produce at the village level, the agricultural marketing department is taking measures to set up more number of procurement centres across the state. Around 8,256 procurement centres have already been set up in linkage with Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) across the state to procure crops of the current kharif season,” the official said. Farmers have to register their details at RBKs before selling their produce at the government procurement centres. Once details of registered farmers reach the online database, the farmers get information directly on their registered mobile numbers. Payment will be credited directly to their accounts within 10 days of procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/registration-begins-for-kharif-crops-in-ap/articleshow/78850343.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vadodara||From Harappan era to Maratha regime, Baroda man has collection of over 9,500 toys||VADORADA: If toys fascinate you, then here’s a special “toyhouse” that will surely delight you. Avid toy collector Chandrashekhar Patil’s home is a rare repository of toys that are as old as thousands of years, including some that even Harappan children played with! Patil, a city-based art conservator, has amassed over 9,500 toys of all the eras and countries and plans to start a toy museum soon. “Toys are one of the best mediums to understand culture, economy and traditions of different eras. I have a collection of original toys from the Harappan era, Gupta period, Mughal as well as Maratha regime. I learnt a lot about the history and advances that every era made through these toys,” 45-year-old Patil told TOI. The aficionado even researched on the social and economic impact of toys in their respective eras. Patil who was thrilled to discover from the toys how technology and science changed over different centuries and helped humans evolve was also inspired to design and make his own toys at home during the lockdown. Recalling how he developed his unique passion, Patil said, “My family members and relatives gifted me about 500 toys as a baby. I not only played with these but kept them well for quite many years. When I grew up, however, I gradually realized its importance and began collecting toys seriously from Class 10 onwards.” He began visiting different markets, museums and collectors to gather as many toys as he could – from animals and birds to cars and buses and made of clay, copper, iron, silver and plastic. “I now plan to start a museum where I want to keep these on display and make toys the best learning medium for kids,” said Patil who also conducts toy-making workshops for children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/with-9500-toys-barodian-toys-with-museum-idea/articleshow/78850139.cms||Tushar Tere
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik laboratory finds no abnormality in Girna water||Nashik: The Nashik district public health laboratory has not found any serious abnormality in the water samples of the Girna dam, said the officials of the Malegaon Municipal Corporation. The civic body had sent the samples to the lab on October 16 after a large quantity of dead fish and lobsters were found floating in the dam waters. Malegaon civic chief Deepak Kasar told TOI the tests carried out at the lab have found all parameters within the permissible limits. “We are awaiting reports from the Mumbai-based lab where we had sent the samples of dead fish. That report may help us understand the cause of the fish dying in such large numbers in the dam recently. The report is expected anytime now,” added Kasar. The water from Girna, the biggest dam in Nashik district, caters to the needs of residents of Malegaon town, about 26 villages in Malegaon taluka and also people residing within the limits of Nandgaon and Chalisgaon civic bodies. According to civic officials, the report from the Nashik lab stated that various parameters, like the hardness of the water, alkalinity, iron and nitrate content, pH, chloride, fluoride, iron, nitrate, are all within the desirable limits. “Only water turbidity is slightly higher than the desirable limit. But that too is within the permissible limit. The lab has suggested that the water be properly treated before being supplied to people. We have proper treatment plants where the water gets treated before we supply it,” added civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-laboratory-finds-no-abnormality-in-girna-water/articleshow/78850040.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Env min raises dissent onsawmill licenses’ issue||Nagpur: In a twist to the issue of 50 additional horizontal bands saw (AHBS) licenses to timber mills in Maharashtra, the MoEFCC has given a dissent note indicating the decision to issue licences was “not in accordance with the law”. This observation comes even as the state-level committee (SLC) has chosen not to take a decision. The 16th meeting of the SLC was held on October 15 and 16 for 11 hours. The last meeting was held on November 18, 2019, in which it was decided that henceforth no licences will be issued. As per rules, the SLC meeting should be held every three months, but it was delayed for 11 months. SLC chairman & HoFF N Rambabu had told TOI that SLC will go by the facts. The members also admitted that it was wrong to issue 50 AHBS licenses. The minutes of the 16th meeting available on the forest department website shows the SLC has taken a U-turn. The SLC contradicts its own decision. Earlier, the government and some members were of the view that granting AHBS licences was equivalent to giving fresh licences in contravention to Supreme Court orders. The 16th SLC meeting was called to reply to an appeal filed by city environment lawyer Manish Jeswani with MoEFCC on the controversial issue of granting 50 AHBS licences to sawmills. Jeswani is demanding the scrapping of these licences issued by the then SLC headed by ex-PCCF UK Agrawal. Now, the SLC under Rambabu has decided that even though the timber availability report was not available when the decision was taken, the SLC deliberately avoided cancelling licenses to 50 sawmills. CB Tashildar, one of the members representing MoEFCC, has given a dissent note. He told the meeting that SLC must satisfy itself with the timber availability report as per prescribed guidelines. He also said that AHBS amounts to the enhancement of the capacity of the existing sawmills and shall be considered only after the timber availability report is received by the state, but SLC has gone against its own decision to grant licenses. Therefore, SLC has clearly exceeded its powers and functions bestowed upon it. Tashildar also pointed out that the then CCF Sanjeev Gaur, now APCCF (protection), raised the issue of grant of AHBS saying it was against apex court ruling as well as Maharashtra Forest Rules (MFR) 2014. “Granting permission for erecting and operating AHBS shall not be in conformity with the said rules and shall tantamount to be a violation of the apex court order of March 4, 1997. Besides, MFR 2014 allows splitting of license but that will lead to an increase in the total number of cutting or sawing machines,” says the dissent note. Tashildar raised this issue in the SLC meeting and disagreed with the decision. He even pointed out the regional office of MoEFCC at Nagpur did not accept the decision of SLC held on November 18, 2019 stating granting AHBS will amount to a violation. Sensing the mistake committed by the SLC, the then PCCF Agrawal sought to amend MFR 2014 in order to regularize the ‘illegal’ issue of licenses on February 28, 2019, but the government rejected the demand. Lastly, Tashildar in his dissent note said that the SLC is expected to comply with the guidelines and orders of the apex court and no decision or consideration can be made against these guidelines and orders. Hence, the impugned orders of SLC on July 23, 2018, & November 18, 2019, respectively could be considered as bad in the eyes of law. The final appeal of Jeswani is slated for hearing by MoEFCC on October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/env-min-raises-dissent-onsawmill-licenses-issue/articleshow/78850294.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Three kids drown in 12-foot deep pit||Haveri: Three children died after they drowned in a deep pool formed following incessant rain at the playground of a government school in Byadagi in Haveri district on Saturday. Sayed Ajmal Havanagi, 6, and Sayyad Akmal Inaitula Havanagi, 9 and 12-year-old Jafar Amanisab Savanur died while playing on the playground. Sources said that the playground was shared between the Kannada Primary School, Urdu Medium School and Moulana Azad School. The contractor entrusted with the responsibility of building more classrooms had dug up pits 12-foot deep on the ground for building of these classrooms. These pits had collected a considerable volume of water following heavy showers in Byadagi town. The three children had gone to the playground and unaware of the depth of the pit, ventured too close to it and are suspected to have slipped inside and died. The bereaved parents were inconsolable with grief on learning of their children’s death, and gave vent to their fury with the management of the school. The bodies of the three deceased kids were placed on the road and a protest held, seeking action against the contractor whose alleged carelessness resulted in the tragedy. Byadagi MLA Verupakshappa Ballari rushed to the spot to commiserate with the parents, and gave parents of each of the deceased children Rs 25,000. He assured them of recommending to the government of providing them a higher sum in compensation. Byadagi circle police inspector Basavaraj PS said that they had found the bodies of the three kids, adding that a thorough probe would be conducted into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/three-kids-drown-in-12-foot-deep-pit/articleshow/78850418.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Env min raises dissent on sawmill licences’ issue||Nagpur: In a twist to the issue of 50 additional horizontal bands saw (AHBS) licences to timber mills in Maharashtra, the MoEFCC has given a dissent note indicating the decision to issue licences was “not in accordance with the law”. This observation comes even as the state-level committee (SLC) has chosen not to take a decision. The 16th meeting of the SLC was held on October 15 and 16 for 11 hours. The last meeting was held on November 18, 2019, in which it was decided that henceforth no licences will be issued. As per rules, the SLC meeting should be held every three months, but it was delayed for 11 months. SLC chairman & HoFF N Rambabu had told TOI that SLC will go by the facts. The members also admitted that it was wrong to issue 50 AHBS licenses. The minutes of the 16th meeting available on the forest department website shows the SLC has taken a U-turn. The SLC contradicts its own decision. Earlier, the government and some members were of the view that granting AHBS licences was equivalent to giving fresh licences in contravention to Supreme Court orders. The 16th SLC meeting was called to reply to an appeal filed by city environment lawyer Manish Jeswani with MoEFCC on the controversial issue of granting 50 AHBS licences to sawmills. Jeswani is demanding the scrapping of these licences issued by the then SLC headed by ex-PCCF UK Agrawal. Now, the SLC under Rambabu has decided that even though the timber availability report was not available when the decision was taken, the SLC deliberately avoided cancelling licenses to 50 sawmills. CB Tashildar, one of the members representing MoEFCC, has given a dissent note. He told the meeting that SLC must satisfy itself with the timber availability report as per prescribed guidelines. He also said that AHBS amounts to the enhancement of the capacity of the existing sawmills and shall be considered only after the timber availability report is received by the state, but SLC has gone against its own decision to grant licenses. Therefore, SLC has clearly exceeded its powers and functions bestowed upon it. Tashildar also pointed out that the then CCF Sanjeev Gaur, now APCCF (protection), raised the issue of grant of AHBS saying it was against apex court ruling as well as Maharashtra Forest Rules (MFR) 2014. “Granting permission for erecting and operating AHBS shall not be in conformity with the said rules and shall tantamount to be a violation of the apex court order of March 4, 1997. Besides, MFR 2014 allows splitting of license but that will lead to an increase in the total number of cutting or sawing machines,” says the dissent note. Tashildar raised this issue in the SLC meeting and disagreed with the decision. He even pointed out the regional office of MoEFCC at Nagpur did not accept the decision of SLC held on November 18, 2019 stating granting AHBS will amount to a violation. Sensing the mistake committed by the SLC, the then PCCF Agrawal sought to amend MFR 2014 in order to regularize the ‘illegal’ issue of licenses on February 28, 2019, but the government rejected the demand. Lastly, Tashildar in his dissent note said that the SLC is expected to comply with the guidelines and orders of the apex court and no decision or consideration can be made against these guidelines and orders. Hence, the impugned orders of SLC on July 23, 2018, & November 18, 2019, respectively could be considered as bad in the eyes of law. The final appeal of Jeswani is slated for hearing by MoEFCC on October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/env-min-raises-dissent-on-sawmill-licences-issue/articleshow/78850380.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Citizens slam civic officials for ‘swalpa adjust madkoli’ reply||BENGALURU: More than the rain misery, it was the apathy shown by civic officials that left many Bengalureans fuming on Friday evening. While people desperately approached BBMP for help, they were told: “En madodhu...swalpa adjust madkoli” (what to do..bear with it a little). Anushree Rao of BEML Layout in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, which witnessed heavy rain, told STOI: “Trouble began around 5pm when water from the nearby drain overflowed and started gushing into our houses. We could see the refrigerator, electronic gadgets and wardrobes being inundated by dirty water and started calling BBMP for help. But we were told ‘swalpa adjust madkoli’ and assured the problem would be fixed before the next bout of rain.” BBMP received over 1,800 distress calls from across Bengaluru in a span of four hours on Friday evening. A majority were from RR Nagar, Girinagar, Kengeri and nearby areas; the callers sought the agency’s help in preventing water from entering their homes. Some calls were made after snakes were found inside houses. Residents say it wasn’t the first time that houses were flooded and it’s common during the rainy season. However, the situation was a lot worse this year. They blamed it on drain encroachment. “Every time we complain about it, BBMP officials visit the area and assure us of rectifying the issue. But they don’t return and push us into misery again,” rued a resident of Gurudutta Layout. Pavan Kaushik, a software engineer and resident of RR Nagar, said his house was flooded with water up to 4 feet and his family is yet to pick up the pieces. Lake encroachment causing flooding: OfficialSiddaramaiah, BBMP assistant engineer, RR Nagar, admitted that encroachment of Bheemanakatte Lake is leading to flooding of the area. “A layout has come up on the lake bed. Water flows to this area, leading to problems. We are co-ordinating with other agency officials to build another outlet for the drain to reduce flow.” When asked whether he was aware of the problem, he said he came to the area just four months ago and didn’t know about it. Raghavendra R, assistant executive engineer (SWD), RR Nagar, said the problem has existed for a long time. “We visited the area on Saturday morning and will address it,” he added. VEXED VOICES“Why don’t they (officials) anticipate problems and take corrective measures instead of asking us to live with them? For how many more years will they keep asking us to adjust? Anushree Rao, resident of BEML Layout The drain next to our house has been encroached and a sewage line has been attached to it. With the drain being clogged, its water enters our house. We have been suffering for eight years Pavan Kaushik, resident of RR Nagar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/citizens-slam-civic-officials-for-swalpa-adjust-madkoli-reply/articleshow/78851263.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Blame game begins between BBMP and BWSSB; residents left in the lurch||BENGALURU: The trail of destruction caused by Friday’s flooding triggered the usual blame game between BBMP and BWSSB — the two agencies which execute infrastructure work without keeping each other in the loop. “Over 500 houses in Gurudatta Layout and Dattatreya Nagar wouldn’t have seen flooding had both agencies coordinated and ensured the sewage line and stormwater drain’s retaining wall were strong. But they failed us,” Gurudatta Layout residents told STOI. “We got a sense of nature’s fury on the night of October 20 when water entered 20 houses after a portion of the retaining wall was damaged when BWSSB undertook manhole-repair work. The same place gave way on Friday evening,” residents added. In fact, BBMP had taken objection to BWSSB’s repair work and lodged a complaint with Girinagar police. According to BBMP assistant executive engineer Raghavendra, who registered the complaint, BWSSB personnel led by AEE Nayeem Ulla Sherrif recently dug up three manholes on a five-feet road of Gurudatta Layout and did not close them properly. “Mud was used to close them instead of cement and concrete. The nearly 300ft-long drain dug to connect the manholes too was improperly closed. The work was done unprofessionally. As a result, heavy rain on October 20 damaged the SWD’s retaining wall and water entered 20 or more houses,” Raghavendra said, claiming BWSSB officials never sought permission to dig up the road. Based on Raghavendra’s complaint, Girinagar police registered an FIR against Nayeem Ulla and others under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and a few sections of Indian Penal Code. Ulla, however, denied the allegations and blamed BBMP officials for the mess. “Pointing fingers at BWSSB isn’t right; we are not entirely responsible. Construction work is undertaken by BBMP too,” he said, accusing the Palike of building the retaining wall and dumping the debris on BWSSB sewage lines. Due to heavy rain, the sewage line collapsed and retaining wall gave way, he added. Caught in between the tug of war, residents said their tax money is being misused and they are suffering for no fault of theirs. “If BBMP had built a strong retaining wall, this wouldn’t have happened. The civic administration needs to use our money wisely,” said Aishwarya K, a resident of Dattatreya Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blame-game-begins-between-bbmp-and-bwssb-residents-left-in-the-lurch/articleshow/78851255.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: IITian creates apps for fast railway booking, held||CHENNAI: What a tardy IRCTC website could not do, an enterprising IIT Kharagpur postgraduate did and has landed in jail. Tirupur native S Yuvarajaa, who created android-based apps ‘Super Tatkal’ and ‘Super Tatkal Pro’ — lightning fast methods of booking confirmed tickets — was arrested because he had bypassed the railway system to offer an online platform for passengers, in return for payments through a ‘coin’ system. Sources said Yuvarajaa, who graduated from Anna University, created the apps in 2016 when he found a slow IRCTC website made it difficult for people to book confirmed tickets. The apps became so popular that they garnered around one lakh end-users in a short time but have since been taken down from the app store. The Cyber Cell of Railway Protection Force (RPF) in Chennai tracked him down using server source code, application source code, end-users list and his bank statements. The apps were available at the android app store for download for a fee. People had to purchase a coin pack (10 coins worth Rs 20) which was pre-paid. After each booking, five coins were deducted from the coins balance. The payment for both apps was through Instamojo gateway that credited money to Yuvarajaa’s bank account. Southern Railway principal chief security commissioner Birendra Kumar said, “He created a software to book tickets faster and he was not even an authorised agent of IRCTC.” Bypassing the railway system and making money illegally was the crime, he added. The speed of the application enabled customers to obtain confirmed tatkal e-tickets. RPF has registered a case under section 143 (2) of the Railways Act (penalty for unauthorised carrying on of business of procuring and supplying of railway tickets). In another incident in which software was used, RPF had arrested the employee of an agency in Vellore for using an auto-fill software to buy railway tickets faster before genuine passengers could login and key in details. In both cases, many people using IRCTC site were deprived of a chance to buy tickets, said an RPF official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iitian-creates-apps-for-fast-rly-booking-held/articleshow/78850749.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Illegal’ structures on Gitam campus demolished||VISAKHAPATNAM: Officials of the revenue department demolished a number of structures in the Gitam campus in the early hours of Saturday. According to revenue officials, the institute had occupied 40 acres of government land. The revenue department, sources said, had submitted a report to the government over the occupation of 40.51 acres in Rushikonda and Yendada by the university management. Of this, 22.21 acres had been encroached upon by a compound wall and 18.30 acres were covered by a garden and gravel bund. Revenue staff headed by Visakha division RDO Penchala Kishore started the demolition process before 5 am, sources said. Police were deployed on both sides of the road at Rushikonda and Yendada during the demolition drive. Speaking to reporters, the RDO said the occupied vacant land in the campus has been reclaimed and revenue staff have also done the marking. A recent report sent to the government by the revenue department stated, “The government land in the occupation of Gitam University was allotted to various departments including hostels of social welfare (six acres), tribal welfare, AP State Housing Corporation for weaker sections, offices and training centres. Construction of office and residential quarters for income tax deputy commissioner staff, IGNOU regional centre building. More than seven acres were allotted to Vuda for construction of hostel buildings for girls.” Sources said officials had issued notices to the varsity management over the occupied land but the management had tried to regularise the lands and also approached court a number of times. When contacted, a senior official at Gitam told STOI that revenue officials entered the university premises without prior notice and demolished some structures. Former chief minister and TDP national president N Chandrababu Naidu termed the demolition an act of vengeance. “Those who have no efficiency to construct the structures, they have no right to demolish it,” he said. State tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao (Avanthi) alleged that the Gitam management had occupied 40 acres worth Rs 800 crore belonging to the government. “There is no political vendetta in it as alleged by the former CM. He has not taken any action during his tenure. Our CM has specifically said that no one, even our party men, would be spared if they occupied government lands,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/illegal-structures-on-gitam-campus-demolished/articleshow/78850363.cms||Siva G
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag cops focusing on crimes committed by auto drivers||VISAKHAPATNAM: With crimes involving auto drivers on the rise in the city, the police are planning to create Whatsapp groups of autorickshaw drivers under each police station to monitor their activities. The city has 23 law and order police stations. An estimated 45,000 autorickshaws ply on city roads. Each police station will maintain Whatsapp groups of drivers in their areas. City police chief Manish Kumar Sinha said the groups will also help in creating awareness about the Indian Penal Code and punishments. “We plan to have separate Whatsapp groups for each police station. Police have already analysed the crime scene in the city and major offenders from each sector. Each police station will monitor movement of autos in their respective areas,” he said. Cops are also planning to maintain night register at auto stands. “All autos plying on city roads at night need to register their details at the auto stands. If we can control offences committed by auto drivers or gangs of which they are a part of, crime rate in the city will come down,” the police chief said adding that the details would be fed into the system to monitor them online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-focusing-on-crimes-committed-by-auto-drivers/articleshow/78850392.cms||Siva G
October 25, 2020||Surat||Dang’s Golden Girl is now Deputy Superintendent of Police Sarita!||SURAT: International athlete Sarita Gayakwad, popularly known as Golden Girl of Dang after winning the gold medal in 4X400 metres relay racing in 2018 Asian Games, has been inducted as the deputy superintendent of police (DySP) in Gujarat police on Saturday. Gayakwad has been inducted to the force at the Police Training Academy, Karai in Gandhinagar and will undergo two years training, after which she will get her posting. "I have been appointed as DySP. I completed graduation earlier this year after which I got appointed as class I officer," Sarita told TOI. Sarita was the first athlete to represent Gujarat in Commonwealth Games in 2018 and in the same year did the country proud by winning the covetous gold medal in Asian Games. So far, she has won at least 11 international medals and 40 national medals. Ashish Bhatia, director general of police, Gujarat, told TOI, “Sarita has been inducted in state police following government order. The process to appoint her as officer started since the time she had won the gold medal in Asian Games in 2018. Government is taking keen interest in awarding sports persons considering it special cases." Earlier, Sarita on basis of her clearing Class XII exams got the job of a clerk in the income tax department that was offered to sports persons by the government. Later, she graduated in bachelor of arts (BA) earlier this year and was soon offered the job of class I officer in the state government. While she was offered any job of her choice as a class I officer, Sarita chose to be a police officer. Ashok Dhorajiya, a family friend said, “Her friends suggested to take up a job in the revenue department, but Sarita decided to join the state police service.” At the time of the outbreak of global pandemic, Sarita was in Poland but returned to India before lockdown started. She was first practicing in Patiala and then came to her native village Karadi Amba in Dang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dangs-golden-girl-is-now-dysp-sarita/articleshow/78850251.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 25, 2020||Amaravati||Registration begins for Kharif crops in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has come up with a new mechanism to prevent farmers from falling victim to middlemen while selling their agriculture produce. The new scheme will help farmers register their crops in advance and sell it at the procurement centres, after which the support price announced by the government would be credited directly to the farmer’s bank account. Around 76,000 farmers have already registered their crops in CMAPP for this kharif season. A senior agriculture marketing department official said due to heavy rains and floods, farmers are focusing on safeguarding their crops, considering which the government has extended the registration date till October 26. More registrations from farmers are expected by the end of the registration date, the official added. “To enable farmers to sell their agri produce at the village level, the agricultural marketing department is taking measures to set up more number of procurement centres across the state. Around 8,256 procurement centres have already been set up in linkage with Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) across the state to procure crops of the current kharif season,” the official said. Farmers have to register their details at RBKs before selling their produce at the government procurement centres. Once details of registered farmers reach the online database, the farmers get information directly on their registered mobile numbers. Payment will be credited directly to their accounts within 10 days of procurement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/registration-begins-for-kharif-crops-in-ap/articleshow/78853963.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh witnesses 26% drop in road accidents||VIJAYAWADA: Owing to the Covid-19 lockdown, there has been a substantial decrease by 26% in road mishaps in the state this year compared to last year. According to the latest police data, between January to September this year, the state saw 11,998 road mishaps which is a five-year low. In terms of deaths arising due to road mishaps, the state saw a 19% decrease in the last nine months this year compared to the corresponding period of 2019 which is a three-year low. As far as injuries due to mishaps are concerned, AP saw a 29% decrease this year. Police officials say that the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic had played a key role in reducing mishaps to a large extent but believed that there could be an increase of similar proportions next year as situation normalises. However, they also said that a lot of initiatives have been brought in during the lockdown to ensure the control of road mishaps. These include rectification of black spots on the highways, accident mapping, correcting road engineering defects and conducting special enforcement drives. In the last five years, 2016 saw the highest number of accidents which is 32% more than the current year. Cops recollect that the year saw a large inflow of traffic from other states due to Krishna Pushkarams that took place in August 2016. Contrary to the trend, the state did not see most number of fatalities during 2016, instead 2019 saw more deaths and injuries despite having fewer mishaps. In fact, recent NCRB data showed that out of all kinds of accidental deaths, 93% of them happen to be due to road mishaps. And, 60% of them involves two-wheelers. Andhra Pradesh ranks seventh in the country in terms of accidents and accounts 4.3% of overal mishaps in the country. Officials also note that a significant number of mishaps in AP takes place on National Highway 65 and 16 due to speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-witnesses-26-drop-in-road-accidents/articleshow/78850333.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Team from Centre to visit flood-hit areas in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: An inter-ministerial team from the Centre, constituting representatives from the ministries and departments of agriculture, finance, water resources, power, road transport and highways and rural developments, will visit flood-affected areas in the state next week. The team will be headed by Rakesh Kumar, joint secretary, Union ministry of home affairs. The government initially estimated the loss to various sectors at Rs 4,500 crore and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had written to Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking an immediate relief of Rs 1,000 crore to mitigate the damage caused by the floods. Agriculture and horticulture have been hit as well as roads and electricity supply, the chief minister had said in the letter. Several people have lost their homes and houses have to be rebuilt, the chief minister had mentioned. In response to the chief minister’s letter, the Centre constituted the committee. Sources said the committee would visit the state for an on-the-spot study of the damage. The government has already prepared an initial report based on reports sent by district collectors, sources said. The report will be submitted to the central team during its visit. Senior officials have also been asked to give a presentation to the team on damages to agriculture, roads and losses to homes. The government has till date identified 14 persons who died in the floods and paid a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of the deceased. The chief minister had last week requested Union minister for surface transport, Nitin Gadkari, to release funds to the state for laying new roads and repairing roads damaged in the floods. Responding to the request, the Union minister had promised assistance to the state and asked the chief minister to visit the national capital with a detailed report on the facelift required. Sources said the government will also give a presentation to the central team on damage caused to the road network, including national highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/team-from-centre-to-visit-flood-hit-areas/articleshow/78850352.cms||Gopi Dara
October 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Rain fury in Bengaluru: Will build stronger retaining wall to prevent damage, says BBMP||BENGALURU: A day after rain wreaked havoc in parts of south Bengaluru, BBMP on Saturday said a stronger retaining wall will be built along the stormwater drain (SWD) in Vrishabhavathi Valley to prevent breaches. The existing wall was constructed 20 years ago. The move comes following the trail of destruction left behind in Gurudatta Layout and Dattatreya Nagar. Revenue minister R Ashoka and BBMP officials visited the affected localities, where an NDRF team has been working for the past 24 hours. The personnel were able to save three people who were about to be washed away. “We visited the localities on Friday too. The situation seems to be somewhat better now,” said Ashoka, referring to the damage caused. Explaining the reason for it, the minister said: “Most of the rainwater in south Bengaluru flows into the SWD connected to Vrishabhavathi Valley. The civic authorities were repairing the drain and building a retaining wall when the water level increased, resulting in flooding.” He said: “There has been so such problem in the past 15 years. The SWD joins Hosakerehalli and Nayandahalli and started overflowing because of heavy rain in a short time. We have directed civic officials to fasten the process of constructing the wall.” BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad said: “The SWD is on a downward slope. The breach happened because of the pressure built after heavy flow of water.” He added: “The old stone wall was built about 20 years ago and has weakened. We will construct a stronger concrete retaining wall, which will prevent any such incident in future.” Prasad said encroachment of SWD, poorly planned localities and construction of a bridge by residents were among the reasons for flooding. A door-to-door survey will be conducted to estimate the property loss, he added. Pourakarmikas and other labourers have been tasked with cleaning the areas, said a senior BBMP official. As per the weatherman’s forecast, officials are prepared for two more days of heavy rain. “If there is flooding anywhere in the city, we will clear the water in less than two hours,” Prasad said. Will demolish illegal bridgeThose who had planned these localities earlier didn’t give much thought to the drain, which is now causing such complications. An unauthorised bridge has been constructed, shrinking the drain. The water pressure was very high and it overflowed on to the roads. We will demolish this bridge Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-build-stronger-retaining-wall-to-prevent-damage-bbmp/articleshow/78851246.cms||Nithya Mandyam
October 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections 2020: RJD promises 85% quota for natives in govt jobs||PATNA: Keeping its focus firmly on employment as its main poll plank, RJD on Saturday launched its manifesto announcing 85% reservation in government jobs for Bihar residents, apart from reinforcing its promise of 10 lakh government jobs, elimination of contractual employment and an increase in the honorarium of self-help groups. The party also announced to spend 22% of the state’s budget on education and open schools like Simultala and Netarhat in all divisions, three to five residential schools in all districts and 100 smart schools of “international level” in the first three years. Apart from Hindi, English and computer education will be a must in all schools. Launching the manifesto titled ‘Pran Hamara, Sankalp Badlav Ka’, the Mahagathbandhan CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said, “This is not just a manifesto, but our pledge which is soon going to become a reality. We will make a happy, prosperous and developed Bihar.” He added, “Some people were making fun of the 10 lakh government jobs which we have promised. Let me make it clear that we are going to give government jobs, unlike others we are not talking about generating employment, which also means frying ‘pakoda’ and cleaning drains.” The manifesto also promises a Rs 1,500 allowance for unemployed youths up to 35 years of age and has vowed to double the honorarium of self-help groups. Elaborating on his party’s other promises, Tejashwi said, “The manifesto talks about creating smart villages, increasing the honorarium of self-help groups, equal pay for equal work, tapping industrial sectors and promoting local products, infrastructure and environment among others.” There are 17 major chapters in the RJD manifesto which begins with employment and self-employment, which Tejashwi has made a poll issue this time. Under this section, the party has promised a tax waiver for setting up industries, free form and conveyance for the entrance examination for jobs, along with 10 lakh government jobs. In the health sector, it has promised a dialysis centre in all district hospitals and improved treatment facilities at the Sadar hospitals along with a medical college and hospital and a nursing college in all districts. The party has also stressed on promoting animal husbandry, fisheries, honey production and promotion and sale of locally grown litchi, Zardalu mango, banana and its products, silk and local art forms. The manifesto has messages from the party’s founder Lalu Prasad and former chief minister Rabri Devi, promising that all promises made in the document will be fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-promises-85-quota-for-natives-in-govt-jobs/articleshow/78851776.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Man stabbed to death over financial dispute in Tenali||VIJAYAWADA: Police have arrested a man for allegedly murdering his friend over a financial dispute at a bar in Nandulapeta area of Tenali town on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Subhani. Tenali Two Town police said the accused, identified as Sheikh Rafi, had lent Rs 15,000 to Subhani a few months ago. Rafi was seeking his money back, but Subhani allegedly refused to pay. On Friday night, Rafi, Subhani and two other friends met at the bar to discuss the issue. After a few drinks, tempers flared and Subhani reportedly hurled abuses at Rafi. Rafi, who had come prepared with a knife, attacked Subhani in a fit of rage and stabbed him multiple times, resulting in his death on the spot. Shocked by Rafi’s act, both his friends fled from the spot. The bar owner immediately called the cops, who rushed to the spot and closed the bar. Police said Rafi did not flee from the spot and surrendered at the crime scene. Cops have booked a murder case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-stabbed-to-death-over-financial-dispute/articleshow/78850373.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nashik||MRIDC floats tenders for Nashik-Pune rail project||Nashik: Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (MRIDC) has made their first move of setting up the infrastructure related to the ambitious Rs 1,600 crore Nashik-Pune broad gauge rail project. On October 22, MRIDC had floated tenders inviting civil contractors for constructions of tunnels and other ancillary work related to the Nashik-Pune rail project and other projects that are taken up by it. The interested civil contractors must submit the details by December 8. civil contractors must submit the details by December 8. MIRDC, which is also known as MahaRai, is a joint venture between the Maharashtra government and the railways to boost the rail infrastructure in the state. “It is the first move that MahaRail has made on the project,” MRIDC officials told TOI. According to the officials, once the state government gives the final approval to the project DPR, the work related to the project will gather steam. Various state government departments are in the process of examining the DPR. The civil contractors will have to construct 18 tunnels, with a length of about 22 km. The longest tunnel would be about 6.64 km long. The Nashik-Pune rail project, 235 km long, would pass through districts of Nashik, Ahmednagar and Pune. The average speed of the train will be 200 km/hr and the travel time will be around two hours. The project will ensure faster movement of passengers and freight trains between the two important cities-Nashik and Pune. At present, the travel time between these two cities by road is around five to six hours. There is no proper train connectivity between these two cities. Apart from the tunnels, the corridor will have 24 stations, 41 roads over bridges and 128 roads under bridges, warehouses, private freight terminal, dry port and others. The project is envisaged to give tremendous growth to industries of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mridc-floats-tenders-for-nashik-pune-rail-project/articleshow/78850051.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu child rights commission has no head since January||CHENNAI: The state commission for child rights has been without a chairperson for more than nine months and the state is also yet to finalise members of the body for the current year, much to the criticism of child rights activists. The term of the previous members of Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TNSCPCR), which lasts for three years, ended five months ago Tamil Nadu has more than 87,000 children residing across 1,647 shelters, one of the highest in the country. “The commission was constituted mainly to oversee the functioning of the departments concerning child welfare and address grievances of those who have faced violations and have not received justice,” said S Christuraj, child rights activist and advocate. He said the lockdown had affected several welfare activities for children. “But without the SCPCR, their plight goes unheard.” The commission is an independent body. According to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, its primary duties involve addressing grievances, ensuring that violators are persecuted, and most importantly, recommending appropriate remedial measures for children during calamities, like this pandemic. Activists criticised the authorities for delaying the appointments and said they should have at least finalised the body during the lockdown, to ensure the safety and well-being of children, especially those residing in government institutions. Experts also highlighted that child marriage was one of the major concerns during the lockdown as poverty, lack of education would have forced parents to marry off their children at an early age. Recent data received from Childline showed that between January and July this year, the 1098 helpline for children received 2,666 distress calls from across Tamil Nadu, the third-highest in the country. Senior officials from the social defence department said they have received a list of candidates and that the body will be constituted shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-child-rights-commission-has-no-head-since-jan/articleshow/78850774.cms||Aditi R
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops to check immersion processions||Nashik: The city police is set to step up bandobast at the police station-level to ensure that there are no immersion processions on Dasara. Officials said though no mandal would be going to the river to immerse the idol, there is a likelihood that some devotees, who have celebrated Navaratra at home, may come for immersion. All the police stations have been instructed to step up bandobast. Devotees have already been instructed that this year, there would be no immersion procession due to the Covid-19 crisis. They have also been told to immerse the idols in artificial ponds at the house-hold level. The city police would set up checkpoints at various points to ensure there are rule violations in terms of social gatherings and wearing masks. Ahead of Navaratra, the police had conducted meetings to inform the mandals about the dos and don’ts of the festivities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-to-check-immersion-processions/articleshow/78850066.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Special facility to store onions, apples to avoid price surge||NEW DELHI: Delhi will get a state-of-the-art storage facility for stocking onion and apple in less than a year from now. The government-owned marketing cooperative for agriculture produce, NAFED, will set up this facility at Ujwa village in Najafgarh which can store 10,000 tonnes of onions. The stored kitchen commodity can be released to the market to cool down prices in case of short supply. According to estimates, the monthly consumption of onion in Delhi is 21,500 tonnes. Increase in onion prices across the country and particularly Delhi has been a politically sensitive issue for years. “This facility will have the most modern facilities. We will procure onions from major producing centres and transport them to this facility for storage. The stock can be released to the market after only three days of acclimatisation and the product can reach the market quickly. This will also cater to the needs of the neighbouring states. We have the required land for this facility,” NAFED managing director, Sajeev Kumar Chadha told TOI. The agency has floated the tender and invited bidders to develop this facility on Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) mode. Chadha said they are also writing to Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar and Assam governments to provide land for setting up of similar facilities. The bid document says NAFED intends to set up 10,000 tonnes capacity cold storage with the latest technology for long term storage of onion, apple or any other crop. The scope of work specifies that the facility will be for commercial storage of onions under refrigeration for a long term of 6-8 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/special-facility-to-store-onions-apples-to-avoid-price-surge/articleshow/78851685.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two youth arrested in robbery case||NASHIK: The Bhadrakali police have arrested two people for allegedly robbing a teenager of his cellphone in the old city area on Wednesday afternoon. The accused have been identified as Kishor Wakode (19) and Rushabh Lokhande (21). Both are residents of Bhadrakali. A teenager, who is a resident of old Koliwada, Kathada, had lodged a complaint against the two suspects after they robbed his friend of his cellphone worth Rs 7,000. The complainant said he and his friend were playing some game on their cellphone in the Bhadrakali area when the duo came on a scooter and snatched his friend’s phone. Two days after the incident, the teenager lodged a complaint. Soon after the complaint was lodged, the Bhadrakali police plunged into action and arrested the two suspects. The police said the two suspects are being interrogated to ascertain if they have committed similar crimes in the past as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-youth-arrested-in-robbery-case/articleshow/78850060.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Tribal from Melghat, a landless labourer’s son, set to be a doctor||Shantilal Kasdekar, a 19-year-old tribal from Dharni taluka of Amravati district, has cleared NEET with 427 marks. He managed it with help from the state tribal department and Pune NGO Lift for Upliftment. After MBBS, Kasdekar plans to serve the people in the remote pockets of MelghatWhile his father and elder brothers were toiling away in the mid-October humid heat at their daily-wage job, 19-year-old Shantilal Kasdekar received the news which was virtually their ticket out of abject poverty. Having scored 427 in NEET, this tribal boy from a remote village of Amravati district’s tribal belt of Melghat, is now more or less assured of an MBBS seat in a government college. Kasdekar is the result of a unique experiment which started in 2017 in the impoverished Melghat region, under the aegis of state’s integrated tribal development project (ITDP) and Pune-based NGO Lift for Upliftment (LFU), which provides free medical coaching. To fully fathom the experiment’s success, it is crucial to see it from Kasdekar’s eyes. When he was barely two years old, due to some issues, the Kasdekars had to abandon their meagre landholding in his birthplace of Duni village in Dharni taluka, about 300 kms from Nagpur. “We shifted to a nearby village where my father worked at the farm of a money lender. My two elder brothers also dropped out of school at various stages and took to daily wage jobs,” recalls Kasdekar. Fortunately, his maternal uncle stepped in to help the beleaguered family. “We shifted to his village Zaphal, in the same taluka, and have lived there since. He gave us access to a small patch of land which we till, apart from picking up any daily wage job,” said Kasdekar. Despite three ‘earning’ members, the family could never rake in more than Rs40,000 per year. At his uncle’s insistence, the young Kasdekar was enrolled at a residential ashramshala in the nearby village of Tembli. His education right from Std 1 happened there, but the turning point came when Kasdekar was enrolled in Std XI and Dr Vijay Rathod came to Dharni as the ITDP project officer. Being an MBBS graduate, Dr Rathod decided to prepare tribal students for NEET. And that’s how Pune-based LFU got involved to help in coaching these selected kids. Its founder-president Dr Atul Dhakne said, “Dr Rathod was my senior in college and on his request, we decided to take up this unique challenge. Our faculty comes from a pool of volunteers who are both MBBS students and practicing doctors.” Every weekend, LFU volunteers undertook the 14-hour journey from Pune to Melghat and coached kids. “Classes ran for 12 hours each on both days with volunteer Dr Santosh Chate coordinating the logistics,” said Dr Dhakhne. Since tribal kids came from a predominantly Marathi medium education, LFU focused on concept clarity while working on language skills as well, with ashramshala teachers, too, pitching in. But the NEET 2019 results were not as per expectations, both for LFU and the tribal department. Kasdekar qualified for a bachelor of medical science (BMS), but he wanted MBBS. All stakeholders decided to give it one more push and Kasdekar re-enrolled to crack NEET 2020. It was felt that students needed more academic interaction than just the weekend classes and so, a move to Pune was inevitable. That’s when the then principal secretary of state tribal development department Manisha Verma stepped in to help with the logistics. Verma said, “Our job is to provide a conducive ecosystem to these tribal children because they have tremendous potential. We had a hostel around 70-odd kms from Pune city, and that was readied. For the LFU faculty, the commute of 14 hours was now drastically reduced.” Following Verma’s intervention, over 30 tribal kids shifted to Pune in November 2019. While the new coaching schedule gained traction, another hurdle cropped up due to Covid-19. A hostel in Pune district had to close down due to lockdown and in May, the kids were back on a special bus to Amravati. Though Dr Rathod, who initiated the project had been transferred, the educational experiment was in safe hands in Dharni. Project officer Dr Mittali Sethi ensured that all the kids were accommodated at a hostel near her office. Right from coolers to facilities for online classes to tests series material were provided at the hostel. Sudhir Chavhan, a tribal department official, who stayed put with the kids in the hostel from May till September end said, “The determination on their faces gave us encouragement to carry on.” While LFU faculty joined through Zoom platform, the offline faculty included Dr Sethi herself. “I was an associate professor at a medical college before joining the civil services,” said Dr Sethi, who doubled up as their biology teacher. Since her probation tenure was also in Melghat, it was not difficult for Dr Sethi to connect with the local students. Out of the batch of 34, total 10 students qualified NEET. Dr Sethi said, “Seven among them are guaranteed an MBBS seat.” The NEET results on October 16 were not just a landmark for Kasdekar, but also for the unique partnership between the tribal department and LFU. But their biggest reward is how Kasdekar sums it all up. “After my MBBS, I will be back in Melghat to serve my people. They need doctors more than anyone else,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tribal-from-melghat-a-landless-labourers-son-set-to-be-a-doc/articleshow/78850766.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: SC verdict on 50% OBC quota in medical intake tomorrow||CHENNAI: The Supreme Court will pass the final verdict on Monday in a case moved by political parties from Tamil Nadu, including the ruling AIADMK and the DMK, challenging the Centre’s decision not to grant 50% reservation to OBCs in medical seats surrendered by the state in the All India Quota (AIQ) for undergraduate, postgraduate and dental courses in 2020-21. The Madras high court, on July 27, directed the Centre to constitute a committee to decide on providing reservation to other backward class students in AIQ medical admission. The court, however, had said any decision of the committee would be applicable only for future academic years and not this one, after which the state government appealed in SC. The Centre last week informed SC that it is not possible to extend reservation benefits to OBCs in medical and dental seats under AIQ in Tamil Nadu this year. The DMK too filed an intervening petition and its counsel stated that the Centre was intruding in the states’ commitments on medical seats to students. The DMK had also sought for filing of a report by the committee as directed by the Madras high court by October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sc-verdict-on-50-obc-quota-in-med-intake-tomorrow/articleshow/78850806.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Deluxe train to boost domestic tourism||Jaisalmer: IRCTC, a subsidiary of Indian Railways, will run the first deluxe train for ‘Padharo Rajasthan Yatra’ on November 18 from Delhi to Jaisalmer via Jodhpur after a gap of several months because of the pandemic. Domestic tourists, as per the LTC scheme announced by the Centre, can avail benefits on this train. In the wake of the pandemic, tourist numbers had fallen drastically which had led to the cancellation of the super-luxury train Palace On Wheels. However, with the re-introduction of this luxury train, there is a possibility that domestic tourism circuit might improve. The train, which was launched in 2018, has two restaurants, a modern kitchen, coaches with shower cubicles and sensor-based washrooms etc. The train has only first and second class AC. CCTV cameras have been installed for security along with separate guards. This train, with a journey time of four days and five nights, will take tourists to famous tourist spots in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The yatra has been started to promote domestic tourism under ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ scheme of the Centre. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deluxe-train-to-boost-domestic-tourism/articleshow/78851682.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik RTO to get 40 new assistant inspectors||NASHIK: The Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) will soon be getting 40 assistant inspectors to help the department streamline revenue generation and take action against erring motorist violating conditions of driving licences and permits. The 40 assistant inspectors are currently undergoing training and they would join the Nashik office after completing the course. Currently, there are 15 motor inspectors at the Nashik RTO office, though the sanctioned number is 30. The 15 inspectors perform works — related to vehicle registration, conducting driving tests, issuing licences and permits (for goods and passenger transport) etc. — under assistant RTO officers, the deputy RTO officer and the RTO officer. Meanwhile, six inspectors are part of three flying squads that take action against motorists caught violating conditions of driving licences, transport permits etc. Once the Nashik office gets the 40 assistant inspectors, work can be done more efficiently. Nashik RTO has a target of approximately Rs 300 crore every year. While the maximum revenue is generated from vehicle registrations, the RTO also gets revenue through fines slapped on erring motorists. Recently, district collector Suraj Mandhare told the media that the 40 new posts of assistant inspectors would be filled at the Nashik RTO. Mandhare said the RTO and the police would conduct joint drives to take action against erring motorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rto-to-get-40-new-assistant-inspectors/articleshow/78850071.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 25, 2020||India||Amarinder hits back at BJP politicians||NEW DELHI: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on Saturday termed the “selective politics and selective outrage” charge of Nirmala Sitharaman and Prakash Javadekar against his government and the Gandhi brother-sister duo over the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case “political puffery”, with no substance or basis to support their criticism. No BJP leader had uttered a word in protest against the acts of omission and commission of the UP government and police in the Hathras case, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amarinder-hits-back-at-bjp-politicians/articleshow/78852725.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Karnataka man poses as woman on social media for marriage, held||PANAJI: The cyber crime cell of the crime branch, arrested a male who was allegedly duping people on social media on the pretext of marriage by creating a woman’s fake profile. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena said that a case of online fraud was registered at the cyber crime police station on October 22, stating that from June 27 to September 16, one unknown social media user on the pretext of marriage asked the complainant to transfer a total amount of Rs 23 lakh. Police analysed all bank accounts, phones and online profiles linked to the accused. He was later traced to Davangere, Karnataka and taken into custody with the help of Karnataka Police, Cyber Cell. “The accused – Swapnil Naik, a native of Karnataka — is a habitual offender and was previously arrested twice by Curchorem police in fraud and cheating cases. He is a school dropout and has been cheating persons ever since he was a minor in age,” Saxena said. Police said the accused tried to move across different towns – Sangli, Bangalore and Davangere. The accused revealed that he used to pose as a female on social media platforms and trap innocent persons for financial gains. “He would present a sorry figure of himself and convince the victims to transfer money to him. He would also blackmail them, once they shared their personal details with the accused, and then trap them further. Further investigation is on to identify the victims and other persons involved in this network,” Saxena said. The cyber cell has advised persons to exercise precaution while interacting with unknown persons online. Social media users should refrain from sharing sensitive data online, and must always verify the authenticity of persons while making contact through common friends. Social media users should not add unknown persons to their social network, states the police advisory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnataka-man-poses-as-woman-on-social-media-for-marriage-held/articleshow/78852331.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Parents, institutes divided over govt’s plan to reopen schools||Jaipur: Private schools and parents gave a mixed response to the state government’s preparedness for reopening of senior classes likely from November. The state has prepared a detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) which has to be followed by all schools before and the during the opening of schools.Swayam Sevi Shikshan Sansthan Sangh (SSSSS), a body of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE), a body has been batting for the reopening of schools citing that neither their affiliated schools nor their students are equipped for the online class ecosystem.“All our schools, low-income to middle-income level, are ready with the broad protocol for Covid-19. The reopening of school only for senior classes will give us more classes and space. It will help us in maintaining social distancing and making proper arrangement for the students,” said Kisen Mittal, secretary of SSSSS.The body has cited that during the online classes, the learning outcome of their students is very poor. “The physical classes have no parallel with the online classes and Classes IX to XII are very important for any student from point of view of their career,” said Mittal.Raising issues related to the reopening of schools until the situation turns normal, Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan, which is a body of elite schools in the state said, “It is not possible to accommodate full strength of any class in the given situation. It means that schools have to continue both the format of teaching: online and offline. This situation will make it difficult for the teachers to conduct teaching in classrooms and at the same time through digital mode.”Another difficulty pointed out by Goyal, is the transportation of children. “School transport facility will be only possible if allowed to carry an optimum number of children. “To bring back normalcy, the opening of schools may be a positive step, but the risk is possible,” said Goyal.Parents association and parents also stand divided over the decision. Samir Babel, whose daughters are studying in Jayshree Periwal High School, feels that state should only allow economic activity to maintain the revenue generation and job creation.All Rajasthan Parents Forum Jaipur said that the state should consult with the parents before taking any decision. “Students may be numbers for schools and the government but for parents they are everything. I don’t think the situation is favourable for the students to open schools. The re-opening of schools is just a ploy to charge fees,” said Sunil Yadav, president of the forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-institutes-divided-over-govts-plan-to-reopen-schools/articleshow/78851689.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Meerut||After BJP, RLD, Bhim Army to intensify poll campaign in Bulandshahr today||MEERUT: Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Ravan will be kickstarting his campaign for the bypolls by addressing a gathering in support of its candidate Hazi Yamin for the Sadar constituency in Bulandshahr on Sunday. In the poll rally, which is to be held at Numaish grounds, more than 20,000 supporters are expected to attend the event, party office bearers claimed. A door-to-door mobilization is also being done by the local party workers to garner support and ensure a massive turnout at the gathering. The Sadar seat is witnessing a four-way contest between BJP, RLD, Congress and Bhim Army. The BJP has fielded Usha Sirohi, wife of deceased former MLA Virendra Sirohi whose death had necessitated the by-elections. While the RLD has placed its bet on Praveen Kumar, a candidate from the SP-RLD alliance. The polls are being conducted on seven seats in Uttar Pradesh. Chandrashekhar had recently gone to Bihar where he teamed up with Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party and was seen campaigning for the alliance. Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) have already held similar rallies in the district in support of their respective candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-bjp-rld-bhim-army-to-intensify-poll-campaign-in-bulandshahr-today/articleshow/78850090.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Put party before self: Poonia’s message to workers on b’day||Jaipur: BJP state president Satish Poonia sent out a message to his partymen to follow the principle of ‘Party comes first’, in order to fit in the structure of a party like the BJP. Celebrating his birthday on Saturday, Poonia talking to TOI said, “Every leader must understand that they exist because of the party and not the other way round,” giving a clear message to the opposite factions to bend down to the party rules. “This party has always rewarded those who are connected with the roots and have worked without any self goals,” said Poonia. Ever since he took over the reigns of the party on Vijayadashmi last year, he has come in conflict with the leaders who he claims are giving preference to themselves over the party. As per the lunar calendar, he will complete a year as party president on Sunday. “I am fortunate to have the opportunity to serve as the leader of a party which is known for its cadre. I have realised being on another side of the fence on the political side actually makes you stand with the people. From the issue of children’s deaths in Kota to locust attack in western Rajasthan, and from the government’s handling of Covid-19 to the political storm, this year was action-packed, but one teaching which carries me through unharmed is my fieldwork. I have worked almost 350 days and travelled the length and breadth of the state which gave me a first-hand understanding of the issues and subjects.” “We ran one of the biggest relief works in the state, mobilising party workers. The pandemic has made it clear: Established political parties can fight any adversity from the front, by using their network from a booth right to the top,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/put-party-before-self-poonias-message-to-workers-on-bday/articleshow/78851687.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Want to push pending projects: Khadse||Nashik: Senior politician Eknath Khadse on Saturday expressed relief that he is out of the BJP and said that he wishes to focus on pending developmental projects in north Maharashtra now.“The region has suffered a lot in the last six years because many irrigation and other projects, which were sanctioned in the past, did not find funds for execution. I want the government to provide funds and expedite the projects,” he said.Khadse made the demand during his maiden press conference here after quitting from the primary membership of the BJP and joining the NCP.Khadse took a halt in Nashik while on his way to his home-town of Muktainagar in Jalgaon district from Mumbai, where he joined the NCP on Friday. The senior leader was greeted in the city by a large number of his followers as well as NCP functionaries. Khadse, who worked hard for the Jan Sangh-BJP to reach every house-hold in Jalgaon and adjoining districts, said that after a long time he was feeling relaxed.“I was apprehensive that some investigation agencies would be asked to target me. I was suffocating during the past five years. Now, I am relieved and will be able to focus on developmental works in the region,” he said.Khadse has a huge fan following in Jalgaon and even in parts of Dhule district and Nashik district, including those who have been elected, on BJP tickets, to various self-governing bodies in the state. Asked if he would tell them to join NCP, the senior politician said that MLAs, MPs and even elected representatives to any of the local government bodies have been asked to exercise caution. “Many elected representatives from the region are in touch with me. As much as possible, they will be asked to sit separately by making Group ‘B’. If there are no issues about ‘anti-defection’ law, only then they can migrate to NCP. If they are ready to resign, a thought would be given to that,” he said. Khadse pointed out that a large numbers of his fans were eager to join the NCP. “Now, we will have a huge influx into the NCP from north Maharashtra region as the party workers did not have any kind of binding about the anti-defection law,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/want-to-push-pending-projects-khadse/articleshow/78850081.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 25, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 to restrict pilgrimage at UP's only Basilica from 4 lakh devotees to 100||MEERUT: The shrine of 'Our Lady of Graces', popularly known as Sardhana Church, is the only Basilica in Uttar Pradesh among 23 in the country. Every year, close to 4 lakh devotees from all over India and abroad arrive here for pilgrimage on the second Sunday of November, a tradition that began in 1957 when the image of Mother Mary blessed by the Pope was enshrined here by the Archbishop Evangelisti. But this year, it will be a silent affair owing to Covid restrictions. "Following the government guidelines, we will not have more than a hundred people gathering here and no gala event as witnessed in a normal year, otherwise the figure reaches anywhere between 3.5 lakh to 4 lakh and the entire government machinery helps us in managing the multitude," explained Father Pakianathan, administrator of the Basilica built by Begum Sumru, a nautch girl-turned-queen of the small principality of Sardhana in Meerut district. Another important event held on the annual pilgrimage is a procession in which relics, including splinters of what is believed to be the Holy Cross on which Christ was crucified 2,000 years ago, are carried from the Basilica to the Queen's palace, now St. Charles Inter College. It is located around 500 yards from each other. "The relics were presented to Begum Sumru by Pope Gregory XVI in around 1825. But none of the ceremonies will take place this year. We will hold a live Mass online," Father Pakianathan added. Christians - all over the country - have enormous faith in the miraculous powers of the shrine of Lady of Graces. According to Amit Pathak, author of '1857, a Living History' and fellow, Centre for Armed Forces Historical Research (CAFHR), Walter Reinhardt Sumru, a Franco-German mercenary of fortune while serving the Raja of Bharatpur had taken part in the siege of Delhi in 1765 when he chanced upon a 15-year-old dancing girl of Chandni Chowk, Farzana Zeb Un-Nissa. From then on she never left his side and accompanied him in all campaigns in the then restive Indian sub continent. In lieu of helping Mughal Emperor Alam Shah II on several occasions, Sumru was awarded the principality of Sardhana in 1773. After Sumru's death, Farzana embraced Christianity and became Joanna Sumru. Vested with sharp acumen, Begum Sumru soon earned the trust of Mughal Emperor and also that of European officers and was made regent of Sardhana in 1778. She ruled the region until her death in 1838. And, was later buried at the Basilica.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-to-restrict-pilgrimage-at-upsonly-basilica-from-4l-devotees-to-100/articleshow/78850084.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 25, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: New Covid cases below 3,000 after 122 days||CHENNAI: Fresh cases of Covid-19 fell below the 3,000 mark in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, when the state’s premier hospital and one of the largest tertiary care centres for Covid-19 — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital — reported zero Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours. The last time the state recorded daily case count below 3,000 was on June 24. After testing 78,896 people for Covid-19, the state found 2,886 results positive, making the case tally 7,06,136. The 35 deaths the state reported in the past 24 hours took the cumulative toll to 10,893. At the end of the day, there were 31,787 people still under treatment. On Saturday, RGGGH, which has treated more than 26,000 people, had 570 people – 270 who tested positive and 290 suspected to have Covid-19. “Except for 51 asymptomatic patients with co-morbidities, all other patients are on oxygen support,” said hospital dean Dr Therani Rajan. “In the past 24 hours, we did not report any Covid deaths. We are able to save most patients, even those with severe infection and comorbidities, as long as they reach our hospital on time,” he said. Across 24 government medical colleges there were 11 Covid deaths, while DME institutions added four more and other government institutions such as railways and ESI reported three deaths. Of the 15 deaths in private institutions, four people did not have comorbidities. The eleven northern districts together reported 16 deaths with 13 of them in the Chennai region. While Chennai reported three deaths, Chengalpet (5), Kancheepuram (4) and Tiruvallur (1) added 10 more. The northern districts together reported 1,541 cases including 779 in Chennai. While Vellore reported 63 fresh cases, Tirupattur logged 51, Tiruvannamalai recorded 50 and Cuddalore had 49 new cases. Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Ranipet had 35, 28 and 12 new cases respectively. There were 16,313 people still under treatment in the northern districts. Cases in the eight western districts were highest after the north. The western belt reported 802 fresh cases and 11 deaths. Coimbatore reported 287 cases followed by 148 in Salem, 101 in Tirupur and 98 in Erode. The west together had 9,713 active cases, compared to 3,204 in the south and 2,554 in the central zone. In the south, Madurai recorded 77 cases followed by Kanyakumari (52). The lowest number of cases were in Ramanathapuram (9) and Tenkasi (7). Together, the districts in the south reported five deaths, two from Tuticorin and one each from Dindigul, Kanyakumari and Madurai. Of the 252 cases in the central zone, Thanjavur had 61 followed by Trichy (50) and Tiruvarur (49). The districts together reported three deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/fresh-cases-below-3000-mark-for-1st-time-since-june/articleshow/78854088.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Shahjahanabad tableau: Revamp has just begun, long way to go||NEW DELHI: Delhi government wants to showcase the ‘Redevelopment of Shahjahanabad’ through its tableau at the Republic Day parade next year and has invited tenders for the conceptualisation, designing, fabrication and display of the tableau. The only problem, especially for the agency that is hired to create the diorama, is to locate the redevelopment to be exhibited. Except for the Chandni Chowk revamp, there is little otherwise to show. The tender issued by Sahitya Kala Parishad, which is under Delhi government’s department of art, culture & languages, mentions ‘Redevelopment of Shahjahanabad’ as the theme and sets a cost of Rs 25 lakh. “We have advertised so that we can explore all the ideas on how the concept can be depicted and pick the best one,” said Manisha Saxena, secretary (art, culture and language). The problem with the theme, however, is that the historic medieval Walled City, spread over 569 hectares, is a tableau of congestion, overcrowding, mesh of overhead electrical wires, dilapidated buildings and crumbling infrastructure. The only redevelopment that the area has seen in the last many decades is a section that has been pedestrianised and beautified in Chandni Chowk, which is expected to be ready for public use by next month. Shahjahanabad’s restoration efforts have been plagued by project objectives changing constantly in the past decades, from decongestion to redevelopment to urban rejuvenation. Plans for improvement of the historic quarter had begun in the 1930s itself, and the first Master Plan for Delhi in 1962 had suggested decongestion measures for the Walled City, including shifting out of 45% of the area’s 4.5 lakh population back then. The Master Plan for Delhi 2001 notified the Walled City as a ‘Special Area’ with different norms and planning standards than the rest of the city. In 1999, the Zonal Development Plan was formulated with the Walled City divided into 15 sub-zones. Then, Master Plan for Delhi 2021 spelt out a host of measures, none of which have been completely implemented by the executing agencies. To take care of all these, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation was incorporated in 2008. Under the extant plans, major roads in the area were to have been widened, encroachments removed, hazardous trades and industrial activity shifted, heritage structures conserved, and adequate parking and open spaces developed. Most plans have remained on paper. To relocate commercial and industrial establishments, five integrated freight complexes were to be developed by Delhi Development Authority, but only came up, in Narela and Ghazipur. The biggest hazard the area faces is fire. The Lal Kuan blaze of 1999, when 57 people were killed, is an example. “It is the biggest danger in the Walled City with fire-prone businesses, such as oil, paper, electrical goods,” said AK Jain, former commissioner (planning), DDA. Jain said that the Walled City was a “difficult area” due to its unique location and character. “There are too many commercial establishments and as the area is located between Old Delhi and New Delhi railway stations, apart from being close to Connaught Place and ITO, it is convenient to reach and all traders from north India congregate here,” Jain pointed out. Jain, however, felt that a beginning has been made with the Chandni Chowk redevelopment, which should slowly spread to other major localities of the Walled City. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, also thought the revamp could herald the improvement of the old capital area. “Chandni Chowk is the heart line of the Walled City and now other arterial roads should be aligned with the main project,” said Bhargava, adding that at a recent stakeholders’ online meeting held by DDA for discussions on Master Plan for Delhi 2041, he suggested an autonomous body for the region on the lines of New Delhi Municipal Council. “This is a special area that has to be treated in a special way,” insisted Bhargava. “And it needs an autonomous body with full powers. That is the only way of saving Shahjahanabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shahjahanabad-tableau-revamp-has-just-begun-long-way-to-go/articleshow/78851796.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Former Cong minister Vinayakdada Patil dies||Nashik: Former Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader ‘Vanadhipati’ Vinayakdada Patil died following a brief illness at a private hospital on Friday. Patil was cremated with state honours on Saturday morning at Amardham. The 77-year-old, known for his work in the agriculture and cooperative sectors and the field of literature. He was close to Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and had friends across the political divide. Patil was treated for his illness in Mumbai and was later shifted to Nashik. Later, he was again admitted to a private hospital for a kidney ailment and he passed away at the same hospital. Born in 1943 in the Kundewadi village of Niphad taluka, Patil had served state as the industries, cultural affairs, youth and sports minister. He was a pioneer in cooperative tree farming. He also promoted the cultivation of eucalyptus and jatropha across the country. His work in agriculture earned him the title of ‘Vanadhipati’ from renowned Dnyanpeeth awardee late V V Shirwadkar, popularly known as Kusumagraj. Patil started his political career by being elected as sarpanch of the village, and then there was no looking back for the soft-spoken leader. He was subsequently elected Niphad panchayat samiti chairperson, MLA of Niphad, then MLC and was also appointed minister in the cooperative sector. He was elected president of Bhuvikas Cooperative Banks (started by the British in 1935 for the farmers), director of Niphad Cooperative Sugar Factory and Nashik District Central Cooperative Bank. Patil has been conferred coveted awards including the Rolex Award in 1990-93, Indira Priyadarshini and Vriksha Mitra Award by the Government of Maharashtra. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray express grief over Patil’s demise and recalled how the sarpanch of Kundewadi village in Niphad taluka of Nashik district expanded his horizon to work for the betterment of the farmers. State civil supply and consumer protection minister and district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said he had lost a mentor in the form of Vinayakdada Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/former-cong-minister-vinayakdada-patil-dies/articleshow/78850100.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Bus carrying marriage party turns turtle, 1 dies||Jaipur: A woman was killed and 20 people were injured when a bus carrying a wedding party overturned on NH-7 in Dausa around 7am on Saturday. The reason appears to be the driver trying to prevent hitting stray cattle on the road. The deceased was identified as 26-year-old Sana Khan. “It appears that suddenly a stray cattle came in front of the bus due to which the driver lost control and the vehicle overturned. While Khan died on the spot, others were taken to a hospital though no one sustained very serious injuries,” said police. The woman who hailed from Kho Nagoriyan in Jaipur was part of the party which was returning from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Her body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. Last month, two army officers were killed in a road accident after the vehicle in which they were travelling in toppled on National Highway-11 near Bikaner apparently while trying to avoid hitting a stray cow, though tyre bust was cited as another reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bus-carrying-marriage-party-turns-turtle-1-dies/articleshow/78851695.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Two MNIT employees arrested for taking bribe||Jaipur: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested two employees of Malaviya National Institute of Technology (MNIT) Jaipur while accepting a bribe of Rs 49,000. The two persons were identified as Birbal Singh, who is the assistant registrar of accounts, along with Naresh Kumar Jangid, who is an assistant engineer.Additional SP Sanjeev Nain said, “We received a complaint on Saturday that the accused were asking 7% commission from the contractor who was doing renovation work of the mechanical lab at MNIT. After checking the veracity of the allegations, we laid a trap and arrested the accused.” While Jangid was trapped accepting a bribe of Rs 42,000, the remaining Rs 7,000 were accepted by Singh.Elaborating on the investigation, Nain said, “We will also look at the involvement of senior officials in the matter and find out if they also had a set commission. The arrested person will be questioned to get details about the others.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-mnit-employees-arrested-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/78851691.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Salem||Water level in Mettur dam reaches 100ft||SALEM: The water level in Mettur dam has reached 100ft for the third time in a month on Saturday evening. The water level stood at 99.39ft on Saturday afternoon. The inflow to the dam was 18,694 cusecs. “The outflow was reduced from 12,000 to 9,000 cusecs on Saturday after good rain in delta districts,” a public works department official said. The water level in dam had reached 100ft for the first time in this year on September 26 and later again on October 15. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/water-level-in-mettur-dam-reaches-100ft/articleshow/78851711.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||NTSE will have amended curriculum of Class X||Ajmer: The National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) will be held on December 12. The question paper will be based on Class IX’s full syllabus and new reduced syllabus of Class X of this year.The NTSE will be conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education on the bases of NCERT guidelines.Board chairman D P Jalori said the new reduced syllabus of Class X is designed accordingly so that the basic principles and theories will remain in the syllabus. Students who are in Class X this year can apply for NTSE through their school. Schools have to file the applications for NTSE online on the board website.Students who are appearing for NTSE will have to study the full syllabus of Class IX and the new amended syllabus of Class X. This will also help students to prepare according to their upcoming board examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ntse-will-have-amended-curriculum-of-class-x/articleshow/78851719.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: New Covid cases below 3,000 after 122 days||CHENNAI: Fresh cases of Covid-19 fell below the 3,000 mark in Tamil Nadu on Saturday, when the state’s premier hospital and one of the largest tertiary care centres for Covid-19 — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital — reported zero Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours. The last time the state recorded daily case count below 3,000 was on June 24. After testing 78,896 people for Covid-19, the state found 2,886 results positive, making the case tally 7,06,136. The 35 deaths the state reported in the past 24 hours took the cumulative toll to 10,893. At the end of the day, there were 31,787 people still under treatment. On Saturday, RGGGH, which has treated more than 26,000 people, had 570 people – 270 who tested positive and 290 suspected to have Covid-19. “Except for 51 asymptomatic patients with co-morbidities, all other patients are on oxygen support,” said hospital dean Dr Therani Rajan. “In the past 24 hours, we did not report any Covid deaths. We are able to save most patients, even those with severe infection and comorbidities, as long as they reach our hospital on time,” he said. Across 24 government medical colleges there were 11 Covid deaths, while DME institutions added four more and other government institutions such as railways and ESI reported three deaths. Of the 15 deaths in private institutions, four people did not have comorbidities. The eleven northern districts together reported 16 deaths with 13 of them in the Chennai region. While Chennai reported three deaths, Chengalpet (5), Kancheepuram (4) and Tiruvallur (1) added 10 more. The northern districts together reported 1,541 cases including 779 in Chennai. While Vellore reported 63 fresh cases, Tirupattur logged 51, Tiruvannamalai recorded 50 and Cuddalore had 49 new cases. Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Ranipet had 35, 28 and 12 new cases respectively. There were 16,313 people still under treatment in the northern districts. Cases in the eight western districts were highest after the north. The western belt reported 802 fresh cases and 11 deaths. Coimbatore reported 287 cases followed by 148 in Salem, 101 in Tirupur and 98 in Erode. The west together had 9,713 active cases, compared to 3,204 in the south and 2,554 in the central zone. In the south, Madurai recorded 77 cases followed by Kanyakumari (52). The lowest number of cases were in Ramanathapuram (9) and Tenkasi (7). Together, the districts in the south reported five deaths, two from Tuticorin and one each from Dindigul, Kanyakumari and Madurai. Of the 252 cases in the central zone, Thanjavur had 61 followed by Trichy (50) and Tiruvarur (49). The districts together reported three deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-cases-below-3000-mark-for-1st-time-since-june/articleshow/78850830.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Meerut||Two staff of cash loading company wanted for stealing Rs 89 lakh from ATMs||MEERUT: An FIR has been registered against two employees of a private firm which provides ATM cash loading services to private banks for allegedly stealing Rs 89 lakh from multiple ATMs in Baghpat district. The theft came to light during a recent internal audit. The accused are absconding, and police have formed teams to trace them. According to complainant Sanjay Rawat, who is the operation in-charge of the private firm, Ravindra Kumar and Abhinav, who used to work as cash custodians, were responsible for loading cash at three ATMs of a private bank in Khekda area. A recent audit in the company brought forth a huge deficit where it was claimed that between May 11 to June 30 this year a whopping Rs 89 lakh cash was embezzled. Sub-inspector Munesh Pal Singh, revealing the preliminary findings of the probe, said, “While placing cash in a defunct ATM, the credit is not registered and the employees of the ATM cash loading company have to manually report the amount credited in the ATM. Most likely the accused must have exploited the situation and siphoned off cash while duping their supervisors.” “Due to prevailing lockdown conditions, there was possibly a lack of due diligence on the part of the company supervisors that they could not get hold of the misappropriation, which was later highlighted in the audit," Munesh added. Meanwhile, the accused employees are on the run. “We are gathering evidence to establish the claims of cheating, following which efforts will be made to trace them,” another police officer requesting anonymity said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-staff-of-cash-loading-company-wanted-for-stealing-rs-89-lakh-from-atms/articleshow/78850093.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan board slashes syllabus of Classes IX-XII||AJMER: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education on Saturday reduced the syllabus for Classes IX to XII by up to 40 per cent because of the pandemic. The move comes after the CBSE cut the syllabus by 30 per cent. Board chairman DP Jalori announced to the new syllabus after getting the clearance from the high level committee. Jalori said the committee, which consists of subject specialists, said emphasis should be given on knowledge-based chapters. Even the procedure adopted by the CBSE in these classes was studied carefully. The board also directed the committee not to remove subject-based chapters. The motive was that students should understand the basics of every subject and able to describe it. Sources said there was a demand from students as well as schools to reduce the syllabus. The committee comprised Maharana Pratap Chouhan Government College principal Munnalal Agarwal, Rajasthan University retired associate professor Madan Lori, Rajasthan University associate professor Shalender Gupta, assistant director of college education Sunita Pachori and Neeraj Bhargava of MDS University of Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-board-slashes-syllabus-of-classes-ix-xii/articleshow/78851727.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Salem||Salem: Woman, 65, dies 5 days after accident involving police van||SALEM: A 65-year-old woman who suffered severe injuries after a police van rammed the car in which she was travelling died in a private hospital here on early Saturday. R Soundaram, 65, of Sankarapuram in Kallakurichi district, suffered injuries after a Salem range striking force van that was part of the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s convoy rammed the car at Kattukottai near Attur on October 18. She was returning with her family members to Sankarapuram from Rasipuram. Her son R Boopathiraja, 45, her daughter-in-law Priya, 38, and her son-in-law G Sugendran, 51, also suffered injuries. Sugendran was at the wheels. At Kattukottai on Salem-Chennai national highway, police personnel signalled the driver of the car to take diversion to make way for the convoy. “They used a torch to signal the car to get off the national highway,” Sugendran said. “I was confused, so I stopped the car on the road,” he added. At that time, the van suddenly hit the car from behind, a cop at the Attur police station said. All the four were first taken to the Attur government hospital and later shifted to a private hospital in Salem. After the postmortem at the Salem GH, relatives of the deceased refused to get the body and protested seeking action against the van driver, Sudhakar, who they alleged was overspeeding. After police assured action, Soundaram’s relatives received the body. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/woman-65-dies-5-days-after-accident-involving-police-van/articleshow/78851729.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Six bookies held for betting on IPL ties||JAIPUR: The police on Friday night arrested six bookies for allegedly betting on the IPL matches in Jaipur. The state’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) conducted the raid following which the accused were handed over to the local police. The bookies apparently have international links and cops are interrogating them to get more details about the network. The accused were arrested from Sez police station area. They have been identified as Shubham Prajapat (21), Ankit Sharma (24), Tarun Kumar (29), Saurabh Sharma (24), Indra Kumar (24) and Chirag Mehta (30). “Acting on a tip-off, we conducted a raid on Friday night and arrested the six persons who were bookies and were betting on IPL matches. We have seized diaries which have accounts of over Rs 25 lakh. The investigation is underway and the accused are being questioned,” said an official who is part of the probe. Apart from the diaries, cops also recovered two laptops and 25 mobile phones from the accused. With IPL matches underway in UAE, the Rajasthan police have been regularly arresting alleged bookies. In a major action against them earlier this month, the ATS had simultaneously raided five locations in three states and arrested seven bookies from Cyberabad in Telangana while the remaining from Jaipur. In Delhi and Nagaur, the accused managed to escape the cops leaving their instruments behind. Police also recovered multiple mobile phones and laptops which were being used for illegal betting. Cops had recovered Rs 47 lakh as well from one of the accused’s house in Jaipur. They had also found diaries which had accounts running into many crores of rupees. The usual modus operandi is that the accused keep noting down all the calls for bets. Most of the bets are passed on to the person sitting at a higher level. On which they get commission. There are a few websites on which they keep monitoring the rates of bets. The settlement is done through hawala transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-bookies-held-for-betting-on-ipl-ties/articleshow/78851741.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nashik||Supply officer scraps licences of 23 shops||Nashik: The district supply officer (DSO) has terminated licences of 23 fair price shopkeepers functioning under the public distribution system (PDS) across Nashik district for either overcharging for goods or for short delivery of the goods to the beneficiaries. The shopkeepers were found guilty of short delivery of goods to beneficiaries amid the outbreak of Covid-19 since March 2020, said Arvind Narsikar, the DSO. After the nationwide lockdown was announced from March 2020, many people were stuck in their houses without any source of income. The state government had decided to provide foodgrain through the PDS to all the beneficiaries. Additional foodgrain was also made available either free or at subsidised rates. The fair price shops (FPS) is the source to provide food to the needy and the beneficiaries in the rural and slum areas of urban townships. While there have been examples of fair price shopkeepers going out of their way to provide relief to the people, there were shopkeepers who were engaged in overcharging and short delivery of goods to the beneficiaries. “We had received complaints about the short delivery of goods and overcharging at regular intervals. Our officers conducted inspections of the shops during the period and found the quota of foodgrain available in the shop was not matching with the register figures,” the officer said. “It was obvious that they had delivered less to the beneficiaries as the balance of foodgrain was much more than that should have been considering the sale register. The balance would have been sold in the grey market at an additional cost. So, action against such 23 shopkeepers was taken by terminating their licences,” Narsikar said. The officer also pointed out that there were12 other fair price shopkeepers whose licences were suspended for three months because of the irregularities they had committed during the period. All these shopkeepers have been penalized collectively for Rs 43,000 as per the norms of the supply department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/supply-officer-scraps-licences-of-23-shops/articleshow/78850107.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 25, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan board slashes syllabus of Classes IX-XII||AJMER: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education on Saturday reduced the syllabus for Classes IX to XII by up to 40 per cent because of the pandemic. The move comes after the CBSE cut the syllabus by 30 per cent. Board chairman DP Jalori announced to the new syllabus after getting the clearance from the high level committee. Jalori said the committee, which consists of subject specialists, said emphasis should be given on knowledge-based chapters. Even the procedure adopted by the CBSE in these classes was studied carefully. The board also directed the committee not to remove subject-based chapters. The motive was that students should understand the basics of every subject and able to describe it. Sources said there was a demand from students as well as schools to reduce the syllabus. The committee comprised Maharana Pratap Chouhan Government College principal Munnalal Agarwal, Rajasthan University retired associate professor Madan Lori, Rajasthan University associate professor Shalender Gupta, assistant director of college education Sunita Pachori and Neeraj Bhargava of MDS University of Ajmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rajasthan-board-slashes-syllabus-of-classes-ix-xii/articleshow/78856464.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s recovery rate touches 89%, but deaths still a worry||NAGPUR: Vidarbha’s Covid-19 recovery rate touched the 89%-mark on Saturday with 1,464 patients beating Covid-19 as against 1,157 new patients. Nagpur district reported only 369 new patients, lowest in the last 88 days. With this, of the 1.85 lakh cases reported till date, 1.63 lakh have recovered in the region. But, the administration is still struggling to control deaths due to Covid-19. Even on Saturday, 38 deaths were reported from the region. The death toll of Vidarbha surpassed the 5,000-mark while the toll in October reached 1,021 in 24 days. This number may be less than September but considering that the peak of Covid-19 is now over, the consistent case fatality rate of 2.71% is a matter of concern for the region. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is higher than state as well as national. On Saturday, except Akola, all districts of Vidarbha reported deaths. They include Nagpur (19), Chandrapur (4), Washim (4), Wardha (3), Bhandara (2), Gadchiroli (2), Gondia (1), Amravati (1), Yavatmal (1), and Buldhana (1). Cases were reported from Nagpur (369), Chandrapur (197), Gadchiroli (102), Buldhana (91), Bhandara (87), Gondia (85), Amravati (61), Yavatmal (57), Wardha (53), Akola (34), Washim (21). The recoveries were Nagpur (469), Chandrapur (302), Gondia (120), Bhandara (104), Buldhana (97), Wardha (90), Amravati (78), Gadchiroli (71), Washim (61), Yavatmal (57), and Akola (15). Akola: The district was the only in Vidarbha on Saturday not to report any Covid-19 death. Even the number of patients reported was 34 as against more than 250 tests conducted in a day. Akola now has 8,240 cases, 7,474 recoveries, 270 deaths and 496 patients under treatment, lowest in Vidarbha. Gondia: Total 85 new patients were added to the tally while 120 recovered in the district. An 83-year-old patient breathed his last at GMC Gondia. The number of total recoveries surpassed the 8,000-mark with a recovery rate of 87.96%. Now, Gondia has 9,229 cases, 8,118 recoveries, 118 deaths and 993 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The number of under-treatment patients in Bhandara district came under 1,000 on Saturday. With 85 new patients reported in a day, the total caseload has reached 9,229. As against this, 120 patients recovered in a day. Two patients died during treatment. Bhandara now has 8,118 patients recovered and 118 deaths. Total 993 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Two deaths of under-treatment patients and 102 new cases were reported in Gadchiroli. The death toll reached 48 while 880 patients are under treatment in the district. Buldhana: Covid-19 situation is improving in Buldhana. Of the 700-plus reports received on Saturday, 91 tested positive. On the other hand, 97 patients recovered. One patient died during treatment. Now, the district has 8,967 cases, 8,204 recoveries and 120 deaths. Total 643 patients are under treatment. Washim: Only 21 new cases, least in Vidarbha, were reported in Washim on Saturday. Total 61 patients recovered while 4 deaths were added to the district’s Covid death toll. These deaths had happened in the last seven days and were added after the reconciliation exercise. Now, Washim has 557 patients under treatment. Chandrapur: With discharge of 302 patients, the number of recoveries outnumbered 197 new cases. While the caseload now stands at 14,584, the total recoveries amounts to 11,439, leaving 2,928 active patients under treatment. Four deaths were recorded the in district in the last 24 hours. They include two from Chandrapur city and one each from Chimur and Wardha. The death toll has climbed to 217. Yavatmal: The district recorded the death of a 67-year-old man from Darwha. In the last 24 hours, 553 test reports were received of which 57 tested positive. There are now 451 active cases in the district. The caseload of Yavatmal is 9,879 of which 8,761 patients have been were discharged. On Saturday, 38 patients were discharged after recovery. Amravati: The district recorded 61 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking its total caseload to 15,900. Recoveries reached 14,608 after 78 patients got discharge from Covid hospital. The recovery rate is now 91.9%. One death took the toll to 358. This left 934 active cases under treatment. Wardha: Two men (50 and 79 years) from Wardha tehsil and a 66-year-old woman from Arvi succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday. Total 53 new cases and 90 recoveries were also registered. The caseload of the district is now 6,073. Total 562 patients are undergoing treatment while 90 were discharged on Saturday. Total recoveries in the district have reached 5,315. The new cases were from Wardha (24), Deoli (11), Hinganghat (8), Ashti (5), Selu and Samudrapur (2 each) and Karanja (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vids-recovery-rate-touches-89-but-deaths-still-a-worry/articleshow/78850829.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Youth held with 9.5kg ganja in Pushkar, scooter seized||Ajmer: Pushkar police on Saturday arrested a youth with 9.5kg of ganja and also seized his two-wheeler.According to police, a patrolling team stopped a motorcycle-borne man on Nai Sadak. On interrogation, he was unable to reply satisfactorily. When police searched his belongings, they found 9.5kg ganja in his possession. The accused was identified as Ugmaram of Thawala village.Police said he was on his way to Pushkar to sell the drug and was waiting for someone on Nai Sadak. Police registered a case under NDPS Act and arrested the accused.Police said Mangliyawas police station about the arrest as Thawala village comes under their jurisdiction. Cops are now trying to find out the person to whom the drug consignment was to be delivered in Pushkar town. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-held-with-9-5kg-ganja-in-pushkar-scooter-seized/articleshow/78851781.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nashik||CCTV cams installed at Covid facility||Nashik: CCTV cameras have been installed in the four-storey Covid-19 facility in the civil hospital to keep a check on the treatment provided to the patients.The display of the CCTV cameras has been put up in the office of the civil hospital’s civil surgeon.“The aim at installing the system is to keep a close eye on all the treatment and facilities provided to the patients suffering from Covid-19 and admitted in the dedicated covid hospital,” said collector Suraj Mandhare.The building constructed during the Kumbh Mela in civil hospital has been fully converted into a dedicated covid hospital with a capacity of 100 beds.The move comes after a sting operation was carried out which claimed that Remdesivir injection vials from the hospital were being sold outside. Following which, an enquiry committee was set up by the civil surgeon, Ratna Raokhande.The enquiry committee found that the vial in question was from the stock of the civil hospital and a contractual employee got it.Mandhare said, “The network of 20 CCTV camera detects every corner of the four-storey building constructed during the Kumbh Mela. All the rooms, corridor, lifts are under its surveillance.”There were plans to ensure the permanent vigilance system in this hospital for maintain safety of patients and the staff, and accordingly it was cleared after which it was executed by the Public Works Department. Now, this will be a permanent infrastructure available. There were several complaints from patients admitted to various Covid facilities of the government including the DCH and the DCHCs (Dedicated Covid Health Centre) of the staff keeping distance from the patients out of fear of contracting the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cctv-cams-installed-at-covid-facility/articleshow/78850120.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 25, 2020||Nashik||NMC teams told to upload pics of families surveyed||Nashik: Many survey teams, that had been formed by the civic body to conduct citizens’ health checkups as a part of the state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ programme, are allegedly still continuing to discharge their duties in a shoddy manner. Kailas Jadhav, commissioner of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), had recently cautioned the survey teams to carry out the tasks properly and effectively. However, according to NMC sources, many of these teams are not visiting each household to check the residents. It has been alleged that some of the teams are not even using the pulse oximeters and thermal scanners that have been provided by the NMC. Jadhav has taken serious cognizance of this. He has directed all the six divisional officers to ensure that the photographs of the families surveyed are taken by the survey team and the same are uploaded on the WhatsApp groups that have been made specifically by the six divisional officers for this programme. The order of the commissioner has to be implemented with immediate effect. The objective of the survey is to break the chain of coronavirus. “There have been complaints by some residents that the survey teams are not performing their duties properly. There are complaints that they are not conducting surveys of all the families in residential buildings. But it is also a fact that sometimes, the residents are out of their homes for some work,” said a senior NMC official. “During a meeting on this issue, the municipal commissioner had directed all the six divisional officers to ensure effective health surveys. Moreover, instructions have been given to take photographs of the families with details and upload the information on WhatsApp groups of the divisional officers,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-teams-told-to-upload-pics-of-families-surveyed/articleshow/78850125.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 25, 2020||Meerut||UP cop who was suspended for growing a beard returns clean shaven, reinstated||MEERUT: Two days after a sub-inspector was suspended in Uttar Pradesh for growing a beard without permission, Intizar Ali, 46, was reinstated by the Baghpat SP. Ali returned, on Saturday, clean shaven with an "application admitting his mistake". The sub-inspector was posted at Ramala police station and had been repeatedly warned in the past. Police uniform rules in the country do not allow beards, though moustaches are allowed. Last year, UP had revised the allowance for maintaining moustaches and sideburns of the Provincial Armed Constabulary from Rs 50 to Rs 250. In 2013, the Supreme Court had said that a Maharashtra cop wishing to maintain a beard during “religious period” should seek prior permission. While Ali had earlier claimed he had sought permission in November last year, Baghpat SP refuted the claim. The suspension had kicked up a political storm. It drew criticism from Deoband ulemas as well. Ali refused to comment on the revocation of his suspension. "Intizar Ali came with an application stating that he had made a mistake and now he has followed the orders as desired. He was clean shaven and I immediately reinstated him," Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-cop-who-was-suspended-for-growinga-beard-returns-clean-shaven-reinstated/articleshow/78850124.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury continues to dip in Rajasthan, Pilani coldest at 13.4°C||JAIPUR: A continuous dip in mercury has been recorded from across the state. Many places in the state have already started recording their minimum temperatures below 20°C. Pilani remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 13.4°C was recorded, Met reports said on Saturday. Attributing the continued dip in temperatures to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that temperatures will further fall in the state in the next couple of days. People in Jaipur woke up to a relatively chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 20.5°C was recorded. “Temperatures in Jaipur are continuously falling. Ideally for winters the minimum temperature should be on or below 15°C. It will take another week for mercury to fall further in Jaipur and for winters to start,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. Pilani was followed by Churu where a minimum temperature of 13.8°C was recorded, Sriganganagar recorded 15.6°C, Udaipur 15.8°C, Chittorgarh 16.0°C, Jodhpur 17.7°C, Jaisalmer 18.6°C, Ajmer and Kota 19.2°C each, Barmer 19.3°C and a minimum temperature of 21.2°C was recorded in Phalodi (Jodhpur). Jaipur Met office stated that temperatures are continuously dipping at many places in the state. “Ideally for winters to set in, minimum temperatures first start dipping and thereafter, it impacts the maximum temperatures. The ongoing climatic conditions are suggesting that in a week, by first week of November, almost every part of the state will see the arrival of winters,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. Jaipur Met office stated that a few spells of the western disturbances may guide the mercury to take an upward swing next week. “However, this would be for a very limited period. By the end of next week, majority of the state would see winters,” said a senior officer of the Jaipur Met office. In its forecast, the Met office stated that mercury will further dip across the state in the next 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-continues-to-dip-in-raj-pilani-coldest-at-13-4c/articleshow/78851763.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Mahalaxmi’s utsav murti adds to festive splendor||Kolhapur: The beautifully carved and decorated idol of Goddess Mahalaxmi at the Mahalaxmi temple in Kolhapur is a popular attraction. But equally significant, albeit less-known, is the antique and rare ‘utsav’ murti (idol) of the Goddess. Utsav murti, which means festive idol, is a replica made in metal. This ‘Sinharud’ idol, depicting the Goddess sitting on a lion, is made of copper with silver and brass plates. The plates are moulded on the idol in such a way that it looks as if the idol itself is made of a mix of three metals. Another speciality is that the idol doesn’t have any welding joints, signifying the uniqueness and creativity of the artisan centuries ago. This idol of Mahalaxmi is sculpted in the South Indian style. Describing the idol, temple researcher Umakant Raninga said: “The 12-inch tall and 4-inch wide idol is made of copper and has a silver face and brass armaments. The plate forming back pedestal of the idol is also made in brass. This festive idol has the same armaments that are seen on the main idol of the Goddess Mahalaxmi in the sanctum sanctorum. The idol has a ‘Sayoni Linga’ on its head with a snake behind the linga. Unlike the main idol of Mahalaxmi, which is in standing posture, this festive idol depicts the Goddess holding her mace (gada) in a hand is sitting on her lion” The maker of the idol is not known and there are no historic records now. Records only suggest that the idol was in use after the era of Karveer Chhatrapati Sambhaji-II, around 250 years ago. For centuries, this festive idol has been used for ‘Snanadhi kumkumarchan’. It is decorated and taken out in the palanquin for every Friday-night palki, and during the nagar-pradakshina, the Tremboli rath-yatra and on Dasara. This idol is taken out and brought inside the premises only from the northern entrance of the main temple, added Raninga. Historian Indrajeet Sawant said, “This idol looks very unique and is in the South Indian style. The artistic style resembles that of the Chalukya era, dating back to the 12th century. And the silver face and the brass used on the utsav murti’s armaments must have been made later to cover the tarnishes. This idol is handled only by the priests of the Mahalaxmi temple and has a separate throne.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mahalaxmis-utsav-murti-adds-to-festive-splendor/articleshow/78850132.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Criminal on the run for 2 yrs held||Jaisalmer: The police on Saturday arrested a notorious history-sheeter, who was absconding since 2018, his two accomplices in Barmer. Two pistols, seven bullets, knife and an SUV were recovered from their possession.According to Barmer SP Anand Sharma, Chauhatan SHO Bhutaram along with his team arrested one Dharmaram (25) and his accomplices Babulal Jat (27) and Jagdish (20) from the house in Barmer. Dharmaram was arrested in a murder case in 2017 in Jodhpur and released on bail. He murdered one Poonam Chand in Dhorimanna area on September 6, 2018 and was absconding for last two years. A reward of Rs 1,000 was announced on him, he said.Sharma said five cases of murder, thrashing, smuggling of drugs are lodged against Dharmaram in Chauhatan, Dhorimanna Jodhpur commissionerate and chittorgarh district. There are seven cases against Babulal of which four are at Chauhatan police station and Ramsar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/criminal-on-the-run-for-2-yrs-held/articleshow/78851801.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bhopal||Congress government deceived people of MP: Shivraj Singh||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan alleged that Congress and Kamal Nath have bluffed with the people of the state and deceived them in the name of farm loan waiver. He was addressing bypoll rallies in Morena, Gwalior, Ambah and Dimni on Saturday. Chouhan said Congress is trying to fool the people of Madhya Pradesh again. “Nath government did nothing for farmers, youths and women and scrapped all development works. Now they are claiming that if their government had survived, they would have made large-scale recruitments in government jobs. You did not do it in 15 months, now answer why you could not deliver?,” he asked. “Ravana also deceived Mata Sita and abducted her. People should not fall for the Congress bluff this time”, Chouhan said. “Nath never stepped out of Vallabh Bhavan to understand the pain of the common man and is now asking for votes”, said Chouhan in Ambah. He further said BJP could have formed the government after 2018 assembly polls. “We were short of majority by a few seats, but our vote percentage was more. Congress formed the government with the help of Independents and few of them were also ready to come with us. At one point, we even considered forming the government, but then we decided Congress has won more seats, so let it form the government and we will sit in the opposition”, he said. “We were hopeful that Congress returned to power after fifteen years and will work for people and that the party will fulfill promises in its manifesto. But it did not do anything in its 15-month tenure”, Chouhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-govt-deceived-people-of-mp-shivraj/articleshow/78851764.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Cop’s son abducted, returns home in dramatic manner||NAGPUR: Kidnapping of a 12-year-old boy for Rs 10 lakh ransom from police headquarters premises on Katol road has raised some baffling questions. Even after 24 hours of the incident, cops are yet to reach to any conclusion. The boy, who was allegedly abducted by some unidentified persons on Friday at around 1.30pm, claimed to have fled after dodging the kidnappers and returned home safe at around 6.30pm the same day. The kidnappers had called up the boy’s father Kamlesh Jawdikar, a constable attached to Wadi police station, for ransom and threatened to take drastic step if the amount was not paid. Police sources said that the boy, a Std VI student, has claimed he was playing on the police headquarters premises when the perpetrators approached him on the pretext of asking an address. The boy stated that he was whisked away in a Maruti van blindfolded. As per the boy’s version, the kidnappers took him to Buti Bori via Wardha road before coming to Ganeshpeth bus stand. The boy said he escaped when the kidnappers got down at the bus stand for tea and snacks. He then reached his relative’s place in Itwari. Police said the kidnappers first called the boy’s father at around 2.30pm from Buti Bori and the second call was made at 6.20pm. They reportedly asked the constable to meet them with the cash near Khadki near Buti Bori. The second call was probably made when the boy had already escaped from the clutches of kidnappers. It’s learnt, the first call was made from the mobile of a vendor whom the police have rounded up. The second call was made from the cell phone of a tea seller at Ganeshpeth. Sources said an acquaintance of one the boy’s parents was likely behind the kidnapping. The prime suspect and the boy know each other well. A couple of days ago, it is learnt, family of the suspect had confronted the parent over objectionable closeness with the former. The suspect reportedly runs a family business in Gittikhadan. Sources from the police said the CCTV footage procured from a spot confirmed presence of the prime suspect. Gittikhadan police have registered an offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-son-abducted-returns-home-in-dramatic-manner/articleshow/78850845.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 25, 2020||Trichy||Over 2 Lakh Covid-19 samples tested at KAPVGMC lab||TRICHY: The microbiology laboratory at K A P Viswanatham government medical college (KAPVGMC) in Trichy completed two lakh Covid-19 tests through RT-PCR (real time-polymerase chain reaction) on October 22, with the last one lakh done in just two months. The laboratory touched the milestone on October 22, after reaching the one lakh mark on August 21. The lab, which earlier handled samples from Trichy’s neighbouring districts too, finished 2,03,428 tests as on Saturday since commencing the testing on March 24. Professor and head of the department (in charge) Dr Lakshmi Kandasamy said the induction of automated extractors, efficacy of testing kits and the experience gained through the pandemic helped improve their productivity. The lab which started off with one RT-PCR machine, got four more from the administration and other institutions. Turnaround-time (TAT) of the tests was reduced to 24 hours now from 36 hours to 48 hours earlier. The automated, instead of manual, extraction of RNA helped them a lot in reducing TAT. If the duration of RNA extraction through manual mode was one hour for 24 samples, 96 samples are now extracted in 26 minutes through the automatic extractor. Analysis of the 96 samples takes only 40 minutes instead of two hours and 40 minutes earlier. The HoD said sample collection and RNA extraction would be risky tasks when technicians are more exposed to the virus. “Human being tends to become complacent over the period of regular work. But we made it clear that no one without safety gears will enter the lab to ensure maximum safety,” she said adding that a few of their doctors, post-graduates and lab technicians were down with Covid-19, but they had contracted the disease from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-2l-covid-samples-tested-at-kapvgmc-lab/articleshow/78851813.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 25, 2020||Trichy||Perambalur ‘dinosaur eggs’ hatch as memes in social media||TRICHY: Though an experts team concluded that the spherical and oval shaped sediments found in a tank in Kunnam town in Perambalur district are not dinosaur eggs, netizens are in no mood to leave them. They ensured that the eggs hatched and spread in social media and instant messaging apps in the form of memes. From Hollywood’s Jurassic Park to jallikattu, the meme makers applied their creativity in picking concepts for humorously mocking the dinosaur eggs’ claim. As memes are about utilising the trending topics to get more likes and page views, meme makers in central Tamil Nadu said that they capitalised on the #Perambalur #Dinosaur #JurassicPark hashtags. Locals took the humorous memes mocking them in a sportive manner. They claimed that such focus will help people realise the significance of fossils being found in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. “Memes will reach people and prompt them to search more about the discovery of fossils in both districts. Not many of us are aware of the studies which mention that the two districts were once a seabed,” Thirukumaran K, a resident of Udayarpalayam said. On Friday, the team of experts, comprising Trichy museum curator (in-charge) C Sivakumar and Ariyalur fossil museum (in-charge) Uma Shankar along with revenue officials inspected the objects in Venkatan tank, and said they were formed out of concretion process. Some of them had ammonoids, an extinct marine species in the nucleus over which various minerals were deposited to appear as a nodule. Around 84 objects, measuring 60 inches to 94 inches in diameter, were recovered while desilting the tank on Wednesday. “Three objects had ammonites in the nucleus. They were visible to our naked eye. Similarly, other objects might have some other matter over which minerals such as calcium might have got deposited. The sediments are certainly not dinosaur eggs,” Sivakumar said. Since Kunnam area used to be a seabed millions of years ago, the team said that such objects were common in the vicinity. The team also suggested that three of the objects with ammonite deposition, are shifted to Trichy or Ariyalur museums. Some of the objects were identified as too brittle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/perambalur-dinosaur-eggs-hatch-as-memes-in-social-media/articleshow/78851815.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||RPF unveils ‘Meri Saheli’ for female passengers||Jodhpur/Ajmer: The Railway protection Force (RPF) has unveiled a special campaign for the safety of female passengers on trains. Christened as ‘Meri Saheli’, the campaign has been conceived keeping in mind the safety of female passengers who are travelling alone.DRM (Jodhpur Division) Gitika Pandey has termed the gesture as a positive move towards female passengers to provide them a safe and secure train travel. “The initiative has been taken up under the directions of the ministry of railways and NWR. We have formed a ‘Meri Saheli’ team of RPF to ensure safety of female passengers travelling all alone,” Pandey said. The team will approach such female passengers at their station of boarding and will share their mobile numbers with them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpf-unveils-meri-saheli-for-female-passengers/articleshow/78851814.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Dalit teen girl murdered by ‘lover’ after she refuses to elope with him||BAREILLY: A 15-year-old Dalit girl, a student of Class VII, whose body was found dumped in a field under Tanda police station in Rampur on October 20, was "strangled" by her 20-year-old “lover” after she refused to elope with him, disclosed police after they arrested the accused. Police said the accused, Irfan, first asked the girl to come out of her house in the dead of the night and then forced her to elope with him. “The accused tried to convince the girl to elope with him, but she refused. He, then, in a fit of rage strangled her with the help of his friend. His friend is still absconding. Further interrogation is underway,” said Rampur superintendent of police Shogun Gautam. Police said the girl had gone missing on the night of October 19 and her body was in a field the next day. Based on a complaint lodged by her family, The accused was booked under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of the offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Tanda SHO Madhav Singh Bisht said, “The accused had a love affair with the girl whom he had called to meet him outside her house on the night of October 19 before he killed her.” The autopsy report confirmed the cause of death as strangulation, added police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-teen-girl-murdered-by-lover-after-she-refuses-to-elope-with-him/articleshow/78850142.cms||Maria Khan
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Halt gauge change in lion land, two MPs say||AHMEDABAD: The decision of the government to convert meter gauge track into broad gauge with electrification has been opposed by Rajya Sabha Member Jairam Ramesh who has urged the Prime Minister to stop the project as it can pose dangers to the Gir National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary. Even Rajya Sabha member Parimal Nathwani, according to a tweet by the former minister of environment and forest, has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. Ramesh in his tweet stated: “My fellow MP Parimal Nathwani has written to the Prime Minister opposing the rail gauge conversion and electrification projects that will threaten the Gir National Park and Sanctuary. I hope the PM puts a stop.” The gauge conversion has been in the eye of the storm as the state wildlife board had in its last meeting held in October approved the gauge conversion and electrification and had diverted the forest land for the purpose. The agenda for the meeting had Talala-Visavadar gauge conversion with electrification. It was also decided to divert 150 hectares of land from the Gir sanctuary for broad gauge conversion and track electrification projects. A member said that the CM had decided not to permit gauge conversion for the track passing through the sanctuary, but had given a go ahead for the Kodinar-Veraval track. The original 45km metre-gauge line passed from the sanctuary through a two-km stretch near Talala. The area has a high density of lions. A member of the state board for wildlife said that the metre gauge track had been closed for three years. There was a stiff opposition from farmers against the second line from Sutrapada to Kodinar. There had been demands to scrap the Veraval-Sutrapada-Kodinar line and for the traffic to be diverted from Talala. The member said that the broad gauge line would allow trains to run at minimum speed of 50kmph, which could result in lions being run over as was observed on the goods train tracks near Pipavav. The officials claimed that about 12 lions had been run over by speeding trains on the Botad-Pipavav line in the past few years. Another board member on the condition of anonymity said there was an opposition within the state but things would be cleared once the minutes of the meeting were made available and it would also be clear if the Talala-Visavadar track was approved or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mps-urge-pm-to-stop-gauge-conversion-in-lion-land/articleshow/78850878.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Issue directions on interim school fees by October 28: HC to Raj govt||Jaipur: A division bench of Rajasthan High Court has asked the state government to issue necessary directions by October 28 regarding the interim fees which private schools would be allowed to charge. However, final decision in this regard would be subject to the outcome of writ petition. The bench comprising Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma, hearing the appeal of the schools and state government, urged the government to issue necessary directions by October 28. “Rajesh Maharshi, additional advocate general (AAG) submits that a committee has been constituted for determination of fees to be charged by the private schools for the period of lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic. The committee is in process to finalise its recommendations and accordingly the affidavit shall be filed on behalf of the state government on November 2 positively. However, Kamlakar Sharma, learned senior advocate raised serious objection and prayed for interim measure in view of the great hardship being faced by the private schools to run their institutions,” the bench said in the order. “Considering the hardship of the private schools, it is directed that the state government shall issue necessary directions by October 28 positively regarding interim fees which the private schools shall be allowed to charge subject to final decision in this regard,” the bench added. Though earlier the court, while hearing the appeal of state government and the parents, had reserved its decision, the private schools approached the court saying they were not heard. Thus, the court asked the state government to decide on the fees to be levied by the schools for the Covid-19 period. The court was hearing the appeal against the single bench order of the Rajasthan High Court allowing private schools to charge 70 per cent of the tuition fees. Responding to this, the state government informed the court that a three-member committee headed by the director, secondary education has been constituted which is on the job of taking suggestions. The government then had also requested the court to allow them to submit their report on the matter of fees by November 2, which was allowed by the court. The next date of the hearing is November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/issue-directions-on-interim-school-fees-by-october-28-hc-to-raj-govt/articleshow/78851816.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Trichy||Markets in Trichy city see poor sales on Ayudha puja-eve; norms flouted at will||Trichy: A day before Ayudha puja celebration, people threw Covid-19 preventive measures to the wind as markets in Trichy city remained crowded with many visitors not even marking facemasks. Even as the markets were crowded on Saturday, vendors reported a significant fall in Navaratri festival sales compared to last year.The street vendors established stalls near War Memorial while flower stalls near Gandhi market saw people in good numbers turning up for last-minute purchases to celebrate Ayudha puja. As people wash their vehicles and perform puja to them as well as to the tools or machinery at the work place, brisk sales of lime, banana leaves, flowers and fruits stalls were reported. “Although the market appears crowded, we got a raw deal. The quantity of products sold was too low compared to the previous years,” S Chinnadurai, a flower vendor on Thanjavur main road, said.Many of the visitors and street vendors didn’t wear face masks, or if they had it, didn’t put them on properly. They came in close contact with street vendors and fellow purchasers, forgetting the fact that Covid-19 is still active. There was no social distancing as people were seen standing shoulder to shoulder with fellow buyers. Trichy corporation sources said they felt helpless as vendors pointed out livelihood as reason for bypassing preventive measures.“It is true that markets attracted a lot of crowd ahead of Ayudha puja, we could not do much as vendors placed business before health. Perhaps if the police had joined us, the enforcement would have been better,” a sanitary official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/markets-in-trichy-city-see-poor-sales-on-ayudha-puja-eve-norms-flouted-at-will/articleshow/78851817.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Covid burnout: Most Ramlilas won’t set Ravana effigy afire in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A day that used to feature the President, Prime Minister and prominent political leaders at festive ease will mostly pass solemnly this year. With Covid-19 cases still rising in the city, very few Ramlila committees will go ahead with the traditional effigy burning ceremony at the end of Sunday’s Vijaya Dashmi celebrations. Most of the organisers said that the regulations surrounding Dussehra festivities have not been specified, but keeping in mind that smoke may worsen the capita’s air quality, they have decided only to conduct puja. A few, however, are keen to keep the centuries old tradition alive. In Shastri Nagar, the Vishnu Avtar Ramlila Committee said that while Delhi Disaster Management Agency’s guidelines did not mention anything about effigy burning, it hadn’t explicitly banned it either. Prem Pal, president of the committee, said that 40-50-feet-tall effigies had been procured, and besides burning the representations of Ravana, Kumbhakaran and Meghnad, the committee will also feature a fourth effigy — that of this year’s villain, the novel coronavirus. “This year we incorporated various modifications in the Ramlila scripts while featuring some characters wearing PPE kits to underline the threat of Covid,” said Pal. “Continuing with the same theme, the effigy of the coronavirus demon will also be burnt to spread awareness about the viral pandemic. This effigy of the spike virus is 20-ft long.” The committee, however, will not engage in cracker bursting on the occasion. Dalip Bindal of the Indraprastha Ramlila Committee in IP Extension said that no effigy burning would take place as permission had not been granted by any agency for the traditional rite. “But, keeping in mind the adverse impact of smoke on people’s lungs, we have decided that simple aarti will be conducted after the symbolic victory over Ravana,” he disclosed. The committee is distributing swadeshi Ganesh Lakshmi statues made of clay collected from Vrindavan to visitors. With the usual extravaganza on the Red Fort grounds unorganised this year, Prakash Barathi of Nav Sri Dharmik Lila Committee said that while the Ramayana enactment could not be organised this year, the committee would still feature the Ram-Ravana battle followed by the return of lord Ram to Ayodhya and the coronation thereafter. Many Ramlila organisers are also wary of effigy burning ceremonies on the normal grand scale because this might attract a crowd of more than the 200 permitted under the DDMA guidelines. “Who will be responsible if too many people congregate. It is better to be safe,” one organiser said. Meanwhile, Satish Agarwal of Sri Balaji Ramlila Committee in Shrestha Vihar said that though they could not organise the nine-day celebrations this year, permission had been acquired for a one-day celebration on Vijaya Dashmi at CBD grounds. “The effigy of Ravana and his brothers, along with one of the novel coronavirus, will be burnt. Every year we used to have three 70-ft-high effigies, but this year we have limited the height of the representations to 30-35 feet,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-burnout-most-ramlilas-wont-set-ravana-effigy-afire/articleshow/78851822.cms||Paras Singh
October 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded gurdwara can celebrate Dasara: Bombay HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Friday allowed the Takht Sachkhand Shri Hazur Apchalnagar Sahib Board, Nanded, to celebrate or conduct religious programmes on the occasion of Dasara, albeit in a restricted manner. The court directed the gurdwara to observe the Covid-19 norms and ensure that all the participants get themselves tested for the contagion. The gurdwara board, through secretary Ravinder Singh Bungai, had approached the high court through senior counsel Rajendra S Deshmukh. It sought direction to the government and the disaster management department to allow it to continue with the 300-year-old tradition of conducting programmes. The events include Takhat Isnan, Dipmala Mahalla, Gurta Gaddi Kirtan and Gurta-Gaddi Sampathi Kirtan Darbar Nagar Kirtan at the event of Dussehra at Nanded. The HC bench comprising Justices S V Gangapurwala and Shrikant D Kulkarni clarified: “This order is being passed as and by way of an exception, which is not intended to be used as a precedent by other persons, to seek permissions, to hold any festival/festivities, which would involve by their very nature congregation of people.” The bench has directed the petitioner to observe conditions, like the board may carry one Palkhi Sahib with Shri Guru Granth Sahibji, historical Nishan Sahib (16 people) horses of Guru Sahib (five), Kirtan Jathe (three). “The same shall be on two large open trucks. Sixteen people would board on one truck and eight would board another truck. The same would be for the distance of 1.5km. As was suggested in the application of the petitioner,” observed the court. “Only those persons whose reports are Covid-19 negative shall be permitted to board the trucks. The said open trucks would be accompanied by pilot car and the escort car of the Police Department.” The petitioner has been told to take video-graph of the entire event from the stage of loading and the culmination of the event. “A responsible officer, preferably secretary of the petitioner, shall give personal undertaking to the authority of respondent that he would supervise the entire proceedings and that no violation of the conditions would take place, so also would be responsible for the proceedings to be conducted as per the terms upon which the permission is granted,” said the bench. The bench also directed that en route, there will not be congregation of people and that no person should accompany the two open trucks on foot, while the proceedings should start at 4pm and conclude at 5.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-gurdwara-can-celebrate-dasara-hc/articleshow/78850153.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 25, 2020||Jaipur||Raj sisters’ gang-rape: HC rejects bail pleas of six accused in Punjab||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana High Court has dismissed the bail pleas of six of the seven accused allegedly involved in the gang-rape case of two Rajasthan sisters, who were forced into prostitution and supplied in various hotels and farmhouses of Punjab and Delhi before they were recovered by the Rajasthan police on the intervention of the Rajasthan high court.Rejecting the pleas for regular and pre-arrest bails, the high court observed that if the accused are released on bail, they would be in a position to threaten the survivors and to coerce them in order to protect themselves from the ongoing prosecution.“The sordid misadventure which has happened with the two prosecutrix (the two Rajasthan girls) who are sisters and have been exploited … for over six months and have been treated as chattels and converted by the petitioners into disposables for money making, not only to satisfy their lust but also to market them for financial gains, without realizing the psychological impacts the victims would have suffered,” observed the high court while dismissing the bail petition of several accused involved in the case.Justice G S Sandhawalia dismissed the anticipatory bail pleas of two female accused, identified as Anjli alias Meena Kumari and Jyoti Sharma, and regular bail pleas of Gagandeep Singh alias Gagan, Jobanjeet Singh Chahal alias Shelly, Jagjeet Singh alias Love alias Ekam Brar, and Vikram Singh alias Vicky.Justice Sandhawalia observed that it is only by way of custodial interrogation that their modus operandi would be revealed and the prosecution would be able to get more evidence and proof of their activities to support their case and this cannot be done if they are granted the shield of protection from arrest.“Serious allegations have been made against the petitioner and mere long custody would not be a ground to grant the petitioner benefit of regular bail, keeping in view the seriousness of allegations and quantum of punishment which is liable to be imposed upon them. The petitioners as such working in tandem would be in a position to threaten the victims and coercing them in order to protect themselves from the ongoing prosecution, “the judge observed in a detailed order.The high court, however, has granted bail to one of the accused, Sukhwinder Kaur alias Sapna on account of parity as an accused arrested with her in the same case has been granted bail.The facts of the case are that two girls ‘D’ and ‘S’ (names not revealed), between 18 and 20 years old, residents of Rajasthan, were studying in a college at Rajasthan. They went missing after they were dropped off at their college by their father in September 2018 on account of a dispute within the family. The sisters landed up in Punjab. Initially, they went to Muktsar by catching a bus and thereafter, to the holy city of Amritsar, where they lived in a gurdwara for some days.They took a room on rent when they were accosted by the accused Gagandeep Singh alias Gagan and Vikram Singh alias Vicky, who allured 'D' with the promise of arranging a job for them. Thereafter, they were introduced to one Joginder Kaur alias Simmi, who forced them into prostitution. The sisters were supplied at various places, farmhouses, hotels in Punjab and in upscale areas of Delhi for prostitution by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sisters-gang-rape-hc-rejects-bail-pleas-of-six-accused-in-punjab/articleshow/78851821.cms||Ajay Sura
October 25, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR unveils 5 festival special trains||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced five fully-reserved festival special trains till the end of next month for the benefit of passengers, an official release said. Accordingly, a special train will be pressed into service on the Aurangabad-Hyderabad-Aurangabad (07049/50) route. The SCR has also announced daily special trains on the Nanded-Panvel-Nanded (07614/13) route and the Dharmabad-Manmad-Dharmabad (07688/87) route. Kacheguda -Narkher is another special train (07641) that will run on weekdays, except Monday. In the return direction, Narkher-Kacheguda (07642) special train will be pressed into service daily, except Tuesday. The Kacheguda-Akola (07639) is one more festival special train which will run on every Monday. In return journey , the train ( 07640) will ply on Tuesdays. The detail time-table of these trains is available on the official website, SCR authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-unveils-5-festival-special-trains/articleshow/78850164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Block development officer held for taking Rs 10,000 bribe from panchayat president||TIRUVARUR: A block development officer (BDO) in Tiruvarur was arrested by the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC), for accepting Rs 10,000 as bribe. The accused has been identified as Sundaralingam, 35, BDO of Tiruvarur union office. According to sources, the Tiruvathirai village panchayat comes under Sundaralingam’s purview. He is the authority to sanction government grants to villages coming under his control. A few days ago, Sundaralingam had asked the Tiruvathirai panchayat president Palaniammal to arrange Rs 30,000 to repair his office vehicle. Since the amount was huge, she refused saying that their panchayat has no money. Sundaralingam allegedly threatened Palaniammal and her husband Senthil stating that he would not sanction government grants to the panchayat to execute various developmental works, if they refused to arrange the amount immediately. Not willing to entertain the BDO’s demand, Palaniammal and Senthil lodged a complaint with the DVAC authorities in Tiruvarur. As per instruction, Senthil contacted Sundaralingam and accepted to give Rs 10,000 as a bribe. He met Sundaralingam at his office in Tiruvarur at around 8pm on Friday and handed over Rs 10,000 cash as bribe. Meanwhile, a team from the DVAC headed by the deputy superintendent of police, who were in plainclothes at the office, caught Sundaralingam red-handed when he was taking the money and subsequently arrested him. Further inquiries are on, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdo-held-for-taking-rs-10000-bribe-from-panchayat-president/articleshow/78851852.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bareilly||Police apprehend interfaith couple after VHP vandalises thana; girl says she’s adult, made choice||Bareilly: Four days after members of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) allegedly vandalised a police station in UP’s Bareilly over elopement of an interfaith couple, the boy and the girl were taken into police custody in Rajasthan. The couple was brought back to Bareilly on Saturday where the girl in her statement to police said she was not a minor and wanted to live with her partner who belonged to a minority community. She also produced identity cards that showed her age to be 19.Police, meanwhile, said the girl had eloped with Rs 5 lakh in cash from her home of which Rs 3 lakh were recovered from the couple’s hotel room in Rajasthan. The boy has been charged with robbery as well as forgery for allegedly faking their Aadhaar cards to hide their identities. He was presented in the court of a magistrate and sent to judicial custody. The girl was sent for a medical examination and later to a shelter home. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said they would verify the girl’s matriculation certificate to determine her actual age. “Her statement would be recorded by a magistrate on Tuesday who will take a decision on her custody,” he said.Members of the VHP and a few other organisations had allegedly vandalised the Quila police station on October 20 over police inaction in what they said was a case of ‘love jihad’. Over 200 people were booked for rioting inside the police station.The boy’s kin, however, said the two were in a mutual relationship. “How can this be a case of love jihad when the two loved each other? Both families were against their relationship and tried several times to separate them,” said an uncle of the boy.Meanwhile, VHP leaders were adamant that women needed to be “protected” from such “love jihad” cases. District president of VHP’s Bareilly unit Pawan Kumar Arora said the girl was “trapped” by the boy who “pretended to show faith in her religion” and added that they would up the ante against love jihad.On Saturday, VHP members along with those of the Sikh community gheraoed another police station, this time in Shahjahanpur district, after a Sikh girl allegedly ran away with a youth from another community. Earlier, the VHP had issued a 24-hour “ultimatum” to police to recover the girl who they claimed was a minor. Police said the family hasn’t submitted any documents in support of the claim that the girl was a minor. “But we have to go by the family’s version. For us, at present, the girl is a victim and the boy is an accused,” said Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand.A friend who helped the couple elope was arrested on charges of kidnapping while a member of the boy’s family was also detained for questioning. “Multiple teams are searching for the duo,” said the SSP.V P Singh, district president of Sikh Punjabi Mahasabha, told TOI that they would launch a statewide protest if the girl isn’t found in five days. Singh admitted that the boy and the girl knew each other for the past four years since the former used to buy milk from the latter’s dairy farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-apprehend-interfaith-couple-after-vhp-vandalises-thana-girl-says-shes-adult-made-choice/articleshow/78850165.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Municipal councillor’s necklace snatched in Naranpura||AHMEDABAD: Mona Prajapati, the municipal councillor from Dariapur ward, lodged a complaint at Naranpura police station on Saturday, stating that when she was between AEC Crossroads and Amikunj Crossroads at about 1.15pm, two persons on a scooter drove up from behind her, snatched her gold chain and sped away. Prajapati fell off her scooter due to the snatching. She suffered injuries to her knee and palm. Naranpura police registered an offence and are hunting for the accused based on CCTV footage from the spot. According to the complaint, she was going to her mother’s house from a tailor’s shop in Naranpura. She stated that the robbers’ scooter had no number plate at the the back. “She stated that the man riding pillion had tied a handkerchief across his face and both the men were between 25 and 30 years old. Police sources said after Prajapati fell, passersby gathered and helped her to the side of the road. She called her brother and husband and then the police control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/municipal-councillors-necklace-snatched-in-naranpura/articleshow/78850908.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Three bookies arrested for IPL betting||AHMEDABAD: Three persons were caught for taking bets on the ongoing Indian Premier League matches in three separate incidents on Thursday and Friday. According sources in Sarkhej police station, Sajjad Momin of Fatehwadi was caught on Thursday taking bets on a mobile phone from near Smokey Paan Parlor on Makarba Road. “He was passing on the bets to Kazim Khan of Raikhad and Asif Dhebu of Mirzapur. Khan and Dhebu are wanted in the case,” said a police source. Similarly, Shahibaug police on Thursday nabbed Nimish Jain, who taking bets on IPL matches. “In this case Jatin Shah and Hrushak Patel are wanted,” said a police source. In the third case, cyber cell sleuths nabbed Jignesh Makwana who taking bets on IPL matches. “We was caught at Radhe Avenue near Bhulabhai Park in Behrampura,” added a cyber cell source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-bookies-arrested/articleshow/78850886.cms||---
October 25, 2020||India||Unlike in UP, there’s no cover-up: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi slammed the BJP government and ministers for attacking him over the Punjab rape case, saying the Congress government had not tried to cover up the crime like the UP government did in Hathras. With the hashtag “Hathras”, he tweeted, “Unlike in UP, the governments of Punjab and Rajasthan are NOT denying that the girl was raped, threatening her family and blocking the course of justice. If they do, I will go there to fight for justice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unlike-in-up-theres-no-cover-up-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/78852726.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Farm bills will sound deathknell of agriculture sector, says DMK MP||TRICHY: The farm bills enacted by both houses of Parliament recently are anti-farmer and against the constitution, said Rajya Sabha MP Trichy Siva. He also expressed the hope that all three Acts would be struck down by the court as the way the bills were enacted in the Parliament was unconstitutional. Addressing a webinar on the farm bill organized by St Joseph’s Institute of Management (JIM) of St Joseph’s College, the DMK leader stated that the bills will not help the farming community in any way and would only harm it. Agriculture and MSME were the sectors that are creating more employment in the country. Instead of rejuvenating the agriculture sector, the bills will destroy its entire structure, he added. “Farmers are now free to cultivate any crop based on the soil and the season and can sell their produce either through Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) or private traders. However, once a contract between the farmer and the corporate companies comes into force, the farmers will be dictated by the corporates. The bills will eventually end the MSP-based procurement system as there will not be the APMC system”, he stated. All contracts to be entered into between the farmer and the firms will only be in digital mode. According to a study, 70% of farmers in the country have no idea about direct transfer scheme (DTS). That being the reality, how do they know what was the contract they signed with the wholesalers or exporters, he asked. “The agriculture sector comes under the purview of states and the Centre cannot intervene in it. However, it has been taken away by the Parliament by enacting the farm bills. It is unconstitutional and we have taken the issue to court. Moreover, the way the bills were passed in both the houses was also against the Constitution. We hope the bills would be struck down by the court”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farm-bills-will-sound-deathknell-of-agriculture-sector-dmk-mp/articleshow/78851864.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Trichy||IndiGo to fly from Mumbai to Trichy daily via Hyderabad||TRICHY: IndiGo Air is set to launch a daily domestic service from Mumbai to Trichy international airport. The carrier will commence the service from December 1, sources said. Meanwhile, a one-way domestic service between Trichy and Delhi via Bengaluru that was announced a few days ago will begin its service from October 25. The daily service from Mumbai to Trichy will have one stop in Hyderabad. The flight (6E 6752) will depart from Mumbai at 9.10 am and land in Trichy airport at 1.10 pm. The return flight will depart from Trichy at 2 pm and reach Mumbai at 6.20 pm. Earlier, IndiGo had operated 4 special services to Mumbai from Trichy during the month of August. Following good patronage for those services, the operator started a bi-weekly service from Trichy to Mumbai. However, due to the ongoing runway re-carpeting work at the Trichy airport, the Mumbai service has been withdrawn till the end of November. As the work is expected to be completed by the end of November, the carrier has announced daily service to Mumbai from December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/indigo-to-fly-from-mumbai-to-trichy-daily-via-hyderabad/articleshow/78851869.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 25, 2020||Goa||Assault case: AAP hits out at CM, seeks Ramesh Tawadkar’s ouster||PANAJI: Forget making Goa crime-free, first make BJP criminal-free, was how Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ridiculed chief minister Pramod Sawant for his instructions to the police top brass on Friday in the backdrop of a local court convicting former minister and state BJP vice president Ramesh Tawadkar for assault. AAP member Sandesh Telekar on Saturday criticised Tawadkar, who is also the chairman of Goa State Commission for SC/ST for his involvement in the assault case. Telekar said Sawant always says that he and his government will try to prevent the crimes happening in the state. “But the biggest parody of his government is, his own ministers and party bigwigs are seen to be involved in criminal cases and activities and having serious allegations against them,” he said. Telekar demanded that Sawant immediately sack Tawadkar or ask him to resign over his alleged involvement in the assault and intimidation case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assault-case-aap-hits-out-at-cm-seeks-tawadkars-ouster/articleshow/78852337.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Central team visits DPCs for checking paddy moisture||Thanjavur: A central team began touring the delta districts on Saturday to inspect the moisture content of paddy procured by the state government at direct procurement centres. Based on the farmers' demand to procure paddy with the maximum moisture content of 22%, the team arrived here and visited a direct procurement centre in Thanjavur. Members of an expert team from the department of food and quality control, government of India, comprising Yatendra Jain, Yunus, Jaishankar and Prashanth visited a DPC at Nallavananniyankudikadu village in the district and inspected the quality of paddy brought by farmers. The members interacted with farmers and noted their grievances and views. District collector M Govinda Rao and senior regional manager of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, Thanjavur (in-charge) G Chitrarasu were also present. Due to the incessant rain that lashed the delta districts, a huge volume of paddy stocked at various DPCs in the delta districts got damaged. At many places, the paddy started germinating as the grains were inundated by rain water at the centre itself. To compensate their loss, farmers had been demanding procurement of paddy with enhanced maximum moisture content level up to 22% from 17%. Heeding the farmers’ request, the state government had also appealed to the Centre to enhance the percentage. Based on their request, the team visited the DPCs on Saturday. They will visit some more centres on Sunday, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-team-visits-dpcs-for-checking-paddy-moisture/articleshow/78851872.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Won’t hesitate to take action if interests of students, institutions compromised, says minister||NEW DELHI: Mindful of the effect the ongoing tussle over some top posts could have on the functioning of Delhi University, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said he won’t hesitate to take action if the interests of students and institutions are compromised. In an exclusive chat with TOI on Saturday, Pokhriyal said the ministry of education had taken strong action whenever there have been administrative lapses in institutions and will continue to do so. DU has been caught in an unseemly drama for a week after the vice-chancellor on leave replaced the registrar just ahead of the Executive Council meeting and subsequently removed the pro-vice chancellor, resulting in the university having two persons claiming the positions of registrar and pro-vice chancellor. The Viceregal Lodge, the seat of DU’s power as the VC’s office, was sealed amid allegations and counter allegations between the two sets of antagonists. Given the unneeded tussle in DU, Pokhriyal said, “The Modi government will not compromise on its mission of making Indian institutions of international standards. If required, therefore, the ministry will take appropriate action in DU. Be it Allahabad University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, Visvabharati or the IITs, you have seen that the government has taken strong steps in the last two years to strengthen the administration as well as academics.” On what action the ministry was contemplating in DU, Pokhriyal said, “We will take the best steps in the interest of the university and the students. If there has been indiscipline, we will initiate disciplinary action. And if for some reason someone’s activity is hurting the interest of the university, the government will not sit back.” The education minister also said that the Modi government didn’t believe in taking the easy way out even when the situation is challenging due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “JEE (Advanced) registered higher attendance. Be it the final exams in universities or the CBSE exams, we had expressed intent to conduct them, and we did,” he said. “We do not want the students to carry the Covid stamp for life. We could have taken the easy way out and promoted all students without exams, but we didn’t want to jeopardise their careers. That is why almost all universities conducted their exams and successfully too.” Pokhriyal added, “Even the Supreme Court accepted our views on final exams and rejected the review petition filed by six states. As a nation, we have taken on the huge challenge of bringing 30 crore of 33 crore students to online platforms. The academic interest of the students will never be compromised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wont-hesitate-to-take-action-if-interests-of-students-institutions-compromised/articleshow/78852348.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal opens 2 flyovers, says rare feat to save on infra costs||NEW DELHI: Inaugurating two flyovers at Seelampur and Shastri Park that were completed before the deadline, CM Arvind Kejriwal claimed on Saturday that it was a rare occurrence in India’s history that a government finished infrastructure projects with significant savings on the cost. दिल्ली की जनता को बधाई। 53 करोड़ रूपए की बचत के साथ तय लागत से कम क़ीमत पर बनाकर सीलमपुर-शास्त्री पार्क के फ्लाईओ… https://t.co/gOF3CExKA7— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1603534129000Congratulating Delhiites and PWD officials and engineers on the completion of the flyovers, Kejriwal said the sanctioned cost of the project was Rs 303 crore, but the final cost was just Rs 250 crore, a saving of Rs 53 crore for the government. Glimpses of the new Seelampur-Shastri Park flyover built by Kejriwal Govt. #YeDilliHaiMereYaar https://t.co/4OADmDihg2— AAP (@AamAadmiParty) 1603523595000In the presence of PWD minister Satyendar Jain at the inauguration, Kejriwal expressed happiness for east Delhi residents. “The people of east Delhi faced big traffic jams and long drives. Now, the journey from ISBT to UP border can be done in 10 minutes without traffic jams. The flyovers are of good quality,” he said. Kejriwal said that east Delhi was ignored by the previous governments, but since he used to live in this region, he was well aware of the problems faced by people here. “In the last five years, a lot of progress has taken place in east Delhi, including the Signature Bridge and water and sewer connections. In the last five years, it has been our endeavour to successfully see through what we have envisioned for our city.” The CM also noted the other projects undertaken by Delhi government. “Yesterday, we laid the foundation for a state-of-the-art, 1500-bedded medical wing at Lok Nayak Hospital. In India, governments are known to build hospitals with budgets of Rs 1,500 crore and each bed costing around Rs1.5 crore,” he said. “But we are building a fully air-conditioned hospital with cutting-edge technology at a cost per bed of just Rs 30 lakh.” Minister Jain added, “The Azad Market flyover constructed by MCD took 10 years and cost Rs 700 crore. For these two flyovers, PWD took a year and a half, of which six months were affected by Covid and three months by GRAP. In effect, they took only 9-10 months to build, which is a big achievement.” The foundation stones for the flyovers were laid by Kejriwal on February 10 last year. Despite the 6-month halt due to the pandemic, the project was completed before deadline. The Shastri Park flyover consists of six lanes and is 700 metres long, while the Seelampur flyover is 1,200 metres long. They will bring relief to around 1.5 lakh vehicles that use the route every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-opens-2-flyovers-says-rare-feat-to-save-on-infra-costs/articleshow/78852342.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Woman falls off bike on snake, dies of its bite||COIMBATORE: Bitten by a snake after she fell on it from a two-wheeler on Wednesday, a 38-year-old woman died at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here on Friday afternoon. Police said T Kavitha, of Pappankadu at Kadampadi, had fallen on the snake on Wednesday night when she was riding pillion on the motorcycle ridden by her husband M Thangaraj, 54. “They were returning home from their power loom unit that was located just 1km away their house. On seeing the snake on the road, Thangaraj became frantic and lost control over his vehicle. They fell on the snake,” a police officer said. While Kavitha noticed some injury marks on her hand, she thought that might have been caused when she fell down from the vehicle. On Thursday, Kavitha felt pain on her hand and went to a private hospital at Sulur, where a doctor told her that she was bitten by a poisonous snake and referred her to the CMCH, where she died without responding to the treatment on Friday afternoon. Following the postmortem, the dead body was handed over to her family members on Saturday afternoon. Based on Thangaraj’s complaint, Sulur police sub-inspector Jaganath has registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Further investigation is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-falls-off-bike-on-snake-dies-of-its-bite/articleshow/78850223.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Demand for a woman to head Kannada Sahitya Parishat grows louder||Hubballi: Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP), the representative organisation of all Kannadigas, is expected to witness election for the post of its president in March-April next year. Ahead of the election, many KSP members are pressing for a woman president. The organisation has seen 25 men as presidents ever since its inception in 1915. Having a network of over 3.25 lakh life members at all taluks and even outside Karnataka, the century-old organisation has never seen a woman president for the state unit. The issue is being debated in the literary circles of the state. Purushottama Bilimale, veteran Kannada scholar, said that KSP has been lax in ensuring women’s involvement. “One should note that woman writers and scholars have proved their mettle as vice-chancellors of universities and as chairpersons of academies in the state. They should be given equal weightage in the intellectual field. However, KSP has restricted them to being only sammelana president and to helm sessions at sammelanas,” he claimed. Jaraganahalli Shivashankar, former honorary secretary of KSP state unit, said that women’s involvement is less at the literary organisation. “Some writers like Triveni were active in KSP activities. This apart, women’s literature itself is underestimated as ‘kitchen literature’ by some critics. It shows the entire system is male-oriented, and this needs to change with contemporary development. One should not forget our heritage — 35-36 women sharanas authored vachanas in 12th century and some other women’s contribution to the Dasa literature. Ironically though, the issue of electing a woman is debated ahead of every KSP election,” he rued. Writer Sunanda Kadame recalled that similar discussions have happened among women writers and also men writers supporting women in the past. “Women writers back out of the fray on hearing the news of entry of influential men writers or organisers. Sending an appeal letter to 3.25 lakh members is a big task for any woman contestant. But it should not be an issue in the era of social media. Woman aspirants should utilise modern platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook. Apart from KSP life members (who are the voters in the KSP poll), others wanting to support woman aspirants should voluntarily campaign for them at district and taluk levels,” she suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/demand-for-a-woman-to-head-kannada-sahitya-parishat-grows-louder/articleshow/78850242.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 25, 2020||Goa||We will be back in govt, win civic elections: Vijai Sardesai||MARGAO: 15 months after he was unceremoniously dropped from the Pramod Sawant cabinet, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai on Saturday emphasised that his party would come back to power not only in the upcoming civic polls, but also in the government. “Ami porot ietlech (we will come back for sure),” Sardesai told reporters while speaking on the issue of the proposed solid waste management project at Sonsoddo. Slamming the councilors of BJP and Congress - whom he referred to as joint venture (JV) - for opposing the setting up of seven bio-digesters aimed at solving the Sonsoddo waste management problem, Sardesai questioned the motive behind their move. GFP has the majority in the MMC. At its recent meeting, MMC gave its nod for setting up seven biomethanation plants costing nearly Rs 43 crore, amidst chaos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-will-be-back-in-govt-win-civic-elections-sardesai/articleshow/78852351.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Budding designer recreates Picasso’s Guernica||COIMBATORE: An 18-year-old student of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur has recreated Guernica, Spanish artist Pablo Picasso’s 1937 masterpiece, on the occasion of his birth anniversary on Sunday. It took M Sneha Adriana, a Ist year BSc Apparel Fashion Designing student, two weeks to finish the anti-war painting. “Even though I had not done any major paintings earlier, I agreed when my professor asked me to do it. As days passed, I grew impatient and often felt disappointed because I could complete only a portion even after spending several hours. I am glad I didn't give up,” Sneha told TOI. Picasso had painted Guernica at his home in Paris in response to the bombing of Guernica, a town in northern Spain, by Germany and Italy. The 3.49m x 7.76m oil-on-canvas painting portrayed the horrors of war, in particular its impact on non-combatants and innocents women, children and animals. The idea of recreating a Picasso painting as a tribute to him on his birth anniversary was conceived two weeks ago, said assistant professor G Boopathy Vijay. “His works have been a great source of inspiration. We wanted one painter to do it to ensure that the strokes are uniform. After the meaning of the painting was explained to Sneha, she started recreating it on her own. It was done with acrylic paints on a 3.49 ft X 7.76ft art paper.” She spent a lot of time to get the minute details and shades right, Sneha said. “Some days, I used to work till 5am without break. I am really happy with the outcome and am confident of taking up similar works,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/budding-designer-recreates-picassos-guernica/articleshow/78850258.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 25, 2020||Goa||Extra monitoring for Covid patients aged 50+ & with comorbidities: Govt||Panaji: With several Covid-19 patients turning up late for treatment, the government has decided to include a separate section on the home isolation dashboard to monitor patients who are above 50 years of age and have comorbidities. Health officers have also been instructed to make phone calls to patients who are above 50 years old three times a day to check on them. The decision to maintain separate information of this segment of patients was taken at the weekly expert committee meeting on Friday. Considering the increased workload, the GMC has offered to assign third year MBBS students to call people opting for home isolation. Several patients tend to seek help after their condition deteriorates, making it difficult for hospitals to help them recover. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar, said they now receive more severe cases and that intensive care units (ICU)s units are full. “This is because patients do not come immediately after they develop symptoms,” he said. Dr Roshan Nazareth, health officer at the Candolim primary health centre, said two patients who were in home isolation in his jurisdiction recently, turned critical within two days and died. “One of the patients who was asymptomatic argued with us at length saying that nothing was wrong with her. Her condition took a turn for the worse within a day and she died in hospital,” he said. Nazareth said he tries his best to monitor patients who are in home isolation within his jurisdiction, with the help of the panchayats’ ward members, and that each patient is contacted telephonically once a day. The recent directive to healthcare professionals requiring them to speak to comorbid Covid-19 patients above 50 years of age three times a day, has increased the burden of officers attached to health centres, specially those dealing with a high number of active cases. A medical officer attached to a health centre in South Goa said it is difficult to call patients three times a day under such circumstances. “At times, contact can’t be made on a single attempt owing to network issues. Other times, patients do not answer calls and we have to keep calling them,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/extra-monitoring-for-covid-patients-aged-50-with-comorbidities-govt/articleshow/78851929.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Underage driving: 14-yr-old boy, 32-year-old man killed||COIMBATORE: A minor boy who was riding a scooter and a 32-year-old man on a motorcycle were killed in a road accident in Mettupalayam on Friday. Police identified the deceased as A Goutham, 14, of Bungalow Medu at Mettupalayam and D Naveenkumar, of Jadayampalayam near Sirumugai. “Goutham was a Class IX student at a higher secondary school in Mettupalayam. His friend S Purushothaman, 17, of Bungalowmedu, was riding pillion. When Naveenkumar, who was heading towards his home on his motorcycle, reached Amman Traders on the Mettupalayam – Annur Road, Goutham’s scooter rammed his vehicle. Naveenkumar, Goutham and Purushothaman were thrown off. Naveenkumar and Goutham suffered serious head injuries and died on the spot. Purushothaman was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The scooter also rammed another motorcycle and injured the rider, P Arul Prakash, 32, of Thottipalayam near Karamadai, a sales manager of a private mobile operator. He suffered injuries on his left hand and was admitted to a private hospital,” a police officer said. Meanwhile, inspector general of police K Periaiah has instructed superintendents of police (SPs) of eight districts in the west zone to curb underage driving. Police will seize the vehicles used by minors, sources said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/underage-driving-14-yr-old-boy-32-year-old-man-killed/articleshow/78850280.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Goa||Ex-Tivim MLA quits BJP, to join Goa Forward Party||PANAJI: Former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar on Saturday announced his resignation from BJP and plans to join Goa Forward Party (GFP) Kandolkar told reporters all his workers decided to quit BJP. ”It is sad that people who worked hard for BJP for years are feeling disgruntled with the present dispensation,” he said. He said that there is “Congressisation of BJP” and the loyal BJP karyakartas and MLAs have been betrayed and sidelined over the past one and a half years. “I am not sure whether I should contest from Tivim or Aldona,” he said to a question. Kandolkar said he and his workers would join GFP on Monday “We want people like Elvis Gomes of AAP to join us,” he said, adding that BJP still has some capable leaders like minister Michael Lobo, but he can never become chief minister in BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-tivim-mla-quits-bjp-to-join-gfp/articleshow/78852354.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 3-month old undergoes heart surgery after Covid-19 recovery||COIMBATORE: A city hospital has performed a complex open-heart surgery on a three-month-old baby boy from Thanjavur immediately after he recovered from Covid-19. According to doctors, the child, who was discharged from hospital last week, is recovering well. A source with the G Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital said the baby boy, Nishanth, was born on July 2 at the government hospital in Thanjavur. Hardly three days later, the baby, which weighed 2.5kg, developed breathing difficulty and stopped feeding properly. An echocardiogram showed a major congenital heart defect. The two main blood vessels in the body – the aorta and pulmonary artery - were originating from the wrong chambers of his heart, the source said. There was also a hole in between the lower chambers of his heart. It is diagnosed as transposition of great arteries with a ventricular septal defect. Since the breathlessness kept recurring, the baby boy was referred to the G Kuppuswamy Naidu Memorial Hospital in the city for an open-heart surgery. When they reached the district in September-end, the mandatory Covid-19 test before the surgery found the baby boy positive for the virus. He was then quarantined for two weeks and readmitted on October 11, after testing negative. The surgery, which lasted six hours, was performed on October 13. He was weaned off the ventilator the next day and discharged three days later. The surgery was funded by the Genesis Foundation, which has a corporate social responsibility partnership with HDFC Ergo. The private concern contributed Rs 1.75 lakh for the surgery, as the boy’s father, a farmer, could raise only Rs 80,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-month-old-undergoes-heart-surgery-after-covid-recovery/articleshow/78850287.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP accuses Cong of ‘selective outrage’, asks why Gandhis mum||New Delhi: BJP on Saturday accused Congress of “selective outrage” as the saffron party questioned the main opposition’s silence over the rape and killing of a six-year-old girl of a migrant family from Bihar in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman questioned "tweet-friendly" Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Vadra and asked if the incident didn't shake the conscience of the “brother-sister duo who rush to every place that can help them politically", a reference to their visit to the family members of the Hathras victim in UP. Accusing Rahul and Priyanka of going on a "political tour" to Hathras, Union minister Prakash Javadekar questioned the lack of a similar reaction from them to the ghastly crimes against women in Punjab and Rajasthan, where Congress is in power. “They go to places for "photo-op," he said. Sitharaman also took a swipe at RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, questioning if he had asked Rahul Gandhi about the issue while holding a joint poll campaign with him in Bihar. Attacking Yadav, she referred to a 2008 news report over "allegations of eve-teasing and misbehaviour” against him and his elder brother Tej Pratap. “It (the Punjab incident) may not hurt RJD because that is how things were when they were in power," Sitharaman told reporters while recounting Lalu Prasad’s "jungle raj" in Bihar during 1990-2005. Hitting out at Congress, she said, "Tweet-friendly Rahul Gandhi has not tweeted on the Hoshiarpur incident. There has been no outrage. And no picnic either ... The Congress party should stand up and answer. Does this kind of selective outrage suit the stature of the party?” “Why is the brother-sister pair not going and voicing horror in Hoshiarpur? Why not in Rajasthan? The selective cry of outrage by Congress is completely exposed," Sitharaman said adding that crimes like rape should not be politicised. “A six-year-old girl coming from a Dalit migrant family from Bihar was raped and murdered in Punjab's Tanda. Former Union minister Vijay Sampla from our party met the family. Nobody from Congress met them .. nor was there any comment from its president Sonia Gandhi,” Javadekar said. In a horrifying incident, a six-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed before being set on fire. Her half-burnt body was found at a home in Tanda's Jalalpur village. The accused -- Gurpreet Singh and his grandfather Surjit Singh -- have since been arrested on the charges of murder, rape and under other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-accuses-cong-of-selective-outrage-asks-why-gandhis-mum/articleshow/78851944.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Council polls turn into battle between Congress and BJP veterans||DHARWAD: With just four days left for polling for the election to legislative council from the West Graduates Constituency candidates have intensified the campaign. Congress leader and MLA H K Patil who held this seat till from 1984 to 2008 is leading the campaign for Congress candidate R M Kuberappa and is touring all the four districts under the constituency to wrest the seat from the BJP. MLA and former minister R V Deshpande has joined the campaign and is focusing on garnering votes from Uttara Kannada district for party’s candidate. BJP is keen on retaining the seat won by it in 2008 and 2014. Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi, industries minister Jagadish Shettar accompanied by party workers and leaders of various teachers’ organizations are leaving no stone unturned in a bid to retain the seat. Former Rajya Sabha member Prabhakar Kore who is also the chairman of Karnatak Lingayat Education (KLE) Society and Shankaranna Munavalli one of the directors of KLE are touring the constituencycampaigning for BJP candidate S V Sankanur. KLE Society runs several educational institutions in Mumbai-Karnataka region and employs thousands of people. BJP candidate S V Sankanur and other BJP leaders are focusing on the point that the BJP lacks majority in the Upper House and it has been the cause for many important Bills not being passed in Legislative Council despite being cleared by the assembly. Contrary to this, former chief minister Siddaramaiah said if a candidate from ruling party is elected he will not raise issues against the government whereas the MLC from opposition can boldly voice the concerns of the people. Independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar got a shot in the arm as the Janata Dal (S) top brass forced the party candidate Shivashankar Kallur to retire from the fray and extended its support to Gurikar. JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti said the decision was taken at the highest level of the party and cited inadequate preparation on the part of candidate as the reason for retreating from the fray. However Kallur denied this and said he would abide by the party’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/council-polls-turn-into-battle-between-cong-and-bjp-veterans/articleshow/78850478.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||In Baroda, politics of caste, apologies||CHANDIGARH: With campaigning for Baroda bypoll gaining pace, allegations are flying back and forth between Congress and BJP leaders. The volley of attacks and demands for apologies is an extension of caste polarisation attempted by political parties in the fray. During a workers’ meeting, former speaker Kuldeep Sharma used objectionable words for agriculture minister Jai Parkash Dalal while referring to his caste. This gave BJP leaders the chance to demand an apology. Representatives of Dalal Khap expressed their umbrage by announcing boycott of the Congress. Sharma obliged by apologising on social media. In a bid to counter the issue, Dalit leaders and MLAs of the Congress, headed by former minister Geeta Bhukkal closed ranks against BJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt, referring to his old remark on Dalits and reservation and demanding an apology. In a hurriedly convened press conference, Bhukkal and her team accused the BJP of being anti-Dalit. After a recent statement made by Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda and Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats on Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar, members of Dhankar Khap opened a front against Hooda and Vats. They also announced a dharna in Jhajjar. Ramesh Bamal, official spokesperson of the Congress says such issues will not affect the poll outcome. “Congress has senior and responsible leaders. As far as allegations are concerned, these are issues created by BJP from non-issues. Here, elections are contested on issues related to farmers, corruption and development. BJP and its leaders have resorted to this as elections have gone out of their hands,’’ he said. BJP says it is Congress which is resorting to divisive tactics. “The Congress is known for divisive politics. They made objectionable comments at relatives of Ch Devi Lal in Sirsa and had to apologise,’’ said Attray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-baroda-politics-of-caste-apologies/articleshow/78851955.cms||Manvir Saini
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Saffron party’s criticism ‘political puffery’: Captain Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Countering Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) senior leadership’s attack on his government as well as the Gandhi brother-sister duo over the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday termed the remarks of Union ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Prakash Javadekar as “political puffery” with no substance or basis to support their criticism. Contrary to what these leaders were claiming, there was no comparison between the Hoshiarpur and the Hathras cases, said Capt Amarinder, pointing out in the latter instance, the Uttar Pradesh government and police did not only fail to initiate stern action but in fact were seemingly trying to cover up the matter “to benefit the upper caste accused”. This, he said, was in sharp contrast to the prompt action taken by the Punjab Police, who immediately arrested the accused and were now preparing to file the challan within a week. He had directed the DGP to ensure that the case was fast-tracked by the courts to ensure strict and exemplary action for the accused, he said. Ridiculing the BJP leaders’ criticism of the so-called silence of the Congress leadership on the Hoshiarpur case, Captain Amarinder pointed out that his party had been forced to speak up and protest in the Hathras case because the state had failed to get justice for the Dalit girl there. “Had the BJP government in UP responded as effectively and speedily as we did in Punjab, neither the Congress and the Gandhis, nor scores of NGOs, lawyers, human rights activists would have been forced to take to the streets to fight for the victim,” he added. The ‘selective politics and selective outrage’ charge, which Sitharaman made against Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, was, in fact, completely apt for BJP, said the CM. No BJP leader had uttered a word in protest against the acts of omission and commission of the UP government and police in the Hathras case, when the entire nation was in angry uproar, he said, slamming the party over its politically motivated reaction to the Hoshiarpur incident. He expressed shock at Sitharaman’s and Javadekar’s remark of “picnic tour” by the Gandhis and other Congress MPs in Hathras, saying it reflected the grossness of the BJP’s anti-Dalit and anti-woman mindset. The Gandhis faced lathis at the hands of the brutal UP Police in Hathras, they walked miles in their attempts to reach out to the victim’s family, who cried on the shoulders of the brother-sister duo, he claimed. If the BJP had made even an iota of this effort to pressurise the UP government into ensuring justice for the family in Hathras, the Congress would not have been forced to act, he added. Unlike the Hoshiarpur incident, said Amarinder, the Hathras case, and the subsequent developments including the middle-of-the-night burning of the victim’s body, were a part of the chain of atrocities being committed against Dalits in UP under the BJP rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/saffron-partys-criticism-political-puffery-capt/articleshow/78851946.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Fire officer takes bribe to set up cracker outlet, caught||COIMBATORE: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths caught a station fire officer red-handed accepting a bribe of Rs 6,000 from a person for issuing no objection certificate (NOC) to set up a cracker shop here on Saturday. According to a DVAC source, N Madanavel, 42, a medical representative from Kuniyamuthur, had approached Coimbatore (south) fire station officer B Sasikumar, 57, seeking NOC to set up a temporary cracker shop at a private building at Madukkarai ahead of Diwali. “He had to obtain NOC from both the police and fire departments and submit the same before the revenue department while applying for licence to run the cracker shop. The procedure demands the station fire officer to inspect the shop and issue NOC, if that meets the legal requirements,” the source said. The fire station officer, however, demanded Rs 15,000 from Madanavel to issue him NOC. When Madanavel told the officer that he couldn’t afford that amount, Sasikumar demanded at least Rs 10,000 and finally settled down for Rs 6,000. Meanwhile, Madanavel approached the DVAC deputy superintendent of police, T H Ganesh, who laid a trap for the fire station officer. “The DSP gave him currency notes that were smeared with phenolphthalein powder and asked him to hand over the amount to Sasikumar around 11.30am on Saturday,” the source said. The DVAC sleuths subsequently caught Sasikumar while he was accepting the bribe from Madanavel and registered a case against him under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-officer-takes-bribe-to-set-up-cracker-outlet-caught/articleshow/78850298.cms||A Subburaj
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Act on gang-rape allegations: Anil Vij||JIND: Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday ordered Jind police to act promptly and take stern action into allegations of gang rape levelled by a local woman against her Delhi-based husband, father-in-law, his brother and six other persons. The minister’s statement came a day after the woman was hit by a car outside the Jind SP’s office, where she had been protesting to demand harsher charges against the accused. The police have booked the accused only on the charge of dowry. Though the three accused were arrested recently, they were released on bail. Vij stated that the incident took place in Delhi and the woman approached Haryana Police for action, following which Jind SP initiated necessary action. Meanwhile, the woman was still under treatment at Jind civil hospital for the internal injuries she suffered in the accident. The health department has formed a panel of three doctors, including a psychiatrist, orthopaedician and a surgeon. She has been complaining of thigh injuries, and pain in the stomach and chest. The panel will decide on her stay in the hospital. The woman seems depressed and the psychiatrist is counselling her, said Jind senior medical officer Dr Gopal Goyal. Haryana State Women Commission member Suman Bedi also reached Jind on Saturday and met the woman. She said they took suo motu notice of the case. “Prima facie, it came to light that Delhi Police did not act or arrest the accused. The woman had been seeking justice for four months in Delhi, but nothing happened over there. Now, the commission will summon the officer concerned in Delhi who failed to deliver justice timely. We will ask Delhi Police to add more sections in the FIR registered over there on her complaint submitted in June,” she added. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said he had directed Jind SP to ensure a fair investigation. Meanwhile, the woman has been adamant on the case being investigated by Haryana Police only and threatened suicide if Haryana government failed to ensure it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/act-on-gang-rape-allegations-vij/articleshow/78851948.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hubballi||Hailed for its efforts in testing, Dimhans gets additional equipment||Dharwad: A laboratory to conduct Covid-19 tests using RT-PCR method was set up at the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Dimhans) in the third week of April to ease the burden on the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), and six months later, it can be safely surmised that the Dimhans laboratory has exceeded its fiat. In acknowledgement of its impressive record in testing, both the state government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have provided Dimhans 96 additional RT-PCR machines, as many auto extractors and liquid handling units, so as to help the facility increase its capacity. A dedicated laboratory to test samples for Covid-19 was set up first at KIMS after it emerged the first resident in Dharwad to be confirmed infected – in the second week of March – had travelled to several private hospitals before it was learnt that he was positive for the novel coronavirus. KIMS was also designated a Covid Care Centre (CCC). However, mounting cases in Dharwad and neighbouring districts of Koppal, Ballari, Gadag, Haveri, Uttara Kannada and Bagalkot – samples were being dispatched from all these districts to KIMS – meant that the laboratory was too overburdened. Recognising the need for distributing this burden, then Dharwad deputy commissioner Deepa Cholan and MP Pralhad Joshi submitted a proposal to ICMR seeking permission to set up a lab at Dimhans. While throat and nose swabs collected from Dharwad residents were still being tested at KIMS, swab samples collected from residents of other districts were sent to the laboratory at Dimhans. The laboratory at Dimhans has, as on October 20, conducted one lakh tests for Covid-19. On average, around a 1,000 samples are being tested daily for Covid-19 at the laboratory, said Dimhans director Dr Mahesh Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hailed-for-its-efforts-in-testing-dimhans-gets-additional-equipment/articleshow/78850402.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Standard Operating Procedures on reopening of schools released||DEHRADUN: Following its decision to allow schools to reopen for classes X and XII from November 2, the Uttarakhand government on Saturday issued the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for reopening of boarding and non-boarding schools in the state in the wake of Covid-19 threat. The order directs school managements to conduct sanitisation of their campuses every day and after every shift. It also asks the schools to ensure the availability of hand sanitisers and thermal scanners while adding that no student shall be allowed inside a classroom without thermal scanning. The schools have also been asked to provide first-aid to anyone showing Covid-19-like symptoms and then immediately sending the individual to home/hospital. The schools have also been asked to ensure that distancing norms are followed by students. The use of multiple entry/exit points has been encouraged. The order goes on to say that if required, schools can operate with only 50% of their strength on a day. All kinds of events and sports activities which invite a student gathering have been prohibited. The SOPs for boarding schools state that the Covid-19 negative report of the staff and students of private boarding schools will have to be submitted to the chief education Officer (CEO) of the respective district, 72 hours prior to the reopening of the school. The SOPs add that there is no compulsion for the boarding school students to come to their schools if they are staying back at their homes. In such cases, they shall be provided with the facility of online classes by their respective boarding schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sops-released-for-school-reopening-thermal-scanning-sanitisation-distancing-mandated-events-prohibited/articleshow/78850317.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid: 32 die, 1,967 test +ve in 3 states||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: After a gap of two days, Haryana on Saturday once again stood ahead of its two neighbouring states of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh both in terms of Covid-19 fatalities as well as fresh cases. The three states together accounted for 32 deaths and 1,957 new positive cases. Haryana reported 1,299 fresh cases and 15 deaths. With this, the state’s overall number of cases rose to 1,57,064 with 1,730 deaths. Total 1,218 patients discharged took the cured count to 1,45,196 and the recovery rate to 92.44%. There were a total of 10,148 active cases at the day’s end, including 192 critical patients on oxygen or ventilator support. Highest six deaths were reported in Hisar, two each in Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Jind districts, and one each in Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Gurgaon, which also recorded maximum 398 new cases. Faridabad saw 193 new cases, Hisar 139, Mahendragarh and Sonipat 71 each, Rohtak 63, Rewari 58, Jhajjar 49 and Sirsa 41. Punjab reported 485 fresh cases, while 12 patients succumbed to the infection. So far, 130,640 cases have been detected in the state, out of which 4,277 were active on Saturday evening and 4,107 lives had been lost to the virus. So far, 1,22,256 patients have recovered. In the last 24 hours, maximum five patients died in Amritsar, two each in Mohali and Patiala, and one each in Bathinda, Pathankot and Tarn Taran. The districts reporting over 50 cases were Hoshiarpur (90), Ludhiana (77) and Mohali (51). Himachal Pradesh on Saturday reported five Covid deaths and 173 new cases, while 182 patients recovered. The state has seen 20,213 cases so far, of which 2,605 cases are active, 285 patients have died and 17,256 patients recovered. The latest cases came from Mandi (58), Kullu (32), Shimla (22), Solan (16), Kangra (9), Hamirpur (8), Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur (7 each), Una (6), Bilaspur (5) and Chamba (3). Of the recoveries, Sirmaur reported maximum 46, Shimla 41, Kangra and Lahaul-Spiti 31 each, Bilaspur 15, Kullu (9), Una (7), and two in Chamba district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-32-die-1967-test-ve-in-3-states/articleshow/78851972.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Shimla||Covid: 32 die, 1,967 test +ve in 3 states||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: After a gap of two days, Haryana on Saturday once again stood ahead of its two neighbouring states of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh both in terms of Covid-19 fatalities as well as fresh cases. The three states together accounted for 32 deaths and 1,957 new positive cases. Haryana reported 1,299 fresh cases and 15 deaths. With this, the state’s overall number of cases rose to 1,57,064 with 1,730 deaths. Total 1,218 patients discharged took the cured count to 1,45,196 and the recovery rate to 92.44%. There were a total of 10,148 active cases at the day’s end, including 192 critical patients on oxygen or ventilator support. Highest six deaths were reported in Hisar, two each in Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Jind districts, and one each in Fatehabad, Bhiwani and Gurgaon, which also recorded maximum 398 new cases. Faridabad saw 193 new cases, Hisar 139, Mahendragarh and Sonipat 71 each, Rohtak 63, Rewari 58, Jhajjar 49 and Sirsa 41. Punjab reported 485 fresh cases, while 12 patients succumbed to the infection. So far, 130,640 cases have been detected in the state, out of which 4,277 were active on Saturday evening and 4,107 lives had been lost to the virus. So far, 1,22,256 patients have recovered. In the last 24 hours, maximum five patients died in Amritsar, two each in Mohali and Patiala, and one each in Bathinda, Pathankot and Tarn Taran. The districts reporting over 50 cases were Hoshiarpur (90), Ludhiana (77) and Mohali (51). Himachal Pradesh on Saturday reported five Covid deaths and 173 new cases, while 182 patients recovered. The state has seen 20,213 cases so far, of which 2,605 cases are active, 285 patients have died and 17,256 patients recovered. The latest cases came from Mandi (58), Kullu (32), Shimla (22), Solan (16), Kangra (9), Hamirpur (8), Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur (7 each), Una (6), Bilaspur (5) and Chamba (3). Of the recoveries, Sirmaur reported maximum 46, Shimla 41, Kangra and Lahaul-Spiti 31 each, Bilaspur 15, Kullu (9), Una (7), and two in Chamba district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/covid-32-die-1967-test-ve-in-3-states/articleshow/78855300.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada: One held over rowdy-sheeter’s murder||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada police on Saturday morning arrested the main accused in connection with the murder of rowdy-sheeter Umar Farooq in less than 12 hours. When police went to arrest the gang, 26-year-old rowdy-sheeter Ibrahim Khaleel, allegedly attacked them with a lethal weapon. Prasanna, in charge of Bantwal Rural police station, was injured. In self-defence, police fired at Khaleel, injuring him in his leg, after which he was arrested. Two of his associates managed to escape. According to police, the incident took place near Rekya in Dharmasthala police limits at 6am. Acting on credible information that the accused were heading to Bengaluru after committing the murder, police went in search of them. After their car was intercepted, Khaleel hopped out of the vehicle and tried to attack police with a weapon. However, Bantwal town police sub-inspector Avinash fired at his leg. Police sources said that Khaleel and Farooq were once good friends. “Their relationship turned sour over a silly issue,” they added. Khaleel was a prime accused in the communal riots that broke out at Kalladka in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/one-held-over-rowdy-sheeters-murder/articleshow/78850322.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Covid-19 tally peaks to 41,555 in dist with 287 new cases||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 287 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 41,555, of which 3,757 are active cases. At least 290 patients were discharged from treatment centres on the day. With this, 37,264 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district. The recovery rate now stands at 89.6%. The toll rose to 534 with four more people succumbing to the virus. Among the deceased was a 82-year-old woman who was admitted to a private hospital with fever, tiredness and breathing difficulty on October 11. She tested positive for the virus on October 18 and died on Friday. The remaining three patients, meanwhile, died in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. They were aged 82, 70 and 72. The 70-year-old man was hospitalized on October 2 with breathing difficulty. He died of bilateral bronchopneumonia on Friday. The 72-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday evening. He also died of bilateral bronchopneumonia, but on Saturday. The 82-year-old man was hospitalized on Thursday night with breathing difficulty. He died on Saturday morning. He had tested positive for the virus on October 7. It is not known whether he was in home quarantine or admitted to any private hospital until his situation worsened. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani, meanwhile, conducted a review meeting with officials of government hospitals, city corporation and health department and appreciated them for bringing down the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths drastically over the past one month. He also lauded the public for being cooperative. The minister said the district had conducted 15,605 fever camps so far and screened 16,57 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-tally-peaks-to-41555-in-dist-with-287-new-cases/articleshow/78850327.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Shimla||Himachal police to maintain separate register on suicides||SHIMLA: From now on, in Himachal Pradesh, every police station will have to maintain a record of suicide cases under their jurisdiction in a separate register, which will be called register number 27. At present, there is no system in place to keep a separate record of suicide cases as suicides are clubbed with unidentified dead bodies. As a result, considerable effort is required to ascertain the exact number of suicides from clubbed data. Through a standing order issued on Friday, DGP Sanjay Kundu made it mandatory for all police stations to maintain a separate register (no 27) to keep a proper record of suicides in the state. The new register will create a database which can be referred to in future cases. According to the order, the station house officer (SHO), on handing over charge on transfer, will record a confidential charge note about the register of suicide cases for his successor. List of areas prone to suicide or cases of attempted suicide falling under the jurisdiction of the respective police station will also be mentioned. Kundu said according to the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) report, Himachal Pradesh has witnessed a significant percentage increase in suicides. He said the state recorded 28.5% increase in suicide cases in 2018 as compared to 2017. In 2018, he said, the state caught up with the national suicide rate of 10.2 per lakh population. “During the last five years, the number of suicide cases has varied from 560 to 785 per year, which is almost six to seven times more than murder cases being reported in the state,” he added. A large number of suicide cases are reported from Kangra, Mandi and Shimla districts while the rate of suicide per lakh population is higher than the national average in Hamirpur, Kinnaur and Solan. “These figures are obviously a cause of concern for the state,” he said. At present, HP Police does not have a mechanism to maintain accurate data of suicide cases. In CCTNS (crime and criminal tracking network system), suicide cases are clubbed with unidentified dead bodies. At the police station level, data regarding suicides due to abetment (section 306 IPC) and cases where only action as per 174 CrPC was taken are being mixed up, he pointed out. As such, he said, it entails a lot of effort and time to ascertain the exact number of suicides. The purpose of the standing order is to maintain proper and updated record of suicide cases taking place in the jurisdiction of a police station, Kundu explained, adding that supervisory officers will monitor maintenance of this register in each police station of the state and issue periodic directions to SHOs for their guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-police-to-maintain-separate-register-on-suicides/articleshow/78851975.cms||Anand Bodh
October 25, 2020||India||CIC headless for two months, pending cases mount to 37,000||NEW DELHI: On October 27, it is going to be two months since the post of the chief of the Central Information Commission (CIC) fell vacant after the previous incumbent Bimal Julka retired. In the commission that can have up to 10 commissioners besides the chief, five posts of information commissioners are also currently vacant. Working with five information commissioners, the CIC is currently dealing with a pendency of 36,897 complaints and appeals. The Prime Minister-led selection committee had met on October 7 to consider the names recommended by the search committee for the post of the chief and five vacant IC posts in CIC. However, the meeting was inconclusive. In a reply to an RTI application dated October 16, the department of personnel and training (DoPT) has said that the “selection process is on.” A total of 139 applications were received in response to the advertisement for the post of chief information commissioner and 355 for the posts of information commissioner in CIC, the department said in its reply. However, DoPT has refused to share the details of the applicants saying that “the information related to particulars of candidates is exempted under section 8(1)(j) of RTI Act.” This section deals with the issue of unwarranted invasion of privacy. In response to other queries raised in the RTI application, by activist Anjali Bhardwaj, about whether a search committee was set-up, details of its members, meeting details and agenda, the DoPT has refused to share the information saying, “as the process of selection is yet to be completed, it would not be conducive to furnish such information in the manner it is sought. No such practice is followed in any other equivalent high level appointments of government.” Reacting to the response, Bhardwaj cited a Supreme Court judgment dated February 15, 2019. “The apex court makes it clear that the government is required to disclose information including particulars of applicants, details of the search committee, criteria for shortlisting candidates, details of the selection committee. Therefore, denial of such information is a violation of the RTI Act and also the directions of the Supreme Court,” she claimed. A report card on the working of information commissions by voluntary organisation Satark Nagrik Sangathan points out that this is the fifth time in six years that the CIC has been rendered headless due to delay in appointing a new chief upon the incumbent demitting office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cic-headless-for-two-months-pending-cases-mount-to-37000/articleshow/78852738.cms||Ambika Pandit
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers booked for threatening irrigation dept team||SIRSA: The Sirsa police have registered a case against some farmers of Chautala village, who allegedly threatened an irrigation department team with death and got installed a bigger Adjustable Proportional Module (APM) machine of their own choice for enhanced supply of water. Due to the lack of water at the tail-end of Chautala distributary, the farmers of Chautala village in Sirsa district buy water tankers from Rajasthan. But, after the installation of a bigger machine, now the farmers will get more water than the sanctioned quantity. The police said a case has been registered at Sadar Dabwali police station on a complaint of Mahendra Singh, Dabwali SDO of irrigation department, against 10 farmers on charges of criminal intimidation, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions and assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty. In the complaint, the SDO said as the department’s team visited Chautala village to repair the moga number 46,500 of Tejakheda Rajwah, the accused farmers interrupted the work and threatened to kill the team members and also used abusive language. “They did not let the team install the APM machine and pressurised the team to install their own machine, following which the team had to install the APM machine brought by the farmers,” the SDO stated. Meanwhile, a section of farmers has said since the amount of water is fixed by the size of the APM machine, due to the installation of a bigger APM machine, the accused farmers would get more water than the prescribed quantity, which is clearly a case of water theft. This would also lead to shortage of water in their fields, they claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-booked-for-threatening-irrigation-dept-team/articleshow/78852006.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Ailing sloth bear dies||COIMBATORE: An ailing male sloth bear rescued from Karunya Nagar on Friday evening died without responding to treatment on Saturday morning. Madukkarai forest range frontline staff had found the animal at an agricultural field on Friday around 11.45am. They alerted district forest officer D Venkatesh, who directed the department’s veterinary doctor Sukumar to rush to the spot. The veterinarian found out that the bear had lost most of incisors and canines, an official said. “It was weak due to age-related ailments and was not able to move. We kept it in a cage and shifted it to the Chadivayal elephant camp, where veterinarians cleaned the wounds. They also administered vitamins, antibiotics and glucose. However, the animal died without responding to the treatment around 1.30am on Saturday.” The veterinarian carried out autopsy at the elephant camp and buried the carcass in the reserve forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ailing-sloth-bear-dies/articleshow/78850346.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Amritsar||Rice millers threaten to not procure paddy||BATHINDA: The rice millers of Jalalabad in Fazilka district on Saturday threatened not to make procurement of paddy in future if the trucks carrying Basmati 1121 variety from outside the state, which are stranded for a week now, are not released at the earliest. The millers have also condemned the attitude of the state government and Fazilka administration in tackling the issue of stranded basmati-loaded trucks outside the state borders due to the farmers’ opposition. According to them, a number of basmati-laden trucks are being brought to the state after due intimation to the authorities, but those are stranded for the last many days. They are ready to pay the requisite fee, but the administration is not allowing the trucks to reach the rice mills and instead sending those out of the borders of Punjab. Concerned over paddy coming from other states, the farmers are stopping trucks. They want the paddy from outside to be confiscated, as such paddy purchased at lower prices is being sold in Punjab at MSP. At a meeting in Jalalabad, millers Balwinder Singh Guraya, Inderjit Singh Madaan, Harish Setia and Ashwani Sidama said for the last one week, the trucks are standing near a toll plaza, though they had duly informed the administration that these trucks are of basmati, to which farmers should not have any objection. They claimed that the inspectors of food procurement agencies have even checked the quality, but the administration sent the trucks out of the Punjab border. “We have to suffer a big loss due to this, as the basmati might get spoiled due to the delay in loading. We have decided not to procure basmati in future under such circumstances. While the government wants to promote basmati in place of paddy, when it comes to procuring it, the authorities do not allow the trucks to reach the mills,” said one of them. Another miller said, “We are with the farmers in their struggle, but as we are bringing basmati from other places as per the norms, the trucks should not be stopped from reaching the rice mills.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rice-millers-threaten-to-not-procure-paddy/articleshow/78851996.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: 50km Metro extensions in the pipeline for 2nd phase||PUNE: The authorities have proposed over 50km of extensions to the two Metro routes coming up in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. These proposals will be considered for the second phase of the project. Many proposals are in the preliminary stage, while three are in the advanced stages of consideration, officials said. These three include the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation to Nigdi extension, which is awaiting the Centre’s approval; Swargate to Katraj, for which a detailed project report is ready; and from Nashik Phata to Chakan — the DPR is being prepared for this. The proposed routes were given a push recently, when deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during a recent meeting told officials to check for feasibility. “We have come to know that many more routes have been proposed. However, we have yet to receive official communication from the authorities concerned about preparing DPRs,” a MahaMetro official said. The other routes proposed for extensions include Vanaz to Chandni Chowk, Ramwadi to the Lohegoan airport and beyond to Wagholi, a new line from Swargate to Khadakwasla and an extension till Hadapsar. Pune Municipal Corporation standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasne said most proposals have been approved for the purpose of preparing a detailed project report. PMC sources said the time was right to consider extending the routes. ““It is a massive project and there is a long administrative process involved before any proposal is approved. This is the right time to start planning new routes,” one source said. Meanwhile, MahaMetro is set to get 5,214 square metres of land near Gunjan Talkies Chowk in Yerawada for the construction of a viaduct. “The High Court has directed that the land be handed over to MahaMetro,” MahaMetro general manager (HR) Hemant Sonawane said, adding that nine piers for the Civil court-Ramwadi viaduct will be constructed here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50km-metro-extensions-in-the-pipeline-for-2nd-phase/articleshow/78851013.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Farmers against field trials of genetically-modified brinjal||COIMBATORE: Farmers affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam have requested collector K Rajamani not to allow field trials of the two indigenous transgenic varieties of brinjal hybrids, Janak and BSS-793, in the state. In a petition submitted to the collector, the farmers said the new varieties will kill the traditional varieties of the vegetable and make them depend on multinational corporations for seeds. Tamil Nadu is one of the eight states chosen for conducting field trials of the brinjal varieties before they are commercially released. However, the genetic engineering appraisal committee had asked for the trial to begin only after getting no-objection certificate from the states. “Field trials should not be allowed here. The state government should not give the NOC,” said senior member of the association V S Kalisamy. Brinjal is cultivated in Thondamuthur, Annur and S S Kulam in Coimbatore, Kalisamy said. “If field trials begin and the varieties becomes commercially available, farmers will be tempted to adopt them because of bigger vegetables and higher yield. It will also force them depend on MNCs for seeds, like in the US,” he said. The genetically-modified varieties will kill traditional varieties of brinjal which can even be cultivated organically, the petition said. “there are several varieties like mullu kathiri cultivated in and around Chennai, vella kathiri in and around Bhavani area and Salem, poona vai kathiri in the south side of the state and vari kathiri and neela kathiri in Kanyakumari. Farmers bred them because they found them suitable to their local soil and climatic conditions. They have certain unique nutritional properties. Farmers here use seeds from the current harvest for next sowing and don’t have to buy them from anyone. It is self-sustaining. All these will become forgotten,” it said. “Brinjal is not a critical vegetable that need so much research. The researchers should instead spend their money and time to develop BT varieties of palm tree, of which every part is useful, or jatropha, whose seeds are used to produce biodiesel,” added the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-against-field-trials-of-genetically-modified-brinjal/articleshow/78850337.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 25, 2020||Goa||Damage to biodiversity will affect tourism: Suresh Prabhu||PANAJI: Destruction of Goa’s rich biodiversity will damage not just the ecology but Goa’s tourism sector too, said former Union minister and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Prabhu on Saturday. Prabhu’s statement amidst the ongoing Save Mollem campaign, is sure to raise some eyebrows even though the former commerce minister did not mention any of the three mega infrastructure projects coming up in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife sanctuary and Mollem National Park. Prabhu said that Goa’s greenery and cleanliness make it an attraction for foreign tourists. “Why will tourists come if it is not as beautiful as it is? They will come only when the beaches are clean, the greenery is there. Whatever economic activity you do, should not destroy Goa’s biodiversity and beauty,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/damage-to-biodiversity-will-affect-tourism-prabhu/articleshow/78852399.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Man commits suicide; girl, kin booked||LUDHIANA: The division number 7 police have booked a girl and her parents for allegedly harassing a man of EWS Colony, who committed suicide on Saturday morning. The man hanged himself from a ceiling fan of the house and left a suicide note in which he had held these three accused for forcing him to end his life. The deceased has been identified as Shubham, 23, of EWS Colony, who was a labourer. The police have registered a case against a woman, Khushi, her father Rajan Pathak and her mother of Puneet Nagar, Tibba road, on charges of abetment to suicide. Surinder Kumar, father of Shubham, said Khushi wanted to marry his son against his wishes. Once she had eloped from her house and at that time her parents had harassed Shubham. Tibba police had also called him to question him, but some days later she herself returned home on her own. He added that on Friday, Khushi met Shubham and threatened to get an FIR lodged if he did not marry him. On Saturday morning, he took the extreme step in the absence of his parents. Investigating officer ASI Sukhdev Singh said that the police have received a suicide note from the spot. Based on it and statement of victim’s family the police have lodged FIR against the woman and her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-commits-suicide-girl-kin-booked/articleshow/78848187.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Form new panel to probe Kotkhai rape-murder case: Shanta to HP CM||Shimla: Senior BJP leader and former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Shanta Kumar has written to CM Jairam Thakur and suggested that a new special investigation committee be set to probe the Gudiya case (Kotkhai rape-murder case). In the letter he has stated that the new committee should have three former and three current police officers of Himachal Pradesh and, if appropriate, some IAS officers should also be included. In his letter, Shanta Kumar has stated said that two or three of the six appointments should be made at the suggestion of leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and the state government should request the high court to supervise the investigation of the special investigation committee. He also alleged that the only reason that the CBI couldn’t crack the case was that some police officers had destroyed all evidence, reportedly at the behest of a politician, but every crime leaves behind some clues and those who wanted to investigate could find the evidence. Shanta Kumar expressed confidence that criminals would be caught. “It would be a matter of great pride for the Himachal Pradesh administration that what CBI could not do, the state government did,” he said. Theformer CM added that at the least the family and people of the state would be satisfied that the state government made the greatest effort possible. He also requested Thakur to implement his suggestion. He said he had spoken to the girl’s father over phone recently. “The family and people like me will continue to experience this pain until the government accepts my suggestion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/form-new-panel-to-probe-kotkhai-rape-murder-case-shanta-to-hp-cm/articleshow/78852019.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Olympiad exams to be conducted online this year||LUDHIANA: Considering the safety and health concern of students as paramount, the Olympiad exams will be conducted online during the current academic year. All students will be able to appear in SOF Olympiad exams from their homes. Last year, around 34,000 students from hundreds of schools of Ludhiana had appeared in the Olympiads held for Classes I-XII. The SOF will conduct four Olympiads exams this year, including SOF International General Knowledge Olympiad, SOF International English Olympiad, SOF National Science Olympiad and SOF International Mathematics Olympiad. Registrations are open and students may register up to 15 days before the date of each. In case of any difficulty a student may log into https://ors.sofworld.org/studentregistration to register for one or more exams. Director Mahabir Singh of Science Olympiad Foundation said , “Extensive use of artificial Intelligence, remote proctoring, video recording of exam and various other tools will be used to ensure integrity of the exams. Awards, gifts, prizes and scholarships will be awarded to the winning schools and students from each class at the state and at international level.” Students have been asked to ensure that all information filled is accurate and complete. Information will be shared with schools and any inaccurate information filled in may lead to cancellation of registration/exam. Confirmation of receipt of registrations and payment will be sent after receipt of payment. Guidelines for exams, links for demo test and actual test, day and time of exam, roll numbers and other updates will be sent at mobile number/e-mail ID of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/olympiad-exams-to-be-conducted-online-this-year/articleshow/78848197.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Dyeing units get 15-day ultimatum for checking discharge of untreated water||Ludhiana: While issuing warning to the industrial units, especially dyeing units, for throwing untreated water into the MC sewerage lines, officials of Punjab Pollution Control Board have given two-week time to such unit owners for mending their ways. Recently, after receiving a few complaints regarding dirty water being discharged into the MC sewer, the PPCB had checked a few dyeing units and irregularities were noticed. During the checking, it came to light that these unit owners were not using the effluent treatment plants to treat the water and rather it was being thrown illegally into the sewer system. The units have been given time till November 6 and after that a special checking drive would be launched, following which defaulting units would be sealed. The PPCB officials have claimed that owners of these units will have to disclose at the regional offices that they were bypassing the procedure of treating this water and then close down that system by November. As per the PPCB officials, at Tajpur road and Focal Point a few such defaulter units are still functional. The member secretary of PPCB, Karunesh Garg, said, “This is a warning for the defaulter units to set their system right and this warning has been issued 15 days before starting of any drive so that unit owners do not give any excuse by saying that they were not aware of it. Incidentally, a former BJP councillor had also complained against discharge of untreated water coming from dyeing units into the MC sewer system near Shingaar cinema. It was only after that the checking was carried out in a few units. Even Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar has been raising this issue for long. Due to untreated water coming from the dyeing units and falling into the MC sewer, the sewerage treatment plants are unable to treat even the domestic waste properly. The STP at Tajpur road has been declared defunct because of the dyeing units’ water flowing to the STP along with domestic discharge. So, after 15 days it will be seen whether this warning has led to any difference or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dyeing-units-get-15-day-ultimatum-for-checking-discharge-of-untreated-water/articleshow/78848206.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Celebrations remain subdued but citizens keen to follow tradition||PUNE: Plans for family gatherings or visits to relatives may have been shelved this Dasara but Puneites are making it a point to follow all traditions as much as they can. The flower market at Gultekdi was bustling on Saturday with people stepping out to purchase marigold and other flowers from vendors and farmers in preparation for Dasara. While the Navaratra festivities have been subdued this year due to Covid-19, families are happy about being able to celebrate Dasara in the traditional manner. City-based entrepreneur Sharvari Gokhale said, “Luckily, this year Dasara is on a Sunday so I’ll be able to celebrate the festival with my husband, who travels a lot due to work. I will cook all of his favourite meals. We will exchange apta leaves or sona with our neighbours as is the tradition.” Another integral ritual on the occasion is Shastrapoojan. According to purohit Raviraj Kshirsgar, Vijayadashmi is an occasion to celebrate the victory of good over evil. “The scriptures call for worship of the weapons or Shastrapoojan. Over the years, the meaning of shastra has changed and people in different businesses worship their tools and machinery,” he stated, adding that the entire day is also considered auspicious for new beginnings. Businessman Sanjay Sharma said, “We are going to open our office for a while on Sunday to conduct a puja of our computers. For us, Dasara starts with decorating our vehicles, home and office with marigold flowers early in the morning. We will then conduct a puja of the computers and books. We cleaned our office premises on Friday and Saturday in preparation of the puja.” Kshirsgar said the auspicious muhurat for shastrapoojan is between 10am to noon and 4pm to 7pm. “Dasara is among the three-and-a-half auspicious muhurat of the year and the entire day is considered auspicious for starting something new,” he explained. Homemaker Sonali Bhosale said, “For us, Dasara celebrations include decorating the house with flowers and offering prayers. We will step out to buy some gold tomorrow as the muhurat is auspicious and it is considered good to bring home ‘Laxmi’ on the day. My family will offer the gold along with naivedya to the Gods before enjoying a meal together. We will also exchange sona with the elders and children from our family and neighbourhood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/celebrations-remain-subdued-but-citizens-keen-to-follow-tradition/articleshow/78851024.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Free coaching institutes help poor kids crack NEET||DEHRADUN: When results of the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) were declared a few days ago, Abdul Rahim, 17, from Dhubri district of Assam was happy for two reasons. The first was that he would soon join medical college to realise his long-cherished dream of becoming a doctor and secondly he would not have to pull a rickshaw like his father. Abdul is among the 80-odd students of ‘Ajmal Super 40’ coaching institute at Hojai in Dhubri which provides coaching to students from marginalised sections of the society. The coaching institute, run by the AjmalFoundation of Assam, is inspired by Anand Kumar, who supports underprivileged students at his ‘Super 30’ initiative in Bihar. Talking to TOI, Abdul Kadir, project head at the institute, said, “Apart from running a normal coaching facility for regular students, around 80 students who are economically weak or are orphans, are picked up by us through a statewide entrance test. These students are kept at our campus with free food and lodging facilities along with coaching provided by teachers from the best of institutions.” In the border town of Barmer in Rajasthan, ‘50 Villagers’ — a non-profit run by a doctor — is doing similar work of picking up kids from poor backgrounds and giving them coaching. The initiative, so named because 25 students each from classes XI and XII are selected for the free coaching, has had 40 of its students cracking the NEET exam this year. Dr Bharat Saran, who started the initiative in 2015, told TOI, “I come from a family of farmers and had to struggle to complete my education and become a doctor. As a way to give back to the society and encourage deserving students, I started the ‘50 Villagers’ project with the help of some philanthropists.” He added that “many students who stayed with us for two years for the preparation were from extremely marginalised backgrounds — some were also working as labourers.” Lakshman, 17, a student who studied at the centre, has secured All India Rank 465 in the NEET examination this year. Talking to TOI, he said, “I lost my father in 2012 in an accident and started working at a very young age to support my family. When I was in class X, I learnt about the ‘50 Villagers’ project from a friend. Their guidance and support has today put me on the path to become a doctor.” ‘Lift for Upliftment’, an initiative by a group of doctors, is doing similar work in Pune. The doctors involved in the initiative — including the founders, Dr Atul Dhakne and Dr Ketan Deshmukh — themselves provide coaching to students after work every day. Medical students who are pursuing MBBS are also part of the group of teachers. Since 2015, more than 40 of their students — including many from tribal areas of Maharashtra — have cleared the NEET examination. Kiran Toge, a third-year MBBS student, who is working president of the group, said, “ Our group runs mainly on donations and funds generated by us. Even though we have limited resources, we have been able to ensure rigorous preparation for our students.” The Vikalp Foundation is yet another initiative based at Rewari in Haryana which is providing free medical as well as engineering coaching to poor students. Started in 2013 by Naveen Mishra, an IIT-Delhi pass-out who hails from a small village in Bihar, 100 students from financially-weak backgrounds are selected by the foundation every year and divided into two batches of 50 students each and then provided coaching for NEET and IIT-JEE examinations under their ‘Super 100’ programme. Pradeep Sansanwal of the foundation, told TOI, “This year, 49 out of 50 of our students who were given coaching for NEET have cleared the exam and over 20 are expected to make it to government medical institutes.” The students are selected after an entrance test with the eligibility criteria being those who score at least 80% marks in class X. “ Our initiative has received support from the Haryana government and Rewari district administration which arranges the boarding facility for the students while we provide free coaching,” Sansanwal said. Geetanjali Ray from Dharuhera in Haryana who cleared the NEET exam this year after getting coaching at Vikalp, told TOI, “I always wanted to become a doctor but feared that my father's limited resources could act as a roadblock since he works as a construction worker. But the free coaching that I received gave me an opportunity to realise my dream.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/free-coaching-institutes-helping-kids-of-rickshaw-pullers-daily-wagers-crack-neet/articleshow/78850365.cms||abhijeet singh
October 25, 2020||Pune||Edible oil price rises by Rs 100 per 15-litre can||Pune: The price of edible oil has increased by Rs90-100 per 15-litre can over the past few days. Traders and wholesalers claimed that the price escalation was due to shortage of imported edible oil in the market. Nitin Raskar, head of the grocery section at Gultekdi Market Yard, told TOI, “The average price increase per 15-litre can is in the range of Rs90-100 across all types of oils in the wholesale market. So the rates have automatically gone up in the retails markets across the city.” A 15-liter can is being sold between Rs1,500-2,500. “We are getting 8 to 10 tankers of oil daily in the market. We need more supply now as hotels, restaurants and eateries have opened and there is an increase in demand. The import of edible is not adequate,” said Raskar. The prices are not expected to decrease soon, he added. “The situation won’t change immediately as many oil crops like groundnut, sunflower and soybean have been damaged due to rainfall across the state that has affected production.” Chimanlal Govinddas, a wholesaler of edible oil, stated, “The prices of oils like groundnut, soybean and sunflower have increased. It is not a good sign for the common people during the pandemic. Usually, the city needs at least 400 tonnes oil to maintain stability in the market. Now, we are getting only 250 tonnes of oil. Since food and processing establishments have opened in large numbers, there is an increase in demand for oil in the market. The market needs at least 500-600 tonne oil daily.” Govinddas, one of the oldest edible oil wholesalers in the market, added that the Indian market has been getting less supply of imported oil from Malaysia, Indonesia, Argentina, Brazil, Ukraine and Russia over the last few weeks. “This has disturbed the demand-supply equation. Oil consumption increases most during the festive period,” he said. Popatlal Oswal, president of Pune Merchants Chamber, said, “Due to rainfall and adverse weather conditions, we are getting less supply from Latur and Sangli mills. We need local oil supply that is affordable to the common customers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/edible-oil-price-rises-by-rs-100-per-15-litre-can/articleshow/78851029.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Isolation takes a toll on mental well-being of elderly||MANGALURU: The stringent lockdown imposed by the Centre in March was relaxed in May, and most of the restrictions are being lifted I phases. However, for the elderly, it has been a long and lonely journey since March. Isolation continues to be a daily reality for most of the senior citizens, who have been identified as being among the groups more vulnerable to Covid-19. Consequently, this prolonged spell of loneliness and forced seclusion has taken a toll on their mental wellbeing and cases of elderly people complaining of problems such as anxiety is on the rise. Clinical supervisor in the department of occupational therapy at the Manipal College of Health Professionals (MCHP) Lavanya Padamshali emphasised the role social participation played in ensuring a seamless transition to one’s advanced years. “Even before the pandemic struck, research showed that nearly 20% of the elderly in India were living isolated lives. This number is likely to have doubled after the pandemic. Several studies relate diseases, mortality and quality of life of senior citizens to the amount of social participation,” Lavanya said. As part of an occupational therapy project at MCHP, students who interacted with at least 25 senior citizens found that almost every second elderly person they spoke to was experiencing stress. “Uncertainty and fear of the pandemic can have a great impact on the minds of the elderly people, who are already grappling with questions such as ‘what after me’,” Lavanya told TOI. She said that reaching out to the elderly people residing at old age homes had not been an easy task since most such institutions did not have a facility through which they could reach out to the inmates. “We noticed a rise in the number of people dealing with anxiety, panic, adjustment disorders, depression, chronic stress and insomnia. Most of them terribly miss social participation, which is a crucial parameter in keeping their mind fresh and active,” Lavanya added. She said that, as part of ‘Occupational Therapy Day’ celebrated on October 27, MCHP was documenting success stories of senior citizens based on the theme ‘Reimagine Doing’. The documentary will also highlight how they have been coping with the pandemic. “We have documented the life of 60-year-old Abdulla KK, who is also physically-challenged. His positive attitude helped him tide through these times. ‘Better to wear out than rust out’ is the motto he lives by. A wheelchair-bound Abdulla uses his leisure for tele-counselling other people with disabilities. A passionate writer, he is the author of two books,” Lavanya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/isolation-takes-a-toll-on-mental-wellbeing-of-elderly/articleshow/78850357.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘27 shops belonging to church sold illegally’||YAMUNANAGAR: Representatives of Church of North India Trust Association (CNITA) has alleged that 11 sale deeds of 27 shops belonging to a church associated with them in Yamunanagar district have been registered on the basis of forged and fabricated power of attorney. As per sources, the shops are situated near Fountain Chowk area of Yamunanagar and belong to St. Peters Church (CNI) Diocese of Delhi associated with CNITA. On Friday, on the complaint of Parmod Kumar Tandy, Presbyter-in-charge at St. Peters Church (CNI), Yamunanagar, a case has been registered against 18 persons, including sub-registrar of Jagadhri tehsil and two revenue officials of the district. The complainant has approached the police against the accused, alleging that they connived with each other after preparing forged and fabricated power of attorney dated March 6, 2020, and executed 11 sale deeds of 27 shops belonging to CNITA at the said church in Yamunanagar. All accused have been booked under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for cheating), and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the IPC at Sector 17 Huda Jagadhri police station on Friday. The complainant halso alleged that the role of some officials of the Yamunanagar municipal corporation (MC) should also be probed. The officials concerned could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/27-shops-belonging-to-church-sold-illegally/articleshow/78852034.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Police issues safety guidelines for gold loan companies||LUDHIANA: After a robbery bid at the Dugri Road branch of Muthoot Finance, the Ludhiana police have issued orders for gold loan companies with mandatory guidelines for compliance to avert such incidents. These guidelines have been formed after discussion with such finance companies, checking guidelines of the RBI and suggestions from city residents. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said that some suggestions given by residents have also been included in the guidelines. The police have made it mandatory for all gold loan companies and other financial institutions to install night vision CCTVs cameras to cover the road in front of the branch, all entry and exit points, reception desk and other vital points inside the branch with storage of up to 30 days with power backup. Further, the management shall be responsible to install the DVR/NVR and UPS in a place not easily identifiable by visitors to prevent any damage to the same by miscreants. There must be a provision of remote recording and storage of footage, maybe at a regional office or headquarter of company, for any eventuality. Further, the management must install and ensure smooth functioning of burglar alarms in the branches. The burglary alarm should be operated separately by branch manager, cashier and any other official of the branch from their seats. Further, the alarm should be linked to their respective head offices. The latter must in turn have an effective and prompt communication system, wherein call messages can be immediately dispatched to the police control room. A BSNL landline phone with an auto dialler should be installed in the branch. As soon as the alarm goes off, a teleprompter should automatically inform the police control room regarding the suspicious activity in the branch in a pre-recorded message. The alarm should be audible to neighbouring areas up to 100m so that any police patrol in the vicinity could immediately respond and the civilians in the neighbourhood could be cautioned. The CP said, “Valuables like gold and huge amounts of cash must be placed in a separate vault/locked room/strong room. There must be a system of delayed lockers that open after a delay of 20-25 minutes post OTP-based authentication. The locking system must be linked to a power backup system so that the security can be ascertained 24x7 and power failure doesn’t lead to any laxity in security. A strong room should necessarily have an OTP-based authentication before opening. Strong room should not be opened when the visitors are inside the hall.” Further, the management shall be responsible for deploying armed guards at the entrance of all branches. The security staff must be deployed after proper antecedents check through police verification. Name and phone numbers of all visitors must be entered in a register before allowing them entry. The management shall provide separate undertakings regarding compliance in this regard to the office of deputy commissioner of police, joint commissioner of police and police station concerned within one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-issues-safety-guidelines-for-gold-loan-companies/articleshow/78848210.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Enrolment doubles after school gets new building||LUDHIANA: A classroom block at Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal, was handed over to the school authorities after completion by a private firm. Since the announcement of the construction of the school building, the enrolment of the school has got doubled. While there were only 750 students in the school in the previous academic session, the enrolment stands at 1,500 now. Also, the school qualifies as a smart school. The work which was started in December 2018, involving a cost of Rs 1.75 crore, has been completed despite the economic slowdown during the lockdown this year. The school building comprises 10 classrooms, one staff room, separate washrooms for girls, boys and physically challenged students and water coolers with purifiers. The facility was handed over to the school management where district education officer Swarnjit Kaur, area counsellor Manpreet Grewal and MLA Ludhiana (north) Rakesh Pandey remained present. From Vardhman, Neeraj Jain, JMD, and DK Sindwani, director, were there and they encouraged the students and staff to make optimum use of the resources provided and urged them to study well and get good results. Owing to Covid crisis, a limited number of people attended the event and precautionary measures were strictly adhered to. The principal of the school, Naresh Kumar, and the district education officer appreciated the company’s endeavours in promoting education and upgrading the infrastructure of the government school. Neeraj said, “They have previously supported government schools at Giaspura, Kasabad and Lohara in Ludhiana while another project was going on at Ladhowal as well. We had earlier provided furniture to the school and established a computer lab as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/enrolment-doubles-after-school-gets-new-building/articleshow/78848219.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Dussehra celebrations to be muted in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: Dussehra celebrations on Sunday are set to be an extremely low-key affair as fairs won't be held on the occasion at Jhanda Talab, Prem Nagar, and Patel Nagar areas. Also, Ravan-dahan will not be held in the Parade Ground as has been the tradition for years. Following guidelines of the state government, the Dehradun district administration has appointed ADM Arvind Pandey for managing Dussehra celebrations in the city. Earlier, the administration had asked organisers of the Dussehra fairs to limit the size of the effigies to not more than 10 feet and ensure that there are only a limited number of people present during the ceremony. The sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) have also been asked to ensure that the guidelines of social distancing are followed during the celebrations in their respective sectors. For Ravan-dahan in residential colonies, a prior permission from the concerned police station has also been made mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dussehra-celebrations-to-be-muted-in-doon/articleshow/78850375.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University: Pro VC, registrar take over VC's office||NEW DELHI: A day after P C Jha, controversially appointed by Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi as acting registrar, wrote to the Union education ministry claiming his appointment and that of pro vice-chancellor Geeta Bhatt were valid under the statutes of the university, the ministry responded on Saturday by sending a letter addressed to Vikas Gupta, who was appointed the registrar by DU's Executive Council on October 21, ordering him to take action against Jha. In further escalation of the issue, the Viceregal Lodge, the vice-chancellor's office used by Jha and Bhatt on Friday, were taken over by Gupta and pro vice-chancellor P C Joshi. Offices of pro VC, registrar sealedThey barred the entry of the two officials appointed by Tyagi while on leave. The ministry’s letter, signed by Birendra Kumar Singh, deputy secretary, education ministry, read, “This ministry is in receipt of a letter dated 23/10/2020 received from one Shri PC Jha claiming to be the registrar of Delhi University. It is requested to ascertain who this person is and if he turns out to be an employee of Delhi University, then strict action as per the Delhi University Act, 1922, and statues and ordinances be taken.” On Friday, the offices of the pro VC and registrar were sealed and Jha and Bhatt functioned out of the VC’s office when late at night Joshi and Gupta took over the control of the office. On Saturday, Jha issued a press statement contending the two had taken illegal occupation of VC’s office. Jha’s statement read: “This has been informed to the police. The registrar, PC Jha, and pro-VC, Geeta Bhatt, were not allowed to enter the Viceregal Lodge premise around 1.30 pm on Saturday. They were denied entry by the guards.” Jha was also issued a notice and removed from the position of director of the Cluster Innovation Centre by Gupta. Jha told TOI, “I have been asked to respond to the notice in three days. I am reading through these and after consultation, will see what needs to be said in reply.” A day earlier, the education ministry had written to the university saying that all decisions regarding the university’s functioning had to be taken by pro vice-chancellor PC Joshi, who is the acting vice-chancellor in the absence of the VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-university-pro-vc-registrar-take-over-vcs-office/articleshow/78852741.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Continue testing through festive weekend: Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha||UDUPI: It was a pleasant surprise for the 120-odd frontline warriors in the department of health and family welfare to see a motivational WhatsApp message on their screens. The message from G Jagadeesha, deputy commissioner ,while wishing them happy Dasara, lauded their efforts in the last few months in combating Covid and urged them to keep the same resolve going into the festive season. “It is due to the tireless efforts of these warriors that the district as on date has the least case fatality ratio of 0.83%,” Jagadeesha told TOI. Increased testing in which the department plays a pivotal role has helped the district pull back the positivity rate that hovered around 25% around 45-days back to less than 10% as on date. “Presently, in some days it is as low as 6-7%,” Jagadeesha said, adding credit for both goes to the department staff. “The message has been sent to each of these department staff by name and it has not been a mass broadcast message,” the DC said. “I value the service of every single individual who has put aside their personal commitment and holidays,” he said. This has resulted in Udupi seeing a steep decline in positivity and mortality since the past few days. The district has conducted the highest tests of 1.20lakh/million population, highest in Karnataka, he said. The ultimate life of the entire exercise that involves testing, tracing, tracking, treating to IEC, which has taken the Covid surveillance to the next level compared to all other districts in the state is to save lives, Jagadeesha explained. If there is laxity in testing during this extended festival weekend, it will take the department as many, if not, more days to get things back on track. As a measure of solidarity, I too have stayed back here, Jagadeesha noted. “With little more patience from all of us, we are going to achieve success. I hope the testing target given by the state will be met even during this long weekend. I expect to see at least 2,300 testing on all days for the next few days, which will substantially cut the chain of transmission,” the DC said in the message and hoped they will be with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/continue-testing-through-festive-weekend-dc/articleshow/78850389.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Boosting ‘riparian wildlife’ latest focus of forest department||DEHRADUN: With an aim to protect the habitat of aquatic flora and fauna of rivers, the Uttarakhand forest department has added riparian wildlife management in its area of focus. The scientists and researchers from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) have reached out to Rudraprayag division in this respect and started with the conservation of flora and fauna of Alaknanda and Mandakini rivers. According to sources, under the Namami Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), the forest department has approved Rudraprayag forest division’s plan to induct riparian wildlife management and the project will continue for the next ten months. The department has also given a go-ahead for the conservation of the banks of rivers. “With October 24 (Saturday) being world fish migration day, our teams went out in the field under the aegis of scientists from WII. The staff was given the much-required information about the aquatic species ranging from different Himalayan fish species to smaller aquatic lives. Other associated parameters of a rich riparian habitat like water quality, vegetation, and basic ecology of Himalayan streams were also told to them,” said Vaibhav Singh, DFO, Rudraprayag forest division. Experts and conservationists have also underscored the urgent need to step up efforts to save riparian wildlife in Rudraprayag district, which has a number of hydroelectric power plants affecting the natural habitat of several aquatic species of rivers. “Rudraprayag is surrounded by hydropower plants like Singoli-Bhatwari hydroelectric power plant, Srinagar hydroelectric plant, and Phata-Vyum hydroelectric power plant. Further, two other plants are all set to go operational and another got into some controversy after the 2013 Kedarnath deluge. It's important to note that such a small district has huge hydroelectric plants. This certainly impacts the aquatic life of rivers,” said one of the experts present during the field visits on Saturday. The forest department along with WII will also be doing a ‘feasibility study on the reintroduction of otters’ in the backwaters of Srinagar hydro-electric power plant. “It's about saving rivers. If we save their habitats, several aquatic lives would automatically be saved. Otters have always been present in this valley and in a recent survey, their presence was found at just two spots in Alaknanda. The backwater of Srinagar hydro electric power plant can be a potential habitat of otters just like Bhimgoda barrage makes for a very good habitat for them,” said K Sivakumar, senior scientist, WII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-adds-riparian-wildlife-management-to-its-focus-list/articleshow/78850385.cms||Shivani Azad
October 25, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP, BSP workers exchange heated arguments||LUDHIANA: Workers of BJP and BSP came at loggerheads with each other on Saturday morning when supporters of the former had gathered near the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar at Jalandhar bypass chowk. The BJP workers and leaders had gathered there to pay tributes to Dr Ambedkar and condemn the attack on BJP leaders in Nawanshahr during Insaaf Yatra from Jalandhar to Chandigarh. The BSP leaders, however, raised slogans against the BJP government for distorting the Constitution. The cops had to mediate and stop the situation from getting worse. The BJP leaders reached the Jalandhar bypass chowk in the morning and they put garlands on the statue of Dr Ambedkar. The partymen claimed that they paid tributes to Dr Ambedkar to prove that everybody had the right to do so and nobody could stop them. The district president of BJP, Pushpinder Singal, said BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, along with senior workers, had carried out Insaaf Yatra for the welfare of Dalit rights from Jalandhar to Chandigarh. He said this yatra was to be welcomed in Nawanshahr and their leaders, including district president Poonam Manak and BJP SC morcha leader Jeevan Kumar, had reached there in advance. He alleged that Congress goons were present there in advance and they attacked the BJP leaders. He alleged that Congress leaders attacked Jeevan when Poonam intervened and got injured. He said she was taken to a hospital for treatment. Singal alleged that everything happened in the presence of cops who did not act. He said the Congress was doing all this to fulfil its selfish means. Meanwhile, at Jalandhar bypass chowk the BSP workers opposed the BJP leaders and said the BJP government was taking India back to old days and for that leaders were bringing changes in the Constitution, but they would not let it happen. The workers of both parties exchanged heated arguments and cops had to intervene and control the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-bsp-workers-exchange-heated-arguments/articleshow/78848230.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh ecotourism to start 15 days before schedule||LUCKNOW: Ecotourism in UP’s tiger reserves, national parks and wildlife sanctuaries will start from November 1, 15 days ahead of the annual schedule. Reserves, parks and sanctuaries in the state’s forest and wildlife areas close for tourists every year on June 15, due to monsoon, and re-open on November 15. The stays and tours will also cost more to tourists this time given the safety provisions against Covid-19 pandemic as directed by the Central and state government. GM, Ecotourism, UP Forest Corporation, Eva Sharma, said, “Online booking for tours and stays have started. There will be in place all needed precautions.” Wearing masks and carrying along a bottle of sanitiser will be mandatory for tourists. Removing mask will be punishable offence and those doing so will be charged Rs 500 as fine (per person). At the entry, tourists will be put to thermal screening. In case a person has a body temperature, entire group of tourists accompanying him will be denied entry. Elderlies over 65 years of age, pregnant women, those with comorbities, person with more than one ailments and children less than 10 years old will not be allowed. During the night stay, more than two persons will not be allowed to share the room. After every stay, rooms would be sanitised. The cost of the sanitization will be realized from tourists as the park and sanctuary administration will hire a private firm for sanitization. In case of a jeep tour, the vehicle will be sanitised after every tour. Again, the cost will be divided equally among tourists boarding it. More than four persons will not be allowed in a vehicle (this will be in addition to the driver and guide). Tourists, under any circumstances, will not be allowed to get down from the vehicle during the tour, inside the jungle. For food, only ‘thali’ will be available and there will be no menu to choose from. Also, tourists will be served food in the canteens. They will be allowed inside the canteen in batches to follow social distancing norm. The national parks and Wildlife sanctuaries in UP had closed on March 18 due to Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ecotourism-to-start-15-days-before-schedule/articleshow/78852403.cms||Neha Shukla
October 25, 2020||Bareilly||Tiger attack claims third life in 19 days near Dudhwa tiger reserve||BAREILLY: A tiger attacked and killed a 32-year-old man grazing cattle at Majhra Purav village adjoining the buffer forests of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) on Saturday morning. He was the third victim to fall prey to a tiger attack since October 5. All the three victims, including a 60-year-old man of the same village, were attacked within a radius of 2-3 km of Singahi forest range of Dudhwa. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer (buffer), confirmed pugmarks of a tiger at the spot where the body was found. The nature of injuries also pointed to a tiger attack. "We are trying to identify the number of stray tigers in the area. A pair of tigers or a tigress with cubs may be behind the attacks," Patel said. A tigress and cubs were spotted in the area by villagers a few days ago. Witnesses claimed that Avdhesh Yadav was sitting near a pond early on Saturday while grazing cattle when a tiger suddenly pounced on him. Hearing his cries, the other cattle grazers rushed to his aid, shouting and throwing stones at the tiger. But it was too late as Avdhesh was already dead. Villagers have claimed that the big cats killed the other two victims outside the forest area and then dragged their bodies into the forest. Forest officials, however, believe that the attacks took place within the forest. They are planning to dig a trench along the forest periphery to curb entry of villagers into the jungle. Camera traps will be installed in the area to track the feline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tiger-attack-claims-third-life-in-19-days-near-dudhwa-tiger-reserve/articleshow/78849700.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 25, 2020||Pune||Private financier’s role under lens in missing bizman case||Pune: The city police are investigating the role of a private financier, allegedly threatening the missing businessman, Gautam Pashankar, over dues.His son, Kapil Pashankar, refused to name the financier, but stressed he would divulge the the name if something happened to his father.“The private financier operates under political clout. He had financed us earlier also, but we repaid those loans. Now, the outstanding amount is only Rs10 lakh,” Kapil said.He claimed that the other Rs7-crore loan with a cooperative bank was not related to NPA (non-performing asset) and the bank was ready to restructure the loan as per RBI guidelines. He said when the project takes off, the company would be able repay these loans also in full.“My father and my sister are directors in the real estate company. My father is very attached to my sister and cannot stand any threat to her. We have given a police statement about this. They are investigating all angles and the contents of the note,” he said.Pune commissioner of police (CP) Amitabh Gupta said, “There is no progress in the case as of now.”DCP (zone 1) Priyanka Narnavare told TOI, “We are probing the role of the private financier and have recorded statements of the family members. Our priority is to ensure that the businessman returns home safely.”A police officer, requesting anonymity, said, “Pashankar had Rs50,000 in his pocket when he went missing on Wednesday evening. He had his SIM card but not his debit/credit cards. He has not made any phone calls to family, relatives and friends.”Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar, the Shivajinagar police station in-charge, refused to comment on the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-financiers-role-under-lens-in-missing-bizman-case/articleshow/78851072.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Construction worker loses leg, cops book contractor||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Friday booked a building contractor more than a month after a construction worker came in contact with a live wire, causing his leg to be amputated. The incident occurred at a house in Wanowrie’s Kalepadal area when the worker was carrying out renovation work. Ashok Kondiba Sathe (53) from Mohammadwadi is recuperating in a private hospital. Sub-inspector Sandeep Ghorpade said, “On September 3, Sathe had climbed the ladder for doing plastering work on the terrace when he found that electricity wires lying loose. Sathe told the contractor to cover the wires, but he did not take heed of the complaint. The next day, around 12.30pm, the worker’s head came in contact with the live wire. The impact of the accident was so severe that Sathe’s leg had to be amputated.” Ghorpade said the worker registered an FIR from the hospital bed after his condition improved a month later. A case has been registered under IPC Section 338 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by endangering life of a person).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-worker-loses-leg-cops-book-contractor/articleshow/78851078.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Shimla||Ladakh school gets geological lab||MANALI: Noted hydrogeologist Ritesh Arya, who is working to establish geological laboratories in all schools of the country, established what is said to be the first such laboratory at Bhartiya Vidya Niketan (BVN) School, Choglamsar in Ladakh. It displays various rocks and fossils. Ritesh, a Guinness record holder for drilling the world’s highest artesian borehole in Leh, has been exploring and collecting fossils and rocks for three decades now. He discovered a 20 million-year-old tree fossil in Ladakh, which is as old as the one found in Himachal. Underlining similarity in the 50 million-year-old bivalve found in Ladakh and Himachal, he said fossils and ancient rocks are the best to connect students with the Earth. He wants all schools to have geological lab section with science labs. On the lab set up in the school, he said, “The lab has fossils, sedimentary rocks, igneous and other rocks. When I told students how we can predict about the ocean, glaciers or rivers from rocks, they took deep interest. This is what I wanted to do,” he said. According to him, Ladakh represents a large-scale geological event in the evolution and formation of the Himalayas. Ladakh, he said, is rich in mineral resources and there are large deposits of granite and limestone in the region, which can be commercially developed to save on construction material which is transported from far-off places. On the drinking water shortage in Leh, Ritesh said Khardung-la glacier has receded more than 20km since the last ice age and is now confined to a peak. He said glaciers are being destroyed in the name of clearing snow from roads by dozers and suggested construction of a tunnel below Khardung-la pass to save the glaciers and provide connectivity to Nubra valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ladakh-school-gets-geological-lab/articleshow/78852043.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Over 1300 structures razed during drive||DEHRANDUN: As the anti-encroachment drive, which has been ongoing in the city for almost a fortnight, nears its end, the official sources involved in the drive have told TOI that over 1,300 illegal structures — including residences, shops and religious places — were demolished during the period. All these establishments were encroaching public space, say officials. The officials added that they have sought a nod from the Uttarakhand high court to remove nearly 22 encroachment sites where transformers and electric poles are installed and their removal can cause inconvenience. Further, the district administration has also sought guidelines from the high court for vacating encorached public space. This comes a day after some traders secured a high court stay against demolition of their shops. Notably, the administration has identified 72 shops which are allegedly encroaching public space. In this context, Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava had cleared that no establishment would be demolished in violation of the high court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1300-illegal-structures-demolished-during-anti-encroachment-drive-in-doon/articleshow/78850399.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Three attack man helping manage traffic in Lohegaon||Pune: The Airport police on Friday arrested three men for brutally attacking a man helping manage traffic on Porwal Road in Lohegaon on Thursday night. The injured man, Suraj Kand (21), is recuperating in a private hospital. Police said the trio attacked Kand because he stopped their motorcycle in a bid to decongest the road. “Kand runs a dairy outlet in Lohegaon. Around 8.30pm on Thursday, there was a traffic jam on Porwal Road as there is no traffic signal. Kand tried to manage traffic and decongest the road,” senior inspector Gajanan Pawar of the Airport police said.Around 9pm, the suspects were riding triple-seat on a motorcycle when Kand asked them to stop for some time. “The men got aggressive and hurled abuses at him. Things got heated and, when the trio threatened him, he gave them his address. They sped away,” Pawar said. “The trio later returned to Kand’s residence. They found him outside the house and brutally attacked him. One of them smashed a stone on Kand’s forehead,” he said. Based on descriptions given by Kand, the police arrested the trio — Ajay Kasbe (27), Ganesh Kamble (25) and Hrishikesh Salwade (24) of Dhanorie. “They told us that they picked up a quarrel with Kand as he was allowed other vehicles to go ahead of them. They admitted to assaulting him with a stone,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-attack-man-helping-manage-traffic-in-lohegaon/articleshow/78851102.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 17, on her way to coaching class run over by cement-laden truck||BAREILLY: A 17-year-old girl on her way to coaching class on a bicycle was allegedly run over by a cement-laden truck coming from the opposite direction on the Moradabad-Badaun highway in Sambhal on Saturday morning. As the truck driver dozed off at the wheels, the truck hit three vehicles, including two e-rickshaws and one motorcycle, and then ran over the girl who died on the spot, said police. Following the incident, a mob caught the truck driver and thrashed him. Senior police officers rushed to the spot and pacified the mob, and restored the traffic that remained suspended for a couple of hours. Chandausi police station SHO Devendra Kumar Sharma told TOI, “The driver, Meva Ram (40), hit several vehicles and ran over a student. She died on the spot. The driver was arrested and booked under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 338 (causing gregarious hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-17-on-her-way-to-coaching-class-run-over-by-cement-laden-truck/articleshow/78849716.cms||Maria Khan
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Three girls from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh secure top ranks in EAMCET agriculture & medical stream||HYDERABAD: After securing top ranks in the national eligibility cum entrance test (NEET), three girls from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have secured top ranks in the Telangana EAMCET’s agriculture and medical (AM) stream too, the results of which were declared on Saturday. The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad had conducted the EAMCET (AM) on September 28-29, 2020 at 84 test centres across Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. As in previous years, the toppers are set to opt for premier institutions in the country and skip the local institutions. Guthi Chaitanya Sindhu, who secured all India rank 6 in NEET, emerged as the topper in EAMCET (AM). All India NEET 14th ranker Bareddy Sai Thrisha Reddy secured the second rank in AM and all India NEET second ranker Tummala Snikitha secured the third rank in AM. “I have decided to forego the seat that will be allotted to me through EAMCET (AM) as I will be seeking admission in AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences), Delhi. I had a keen interest in science since childhood and since both my parents are doctors, it was an added advantage for me,” said Sindhu, who secured a combined score of 96.07 percentile. The second EAMCET (AM) ranker Bareddy Sai Thrisha Reddy has similar plans. “I want to become a neurosurgeon. I am not going to appear for the counselling as I am eligible to secure an admission in AIIMS, Delhi,” said Reddy, who secured a combined score of 96.04 Barring the top three, all other top 10 ranks are secured by boys. In all, 92 percent of candidates have qualified in EAMCET (AM) this year, registering a slight drop of one percent from last year. Of the 63,857 candidates that appeared for the examination on September 28-29, 59,113 have qualified. While the rank cards were declared on the official EAMCET website, officials said the admission notification for agriculture, medical, and other allied courses would be declared soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-girls-from-t-ap-secure-top-ranks-in-eamcet-agriculture-med-stream/articleshow/78851101.cms||---
October 25, 2020||India||Franklin Templeton needs investors’ nod to wind up MFs: HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Saturday said Franklin Templeton Trustee Services Ltd has to obtain investors’ consent before proceeding with its decision to wind up six mutual fund schemes. The court restrained trustees from taking further steps on the basis of notices issued on April 23 and May 28, till consent of unit holders by simple majority is taken as per Regulation 18(15)(c) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. Later, on the request of the trustees’ counsel, the court stayed operation of its judgment for six weeks on the condition that there should be no redemption as well borrowings during this period. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S Kinagi, however, observed it won’t interfere with the trustees’ decision to wind up those schemes. The six schemes are: Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. The trustees indicated they might challenge that portion of the order which requires them to seek the consent of unit holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/franklin-templeton-needs-investors-nod-to-wind-up-mfs-hc/articleshow/78852743.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun administration issues new email for plaints||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun district administration has issued a new email ID for receiving online complaints and work-related applications. Now, the applications can be sent to the district magistrate at erk.dehradun@gmail.com. According to officials, the existing email ID has received thousands of messages which has slowed down the pace of redressal. The new email ID will help taking up issues on priority by the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-admin-issues-new-email-id-to-lodge-complaints/articleshow/78850412.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Kukke temple, vedike spat over missing jewellery||MANGALURU: A RTI query by T S Srinath on behalf of former temple trustee Monappa Manadu about missing jewels at Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple has turned into a slanging duel between Srinath and the temple management committee. Srinath, secretary, Kukke Sri Subrahmanya Temple Hitharakshana Vedike, had filed the RTI on August 1, and the temple in a reply dated October 19, had asserted that the jewels are safe in the temple treasury. Srinath told reporters on Saturday that the jewels about which Monappa had raised doubts on November 22, 2019, surprisingly “appeared” on October 22, a day after he lodged a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) office here. The temple has used the RTI filed by me as an excuse to relieve me of my duties as ‘sarpa samskara kriyakartru,’ and labelled the RTI query as one filed with malicious intent, to bring the temple into disrepute, Srinath said. Accusing Ravindra M H, temple executive officer (EO), of dereliction of duty, including violating orders issued by the Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner and commissioner, department of religious endowment, during the lockdown, Srinath said devotees have flagged this matter with the Lokayukta. A complaint has also been raised with M J Roopa, additional DC, also the administrator of the temple, about various happenings at the temple, he said. Dismissing the above charges as manifestation of a disgruntled ‘sarpa samskara kriyakartru’ relieved of his duties, Ravindra told TOI that he has served as EO for the past 8 years. “How did these charges come all of a sudden? The jewellery about which Monappa Manadu had raised doubts and about which Srinath filed an RTI is in the temple treasury. How can one take the same even for religious purposes, without following due process?” Ravindra asked. Kota Shrinivas Poojari, minister for religious endowment, told TOI that he has directed DC K V Rajendra to personally look into the issue. There is the question of an RTI query over missing jewellery, delay in replying to it, allegation against the person who filed the RTI ,Srinath, and ACB complaint and clarification by the EO Ravindra. “Action should be first initiated against anyone who is guilty ,as a precursor to the report that I have sought from the DC,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kukke-temple-vedike-spat-over-missing-jewellery/articleshow/78850413.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Professor’s passion for butterflies drives a community for the fluttering beauties||PUNE: Imagine creating a butterfly garden on your own terrace or living with butterflies of all colours and forms. As difficult as it sounds, a butterfly garden can be created within one’s premises with ease, not only to add an aesthetic vibe to your house but also help the butterfly population flourish. Ankur Patwardhan, head of the Annasaheb Kulkarni biodiversity department at Abasaheb Garware College, has developed a live laboratory of butterflies at his home, which houses close to 15 species of the colourful winged wonders. According to Patwardhan, the butterfly garden can be developed at homes or industrial establishments. “I started my butterfly garden less than a year ago after I won a prize for the Green and Sustainable Chemistry Challenge by Elsevier Foundation. I developed the garden to further study the nuances of butterflies and their role in the pollination process. My students and I are observing and studying some aspects like the composition of nectar, pollen transfer, standing nectar crops, colour preference of butterflies, impact of changing climate, among others,” he explained. Patwardhan stated that among the species in his butterfly garden are Plain Tiger, Blue Tiger, Common Crow, Common Mormon, Common Lime, Tailed Jay, Common Jay, Red Pierrot, Grass Yellows, Common Castor, Tawny Coster, Lemon Pansy and Lime Blue. They live and feed on an assortment of plants and weeds, including curry leaves, lime, calotropis, passion flower, custard apple and others. A conducive environment was created and developed to ensure butterflies flourish through various stages by scientific planning of larval host plants and nectar plants. “I had to create the garden at home as we needed a space, where we could observe 24x7. From our study so far, we are developing green eco-friendly attractants to increase butterfly visits to flowers and the flower handling time so that the probability of pollination increases. Butterflies are only second to honeybees in terms of pollination and are equally important to the environment,” he shared. However, the butterfly garden is serving a much larger purpose than research. The garden has played an integral role in spreading awareness about butterflies, their role in pollination and their importance. “My son has been engaged in the study of butterflies and he has been helping me. While he has seen the diagrams of the growth cycle of butterflies in his text books, he could see it firsthand at home. I am part of a WhatsApp group among several housewives, who have plants at home. They would earlier mistake butterfly larvae on leaves for pests and pluck them but, after reading about my exploits with the garden, they have stopped doing so,” Patwardhan stated. According to him, even the fabricator, who worked on the garden structure, and the domestic help at his house have been bringing home discarded leaves with larvae. “They did not know what larvae were but their visits to the butterfly garden have taught them a lot. Now, they bring home leaves with larvae that they find discarded so that the larvae can survive and turn into butterflies. Further, I want school children and teachers to visit so that they can see the different stages of butterfly development and learn about their importance to the environment,” he added. Patwardhan said that a lot of people tend to nurture plants that attract butterflies as part of their terrace or kitchen garden. “Such people can help maintaining a healthy butterfly population by ensuring survival of the larvae on their plants. The most important thing is striking a balance between aesthetics and feeding plants. We can provide suggestions for appropriate planting during landscaping to meet the goal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/professors-passion-for-butterflies-drives-a-community-for-the-fluttering-beauties/articleshow/78851109.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Work begins on longest bridge on Gorakhpur e-way||LUCKNOW: Construction on the longest bridge over Ghaghra river in the Gorakhpur link Expressway has started and its completion would help speed up work on the project. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi reviewed the project on Saturday. The CEO asked UPEIDA and project developers to speed up the work on the bridge and the entire project to dedicate it to people at the earliest.  He later told TOI that along with the link expressway, industrial corridors and the agriculture mandis were also being developed as the 91-km long link expressway would connect Gorakhpur to Azamgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/work-begins-on-longest-bridge-on-gorakhpur-e-way/articleshow/78852407.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||4,116 fresh Covid cases in Delhi, positivity rate at 7.4%||NEW DELHI: Delhi on Saturday reported 4,116 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in 36 days. The cumulative case tally went past 3.5 lakh. The positivity rate now stands at 7.4%. For over a month, the single-day figure had stayed below 4,000. But that has changed since Friday. As many as 36 fatalities were reported on Saturday as against 26 a day earlier. On September 17, when Delhi had reported 4,431 cases, the positivity rate was marginally lower at 7.38%. The city conducted 55,461 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours. These included 15,229 RT-PCR tests and 40,232 rapid antigen tests. A total of 3,614 patients recovered from the infection in a day, indicating that the recovery rate continues to be solid. The positivity rate, however, has been steadily rising - 6.2%, 6.6% and 6.9% - over the last few days. Saturday's active cases tally stood at 26,467. The cumulative positivity rate was 8.2% and fatality rate 1.8%. Delhi has so far conducted 43.1 lakh tests and reported 3.5 lakh positive cases, of which 3.1 lakh patients have recovered. The capital also witnessed a further marginal increase in the bed occupancy at hospitals. Compared with 5,182 occupied beds in Covid hospitals a day before, 5,323 beds were taken on Saturday. Delhi has 15,737 beds in government and private Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4116-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-positivity-rate-at-7-4/articleshow/78852744.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||10 zones face water problems, 94% of Rs 385 crore approved for 3 zones||NAGPUR: All the ten zones of the city are facing problems of contaminated, low pressure drinking water supply and leakages for over a decade. The board of directors of Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL) has approved 93.56% of the Rs385.18 crore for only three zones — Ashi Nagar, Gandhibagh and Satranjipura. Corporators from the ruling BJP and opposition Congress have condemned the decision and alleged that the decision is biased and not good for democracy. The meeting of the board of directors of NESL, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) special purpose vehicle for the city’s drinking water supply, was held on Wednesday. The board approved works amounting to Rs385.18 crore under the renewal and replacement (R&R) head which is to be executed by the private water operator — Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW). Works worth Rs360.38 crore to replace old water pipelines were approved for Ashi Nagar zone (Rs151.48 crore), Satranjipura zone (Rs110.83 crore) and Gandhibagh zone (Rs98.42 crore). Even the remaining funds (Rs24.8 crore) were not approved for the remaining seven zones. Fourteen types of work at a cost of Rs17.99 to replace water pipelines have been approved for six localities. The remaining amount (Rs6.81 crore) was sanctioned for work at water reservoirs and treatment plants. The NMC was to get R&R work amounting to Rs15 crore per annum done by OCW every year from March 1, 2012 onwards. But the civic body failed to do so despite many localities getting contaminated and low pressure drinking water. The NMC had approved a controversial one-time-settlement (OTS) for OCW in 2019. At that time, R&R works of around Rs143.37 crore were due with OCW. The NMC had directed OCW to execute works of Rs25 crore per annum (fresh works Rs15 crore and Rs10 crore from pending amount). In 2019-20, OCW had reportedly executed works worth Rs18.88 crore. Now, the NESL board has taken a decision directing OCW to plan and execute works amounting to Rs385.18 crore in the coming years. The OCW is likely to submit a timeline regarding the completion of work. “The issue of unequal distribution does not arise in R&R works. Ashi Nagar zone is severely affected by contaminated, low pressure water supply and leakages. This zone also has the highest number of unauthorized connections. Satranjipura and Gandhibagh zones are most congested and are old areas. Requirement of R&R works in these zones are high. The department conducted a study and tabled a proposal and hence, we approved it,” said NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, who is also the chairman of the water works consultative committee. Corporator from Laxmi Nagar zone Praful Gudadhe alleged that the decision is undemocratic. “As all the ten zones are facing the same problems, works should have been distributed equally. It means that the water works department proposed works in a biased manner and the NESL board approved it by violating norms,” said Gudadhe. Condemning the decision, corporator from Hanuman Nagar zone Satish Holey said, “The NMC norms clearly state that there should be equal distribution of water and works. But unequal distribution is going on since a long time. The latest decision is like rubbing salt into old wounds. Each and every approval by the NESL board must be probed because corporators were not informed. NESL does not have any control over OCW. Corporators are not taken into confidence when works are carried out in their respective wards.” During the budget discussion on Thursday, many corporators had alleged unequal distribution of funds and works in 38 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-zones-face-water-problems-94-of-rs385-crore-approved-for-3-zones/articleshow/78850441.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Another portal to enlist non-agricultural properties||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the launch of Dharani on October 29, an exclusive portal to enlist non-agriculture land has been developed. Non-agriculture property holders can now enlist their land on www.npb.telangana.gov.in. Unlike the previous portal, the new website is user-friendly with multiple tabs. The new website also has an option for ‘download acknowledgement’, which allows users to check the details uploaded. A report in these columns published recently had highlighted about lack of provision to check details uploaded on the website. Unlike earlier, before uploading details, a check-list of documents required is available on the website. As soon as a user visits the page, there is a toll-free number (040-48560012) for assistance. People could also send their queries to npb-support@telanagna.gov.in. The toll-free number and email ID is exclusively to assist property owners and people who are enlisting their properties. Users having queries related to enlisting their properties had were earlier required to contact MeeSeva staff and there were several complaints about lines being busy. However, while many issues have been resolved, resident welfare associations and volunteers, helping people enlist their properties, said some loopholes still exist. When STOI logged into the website, five documents were displayed which would be accepted as identity proof. Pattadar passbook, ration card, MNERGA, Asara pension, Jan Dhan Bank account and none of the above were the options displayed. Only when none of the above option was selected, the provision to enter Aadhaar card number was rolled out. “Many people don’t even know about the new website. I saw many people in my society discontinue after Aadhaar card , voter card or passport was not mentioned in the identity proof column. Most common ID proofs should be displayed first on the website ” Ravi Kant, a former IAS officer currently working as a director of a city-based MNC, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-portal-to-enlist-properties/articleshow/78851114.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Green channel to transport organ||HYDERABAD: A 5.7 km-long green channel was provided by the city police on Saturday to facilitate transportation of a live organ (heart) from the Global Hospital in Lakdikapul to KIMS Hospital in Secunderabad. Thanks to the cops’ efforts, the stretch was covered in just five minutes during the peak traffic hours between 10.46 am and 10.51 am. The donor was a 26-year-old road accident victim who suffered severe head injuries a few days back. The accident occurred near Engadi village and he was immediately shifted to a private hospital in Madapeta. After providing emergency medical care, doctors advised the injured to be shifted to a better hospital. “However, there was poor prognosis even after shifting him and he was declared ‘brain dead’ by the neuro. Later, the Jeevandan coordinator gave grief counselling and explained the importance of organ donation to the family members of Bikkina Srikanth. After the grief counselling, his parents and other family members consented to donate his organs under Jeevandan for the needy patients. A total of five organs were distributed to needy patients as per the guidelines framed by the Jeevandan sub-committee,” read a statement from the Jeevandan programme office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-channel-to-transport-organ/articleshow/78851116.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Cong dubs BJP ‘party of liars’ for promising free Covid vaccine in Bihar||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) on Saturday dubbed BJP as a “party of liars” for promising to provide free Covid vaccine to all residents of poll-bound Bihar and described the promise as an insult to the country. JPCC spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The promise of a free vaccine to everyone in Bihar will turn out to be a jumla (bluff) much like the one we saw during Lok Sabha polls earlier when the saffron party promised to transfer Rs 15 lakh into the bank accounts of every Indian.” He further said, “If they are really going to provide the vaccine free of cost, then why give it only to Bihar? Why not give it to a poor state like Jharkhand? And what about the other states? Are they not part of India? Is it not an insult to the country which is hit hard by the virus?” Bihar is headed for polls later this month and BJP released its poll manifesto earlier this week in which it promised free Covid vaccine for everyone there. The vaccine promise is likely to have a bearing on Jharkhand as two of its constituencies — Dumka and Bermo — are headed for the bypolls on November 3. However, Dubey said the voters in both the states are sensible enough to not fall for BJP’s “false promises”. Denouncing the party “for playing with people’s sentiments by making false promises at a time when the vaccine is yet to come out”, he said, “Any sensible person in Bihar or Jharkhand will not fall for the BJP propaganda any more. The vaccine is yet to come out but the ‘party of liars’ is making false promises. This shows how nervous and scared they are of losing their ground. The electorates of both Jharkhand and in Bihar will give a befitting reply for playing with their sentiments.” He also accused the Centre of “mismanaging” the pandemic and initiating “faulty” plans that resulted in scores of migrants suffering during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-dubs-bjp-party-of-liars-for-promising-free-covid-vaccine-in-bihar/articleshow/78851191.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||RMC prepares 10 ghats for immersion||Ranchi: Ahead of immersion of idols on Monday (Dashami), Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Saturday inspected ghats across the city and said cleaning drives will be initiated in accordance with the norms laid down by the district administration. “We have identified 10 major waterbodies across several zones where we will deploy 150 cleanliness workers (zone-wise) who will sanitise the ghats. We will monitor their work round-the-clock,” RMC city manager Bijendar Kumar said. Some of the 10 waterbodies include Bada Talab in Lake Road area, Line Tank Talab, Jail Talab near Firayalal Chowk, Joda Talab in Bariatu, Kanke dam, Dhurwa dam, PHED Talab in Booty area and Argora Talab. “We have earmarked platforms in these ghats, put up barricades and installed signages and lights for a safe and fuss-free immersion,” Kumar said while inspecting Joda Talaab. A team of over a dozen officials, headed by RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar, has been constituted to monitor the preparations at each ghat. Deputy municipal commissioner Shankar Yadav said, “A total of 18 officers, along with city managers, zonal supervisors and supervisors have been deployed across the city to ensure the ghats are ready before immersions take place. The municipal commissioner is monitoring the whole process and we have asked all our officials to be extremely cautious as we have to ensure that the government-issued guidelines are followed to the hilt.” The civic body has also made arrangements for segregation of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste, in accordance with the National Green Tribunal guidelines, before idols are immersed. “We will ensure safety norms are not violated during immersions,” Ranchi SDM Sameera S said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-prepares-10-ghats-for-immersion/articleshow/78851143.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||JDU formally joins NDA in Jharkhand, to canvas for BJP candidates||Ranchi: NDA in Jharkhand added yet another constituent into its fold on Saturday after the Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal United (JDU) announced to support BJP candidates ahead of the upcoming bypolls in Dumka and Bermo on November 3. A few weeks back, the saffron camp had realigned with its estranged ally Ajsu-P. Both JDU and Ajsu-P had fought separately in the 2019 assembly polls in the state. While Ajsu-P won two seats, JD(U) had scored a duck. Leaders of both the camp surfaced before media on Saturday afternoon to pledge their support for each other to fight back its lost ground against the grand alliance. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said, “It’s another historic day for us to have JD(U) back into NDA fold in Jharkhand formally. We were natural alliance partners, but the two parted ways in the past owing to their own compulsions. But NDA is stronger now.” In both the seats, BJP is banking on its old war horses to take on the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance. In Dumka, BJP has fielded Lois Marandi while in Bermo, it has pitched Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. The two had lost their seats in 2019 to JMM’s Hemant Soren and Congress’s Rajendra Prasad Singh, respectively. “The results will be different this time,” Prakash said, adding that his recent stay in Dumka has testified their claims of winning the prestigious seat. “Believe me or not, people in Dumka and entire Santhal Parganas are fed up with JMM and the current state government due to lawlessness. Yesterday (Friday), yet another case of a minor girl being gangraped surfaced in Sahibganj, exposing how women and children are increasingly getting vulnerable to crimes and the government is not able to do anything,” Prakash said. He also accused the Hemant Soren government of having “no fiscal prudence leading to lack of governance and poor health of the state treasury”. “The state government leaves no chance to curse the Union government of not giving funds. But the reality is that it has not been able to spend even 20% of its state budget this year so far. Blaming the Centre is nothing, but a tactics to divert attention,” he said. JD(U)’s national general secretary Praveen Singh on the other hand said that their tie-up with BJP will go beyond the bypolls. “Although we had extended support to BJP a few weeks back, we thought it right to formally come before you to express our commitment to each other. Together, we shall roll out slew of campaigns to counter the state government against its poor policies and acts of corruption. In the upcoming bypolls, we will work in tandem with the BJP as a part of the NDA to ensure victory of our candidates,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jdu-formally-joins-nda-in-jharkhand-to-canvas-for-bjp-candidates/articleshow/78851254.cms||ASRP Mukesh
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Rims governing body meeting mired in controversy||Ranchi: The 49th governing body meeting of the state’s largest hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) held on October 14 after a gap of 13 months is mired in controversy, minutes of the meeting revealed. According to the minutes, a copy of which is read by TOI, said a governing body member who attended the meeting was not marked present, while a representative of a member was allowed despite strict instructions against it by chairperson and state health minister Banna Gupta. Following Gupta’s orders, another representative was disallowed from attending the meeting. Talking to TOI, Gupta said, “As per Rims regulations, no representative can attend the meeting and if someone has attended or his name has appeared in the list of those present, then it is a matter of investigation.” However, the minutes of the meeting showed the attendance of Nagendra Chaudhary, who represented member and state finance secretary while BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo representing University of Ranchi vice-chancellor was disallowed. Moreover, the minutes did not reflect the attendance of noted surgeon and a sitting member of the general body Dr R P Srivastava. Dr Srivastava was appointed by the state government as a technical expert and had attended the meeting. During the meeting, he had raised several issues, which were duly noted by the minister and other members, Dr Srivastava said. Reacting strongly to the development, Shahdeo said: “I wasn’t allowed to take part in the meeting on the directions of the health minister citing Rims regulations. He must now clarify why another representative was allowed. This shows that the minister is trying to the bend rules as per his convenience and want to hide the irregularities and corrupt practices going on at Rims.” He added, "It seems that the minister is scared of what I could expose like buying of a luxury car from the hospital’s funds. I will take this matter to the court.” Meanwhile, Dr Srivastava said: “I haven’t received a copy of the minutes so I do not know but if this is true, then the Rims administration must introspect and the acting director should refresh her memory to find out whether I was present during the meeting or not.” Rims acting director Dr Manju Gandi is not available for her comments on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-governing-body-meeting-mired-in-controversy/articleshow/78852617.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Ajsu foot soldiers desert party over ‘indecisive’ nature, join Congress||Bokaro: While Sudesh Mahto-led Ajsu-P is supporting BJP for the November 3 bypolls in the Dumka and Bermo assembly seats, the party is currently witnessing an exodus of cadres in Bermo. In the last few days, over four dozen Ajsu-P cadres deserted the party to join Congress. The fight in Bermo is directly between Congress’s Kumar Jaimangal and BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto Batul. Majority of those joining Congress are young turks of Ajsu-P, which has emerged as a concern for the NDA. Jaimangal said, “More than 50 workers of Ajsu-P have joined us so far which is an indication of Congress’s strong foothold in the area.” According to some who left the party, continuous shift in the party’s stand is the main cause for their desertion. “Just few months back in the assembly polls in 2019 we were fighting against BJP here. Now, we were asked to canvas for BJP citing the alliance. The central party leaders should also seek views of the grassroot workers before taking decisions so that workers don’t feel neglected,” said a former Ajsu-P worker, who joined Congress. Manoj Kumar, another new entrant to Congress, said, “Many workers on the ground are hurt for sustained neglect which prompted us to join Congress.” Ajsu-P’s Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto, however, didn’t see it as a concern. “No senior leader or original cadre of the party has left us. The entire party is united to fight together with BJP in Bermo to oust Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ajsu-foot-soldiers-desert-party-over-indecisive-nature-join-congress/articleshow/78852610.cms||Divy Khare
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Thief arrested after cops match tattoo on his right hand||Chatra: Eagle-eyed policemen in Ithkhori block of Chatra district solved a mystery loot case in a garment shop after over a week from a single mistake the burglars made while decamping with cash and valuables. The thieves burgled the shop located in Bhikari complex on October 13 and the police had hardly any clue except for a CCTV footage which showed four masked men carrying out the loot. However, officer in-charge Sachin Kumar Das spotted a tattoo on the hand of one of the thieves, which helped police arrest all the four. “The mastermind of the theft, Md Sonu Alam and his three associates were finally arrested and jailed on Friday,” said inspector of Ithkhori police station K P Choudhary. “A team led by officer in-charge Sachin Kumar Das then started working on the case by scanning the CCTV footage, but had no major clues until Das noticed a tattoo — SSS — on the right hand of one of the thieves,” Choudhary said. Das then activated his informers which led to the arrest of Alam, a resident of Dhankheri village. After his confession, three others — Subhash Bhuiyan, Mithun Bhuiyan and Murtaza Ali — were held on Friday. Police also matched the tattoo on Alam’s hand. Choudhary said, “We seized the valuables stolen from the shop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/thief-arrested-after-cops-match-tattoo-on-his-right-hand/articleshow/78852611.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Protected Birhor tribal woman, newborn die in Koderma village||Koderma: Two members of the protected Bihor tribe died in separate incidents on Friday night at Bariyardih village under Markacho police station area allegedly due to unavailability of timely medical help. The deaths showed how healthcare facilities are still a far cry for the particularly vulnerable tribes living in the remote pocket of the state. In the first incident, 35-year-old Somari Bihorni, who was suffering from diarrhoea for the last three days, died at 10pm on Friday. Her husband Sanjay Birhor said his wife’s illness was reported to a local health sub-centre, only 200 meters away from their hamlet, but he alleged that the ANM on duty gave two tablets when his daughter went there and did no further check-up. Sanjay said, “If my wife was given proper treatment, she would have lived.” In another incident, one of the newborn twins died hours after birth due to unavailability of proper post-natal nursing and care. Arti Birhorni (25) delivered the male twins in an open ground outside her house on Friday night as no healthcare centre for delivery was available near her village. The nearest centre is about 15km away, but sources said they didn’t contact anyone for hospitalisation. On Saturday morning, Arti was admitted to Koderma sadar hospital along with her lone surviving kid. Reacting to the incidents, Koderma civil surgeon Dr Parvati Nag said the medical officers-in-charge of the blocks always has to monitor health-related cases in their areas of jurisdiction. Nag said, “The deaths are unfortunate and proper investigations will be done to find out if there were any lapses. Arti and her child are now stable.” Dr Vipin Kumar, medical officer of Markachho block, said the health workers regularly visit the Birhor hamlet for routine health check-ups, but couldn’t explain how they failed to detect these two cases on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/protected-birhor-tribal-woman-newborn-die-in-koderma-village/articleshow/78852615.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Minor girl gang-raped by 6 in Sahibganj, all accused arrested||DUMKA: A 17-year-old tribal girl was allegedly gang-raped by six men on Thursday in Mirzachowki police station area of Sahibganj district, following which police swung into action and arrested all the accused. SP Anuranjan Kispotta said the girl was on her way to Baskodih from her native village Dhanbasa along with her two friends around 8pm when the incident took place. “All the six confessed to their crime. The girl told us that she and her friends were intercepted by the accused at an abandoned place and her companions were forced to escape before she was gangraped,” the SP said. The arrested were identified as Ajay Kumar Singh, Gautam Kumar Singh, Shankar Kumar Singh, Kush Kumar, December Linear and Aniket Issar, all in the age group of 18 to 22 years. The accused were sent to jail on Saturday. This is the second case of gang rape in the district and the third in santhal pargana in a fortnight. Earlier, an 11-year-old tribal girl was gangraped before being murdered by her tormentors in Ranga police station area followed by a similar incident in Ramgarh police station of Dumka district, triggering large scale accusations against the state government for the rise in such crimes. Chief minister Hemant Soren, who was in Dumka on Saturday, said none of the culprits would be spared. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/minor-girl-gangraped-by-6-in-sahibganj-all-accused-arrested/articleshow/78851244.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 25, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 2 Covid deaths, 383 fresh cases||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Saturday reported two Covid-19 deaths, 383 fresh infections and 479 cured cases. The number of active cases in the state also dipped to less than 6,000 on Saturday. The two casualties were reported from Ranchi, taking the toll in the capital district to 169. Meanwhile, the cumulative caseload has reached 99,428, of which 5,966 are active, 92,598 have recovered and 864 have succumbed to the virus. Ranchi, which is the worst-hit district, too, reported a steep decline in the fresh infections as it detected less than 100 cases on Saturday. It is the least number of daily new cases reported in the last one month. Meanwhile, Dhanbad reported 50 new cases while East Singhbhum detected 48 and Bokaro reported 40 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-reports-2-covid-deaths-383-fresh-cases/articleshow/78851197.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 25, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand reports 2 Covid deaths, 383 fresh cases||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Saturday reported two Covid-19 deaths, 383 fresh infections and 479 cured cases. The number of active cases in the state also dipped to less than 6,000 on Saturday. The two casualties were reported from Ranchi, taking the toll in the capital district to 169. Meanwhile, the cumulative caseload has reached 99,428, of which 5,966 are active, 92,598 have recovered and 864 have succumbed to the virus. Ranchi, which is the worst-hit district, too, reported a steep decline in the fresh infections as it detected less than 100 cases on Saturday. It is the least number of daily new cases reported in the last one month. Meanwhile, Dhanbad reported 50 new cases while East Singhbhum detected 48 and Bokaro reported 40 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-reports-2-covid-deaths-383-fresh-cases/articleshow/78856560.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 25, 2020||India||MP minister makes coarse remarks at Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh cabinet minister Imarti Devi hurled a string of offensive words at former CM Kamal Nath at a campaign rally in Dabra on Saturday in retaliation for the ‘item’ remark. In a video of her speech that’s going around, she uses the words ‘luccha and lafanga’. Imarti is heard saying: “If a former CM can use such language, let me tell you. I talk truth. Whether in Datia or Gwalior, there are people who sit drunk and when someone passes, they say ‘what an item’. Kamal Nath has also become the same. (waise aadmi hote hain na, kabaadi type ke, baithe rehte hai pee-pa ke, log paidal nikalte hai toh kehte hai ‘item ja rahi’. Aise lucche lafange Kamal Nath ban gaye). He is not ashamed that I am a public representative and cabinet minister. During auspicious day or Nav Durga he used such language. Congress will never return to power in MP and BJP will win all 28 seats in the by-election. You have to be with BJP and Imarti. On Friday night, Imarti had made crude comments about Nath’s family members as well. Congress media committee coordinator Narendra Saluja reacted sharply and said: “Imarti Devi’s statement shows the culture and character of BJP. Why is BJP silent now? It talks about respect for women, but is silent on Bisahulal Singh’s remarks on the wife of a Congress candidate. Imarti Devi also made objectionable remarks on the mother and sister of Kamal Nath. It shows BJP’s true face.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-minister-makes-coarse-remarks-at-kamal-nath/articleshow/78852753.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Health department on its toes even as Andhra Pradesh hits 95% Covid recovery rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases after opening of schools and resumption of other commercial activities, the state health department is now preparing for a second phase of containment. Meanwhile, around 50 designated Covid-19 hospitals have resumed non-Covid services in recent weeks following a stabilisation in daily infection numbers. The health department is wary of lowering its guard in terms of testing, surveillance, tracing and early detection keeping in mind the next few months are going to be decisive. While there is no word on a Covid-19 vaccine getting approval for public use, the state has started shoring up its cold storage facilities. The department has also aggregated a database of healthcare workers as mandated by Centre. While there is no clarity as of now on who will get the vaccine in the first phase, it is assumed that healthcare workers, who are on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19, may get priority. Close to seven months since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Andhra Pradesh, the state logged a recovery rate of 95% on October 21 thus becoming the first Indian state to achieve the feat since the nationwide unlock began. In March, the state began with having no testing facilities and limited infrastructure with health systems witnessing a great strain over the following months. However, AP has managed to come through and is now in a relatively comfortable position due to its efforts to contain the pandemic over the months. Two back-to-back sero surveys by the health department and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pointed to an increasing sero prevalence of the disease in the community. The ICMR survey had projected a coronavirus of exposure in a record 38% of the population in Vizianagaram. The health department is keen on conducting sero surveys at regular intervals to gauge the infection rate within the community and prepare plans accordingly. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr K Rambabu said that aggressive testing had helped the state in early detections and breaking the chain of transmission. “The health department will be coming up with guidelines for schools over the next few days. We request the public to follow all Covid-19 precautions such as wearing a masks, maintaining physical distance , and frequent hand-washing,”Dr Rambabu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/health-dept-on-its-toes-even-as-ap-hits-95-recovery-rate/articleshow/78850481.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 25, 2020||Amaravati||Health department on its toes even as Andhra Pradesh hits 95% Covid recovery rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases after opening of schools and resumption of other commercial activities, the state health department is now preparing for a second phase of containment. Meanwhile, around 50 designated Covid-19 hospitals have resumed non-Covid services in recent weeks following a stabilisation in daily infection numbers. The health department is wary of lowering its guard in terms of testing, surveillance, tracing and early detection keeping in mind the next few months are going to be decisive. While there is no word on a Covid-19 vaccine getting approval for public use, the state has started shoring up its cold storage facilities. The department has also aggregated a database of healthcare workers as mandated by Centre. While there is no clarity as of now on who will get the vaccine in the first phase, it is assumed that healthcare workers, who are on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19, may get priority. Close to seven months since the first case of Covid-19 was detected in Andhra Pradesh, the state logged a recovery rate of 95% on October 21 thus becoming the first Indian state to achieve the feat since the nationwide unlock began. In March, the state began with having no testing facilities and limited infrastructure with health systems witnessing a great strain over the following months. However, AP has managed to come through and is now in a relatively comfortable position due to its efforts to contain the pandemic over the months. Two back-to-back sero surveys by the health department and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) pointed to an increasing sero prevalence of the disease in the community. The ICMR survey had projected a coronavirus of exposure in a record 38% of the population in Vizianagaram. The health department is keen on conducting sero surveys at regular intervals to gauge the infection rate within the community and prepare plans accordingly. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr K Rambabu said that aggressive testing had helped the state in early detections and breaking the chain of transmission. “The health department will be coming up with guidelines for schools over the next few days. We request the public to follow all Covid-19 precautions such as wearing a masks, maintaining physical distance , and frequent hand-washing,”Dr Rambabu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/health-dept-on-its-toes-even-as-ap-hits-95-recovery-rate/articleshow/78853958.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Buses to Sabarimala temple from November 16, bookings open||VISAKHAPATNAM: In good news for devotees of Lord Ayyappa, the Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has decided to run special buses to Sabarimala and Pancharama Kshetras from November 16. Bookings for the special buses started on Saturday. The transport corporation has set a target to run 200 buses to Sabarimala this year, a giant leap from just 52 buses last year, said APSRTC executive director for Vizianagaram C Ravi Kumar. Moreover, the number of buses to Pancharama Kshetras will potentially increase to 500 from 300 last year. Speaking to TOI, Ravi Kumar said, “Despite the increased burden of fuel price, which rose from Rs 52 per litre last year to Rs 72 per litre now, we have not changed bus fares.” Last year, the six-day Sannidanam package was for Rs5,900 on an ultra-deluxe bus. The same fare will be maintained this year. Trip to Tirupati and Annavaram during return will be part of the package. Kumar further said that APSRTC will follow Covid-19 protocols such as sanitisation of buses, mandatory mask-wearing and temperature checks. “We hope everything goes right for passengers as well as the RTC,” he added. A special counter has been opened up at Dwaraka Nagar bus station in Visakhapatnam for tickets. “We have sent teams to Lord Ayyappa devotees to widely publicise the special offers and services,” Last year, APSRTC operated 52 buses for the Sabarimala trip. 16 of those buses ran from Visakhapatnam while 34 from East Godavari district. Two buses were operated from Srikakulam and Vizinagaram districts. Meanwhile, transport minister Perni Venkataramaiah said that special APSRTC buses have been arranged on all check-posts on the Telangana border for people of Andhra Pradesh origin looking to visit their native places for Dasara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/buses-to-sabarimala-temple-from-nov-16-bookings-open/articleshow/78850498.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Cricket betting racket busted in Vijayawada, 9 held||VIJAYAWADA: Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) sleuths on Saturday arrested nine persons for allegedly organising and participating in a cricket betting racket at an apartment in Murali Nagar under Penamaluru police station limits in Vijayawada. The accused were identified as V Kalyan Chakravarthi (39), K Ravi Kiran (42), M Kesava Reddy (33), K Chandrasekhar (26), R Srinivas Rao (31), T Sudhakar (40), P Kutumba Rao (43), Md Kalilulah (45) and T Siva Shankar (28). Addressing the media, deputy commissioner of police (law and order-1) V Harshavardhan Raju said the task force police received information about an online cricket betting racket being carried out on a large scale from a rented apartment in Murali Nagar. The accused were caught red-handed while about to place bets on a Delhi Capitals versus Kolkata Knight Riders IPL match. “Out of the nine persons arrested, five are bookies and one is a sub-bookie while the rest are cash collector and operators,” Raju said.  Explaining the modus operandi, the DCP said the accused placed bets through an app called Cricket Mazza. “A rating would be given on scores and participants would place their bets,” Raju added. Police said one of the accused had been arrested by Vijayawada police in 2018 for a similar offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cricket-betting-racket-busted-9-held/articleshow/78850508.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||99% qualify EdCET for BEd courses in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: A whopping 99.07% candidates who appeared for the Andhra Pradesh Education Common Entrance Test (APEdCET) have cleared the exam. The results were declared by Andhra University (AU) vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy on Saturday. He said that out of 15,658 candidates who appeared for the entrance test, 10,363 appeared for the exam. As many as 10,267 candidates qualified. EdCET-2020 was conducted in a single session on October 1 across 50 examination centres in 17 cities and towns throughout the state, said Prof Reddy. In terms of subjects: 99.74% examinees in maths stream, 99.41% in physical sciences, 99.03% in biological sciences, 98.37% in social studies and 98.83% in English qualified. EdCET convenor, Prof R Siva Prasad said that a total of 12 valid objections were received and all were resolved with the help of subject experts. Final key and results were processed after resolution of objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/99-qualify-edcet-for-bed-courses/articleshow/78850544.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 3,342 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,342 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 8,04,026. The toll increased to 6,566 as 22 more patients died. As many as 3,572 patients recovered from the disease. There are currently 31,469 active cases with 7,65,991 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 95%. It was over 98 percent in Kurnool and Nellore districts. Vizianagaram district, which had once lagged behind compared to other districts in terms of recovery rate, achieved a near 98% recovery rate as of Saturday. West Godavari reported 551 new cases on Saturday, followed by East Godavari 445 and Chittoor 404. Kurnool recorded the lowest case total of the day of 60 infections. East Godavari has the highest cumulative case load of 1.13 lakh cases, followed by West Godavari of 82,335 cases. Ten districts have a case load of at least 50,000 cases, barring Krishna, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Nellore has the lowest active cases of 405, followed by Kurnool 590 and Vizianagaram 601. Of the 22 deaths registered on Saturday, four each are from Chittoor, Guntur and Krishna, two each from Anantapur, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Kadapa, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 75.02 lakh samples, including 74,919 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 10.7%, while the mortality rate was 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-reports-3342-new-cases-22-deaths/articleshow/78853954.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 3,342 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 3,342 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 8,04,026. The toll increased to 6,566 as 22 more patients died. As many as 3,572 patients recovered from the disease. There are currently 31,469 active cases with 7,65,991 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 95%. It was over 98 percent in Kurnool and Nellore districts. Vizianagaram district, which had once lagged behind compared to other districts in terms of recovery rate, achieved a near 98% recovery rate as of Saturday. West Godavari reported 551 new cases on Saturday, followed by East Godavari 445 and Chittoor 404. Kurnool recorded the lowest case total of the day of 60 infections. East Godavari has the highest cumulative case load of 1.13 lakh cases, followed by West Godavari of 82,335 cases. Ten districts have a case load of at least 50,000 cases, barring Krishna, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Nellore has the lowest active cases of 405, followed by Kurnool 590 and Vizianagaram 601. Of the 22 deaths registered on Saturday, four each are from Chittoor, Guntur and Krishna, two each from Anantapur, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Kadapa, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far tested 75.02 lakh samples, including 74,919 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Saturday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 10.7%, while the mortality rate was 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-3342-new-cases-22-deaths/articleshow/78850539.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi pollution lowest from 8am to noon||NEW DELHI: A four-hour window between 8am and 12 noon is probably the ideal time to step out of the house. A 10-day forecasting model developed under the Early Warning System for Delhi shows pollution levels are at their lowest during this period and then spiking after 1pm. Track the pollution level in your cityA second spike in pollution takes place after midnight before the level starts dropping around 8am. On Saturday, Delhi’s hourly PM2.5 concentration touched 251 micrograms per cubic metre between 2am and 4am before dropping to 97 micrograms at 8am, 82 micrograms at 9am, 77 micrograms at 10am. Highest peaks of bad air in early morning hoursThe 10-day model forecasts a similar trend for the next few days, with the highest peaks of bad air in the early morning hours. At 4am on October 29, the model predicts the hourly PM2.5 concentration may touch 266 micrograms per cubic metre and 267 micrograms per cubic metre at 9pm on October 30. Officials said that though the 10-day model could be followed on the air quality early warning system website, the three-day forecasting system was proving more accurate because it factors in the prevailing meteorological conditions for an outlook on the pollution level. “The drop in air quality could be down to a number of factors. An increase in wind speed, rise in temperature and inversion layer formation are some such reasons,” said an official involved in the project. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, explained that calm wind conditions are generally seen at night and wind speed picks up mostly during the day. “A spike is generally seen at night because the wind speed is next to nil and there is, therefore, no dispersal of pollutants. Only when the wind starts blowing is there an improvement in air quality,” Srivastava told TOI. According to the warning system, a gradual improvement in Delhi’s air quality is expected to occur over the next two days. The AQI, nevertheless, is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category. Wind speeds in the region have been below 10 km/hr in the last 48 hours, but an improvement in the ventilation index is expected to allow pollutants to disperse more freely. The model forecasts, “Predicted maximum mixing depth is likely to be approximately 2,400 metres above Delhi on 24.10.2020, 3,000 metres on 25.10.2020 and 3,900 metres on 26.10.2020.” In the light of the rising pollution levels, Delhi government recently kick-started its “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” anti-pollution campaign for which it has deployed 2,500 environment marshals at 100 traffic signals across the city to generate awareness and curb vehicular pollution. The drive will be implemented in all 70 assembly constituencies from October 26 and will go on till November 15 from 8 am to 8 pm. It is an awareness drive by the Delhi government and no person will be issued challans, the government has said. Watch Delhi pollution levels are at their lowest from 8am to noon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-pollution-lowest-from-8am-to-noon/articleshow/78852754.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizagites complain of breathing trouble; no unusual rise in air pollution, says PCB||VISAKHAPATNAM: Be it 8am at Pandurangapuram or 11 am at Madillapalem or 7:30pm at Siripuram, residents of various parts of Vizag are complaining of breathing difficulties due to smog, haze and pollutants in the air for the last few days. But officials of the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) maintain that the board has not come across any unusual rise in pollution levels. According to a section of residents, air quality in the city seems to have worsened much before Diwali with people complaining of eye and throat irritation especially in early mornings and late evenings. The haze and smog are palpable even though there hasn’t been any significant rise in traffic over the last week. “My eyes turned red and it was difficult to see in the morning due to the haze. The air feels stuffy,” said a resident of Pandurangapuram. “While walking back from my office in Siripuram towards VUDA Complex late evening, I felt my eyes burn and experienced throat irritation,” said another resident. Vijay Potnuru, a city-based businessman said, “Going by the Brezzometer, the Air Quality Index (AQI) at 11am on Saturday states that the air is hazardous or extremely poor. It suggests that people stay indoors.” However, T Rajendra Reddy, zonal officer of APPCB in Vizag, said, “We have not perceived anything unusual in the air quality or sudden increase of any particular pollutant as per our lab reports.” Dr Phanendra Ketha, a pulmonologist working with ESI Hospital, said, “The phenomenon of land and sea breeze in some areas of Vizag plays a role in enhancement of pollutants. Possibly, industrial pollutants and emissions are carried in the air towards the sea.” “Most industries periodically release combustion products and waste gases. APPCB should take note of the concentration of pollutants. Meanwhile, the public should continue wearing masks and gargle with salt water if they step out as a safeguard,” Dr Ketha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizagites-complain-of-breathing-trouble-no-unusual-rise-in-air-pollution-says-pcb/articleshow/78850576.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 25, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Metro office opens in Vizag today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The new regional office of the Andhra Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (APMRCL) in Visakhapatnam will be inaugurated on Sunday. Officials gave final touches to the office premises in the rented LIC Building near RTC Complex on Saturday. The new office is expected to speed up the metro rail project in Vizag, whose detailed project report (DPR) is currently being prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/metro-office-opens-in-vizag-today/articleshow/78850589.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Business||Vedanta to pay 9.5/share as interim dividend||NEW DELHI: Vedanta Ltd on Saturday said its board has approved the first interim dividend of Rs 9.5 per equity share for the current fiscal amounting to Rs 3,500 crore. The announcement comes days after the failed delisting offer of the conglomerate. The record date for the purpose of payment of dividend is October 31, a filing by Vedanta Ltd to BSE said. The interim dividend will be paid within stipulated timelines as prescribed under law, it added. Shareholders were waiting for the dividend announcement from Vedanta after the company’s delisting process failed this month. Vedanta Ltd’s delisting went from almost a success to failure on account of a large quantity of unconfirmed orders. Vedanta had said its buyback offer is deemed to have failed as per the terms of the delisting regulations after promoter Vedanta Resources did not receive the required number of shares to delist the firm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vedanta-to-pay-9-5/share-as-interim-dividend/articleshow/78852765.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||5 Tirumala temple kitchen staff hurt in mishap||TIRUPATI: Five staffers working at the Prasadam kitchen in Tirumala temple suffered minor burn injuries on Saturday when boiling water accidentally spilled over them while they were preparing tamarind rice. They were immediately taken to TTD’s Aswini hospital in Tirumala for first aid and discharged later. Additional EO A V Dharma Reddy also met the workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-ttd-kitchen-staff-hurt-in-mishap/articleshow/78850607.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||End of Navaratri Brahmotsavams at Tirumala temple||TIRUPATI: The Navaratri Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara concluded with the conduct of the Chakrasnanam fete at the Tirumala temple on Saturday. Al processions in connection with the Brahmotsavams were held in Ekantham inside the Tirumala temple this year. On the final day, festivities began with the conduct of the Pallaki vahana seva at the Kalyana Mandapam inside the main temple complex. Later, Snapana Tirumanjanam was performed to Lord Malayappa Swamy and his two divine consorts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/end-of-navaratri-brahmotsavams/articleshow/78850598.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Vaccine should be free for everyone: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 vaccine - when it is ready - should be available to all citizens for free, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. The statement has come amid growing controversy over BJP listing free vaccination in its manifesto for Bihar elections. "The entire country should get a free Covid-19 vaccine. It is the right of the whole country. Covid-19 has put people in trouble, so the vaccine should be free for all," the chief minister said during the inauguration of two flyovers in the trans-Yamuna area. BJP's free vaccine promise has invited strong objections from several political parties, including Kejriwal's Aam Aadmi Party. They wonder if "Indians who did not vote for BJP in Bihar would also get free Covid-19 vaccine." With the help of state governments, the Centre has already started the process of identifying around 30 crore priority beneficiaries who may be given the vaccine dose in the initial phase. Meanwhile, Kejriwal has hinted that schools are likely to remain closed even after October 31. "Schools are not going to open now (anytime soon)," he said in reply to a query.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccine-should-be-free-for-everyone-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/78852767.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Call to complete Polavaram project||VIJAYAWADA: CPI on Saturday called upon the government to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the Polavaram project. CPI(M) state secretary and former MP P Madhu said that the Polavaram project was part of the bifurcation package and should be completed at the earliest. He further asked the government to lift all restrictions on sand supply and ensure resumption of construction activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/call-to-complete-polavaram-project/articleshow/78850616.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's AQI ‘very poor’ due to low wind speed||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category for a second day, primarily because of low wind speed. While the overall air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to a reading of 345 (very poor) on Saturday, agencies forecast Delhi’s air to remain “very poor” for the next two days too. Track the pollution level in your cityA combination of low wind speed and a low boundary layer — which is trapping pollutants closer to the ground — has worsened the situation. Delhi had recorded this season’s highest AQI of 366 on Friday, according to CPCB’s daily bulletin. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi, said similar conditions were expected over the next 48 hours too. “Wind speed has remained below 10 km/hr and conditions have been extremely calm at night and in the early hours of the day. The lack of wind speed is not allowing pollutants to disperse freely,” Srivastava said. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) — a body under ministry of earth sciences — meanwhile, stated that the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s air had reduced to just 9% on Saturday — meaning localised sources were more at play. According to SAFAR, the farm stubble burning count across the northern plains stood at 1,292 on Friday. However, westerly winds and low wind speed were not favourable for the smoke to be transport towards Delhi, it said. Data from CPCB’s central control room showed Delhi-NCR’s average PM10 and PM2.5 levels to be hovering around three times the standard. While the 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration was 177.2 micrograms per cubic metre at 3pm on Saturday, the average PM10 concentration at the same time was 352.6 micrograms per cubic metre. The daily standard for PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. It is 100 micrograms per cubic metre for PM10. A senior CPCB official said no additional measures were being put in place, with meteorological conditions playing a key role in the current scenario. “The task force may meet if the air quality worsens. At present, no additional directions have been issued, but agencies have been asked to ensure vigilance on the ground,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-aqi-very-poor-due-to-low-wind-speed/articleshow/78852774.cms||---
October 25, 2020||---||LJP supporters brandish BJP flags at Chirag rally||SASARAM/PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan said on Saturday that those found involved in siphoning off public funds under the “Saat Nischay (Seven Resolves)” scheme of the Nitish Kumar-led government would be jailed after proper investigation. Paswan’s strong statement comes a day after PM Narendra Modi heaped praise on Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for various development works and also paid tribute to the late LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. Addressing rallies at Sasaram and Dinara in Rohtas district amid hundreds of BJP flag-carrying supporters, Chirag said, “Even the CM wouldn’t be spared for his alleged acts of commission and commission in development and welfare schemes.” Describing Nitish Kumar as “anti-youth”, Chirag said he (the CM) didn’t intend to create job opportunities for youths. “There is neither industry nor quality education nor health facilities in the state. The state has not progressed in the last 30 years,” he asserted. A few vehicles in the LJP president’s campaign convoy from Sasaram to Dinara were also carrying flags of the saffron party, much to the chagrin of NDA candidate from Dinara Jai Kumar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-supporters-brandish-bjp-flags-at-chirag-rally/articleshow/78852781.cms||Alok Chamaria
October 25, 2020||India||Republic staffer records statement in ‘disaffection’ case||NEW DELHI: Police on Saturday recorded the statement of Republic TV’s deputy editor Shawan Sen as part of its probe into a separate FIR registered against the channel’s editorial staff for airing a report which allegedly amounted to incitement to disaffection among members of the police force and defamation of Mumbai police. He reportedly told the police he had no role in airing the report and it was done by the channel’s executive editor Niranjan Narayanaswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-staffer-records-statement-in-disaffection-case/articleshow/78852793.cms||---
October 25, 2020||India||Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for Covid||MUMBAI: Former Maharashtra CM and now leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis (50) announced on Saturday that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and had self-isolated. Fadnavis was recently on a tour of rain-affected districts of the state and was also campaigning for the Bihar elections, as he was appointed in-charge by his party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78852800.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Woman beats up traffic cop in Mumbai, held with biker||MUMBAI: The LT Marg police on Saturday arrested a woman for assaulting a traffic constable after he flagged down the two-wheeler she was riding pillion over the biker not wearing a helmet. The incident took place in south Mumbai earlier in the day and a video of the attack went viral on social media. The biker has also been arrested. While the woman, Sadvika Ramakant Tiwari (30), alleged the constable, Eknath Porte, had abused her during the argument over the helmet, the traffic police said she was lying and the cop had referred to the accused as “madam” and “sir”. TimesViewAssaulting a policeman is indefensible, whatever the argument may have been. Whenever the men and women in khaki are accused of excesses, it is right to ask for accountability. Similarly, when they are simply doing their job, they cannot be treated in this manner. In this case the offence is grave because the woman who assaulted him, and the man who was riding the bike, were clearly flouting the law in the first place by not wearing a helmet.Woman held cop by shirt and assaulted himA woman pillion rider and the man riding the bike were arrested on Saturday after they assaulted a traffic constable. Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Yashasvi Yadav praised constable Eknath Porte, stating that despite the woman’s assault, the constable had maintained his dignity and did not abuse the woman or the biker. Sadvika Tiwari, a resident of Masjid Bunder, and the biker, Mohsin Shaikh, were arrested from Bhendi Bazaar. The police have booked them under Sections 353, 332, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code for preventing a government servant from discharging his duties, voluntarily causing hurt, intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace and criminal intimidation. According to the police, Porte, who is attached to the Kalbadevi traffic division, was on duty at the Surti Hotel junction in Kalbadevi when he stopped Shaikh and Tiwari. He asked Shaikh to pay a fine as he was not wearing a helmet. This led to a heated argument between the pillion rider Tiwari and constable Porte. All of a sudden, Tiwari caught Porte by his uniform and started assaulting him, though in the video, she is heard as saying that Porte had abused her. Shaikh is seen making a video of the assault. Porte then took the help of a woman cop who intervened and took control of the situation and handed over Shaikh and Tiwari to the LT Marg police. “After hearing both sides, we registered an offence against Tiwari and Shaikh for manhandling a public servant,” joint CP Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-beats-up-traffic-cop-in-mumbai-held-with-biker/articleshow/78852804.cms||S Ahmed Ali
October 25, 2020||Mysuru||Dasara: Mysuru all set for mini jamboo savari||MYSURU: The Dasara procession on Monday, marking the finale of festivities, will have many firsts. The procession, normally a 5km affair winding through the thoroughfares of the city, will now be just across 270m due to the pandemic. It will be confined to the Mysuru Palace, to be witnessed by only 300 people. And, tusker Abhimanyu will make its debut with the golden howdah. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will perform puja to the Nandi Dwaja near Kote Anjaneya Swamy Temple near north gate of Mysuru Palace between 2.59pm and 3.20pm in the auspicious Makara Lagna. He is scheduled to inaugurate the procession between 3.40pm and 4.15pm in the Kumbha Lagna. The Jamboo Savari will then make the short trip from Mysuru Palace to Jayarama-Balrama Gate — which should take about 15 minutes. To avoid crowding, public entry is restricted and only invitees, officers of forest and police department and district administration, besides artistes, are allowed to witness the celebration. Vehicular movement around Mysuru Palace will be restricted to avoid gatherings outside the palace. Dasara procession to be shown on social mediaPolice commissioner Chandragupta said the procession of elephants, horses and performers will traverse about 270m from the podium in front of Mysuru Palace to the north gate. The event will be telecast live on Dooradarshan and on Facebook and YouTube. On Saturday, authorities conducted a full-dress rehearsal of the procession to acclimatise elephants and horses. The procession was led by tusker Abhimanyu that carried a wooden howdah. Mounted police and police bands also participated. Police personnel held cannon firing drills as well to ensure a stumblefree finale. The royal family will perform ‘Ayudha Puja’ to weapons inside the palace on Sunday. The royal family scion Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar will perform puja at Kodi Someshwara Temple which will be followed by Poornahuti ritual and pujas to ‘Pattada Aane’, ‘Pattada Hasu’ and ‘Pattada Kudure’. Later in the evening, the last Khas Durbar will be held by Yaduveer. The traditional rituals will be conducted by the royal family during Vijayadashami on the palace premises. Yaduveer will perform Vijaya Yatre seated in a silver chariot drawn by cattle. He will offer Banni puja at Sri Bhuvaneshwari Temple. However, the royal family has cancelled the Vajramusti Kalaga to prevent crowding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dasara-festivities-mysuru-all-set-for-mini-jamboo-savari/articleshow/78852806.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 25, 2020||Nagpur||Razing of station road flyover to take some more time||NAGPUR: It will take some weeks before MahaMetro can demolish the Station Road flyover. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has to complete a lot of formalities before the shopkeepers under the flyover can be relocated or evicted. NMC assistant commissioner Milind Meshram told TOI that there are 70 shopkeepers whose establishments have to be razed by MahaMetro. “Even though the general body of NMC had passed a resolution in 2018 to relocate these shopkeepers the necessary procedure was not followed,” he said. As per the Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act, any person having property on municipal corporation land, whether authorized or unauthorized, has to be issued a notice under section 81 of the act before evicting him. “After taking charge, I told the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe that we would have to issue notices to the shopkeepers. Mundhe agreed and then NMC issued the notices in September. Some 44 shopkeepers replied to the notices through their lawyers seeking to know why they were being relocated. We had also mentioned in the notice that many of the shopkeepers had not paid maintenance charges. Some 29 of the shopkeepers cleared their dues on receiving the notices,” said Meshram. As per the MMC Act, the municipal commissioner will have to hold a hearing for the shopkeepers who have replied to the notices. “I have put up file before the commissioner for the hearing. The shopkeepers who have not replied can, however, be evicted by issuing them a notice asking them to vacate their properties within 30 days,” said Meshram. The complications don’t end here. According to a source in the market department, if shopkeepers do not agree to relocate to MahaMetro’s temporary shops then they will have to be returned a part of their advance deposit given to the NMC at the time of allotment of shops. The general body has not taken any decision in this regard. The total deposit amount is Rs12 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/razing-of-station-road-flyover-to-take-some-more-time/articleshow/78850855.cms||Ashish Roy
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Ex-minister’s kin ‘without mask’ arrested for slapping BMC official||MUMBAI: Nagpada police on Saturday arrested the father-in-law of the son of former minister Naseem Khan for allegedly objecting to and slapping a BMC official on October 22.  The BMC official was on a drive of slapping fines on and taking action against those who were found not wearing masks that the government has made mandatory during the pandemic. The accused has been booked under non-bailable sections and has been remanded in police custody till October 26. The incident occurred when the civic official caught Khan’s son’s father-in-law Asif Malhar reportedly not wearing a mask. City police spokesperson S Chaitanya confirmed that the arrest had been carried out by Nagpada police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-ministers-kin-without-mask-arrested-for-slapping-bmc-official/articleshow/78852823.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rs 25,000 for rain-hit homes, residents say too little||BENGALURU: The government on Saturday announced a compensation of Rs 25,000 each for houses damaged by the heavy rain that pounded Gurudutta Layout and Dattatreya Nagar near Hosakerehalli. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who visited the rainhit areas along with revenue minister R Ashoka and others, directed BBMP officials to identify the houses that bore the maximum brunt and start distributing cheques. The CM also ordered initiation of relief and measures, including distribution of rations to the affected families. According to BBMP’s estimate, 500-600 houses have been affected. In several places, water level rose up to 10 feet, said residents, adding that they’ve lost everything because civic agencies failed to strengthen the stormwater (SWD) drain before commencement of rain. The families were not happy with the compensation too. “The losses we have incurred exceed Rs 25,000. We can probably buy clothes and food, but what about our damaged vehicles and appliances,” asked Cheluvaraj Gowda, a resident of Gurudutta Layout. He added: “My car and bike have been damaged. Which one will the government replace? Rs 25,000 is small compared to the tax we pay.” Another resident Muniraju KH, who runs a provision store in Dattatreya Nagar, said: “I have incurred a loss of over Rs 1 lakh. How will Rs 25,000 help? Had the civic administration built a proper retaining wall, this wouldn’t have happened,” he said. According to NDRF, only Rs 10,000 can be distributed to families affected by natural calamities, but since BBMP is equally responsible for the damage, it’s paying Rs 15,000 to each of the 500-600 families, said a source. “We are not entirely responsible for what happened. It rained heavily on Friday evening. Blaming civic agencies will not resolve the issue. We are working towards helping people,” said Palike commissioner Manjunatha Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-rs-25000-for-rain-hit-homes-residents-say-too-little/articleshow/78852832.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s shrines poorer as donations dry up||MUMBAI: The deities presiding over Mumbai are growing poorer by the day. Even as temples, mosques and churches wait for the green signal to reopen, their donation boxes have been lying glaringly empty for over seven months. If the prolonged lockdown has robbed Mumbadevi temple of Rs 1.5 crore and Mahalaxmi temple of around Rs 7 to 8 crore, it has shrunk Mahim Dargah’s riches from around Rs 30,000 a day to zero. And with nothing except for the stray masked devotee who offers a hasty prayer outside and leaves, many priests are making do with half their salaries while the hawkers—who dotted the peripheries—are waiting for divine intervention. However, online donations from devotees of Mumbadevi and Mahalaxmi temples for a ‘mahapooja’ or an ‘abhishek’ in the donor’s name have ensured a steady flow of nominal sums of Rs 1,000-Rs 2,000. Shrine closure deprives priests & flower-sellers of incomeAfter the religious institutions shut their doors, the small vendors selling fruits, flowers garlands and coconuts outside both temples shut shop soon. “Many of the vendors returned to their hometowns. As Navratri neared, some of them came back to Mumbai when they heard that the government might permit temples to reopen. But with no final word yet, they have been sorely disappointed. Business losses have been enormous for these vendors,” revealed Hemant Jadhav, manager at Mumbadevi temple. Around 80 families of flower sellers outside Sufi saint Makhdoom Mahimi’s Dargah at Mahim have not earned a single penny in the last seven months, said Mohammed Tariq Bade whose family has sold flowers here for the last five decades. Even the sellers of flowers, shawls, incense sticks, perfume, sandal paste and all other items offered to the Mahimi, the secular saint of Mumbai, are on the verge of starvation. “I have five boys working for me. They have not returned from home as the shrine remains shut. They are stuck in the villages without work. They have no work here, nor in their villages and their desperation grows by the day,” said Altaf Hussain, a flower seller at Mahim. Farooque Ahmed, who sold attar, handkerchiefs, scarfs snd skull caps outside an Andheri mosque, too is staring at an economic abyss: “I am not skilled to do any other job. Ab khane ke bhi vande hain (It’s tough to make ends meet).” Goodwill serves as an economic buffer for some shrines. At Malad’s Our Lady of Lourdes Church, a community fridge stocks vegetables and fruits so that the flower and candle sellers hit by the church’s closure do not go hungry. Even though church doors were shut, its compound was thrown open for anyone who had lost a job in the lockdown and wanted to set up a vegetable or snack stall. “People of Orlem have big hearts. They provided us with ration for distribution,” said Fr Michael Pinto, the parish priest, adding that some vendors approached the parish management with requests to permit them to sell flowers on All Soul’s Day on November 2, a day for the commemoration of the departed. Reserved funds have ensured that the income of workers at shrines such as the Holy Magi Church at Gorai village, Mahim Dargah and the ten Jewish synagogues in the city including Thane’s Gate of Heaven synagogue, remains unaffected. But, for want of donations, most mosques in the city have had to reduce the salaries of imams, muezzins and khadims (priests, sweepers and cleaners). Maulana Moin Ashraf Quadri of Bilal Masjid in Grant Road, explained that the salaries of priests and staffers had to be cut by half since the lockdown began as congregational prayers at the mosques were discontinued. The priests or panthakys of the city's 50 fire temples (agiaries) too have no income as devotees can't come in, informed Jehangir Patel, editor of the weekly ‘Parsiana’. The fact that some community members are opting for cremating the dead instead of the traditional funeral, wherein the dead are consigned to the Towers of Silence, has also financially impacted the elderly priests, he added. (Inputs by Bella Jaisinghani & Sharmila Ganesan-Ram) .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-shrines-poorer-as-donations-dry-up/articleshow/78852842.cms||Nitasha Natu
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Missing man's decomposed body found close to his home in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Nearly a month after a 24-year-old man went missing from his house in southeast Delhi's Badarpur, his decomposed body was found hanging from the ceiling of a room in a building near his house. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide. The man has been identified as Sahil. His body was found hanging in the room on the terrace of the building that also houses a bank. On September 28, Sahil had left his house telling his family members that he would be back soon, but he never returned. A missing complaint was registered in this regard. The death came to light on Wednesday when a team of bank officials went to the terrace for some maintenance work and found the man hanging. "No suicide note has been found. His family and others known to him are being questioned to know the reason behind the act," said a senior police officer. In another incident in Central Delhi area, an NRI, Balwinder Singh, was found hanging from the ceiling fan with his turban. Police recovered a 10-page suicide note in which he purportedly said that no one was responsible for his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/missing-mans-decomposed-body-found-close-to-his-home-in-delhi/articleshow/78852845.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 35 years on, court cashier acquitted in Rs 7.5-lakh fraud case||MUMBAI: Thirty-five years after a now 65-year-old “cashier” working at the Esplanade magistrate’s court was booked in three separate cases of misappropriating a total of Rs 7.5 lakh fines collected from convicted accused between 1982 and 1984, a sessions court recently acquitted him. The sessions court set aside a magistrate court’s 2007 verdict convicting Pandurang Sawant in each of the three cases and sentencing him to four years’ rigorous imprisonment. “The prosecution failed to prove that the accused while working as a cashier, issued cash receipts and misappropriated the amount. Hence, in my view, the accused needs to be acquitted,” judge AH Laddhad said in three separate judgements. The court said the fine paid by Sawant - a total of Rs 2.26 lakh - is to be refunded to him. The court found that among court staffers who deposed, while the head cashier and assistant registrar were “hiding the truth”, a judicial clerk seemed to be trying to save the head cashier. The court also said the auditors did not find discrepancies. Out on bail, Sawant was suspended after a departmental enquiry held him guilty. He has been ailing for the last 15 years and his wife, who also worked in the same department, used to attend court hearings. “Appeals were filed in 2007 against the magistrate court’s verdict. Over time, the appeal has been argued before three different judges. With no income and his illness, Sawant’s family has suffered tremendously,” his advocate Vaibhav Bagade said. In his final statement before trial court, Sawant had denied he was the cashier. He also denied it was his handwriting on the “suspicious” entries made on documents and cash entry registers. The prosecution had relied on statements of 13 witnesses. The sessions court however found the evidence of the assistant registrar was biased and he was “interested to implicate the accused.” Referring to evidence of the clerk who “found” the suspicious entries, the court said it seemed like she was tutored by the investigating officer as she had admitted to making submissions at his behest. The court further said the head cashier and assistant registrar, who deposed, had both passed on the responsibility of verifying receipts and cash at the end of the day, on to each other.  “It appears to me that the witnesses are both trying to shirk their responsibility or trying to save themselves and hiding the truth. Even prosecution witness 4 (head cashier) goes to the extent of deposing that at the end of the day both the cashiers were giving cash collection amount in total and not separately. In fact such procedure is nowhere adopted in the court nor such version is believable. Thus, neither evidence inspires confidence, their version creates a doubt,” the court said. The court said the prosecution had failed to prove the money was even entrusted to Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-35-years-on-court-cashier-acquitted-in-rs-7-5-lakh-fraud-case/articleshow/78852856.cms||Rebecca Samervel
October 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Man held for digital live show of sex with wives||BHOPAL: A 24-year-old man was arrested in MP’s Vidisha for livestreaming sex with his two wives on various apps for money. People paid him for the ‘live show’, and he is believed to have made lakhs from this. He was arrested on Saturday after his second wife went to police. He has been charged with rape and violation of privacy after she accused him of subjecting her to torture and criminal intimidation by showing their intimate moments to audiences digitally. The accused has studied only till Class 10 but is tech savvy and knows his way around cyberworld, say police. He was active on several dating apps, and had learned to redeem cash from digital gifts on these apps. “He had put a certain DP on the apps. Anyone who ‘liked’ it was sent a message with a ‘menu’, starting with Rs 100 for a demo, and going up to Rs 500, Rs 700 and Rs 1,000. There were separate charges for ‘faceless’ and ‘with face’ streaming,” said an officer. Police have detected transactions of nearly Rs 6 lakh in just one of the accounts that he opened on August 28. “We think he was earning Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 a day,” he said, adding that tracking down those who paid is proving to be a very tough task. VIOLATION OF PRIVACY CASEVidisha, a predominantly agricultural district, is about 50km from Bhopal. The first wife of the suspect is from Bengaluru. “They met on social media and got married. She is seven months pregnant. His second wife is from Uttar Pradesh and is a deeply spiritual person. She is a follower of a spiritual guru, and fell into his trap after he pretended to be a devotee as well. They got married at a temple after a brief courtship,” said the investigator, adding that neither woman knew about the other. “The first wife doesn’t have any complaint against him. He had convinced her by showing her dreams of a better future,” CSP Vikas Pandey told TOI. During the interrogation, the accused has admitted to live-streaming sexual activities with both wives, say police. He has been booked for rape, publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form, and violation of privacy of an individual. Phones, bank details, and jewellery worth Rs 12 lakh have been seized from him. Watch Man ‘live-streamed sex’ with two wives for money, held in MP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-man-held-for-digital-live-show-of-sex-with-wives/articleshow/78852844.cms||P Naveen
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: TB patient’s body found in hospital toilet, probe on||MUMBAI: A decomposed body was found in a toilet at BMC-run Sewri TB Hospital last week. The victim may be a patient reported missing a fortnight back. Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Marg police are investigating the case even as a high-powered seven-member BMC committee will submit an inquiry report on Tuesday. A ward boy found the body while looking for the source of a foul smell on October 18. “We reported the matter to the police,” said hospital superintendent Dr Lalit Anande. The hospital had on October 4 reported that a 27-year-old TB patient who had tested Covid-19 positive had gone missing early in the morning. He had been admitted on September 30. “The missing patient and body we found last week may be the same. Police are looking into the matter,” added Dr Anande. On Friday, the sevenmember inquiry committee interviewed staff to figure out the chain of events. The members may visit the hospital again on Monday, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. He said two cases were lodged with police — about the missing TB-Covid patient and discovery of the body. “Police are trying to establish if both are the same person,”' he said. Dr Anande said the patient was sent to Sewri TB Hospital by Goregaon ward office. “He did not appear to have Covid complications, but was sent as he was undergoing TB treatment,”' said Dr Anande. The committee is also trying to assess if the deceased had “happy hypoxia’’, a condition in which reduction of oxygen levels in the body is not felt until late. The hospital has 11 other TB-Covid patients in its special Covid ward. Police registered an accidental death report (ADR) following the discovery of the body. They said it appeared to be a case of heart attack as the deceased had tested positive for Covid, had TB and there was some issue on his ear. Police are looking into why hospital staff did not notice the locked toilet for so many days. The father of the deceased, identified as Suryabhan Yadav, has given a NoC to police to perform his last rites as he will be unable to. Police said the Yadavs are casual labourers at a stable in Aarey colony in Goregaon and did not have mobile phones to communicate. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said, “More than a dozen mismanaged incidents have happened at government hospital since the pandemic began. The home and health ministers have done nothing to prevent such incidents.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-tb-patients-body-found-in-hospital-toilet-probe-on/articleshow/78852867.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Baby survives fall from building & Covid blow||BENGALURU: A year-old boy, who fell accidentally from the first floor of a building, suffered not only seizures and brain injury, but also inflammatory syndrome associated with Covid. After treatment for 18 days, he finally made a complete recovery. Around 4pm on September 17, the boy who was playing in the first floor balcony of his grandmother’s house in Peenya, fell to the ground. The shocked grandmother could only watch helplessly as he slipped from the low parapet wall. His parents rushed the profusely bleeding boy to nearby hospitals and then to Columbia Asia Hospital near Yeshwantpur. He was immediately taken to the emergency section for treatment. The major challenges were the head injury, stroke and seizures, along with the bleeding. The baby also suffered from low blood pressure. ‘4% positivity rate hard to sustain’ Karnataka’s Covid positivity rate, which was below 4% on Saturday, is a welcome relief but experts feel it may not be a reflection of the ground reality. Some say the state may see cases spiralling in the first week of November because of Dasara festivities and the ongoing election campaigns. P 2 Doctors updated parents about boy’s health status via video callsThe seizures were controlled gradually, but he was still in a coma by night. By then, the hospital had taken his nasal and throat swab for Covid testing, a requirement for every hospitalised case and he tested positive. “It was a tough time for the parents as they had no symptoms of Covid. He was put on a ventilator and treated with medicines along with fluids and his blood circulation became better,” said Dr Supraja Chandrashekar, paediatric intensivist, Columbia Asia hospital. The boy was on a ventilator for three days, but continued to be in the ICU. Repeat CT scan of the brain showed no further bleeding. He regained consciousness after three days. Meanwhile, the hospital asked the parents to undergo Covid testing. While the homemaker-mother tested positive but was asymptomatic, the farmer-father was negative. They could not be with the child in the hospital, but the medical team updated them via video calls. Another challenge for the team was to comfort the baby who was terrified of seeing health workers in PPE. On the fifth day, the father was allowed to visit him. “He hadn’t seen a human face for two days after he regained consciousness. He had seen parents only on video calls,” doctors said. After seven days, he was shifted to a ward. As expected in post-Covid infections, he developed Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome — Covid (MISC). This is seen among corona-positive kids and involves inflammation of the heart, lungs, kidneys, skin, gastrointestinal organs. However, doctors had prepared for this contingency. On Day 10, his mother was allowed to be with him. “Once he was shifted to the general ward, he could see other paediatric patients and felt better,” said Dr Supraja. The boy was discharged on October 5, after 18 days in hospital. He was able to stand. A week after discharge, he had recovered well and even walked into the hospital for a checkup. The parents requested Dr Supraja if she could remove the mask so that they could see her. The family still doesn’t know how the boy fell. “We have no clue how he got Covid. When we took him to hospitals, I wasn’t wearing a mask. That may be a reason,” the mother said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-baby-survives-fall-from-building-covid-blow/articleshow/78852869.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 25, 2020||India||Nine fishermen from Chennai adrift in the Bay of Bengal for 55 days. How did they survive? How did one go missing?||CHENNAI: Stranded at sea for 55 days, Desappan is often asked how he spent each day, “Weeping,” I tell them. “Every morning I would wake up and cry until I passed out.” The 28-year-old was part of a team of nine hired for a 13-day fishing expedition in July. At 5pm, on the third day out at sea, Desappan remembers hearing the boat’s engine splutter for a few minutes. “And then, suddenly, it went silent.” Raghu, 37, the lead driver of the boat, and his trusted lieutenant, 55-year-old Babu, tried in vain to fix the engine. At the end of a futile few hours, it wasn’t just the motor that was dead, but their wireless and every other source of power on the boat. “From then on, we were at the mercy of the sea,” says Desappan. Babu rose to the challenge. “Someone will find us. We have to keep the belief that we will go home,” Desappan remembers him saying. “Without him, we would have lost all courage.” Sharks for companyWithin 24 hours of being adrift, the fishermen could see sharks circling their boat. At first, the men ate the exotic catch they had been paid to fish for. “There was Rs 2 lakh worth of catch on board. We ate what we could and threw whatever got rotten.” In spite of the crew eating only one or two sparse meals a day, they ran out of food within two weeks. Raghu devised a way to catch fish, using a hook, some wire and sequins they found on the boat. With just one working gas stove on board, they used the reserve diesel to cook. The catch of the day would be boiled in sea water and eaten. “Some days the catch was great. We would dry the extra fish on the boat and eat it on the days we got no catch. Some days the sharks got our food and we would starve.” When the sharks would bite the line it had to be dropped, otherwise they would have been pulled in, says Desappan. At sea, Raghu had instructed that no one was to enter the water. Babu though jumped overboard for a swim. He was lucky that day, says Desappan, as the sharks were not too close. “Babu was our rock. He was so calm in the face of danger that it gave us hope.” I saw Yama next to me“We were too tired to work, too scared to ask for food because it felt selfish when there was hardly anything to eat. We would be so listless that we would sleep all day,” says Desappan. The men took turns to stay awake at night in case another boat passed. “There were a few. We would signal them in desperation, but no one would come near us.” It wasn’t long before they ran out of water as well. They tried drinking sea water but it played havoc with their stomach. “We began vomiting. It was horrible.” For Desappan, fatigue and fear led to hallucinations. “I started seeing Yama (God of death) sitting next to me. I was going mad.” Just as the men were beginning to lose hope, the skies broke open. As the boat rocked hard, Raghu instructed them to fill cans with rainwater and place them on top of the boat to use as buoys in case it capsized. “But on that day, the rain was not our enemy. It was our saviour. It soon became calm.” The rainwater also had to be rationed. “One or two glasses a day per person was all we got.” Finally, the hills of MyanmarThe men had lost count of the days, but one day — the 56th according to Raghu’s tally — they woke up and saw hills. The men knew that they were in a new land because the boats did not display the Indian flag. As they got nearer, the fishermen signaled to them. “We just pointed at our stomachs to show we were hungry.” In a short while, rice and fish curry was handed out. “It was like amritam (sacred nectar) to me.” The navy of the new country was informed and the men were brought on shore. “I didn’t know where we were. I knew of Burma, I didn’t know that Myanmar was the new name and that was where we were,” he says Desappan. He disappeared underwaterWith the men safe on shore, hope returned. Only to be shattered again. Raghu was summoned to see if repairing the boat was a possibility. He called on the team for help, and as always it was Babu, the ‘fearless one’, who volunteered. As Raghu and Babu worked on the boat, with a Myanmar vessel by their side, the propeller of the larger vessel got stuck. Without a thought, Babu dived in. He surfaced and informed that a rope was tangled in the propeller. Despite protests from all on board as it was dark, Babu went under again to untie the rope. That was the last anyone saw of him. He cried ‘Anna’ and then everything went quiet. The fishermen refuse to accept that Babu died. They still refer to him as missing. Back home, but still lostOn October 7, the men returned to Chennai. “My mother, wife and relatives ran out to greet me. They were all weeping. Only I was not crying. I had cried for so many days that I had no more tears left.” For the time since they have been home, the fishermen have been visiting temples. “I did not believe in God before. Now I spend most of my day at a temple in gratitude.” Some like Raghu made a trip to Tirupati. As for the boat, a week after taking them to safety, it sank off the coast of Myanmar. Last Sunday, four days after he returned home, Desappan nervously walked to the shore near his home and stared at the sea. After what seemed like hours, he stepped into the water again. “Will I start fishing again… yes, because that is the only work I know. But am I scared? Very,” says Desappan, his voice choking. “I am living my second life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nine-fishermen-from-chennai-adrift-in-the-bay-of-bengal-for-55-days-how-did-they-survive-how-did-one-go-missing/articleshow/78852864.cms||Kamini Mathai
October 25, 2020||Bhopal||Imarti Devi makes coarse remarks at Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh cabinet minister Imarti Devi hurled a string of offensive words at former CM Kamal Nath at a campaign rally in Dabra on Saturday in retaliation for the ‘item’ remark. In a video of her speech that’s going around, she uses the words ‘luccha and lafanga’. Imarti is heard saying: “If a former CM can use such language, let me tell you. I talk truth. Whether in Datia or Gwalior, there are people who sit drunk and when someone passes, they say ‘what an item’. Kamal Nath has also become the same. (waise aadmi hote hain na, kabaadi type ke, baithe rehte hai pee-pa ke, log paidal nikalte hai toh kehte hai ‘item ja rahi’. Aise lucche lafange Kamal Nath ban gaye). He is not ashamed that I am a public representative and cabinet minister. During auspicious day or Nav Durga he used such language. Congress will never return to power in MP and BJP will win all 28 seats in the by-election. You have to be with BJP and Imarti. On Friday night, Imarti had made crude comments about Nath’s family members as well. Congress media committee coordinator Narendra Saluja reacted sharply and said: “Imarti Devi’s statement shows the culture and character of BJP. Why is BJP silent now?” Don’t support such language, says BJPCongress media committee coordinator Narendra Saluja said, “BJP talks about respect for women, but is silent on Bisahulal Singh’s remarks on the wife of a Congress candidate. Imarti Devi also made objectionable remarks on the mother and sister of PCC chief Kamal Nath. It shows BJP’s true face.” BJP tried to do a balancing act of trying to defend her while distancing itself from her remark. BJP state spokesman Rajneesh Agrawal said, “It is a war of words started by Kamal Nath and Imarti Devi responded in a similar fashion. As far as BJP is concerned, the party does not support such language.” Former Congress minister Jitu Patwari slammed Imarti Devi for abusing Nath and asked if BJP endorses her comments. “Is Jyotiraditya Scindia teaching the kind of language Imarti Devi is using (against Kamal Nath)… This shows her true character. They (BJP) are unnecessarily making a noise on the issue while Kamal Nath has already given a clarification on his remarks,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/imarti-devi-makes-coarse-remarks-at-kamal-nath/articleshow/78852841.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for coronavirus||MUMBAI: Former Maharashtra chief minister and now leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis (50), announced on Saturday that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and had self-isolated. Fadnavis was recently on a tour of rain-affected districts of the state and was also campaigning for the Bihar elections, as he was appointed incharge by his party. “I have been working every single day since lockdown, but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break!,” Fadnavis tweeted. Sources said he had been admitted to the governmentrun St George’s Hospital and doctors are monitoring his health. He suggested that all who had come in contact with him in the past few days must take care and get themselves tested as a precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/78852886.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis tests positive for coronavirus||MUMBAI: Former Maharashtra chief minister and now leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis (50), announced on Saturday that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and had self-isolated. Fadnavis was recently on a tour of rain-affected districts of the state and was also campaigning for the Bihar elections, as he was appointed incharge by his party. “I have been working every single day since lockdown, but now it seems that God wants me to stop for a while and take a break!,” Fadnavis tweeted. Sources said he had been admitted to the governmentrun St George’s Hospital and doctors are monitoring his health. He suggested that all who had come in contact with him in the past few days must take care and get themselves tested as a precaution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/78855989.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Jewellers try home delivery options in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 restrictions forcing people to rein in the urge to splurge on lavish weddings, jewellers have their fingers crossed that the savings in wedding budgets will translate into higher wedding jewellery purchases this festive season. Sachin Jain, managing director, DeBeers India, said pre-Covid a chunk of the wedding budget used to get divided into parties, honeymoon and destination weddings but with travel coming to a grinding halt the focus is back on jewellery purchases. “We expect to do at least 80-90% of last year’s festive season sales by December this year,” he said. “Footfalls at stores are low as customers are opting for online purchases and home deliveries. Our online sales are up to 25%,” Dinesh Jain, MD, PMJ Jewels, said. Agreeing, Darshan Mehta, partner, Mangatrai Jewellers, said, “Since Navratri began, Dhanteras bookings have gone up, with nearly 40% coming through virtual mode. Many prefer to select designs on video calls. We expect 60-70% of last year’s festive sales by Diwali.” Avinash Gupta, former head, FICCI Telangana’s gems & jewellery committee said, footfalls could have been much higher during Navratri had it not been for floods playing dampener. “Though gold rates are up 30-40% as compared to last year’s festive season, people are booking not just jewellery but also 24K gold coins and bars for Dhanteras as they expect prices to go up,” said PK Siraj, regional manager, Malabar Gold & Diamonds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jewellers-try-home-delivery-options-in-hyderabad/articleshow/78852881.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid death figures of gas-hit being hidden, allege activists||BHOPAL: Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) is undermining the numbers of Covid-19 death of Bhopal gas tragedy-hit people by not disclosing the exact figures to the relevant district and state government officials, alleged organisations working for survivors of the 1984 Union Carbide disaster, on Saturday. In a letter to MP additional chief secretary (health), director-gas relief and Bhopal collector, the activists alleged that “deaths of as many as seven gas victims who died due to Covid-19 in the hospital’s isolation wards in the month of August and September, have not been disclosed to the relevant authorities and these deaths have not been added in the district health bulletin.” The activists are demanding a thorough investigation into the mater. Out of seven non-reported Covid deaths of Bhopal gas victims, two died in the month of August and five died in the month of September, said the activists in a press release. Most of these patients were admitted to BMHRC department of pulmonary medicine. Refuting the allegation, BMHRC director, Dr Prabha Desikan said, “All deaths have been reported as per protocol.” BMHRC is administered by ICMR. The activists, however, claimed that on September 20, the organisations had written to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) alerting them to the fact that at least eight people died in the BMHRC’s isolation ward due to lack of prompt and proper care, as no full time doctors were posted in the ward. Highlighting the need for urgent reforms, they alleged ‘gas victims not only continue to untimely deaths but now their deaths due to Covid-19 are not even being reported’. The organisations have demanded that the district administration and state government officials launch an investigation as to how many Covid-19 deaths have taken place in this hospital since March 2020. The organisations have been raising the issue of heightened vulnerability of gas victims to Covid-19 much before the pandemic took hold. 60% of Covid-19 deaths of Bhopal district are of those who have been exposed to the toxic gases of Union Carbide whereas gas victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-covid-death-figures-of-gas-hit-being-hidden-allege-activists/articleshow/78852847.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal buses back on 7 more routes with new fleet of 34||BHOPAL: Increasing coverage of city buses, public transport operator Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL) has reintroduced buses on seven routes. Now, 34 more buses will be available for passengers connecting Bairagarh, Piplani, Gandhi Nagar, Awadhpuri, Mandideep, Bairagarh Chicali and Akriti Eco-City and other areas. “We are promoting contactless ticketing. Additional buses will provide ease of travel for thousands of passengers per day,” said BCLL CEO, Aditya Singh. BCLL is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). After unlock, BCLL resumed city bus service in two routes. The service expansion will now cover 6 buses on route SR-1, 3 buses on route SR-1A, 5 buses on route SR-4, 5 buses on route SR-5, 5 buses on route SR-8, five bus on route TR-5 and 5 buses on route TR-4B. Nine BCLL routes are yet to be operationalised. According to BCLL, number of passengers are increasing by the day. During a bus journey, passengers are mandated to follow Covid-19 prevention guidelines. Bus stops have also been revamped, said a BCLL official. For almost seven months BCLL buses were off-road owing to the pandemic and resulting lockdown. Nine BCLL buses rolled back on city roads on September 3. It began with buses plying on route SR-1 (Bairagarh Chichli via New Market to Chirayu Naka) and three buses from Route SR-1A (Bairagarh Chichli via Vallabh Bhawan to Chirayu Naka).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-buses-back-on-7-more-routes-with-new-fleet-of-34/articleshow/78852855.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mall fire doused after 40 hours in one of brigade’s longest operations||MUMBAI: Mumbai’s fire brigade on Saturday afternoon concluded one of their longest-ever firefighting operations when they doused the last flames of the Orchid City Centre blaze. The operation at the Mumbai Central mall took over 40 hours and nearly 230 tankers with almost 24 lakh litres of water. But this was just the first phase of firefighting, when the blaze was brought under control. The second phase, comprising cooling operations, will take another two days. Officials have learnt that shopkeepers initially tried to douse the fire on their own and informed the fire brigade late about the incident. After cooling operations, the BMC and the fire brigade will separately examine the mall and issue a notice to its owner if any structural irregularities are found. One fault has already been found. “The firefighting system of the mall was not working. We will issue a notice to the owner about this and conduct inquiries,” said chief fire officer Shashikant Kale. Meanwhile, residents of the adjoining 55-storey Orchid Tower want the BMC to examine the stability of their podium, which is common to the mall’s terrace. The fire brigade has informed them that it is safe for them to return home, but the residents insist that the fire brigade give in writing that the building is safe. Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh, a resident of the tower, said, “The building’s residents in any case will not return till the mall stops smouldering. Smoke is still coming out from a part of the mall’s terrace.” He said the incident showed “complete failure of fire compliance at the mall”. “It's high time the fire brigade implemented the 2018 Fire Compliance Cell norms and put an SOP in place to improve coordination between different agencies during such incidents.” Residents of other buildings in the vicinity faced a tough time during the fire. Farooq Kaladia, who lives in a building opposite the mall, said, “Most residents in nearby buildings closed their windows for two days as smoke reached our homes. It caused a lot of trouble to those who have health complications, like my wife, who is asthmatic.” On the question of the mall’s shop owners, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We saved the basement and the first floor of the mall. In a couple of days, we may allow shopkeepers to collect their valuables from these floors.” A minor fire broke out in the mall close to 9pm on Thursday. Failing to douse it, shopkeepers informed the fire brigade. Hour by hour, the fire gained in intensity, and the fire brigade had to enhance fire declaration levels from level 1 to 4, and finally to a brigade call — the most serious fire incident, requiring all possible interventions with the highest manpower and equipment deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mall-fire-doused-after-40-hours-in-one-of-brigades-longest-operations/articleshow/78852909.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 25, 2020||India||Stop making provocative, irresponsible remarks on national flag: Congress to Mufti||NEW DELHI: Asking former Jammu & Kashmir CM Mehbooba Mufti to desist from making provocative and irresponsible remarks on the national flag, Congress unit in the Union Territory on Saturday strongly condemned the PDP chief’s statement on the tricolour. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma said Mufti’s statement is highly provocative and irresponsible, and she has hurt the sentiments of people. “Such statements are intolerable and unacceptable in any society,” he said. Sharma said the national flag is the symbol of the honour and dignity of the country and reminds people of the sacrifices to achieve freedom and protect the country’s dignity, honour and territorial integrity. “She should desist from making such outrageous utterances,” Sharma said. Mufti on Friday had said that she would hold the tricolour only when the separate flag of the erstwhile state of J&K would be restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stop-making-provocative-irresponsible-remarks-on-national-flag-congress-to-mufti/articleshow/78852906.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Noida||Industry pollutants turn air in Vasundhara toxic||GHAZIABAD: Residents of the trans-Hindon areas of Vasundhara and Kaushambi are waking up to hazy sunrises the past three days as the air quality in the area has deteriorated sharply. Since Wednesday the air quality index (AQI) in the area has deteriorated constantly from 195 on Wednesday to 340 on Saturday. The PM2.5 and PM10 levels have also breached the severe zone within the same period and the situation is expected to remain unchanged in the coming days, warn experts. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Saturday at 4pm, the PM2.5 level spiked to 486 from 359 recorded on Wednesday, while PM10 level was measured at 462 according to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Officials have attributed pollutants from the Sahibabad Industrial Area and dust from construction activities and from roads as major contributors to the pollution level acquiring alarming proportions. Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has identified 42 textile units in the industrial area besides a few chemical, pulp and meat industries which are polluting the air. “Much before the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) came into force this year all these polluting units were asked to file an affidavit that they would take measures to control air pollution,” said an official from UPPCB. Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist said, “Even though UPPCB and pollution control departments and other wings of administration claim that they are not allowing these industries to operate, the truth is these units are functioning clandestinely,” he added. Meanwhile, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that all measures are being taken to keep pollution levels in check. “Sprinkling of water and mechanized sweeping of roads is being carried out daily,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/industry-pollutants-turn-air-in-vasundhara-toxic/articleshow/78852140.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Get set for nip in air post-Dussehra||BHOPAL: Night temperature in Bhopal and parts of the state has come down close to the 15 degree Celsius mark. In absence of any system, the temperature is set to gradually dip further. The southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the majority of places in the state and it will also clear from the remaining one or two districts by Sunday, the meteorological officials said. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle said that there is a western disturbance over the northwest Uttar Pradesh, but it will not have much impact over the state. The temperatures are set to dip in the state and there is no possibility of showers anywhere in the state. Day temperature in Bhopal on Saturday was recorded at 33.4 degree Celsius which was two degrees more than normal mark, while night temperature was recorded at 17.2 degrees which was at the normal mark. Wind direction in the city was south-westerly with an average speed of 10 kilometer per hour. In the forecast for Bhopal on Sunday, the meteorological officials said that there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the state. Day and night temperature would be respectively at 34 degree and 17 degree Celsius while average wind speed would be 10 kmph. In the forecast for the state, the meteorological officials said that dry weather would prevail in the state and there would be no major change from the existing weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-get-set-for-nip-in-air-post-dussehra/articleshow/78852914.cms||---
October 25, 2020||India||Drug peddler tied to arrested South African held||MUMBAI: The Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday arrested a drug peddler and recovered 7.2gm of charas from him. The suspect, Sahil alias Mazhar Allahbaksh (33), a resident of Bandra Reclamation, regularly supplied drugs to a South African national, Agisilaos Demetriades, who is currently in NCB custody. During interrogation Agisilaos had named Sahail Mazhar. NCB had issued summons, asking Sahil to appear but he never turned up. “Sahil is a taxi driver but also doubles up as a drug peddler,” officials claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/drug-peddler-tied-to-arrested-south-african-held/articleshow/78852915.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 25, 2020||Ghaziabad||Discrimination forced us to convert to Buddhism, say Valmikis at camps||GHAZIABAD: The district administration has started organising camps after reports of mass conversion of people of Valmiki community into Buddhism in Karhera village sent ripples in the city. The converts had alleged that discrimination against them was the primary reason that forced them to embrace Buddhism. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that on Wednesday after news of the alleged conversion came to the fore, the administration officials visited Karhera village and assured the people that their grievances will be addressed. “They had demanded facilities such as home under PMAY, ration cards, widow pension among others. We are organising camps in the village to track possible beneficiaries of government schemes,” Pandey said. The camp is expected to continue till next week. Meanwhile, Pandey said that 31 people from the community had applied for ration cards but there is some confusion. “After the news spread that a camp is being organized, people from nearby villages also applied for benefits under the scheme. The matter is being sorted out,” he said, adding that more people will come to the camps in the coming week. Last week, officials rushed to Karhera village after news of 236 people from the Valmiki community embracing Buddhism came to the fore. The issue had also acquired political connotation after some converts claimed that they have the support of AAP and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had expressed support to the community even though the state government remained in denial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/discrimination-forced-us-to-convert-to-buddhism-say-valmikis-at-camps/articleshow/78852164.cms||Abhijay Jha
October 25, 2020||Noida||In six months, Greater Noida may be ready with master plan for 20 years||GREATER NOIDA: The statutory document that will guide the development of Greater Noida for the next 20 years will be ready in the next six months, officials said. The Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) on Thursday initiated the bidding process for preparing the Master Plan 2041, inviting proposals from consulting companies having expertise in town planning. The population of Greater Noida is projected to grow from 10 lakh to up to 25 lakh in 2040. Officials said the plan would focus on having proper spatial development so that families willing to buy a house in NCR consider Greater Noida. The vision document for 2041 is aimed at keeping the congestion level low across the town, a factor that will guide decisions on buying houses. The city is divided into 105 sectors, of which 40 are for residential purposes and 22 for industrial development. The remaining are for setting up information technology, group housing projects, institutional, warehousing and other purposes. GNIDA has divided the master plan into four broad phases — complete review of the existing planning framework and assessment of the 2021 master plan implementation, planning and strategy formulation, urban design guidelines and zoning regulations and action plan to achieve the milestones up to 2041. The authority has asked for an integrated command and control centre on the lines of capital cities of developed countries. It will have a surveillance system, intelligent traffic and transport system. Kavi Jain, principal architect of a Delhi-based consultancy, said, “The predicted growth over a span of time is now possible with technology and informed studies such as satellite imagery. An informed approach to growth can lead to a reasonably predicted path. That is why the master plan is crucial for all cities. It ensures better environment for residents in all aspects of life both socio-cultural as well as economic growth. In short master plan is aimed at improving ease of living index.” Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of GNIDA, said, “We are hopeful of selecting by December 1 the consultant who will prepare the master plan. We will rope in a team of nine members with expertise in transportation, infrastructure, environmental and urban planning. They should also be able to carry out GIS mapping of the entire town.” Officials said the draft should be ready by March 31 next year, and it would be implemented in phases through the next fiscal year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-six-months-greater-noida-may-be-ready-with-master-plan-for-20-years/articleshow/78852226.cms||Shalabh
October 25, 2020||World||Afghan forces kill top Qaida member al-Masri, one of US’ most wanted||KABUL: Afghan security forces have killed Abu Muhsin al-Masri, a senior al-Qaida member who was on the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Most Wanted Terrorists list, Afghanistan’s National Directorate of Security (NDS) said in a tweet late on Saturday. Al-Masri has been charged in the United States with having provided material support and resources to a foreign terrorist organisation, and conspiracy to kill US nationals. The US issued a federal arrest warrant against him in 2018. Al-Masri, believed to be al-Qaida’s second-in-command, was killed during a special operation in Ghazni province, the NDS said. Al-Masri, also known as Husam Abd-al-Rauf, is an Egyptian national. Kabul suicide blast kills 18 at study centre; IS takes blameA suicide bombing at an education centre in Afghanistan’s capital Kabul killed at least 18 people and wounded dozens more on Saturday, officials said. A ministry of interior spokesman, Tariq Arian, cited security guards as identifying a bomber who detonated explosives in the street outside the Kawsar-e Danish educational centre. Eighteen people were killed and 57 were injured in the attack, according to the ministry. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the bombing, the group said in a statement, without providing evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/afghan-forces-kill-top-qaida-member-al-masri-one-of-us-most-wanted/articleshow/78852930.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||IPS officer’s wife found hanging at Lucknow residence||LUCKNOW: The wife of a deputy inspector general of police, at present posted at Police Training School, Unnao, found hanging at her Sushant Golf City residence on Saturday. The post mortem revealed the cause of death as asphyxia due to hanging. Police claimed it to be a case of suicide. The victim, Pushpa Prakash (36) lived with her two daughters aged 13, 11, and seven-year-old son, while her husband Chandra Prakash-II was posted at PTS, Unnao. He is also a member of Special Investigation Team (SIT) probING the Hathras alleged gang rape and mruder. ADCP, South Zone, Suresh Chandra Rawat said Pushpa locked herself inside her room and then hanged herself. Police were trying to establish the reasons that prompted her to take the drastic step. “We did not recover any suicide note. The body was found hanging from ceiling fan with a stole on the first floor of the house in D2 block of Ansal Golf City. At the time of the incident three children of the couple, and two servants were present on the ground floor,” he said. ACP Gosaiganj, Archana Singh said Chandra Prakash left for secretariat around 10.45am, and was halfway when he received a call from his wife that she was going to commit suicide. “He immediately returned, but by the time he reached, she allegedly had hanged herself. The DIG, his gunner and guard, broke open the door and informed Lucknow police commissioner,” she said. The couple were leading a happy life and we are not able to confirm the reason for the drastic step, said senior police officers, adding prima facie there is no evidence of any foul play. Pushpa hailed from Azamgarh district and married to the IPS around 16 years ago. Chandra Prakash-II belonged to Ambedkarnagar. A gas agency was also being run in her name. SHO, Sushant Golf City, Sachin Singh said Pushpa’s brother Dinesh is posted as sub-divisional magistarte in Hapur and another brother worked in Mumbai. He said DIG had also informed the husband of her sister, Arvind who lives in Gomtinagar Extension. He also rushed to the spot with his wife. Senior police officials including DG, special enquiries, Chandra Prakash, and IG, Fire, Vijay Prakash also visited the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ips-officers-wife-found-hanging-at-lucknow-residence/articleshow/78852932.cms||---
October 25, 2020||World||Ivanka Trump threatens suit over US Covid toll ad||NEW YORK: Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, both top White House aides, are threatening to sue a group of anti-Trump Republicans for posting billboard ads in New York City’s Times Square linking them to the country’s almost 225,000 coronavirus deaths. A lawyer representing the two made the threat on Friday in a letter to the Lincoln Project, calling the ads “false, malicious and defamatory”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/ivanka-trump-threatens-suit-over-us-toll-ad/articleshow/78852973.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Nearly 300 cases in a day, virus still to fade away||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 is down but not out in the city, rather still firmly entrenched as close to 300 new cases and four more deaths were recorded on Saturday. Both figures in the city were once again highest in the state, new cases being 13% of the total in UP and deaths 16% of the state toll for the day. Also for the second time this week, the number of cases (292) in 24 hours were more than the recoveries (284). The sharp decline in cases that had started has failed to sustain and still daily new cases are stuck in the 250-300 range and not going down further, which is a cause of concern since it keeps alive the possibility of a second wave. Three Lucknow Municipal Corporation employees deployed in the control room tested on Saturday. They were tested along with other LMC employees at a camp on October 19. “The control room was closed for two hours for sanitisation and work has resumed,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. Gomtinagar continued to record highest number of cases with 29 residents testing positive, followed by 24 from Rae Bareli Road, Indiranagar 21, Aliganj 17, Hazratganj 16, Vikasnagar 15, Talkatora and Sarojininagar 14 each and Mahanagar 11, and 10 each from Jankipuram, Chinhat, Aashiana and Chowk. Four more deaths took the toll to 849.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-nearly-300-cases-in-a-day-virus-still-to-fade-away/articleshow/78852974.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Srinagar||Farooq Abdullah will head J&K alliance, Mehbooba Mufti to be VP||SRINAGAR: The Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the seven-party amalgam of mainstream Kashmir parties demanding the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, appointed on Saturday National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah as its president, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti as vice-president, and decided the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir would be the flag of the alliance. The decisions came at a meeting of alliance constituents, some of whom are archrivals, at Mufti’s Gupkar Road residence here. “It’s not an anti-national alliance, it is an anti-BJP alliance… BJP wants to divide the country, our aim is to ensure that the rights of the people of J&K and Ladakh are restored,” Abdullah said. Congress appeared to distance itself from the PAGD with J&K pradesh unit president GA Mir staying away from two meetings of the conglomerate — on October 15 when the alliance was forged, and on Saturday. In one nation, there can’t be ‘do nishaan’: PrasadSources close to the regional Congress unit said this was because of what they described as a “twist” in the objective of the basic demand for the restoration of special status to J&K, a reference to recent statements from Mehbooba Mufti to the effect that she would raise the tricolour only when the J&K flag, too, was allowed to fly. The source said Congress had raised the issue of the nullification of Article 370 in Parliament but the PDP Rajya Sabha members had not spoken a word on it in the Upper House. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, meanwhile, was quoted by ANI as asking, “Why is the so-called secular lobby silent at this anti-national remark (Mehbooba’s remarks of Friday)? … In one country, there cannot be ‘do nishaan, do pradhan’. We condemn this.” He added that J&K was “India’s inseparable part” and “Article 370 abrogation was a constitutional process (sic)”. However, CPM functionary Yousuf Tarigami rejected the notion of Congress distancing itself, saying,“Congress party is very (much) a constituent of the PAGD.” PAGD’s constituents are National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, Peoples Conference, Awami National Conference, CPM, CPI and J&K Peoples Movement. Veteran CPM member M Y Tarigami was elected convener while Lok Sabha member from South Kashmir Hasnain Masoodi was made coordinator of the conglomerate. People’s Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone would be the spokesman for the amalgam. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone said the PAGD would come up with a document, at the next meeting in Jammu in two weeks, on the “lies being spread against the people of Jammu and Kashmir”. “The white paper will compare the reality and false propaganda on the ground,” Lone said. Both Congress and BJP condemned Mehbooba’s statements of Friday. While Congress advised her to desist from such statements, BJP demanded her arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/farooq-will-head-jk-alliance-mehbooba-mufti-to-be-vp/articleshow/78852988.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Jammu||Farooq Abdullah will head J&K alliance, Mehbooba Mufti to be VP||SRINAGAR: The Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the seven-party amalgam of mainstream Kashmir parties demanding the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, appointed on Saturday National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah as its president, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti as vice-president, and decided the flag of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir would be the flag of the alliance. The decisions came at a meeting of alliance constituents, some of whom are archrivals, at Mufti’s Gupkar Road residence here. “It’s not an anti-national alliance, it is an anti-BJP alliance… BJP wants to divide the country, our aim is to ensure that the rights of the people of J&K and Ladakh are restored,” Abdullah said. Congress appeared to distance itself from the PAGD with J&K pradesh unit president GA Mir staying away from two meetings of the conglomerate — on October 15 when the alliance was forged, and on Saturday. In one nation, there can’t be ‘do nishaan’: PrasadSources close to the regional Congress unit said this was because of what they described as a “twist” in the objective of the basic demand for the restoration of special status to J&K, a reference to recent statements from Mehbooba Mufti to the effect that she would raise the tricolour only when the J&K flag, too, was allowed to fly. The source said Congress had raised the issue of the nullification of Article 370 in Parliament but the PDP Rajya Sabha members had not spoken a word on it in the Upper House. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, meanwhile, was quoted by ANI as asking, “Why is the so-called secular lobby silent at this anti-national remark (Mehbooba’s remarks of Friday)? … In one country, there cannot be ‘do nishaan, do pradhan’. We condemn this.” He added that J&K was “India’s inseparable part” and “Article 370 abrogation was a constitutional process (sic)”. However, CPM functionary Yousuf Tarigami rejected the notion of Congress distancing itself, saying,“Congress party is very (much) a constituent of the PAGD.” PAGD’s constituents are National Conference, Peoples Democratic Party, Peoples Conference, Awami National Conference, CPM, CPI and J&K Peoples Movement. Veteran CPM member M Y Tarigami was elected convener while Lok Sabha member from South Kashmir Hasnain Masoodi was made coordinator of the conglomerate. People’s Conference chairman Sajad Gani Lone would be the spokesman for the amalgam. Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone said the PAGD would come up with a document, at the next meeting in Jammu in two weeks, on the “lies being spread against the people of Jammu and Kashmir”. “The white paper will compare the reality and false propaganda on the ground,” Lone said. Both Congress and BJP condemned Mehbooba’s statements of Friday. While Congress advised her to desist from such statements, BJP demanded her arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/farooq-will-head-jk-alliance-mehbooba-mufti-to-be-vp/articleshow/78853007.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Amritsar||Task force, protesters clash outside SGPC office in Amritsar, 6 hurt||AMRITSAR: Six people were injured on Saturday in a clash between the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force and agitating Sikh groups outside the Teja Singh Samundari Hall -- headquarters of the SGPC in Amritsar -- after the latter locked the SGPC office main gate. Theyhad been protesting against the gurdwara body’s failure to act against the employees indicted in the Advocate Ishar Singh report on the 328 missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib. The injured, who included SGPC task force employees and protesting members of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee and Sirlath Jathebandi, were taken to hospital. Following this, the SGPC removed all the paraphernalia belonging to the ‘morcha’ which had begun on September 14. Things came to a head when leaders of the Satkar Committee, including Sukhjeet Singh Khosa and Balbir Singh Muchal, locked the main entrance of Teja Singh Samundari Hall and covered the gate with a cloth. They then staged a dharna outside the gate, which was objected to by the SGPC task force, resulting in a heated exchange which escalated to a free-forall lasting 15-20 minutes, with both sides wielding kirpans and turbans coming off. Even on September 15, a day after Sikh bodies began the ‘morcha’, an altercation between SGPC’s task force and the protesters had left several people with minor injuries. Protesters violated shrine maryada: SGPCThe main entrance of the SGPC office was locked twice by the protesters, but the situation was defused. Prof Balwinder Singh , one of the constituents of agitating Sikh bodies who represent ‘Hawara Committee’, said that task force’s attack on the ‘morcha’ was highly condemnable and had violated the sanctity of Golden Temple. He also sought an inquiry into the attack on peacefully protesting Sikhs by SGPC’s task force and suitable action against the guilty. The SGPC, however, blamed the protesters for attacking the task force members and injuring several of them. A joint statement issued by junior vicepresident Gurbaksh Singh Khalsa, general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, executive committee member Manvinder Singh Khaparkheri and members Sujit Singh Bhitewind, Ram Singh and Ajain Singh Abhhiasi, alleged that the agitating Sikhs who were sitting on ‘dharna’ had been violating the maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct) of Golden Temple and had been using objectionable language against SGPC office-bearers and employees. "On Saturday, they used foul language against the SGPC employees and sewadars and prevented them from exiting the office and threatened them with kirpans," they added. The release said they (agitating Sikhs) had not only been trying to intervene in the functioning of SGPC but had also been hurting the religious sentiments of devotes coming to the Golden Temple to pay obeisance. The SGPC office-bearers and members had written to the Akal Takht jathedar to convene an emergency meeting to take a religious action against them as per panthic traditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/task-force-protesters-clash-outside-sgpc-office-in-amritsar-6-hurt/articleshow/78853038.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Rajasthan sisters’ gang rape: HC denies bail to 6 accused||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the bail pleas of six of the seven accused allegedly involved in the gang rape case of two Rajasthan sisters, who were forced into prostitution andsent to various hotels and farmhouses of Punjab and Delhi before they were recovered by the Rajasthan police on the intervention of the Rajasthan high court. Rejecting the pleas for regular and pre-arrest bails, the HC observed that if the accused are released on bail, they would be in a position to threaten the survivors and to coerce them in order to protect themselves from the ongoing prosecution. “The sordid misadventure which has happened with the two prosecutrix (the two Rajasthan girls) who are sisters and have been exploited for over six months and ...and converted by the petitioners into disposables for money making, not only to satisfy their lust but also to market them for financial gains, without realizing the psychological impacts the victims would have suffered,” observed the high court while dismissing the bail petition of the accused. Justice G S Sandhawalia dismissed the anticipatory bail pleas of two female accused, identified as Anjli alias Meena Kumari and Jyoti Sharma, and regular bail pleas of Gagandeep Singh alias Gagan, Jobanjeet Singh Chahal alias Shelly, Jagjeet Singh alias Love alias Ekam Brar, and Vikram Singh alias Vicky. Interrogation will reveal modus operandi: CourtJustice Sandhawalia observed that it is only by way of custodial interrogation that their modus operandi would be revealed and the prosecution would be able to get more evidence and proof of their activities to support their case and this cannot be done if they are granted the shield of protection from arrest. “Serious allegations have been made against the petitioner and mere long custody would not be a ground to grant the petitioner benefit of regular bail, keeping in view the seriousness of allegations and quantum of punishment which is liable to be imposed upon them. The petitioners as such working in tandem would be in a position to threaten the victims and coercing them in order to protect themselves from the ongoing prosecution, “the judge observed in a detailed order. The high court, however, has granted bail to one of the accused, Sukhwinder Kaur alias Sapna on account of parity as an accused arrested with her in the same case has been granted bail. The facts of the case are that two girls ‘D’ and ‘S’ (names not revealed), between 18 and 20 years old, residents of Rajasthan, were studying in a college in Rajasthan. They went missing after they were dropped off at their college by their father in September 2018 on account of a dispute within the family. The sisters landed up in Punjab. Initially, they went to Muktsar by catching a bus and thereafter, to the holy city of Amritsar, where they lived in a gurdwara for some days. They took a room on rent when they were accosted by the accused Gagandeep Singh alias Gagan and Vikram Singh alias Vicky, who allured 'D' with the promise of arranging a job for them. Thereafter, they were introduced to one Joginder Kaur alias Simmi, who forced them into prostitution. The sisters were supplied at various places, farmhouses, hotels in Punjab and in upscale areas of Delhi for prostitution by the accused. Meanwhile, their father filed a habeas corpus petition before the Jodhpur Bench of the Rajasthan high court to trace his daughters. After the intervention of the Rajasthan high court, ‘D’ was recovered on March 12, 2019 from Amritsar and ‘S’ was recovered from Jalandhar the next day. They were produced before the Rajasthan high court where they narrated the details of their exploitation. Initially, a zero FIR was registered at Padampur police station in Rajasthan’s Sriganganagar on March 16, 2019 and that was shifted to Amritsar after which an FIR related to the case was registered on May 9, 2019 at police station (Division E), Amritsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rajasthan-sisters-gang-rape-hc-denies-bail-to-6-accused/articleshow/78853053.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab BJP Kisan Morcha convener quits party||BATHINDA: Punjab BJP kisan morcha convener and BJP state committee member Tarlochan Singh Gill on Saturday resigned from the party and assured full support to the farmers, who are protesting against the central farm laws. The farmers had been sitting outside his home at Moga for the last several days. A week ago, BJP state general secretary Malwinder Singh had also resigned from the party over the issue of new farm laws. Tarlochan Singh said, “I felt the farmers will face a lot of hardships after the enactment of the three farm laws. Till now, I was trying to convince the Punjab BJP unit to take up the matter with the national leadership and not to go ahead with the legislations, but the party tried to use me as a Sikh face and asked to go to villages to convince farmers that these laws are beneficial for them.” Despite the farmers vehemently opposing first the ordinances and then the Bills tabled in the Parliament, the BJP-led government went ahead and got those passed, he said. “Going by all this, I found it fit to resign from the party. I had been associated with BJP for long as earlier I worked in BJP Yuva Morcha then in Kisan Morcha. But, now that the party has failed to feel the pain of the farmers, who freed the country, there is nothing left to hold me back in the party, so I decided to part ways.” With him, district level office-bearers Sardul Singh and Atma Singh also quit the party. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri welcomed the decision of Gill and his assurance to support the farm protests. He announced to lift the sit-in from the residence of Tarlochan Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-bjp-kisan-morcha-convener-quits-party/articleshow/78853064.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Noida||Commercial space in Botanical Garden car park to be leased||NOIDA: In a bid to monetise its assets, the Noida Authority has decided to rent out the commercial space at the multilevel parking in Botanical Garden metro station. The authority has been trying to sell the spaces for over a year. It had floated schemes comprising 36 shops and two restaurants thrice but failed to generate any interest. However, with the decision to lease out the spaces, the authority now expects to generate nearly Rs 2.90 crore as annual rental revenue. Earlier, the authority tried to auction the units and wanted to give out 28 shops on the ground floor, eight shops on the second floor and two restaurants on the seventh floor to the highest bidder. Having failed to generate traction in the market, it took the approval of the senior officials to tweak the rules in the last board meeting that took place on August 18. It is the first times that the Authority has come up with a plan to offer its properties on lease. "Overall, market sentiments are down in the real estate sector," said Kumar Sanjay, the officer-on-special-duty and in-charge of the commercial department at Noida Authority.  While the two restaurants will be available for a monthly rent of Rs 6.85 lakh and Rs 5.55 lakh, the rent of the shops located on the second floor ranges between Rs 48,000 and Rs 86,000. The shops on the ground floor are smaller and will be available for Rs 16,000 to Rs 30,000 as per the size. While shops on the ground floor range between 23.32 sqm and 40.25 sqm, the ones on the second floor are spread over 66.06 sqm to 128.84 sqm. For the restaurants, the authority will provide 919.35 sqm and 1,134.55 sqm-wide space on the top floor of the multilevel parking complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/commercial-space-in-botanical-garden-car-park-to-be-leased/articleshow/78853066.cms||Shalabh
October 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Clarify stand on farm laws: Sukhbir Badal||CHANDIGARH: War of words between the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Amarinder Singh continued over farm laws with SAD president Sukhbir Badal asking the Punjab chief minister to clarify whether the state government had annulled the central agri-marketing laws and when the new Bills passed in the Vidhan Sabha would come into being. The SAD president also asked the chief minister to clarify to the farmers if he had guaranteed government purchase of all 24 crops falling under the MSP regime and gave the CM two weeks to respond. Badal asserted that response to these questions would make it clear whether the Bills passed in the Vidhan Sabha at Amarinder Singh’s instance would be a boon for farmers or prove to be the biggest fraud ever played on the unsuspecting farming community of the state. “Please give straight answers to these questions instead of resorting to cheap pot shots. We give you two weeks to give a definite answer to all these questions and in case you do not reply then it will be assumed that you have backstabbed farmers and their cause,” Sukhbir said. Accusing Captain Amarinder Singh of pushing Punjab into turmoil, the SAD president said instead of legislating on agriculture, which was a state subject, the Congress government had legislated on a trade issue that was on concurrent list. “The Bills are not only likely to be rejected by the Centre, but could harm the state even further as was done by the River Waters Termination Act passed under Amarinder Singh’s leadership in 2004 that strengthened Rajasthan and Haryana’s case”. He said in the case of the current Bills the Congress government had done nothing to counter the facilitation of big business in the state’s farming system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/clarify-stand-on-farm-laws-sukhbir-badal/articleshow/78853081.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Five footbridges to come up on Golf Course Road, two in black spots||GURUGRAM: In a big relief to pedestrians, construction of foot overbridges (FOBs) on the Golf Course Road is likely to start soon. DLF along with the GMDA has selected five points on the expressway where the FOBs will come up. The five locations include Bristol Chowk, around MPD tower, Paras Downtown, Vipul Belmonte and New Times building. Two of these points — Vipul Belmonte and Bristol Chowk — are accident-prone zones which have been labelled as ‘black spots’. The other five black spots on the expressway include the junction near MLA flats, sector 42-42 junction, AIT Chowk, sector 55-56 metro station, and SPR junction. Last year in July, a child was killed near the sector 55-56 metro station after being hit by a car and a motorcycle while trying to cross the road with his grandmother. The accident had happened near the during peak-traffic hours in the morning. The accident had created a huge uproar, pushing the authorities into action. Several government departments surveyed the entire stretch of the expressway and assessed the requirement of FOBs. For this proposed plan, GMDA has also sought suggestions from the public which have to be submitted by November 12. A team of officials from GMDA’s mobility wing scanned several points on the road. “The entire expressway does not have any foot overbridges, making it extremely difficult for the pedestrians to cross the road and also puts their lives in danger,” said a GMDA official. The original plan for the expressway, however, did not have any provision for FOBs. Many people, especially house helps working in condominiums, can often be seen crossing the road by jumping off the fence on the divider. After a large number of pedestrian deaths, authorities directed DLF to make FOBs on the entire stretch to ensure such accidents are avoided. However, the project has only begun and is likely to take months for the FOBs to become functional. The expressway also does not also have footpaths and cycle tracks which were, in fact, included in its initial design plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/five-footbridges-to-come-up-on-golf-course-road-two-in-black-spots/articleshow/78852039.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 25, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG kicks off drone survey to identify panchayat land||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram(MCG) started a survey using drones on Saturday to identify panchayat land in 39 villages it plans to take over. The villages, meanwhile, continue to oppose the decision to bring them under MCG’s jurisdiction. Officials said a total of 10 sq km of area was covered on Saturday and the survey will be completed in 25 days. “We started the drone survey on Saturday to ascertain panchayat land and keep a record of land in these villages. The survey will map areas where houses have been constructed so that we have all the land records ready before the takeover. This will also help us to keep a check on unauthorised construction after takeover,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter. MCG officials said the survey will cover all 39 villages and the corporation has already been issued a no-objection certificate from the district administration to conduct the survey. “We have already been granted permission by the district commissioner’s office,” added the official. After the takeover, around 7,070 acres of land in these villages will come under MCG limits. Shikohpur, Bajghera, Manesar (urban and rural), Daultabad, Kasan, Baskula, Wazirpur, Sikanderpur, Hayatpur, Dhankot, Ullawas, Berampur, Bhondsi, Nayagaon (situated in the revenue estate of Bhondsi village) and Kadarpur are among the villages that the civic body plans to take over. Expressing displeasure over the proposal of taking over these villages, members of the Gurugram Sarpanch Association met deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in Chandigarh on Friday. Chautala assured them that villages won’t be forcibly brought under MCG limits. According to the estimates prepared, MCG is likely to generate a revenue of Rs 97.5 crore every year if these villages are taken over by the civic body. The revenue estimates include property tax to the tune of Rs 8 crore, Rs 25 crore as the share of MCG at 1% stamp duty, electricity charges of Rs 21 crore, and interest on fixed deposit of these villages of the order of Rs 30 crore. MCG officials said water and sewerage lines will be laid in the villages after the takeover and the facility of door-to-door waste collection will also be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-kicks-off-drone-survey-to-identify-panchayat-land/articleshow/78852044.cms||Vishakha Chaman
October 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Daytime electricity to farms is new ‘sunrise’ for farmers: Narendra Modi||AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday termed Kisan Suryodaya Yojana wherein farmers in three districts will get electricity during the day instead of night as the new dawn for state farmers. The PM e-inaugurated the scheme along with two other projects — an 800-bed new building of UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre in Ahmedabad and a ropeway project at Girnar mountain. “After Sujalam-Sufalam and SAUNI schemes, it (Suryoday Yojana) will prove to be a milestone,” he said. As part of the initiative, over 1,000 villages in three districts - Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Dahod - would get three-phase electricity during daytime for farming purposes. The scheme, which comes ahead of the local body elections in the state, would be expanded to other districts in phases. “Those who are not associated with farming might not know that electricity is given for farming during night hours. For the same, farmers had to stay awake. In districts like Junagadh and Gir Somnath, they also faced attack by wild animals,” said the PM, adding if the farmers are getting electricity from sunrise to 9 pm, it’s definitely a ‘sunrise’ for the sector. ‘Initiatives for farmers’ benefit’The PM said that the Gujarat government is laying new lines of 3,500 km in next two-three years. “Once implemented across the state, it would change the lives of lakhs of farmers completely,” said the PM. Amid protests against newly-enacted farm laws, the PM said that the efforts must be ramped up to double the farmers’ income. “New initiatives - be it freedom to sell their produce anywhere, formation of thousands of farming cooperatives, 100% neem coating on urea or soil health cards to crores of farmers - are being taken to benefit farmers and strengthen the agriculture sector,” he said. Modi termed the UN Mehta Institute of Cardiac Research Center (UNMICRC) as the biggest cardiac hospital in India with world-class infrastructure. “Unprecedented work has been done in the health sector in the past two decades in Gujarat - be it forming a network of modern hospitals, medical colleges or health centres. Gujarat has also benefited from initiatives in past six years - 21 lakh persons have got free treatment as part of Ayushman Bharat initiative, whereas over Rs 100 crore have been saved through 500-plus Jan Aushadhi Kendra,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. “The ropeway inaugurated today is fourth in Gujarat after Banaskantha, Pavagadh and Satpura. If roadblocks were not created in the work, the project would have fructified much earlier,” said the PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/daytime-electricity-to-farms-is-new-sunrise-for-farmers-narendra-modi/articleshow/78853060.cms||---
October 25, 2020||World||Report says US may file antitrust charges against FB as soon as November||NEW YORK:" Facebook Inc may face US antitrust charges as soon as November, the Washington Post reported on Friday, citing four people familiar with the matter. The US Federal Trade Commission met privately on Thursday to discuss a probe while state attorneys general under the leadership of New York’s Letitia James have been scrutinising the company for potential threats to competition, the newspaper reported. The timeline could still change, the newspaper said, adding that state attorneys general are in the late stages of preparing their complaint. Facebook, the FTC and the office of the New York Attorney General were not immediately available for comment late on Friday. Facebook said in August that CEO Mark Zuckerberg was interviewed at an FTC investigative hearing as part of the government’s antitrust probe into the company. Facebook faced similar probes by the justice department and by state attorneys general, and has said previously the probes were looking at prior acquisitions and business practices involving “social networking or social media services, digital advertising, and/or mobile or online applications”. In July 2019, Facebook agreed to pay a recordbreaking $5 billion fine to resolve a separate FTC probe into the company’s privacy practices. On Tuesday, the justice department sued Google, accusing it of illegally maintaining its monopoly power in search and search advertising — the first such government action against a tech firm in two decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/report-says-us-may-file-antitrust-charges-against-fb-as-soon-as-november/articleshow/78853101.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Delay in mobility plan to hold up Gurugram’s two metro corridor projects||GURUGRAM: The ambitious Gurugram metro and the Faridabad-Gurugram metro projects could get delayed as the detailed project reports (DPR) for these two corridors are unlikely to be approved by the Union government in the absence of a comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) for both the cities. While Gurugram’s CMP is almost ready, Faridabad’s is being prepared. A CMP is mandatory for the approvals related to metro projects. Officials said that while the DPRs are ready and have been approved by the Haryana cabinet, the two projects will have to wait until the CMP for both Gurugram and Faridabad is ready. “CMP is one of the guiding documents for the metro projects both in Gurugram and Faridabad, and hence it is required for getting the DPRs approved from the Centre,” Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) chief VS Kundu told TOI. While the work on the comprehensive mobility plan for Faridabad is still being prepared, officials said, Gurugram’s mobility plan is ready and expected to be published within this month. However, after it has been published, the plan will be sent to the resident advisory council for feedback and suggestions. Once approved, it will be tabled in the Authority meeting for approval from the chief minister, who is also the GMDA chairman. The entire process is likely to take at least a month from now, following which the metro DPR can be sent to the Centre for the final approval. And sources within GMDA said that once sent to the Centre, the proposal might take up to six months for approval. Consequently, the work on the project is unlikely to start for at least another six to eight months. CM Khattar had set a deadline of 2025 for the commissioning of the metro line officially, whereas he had directed his officials to ensure that the service starts from 2024. However, this was when the work was expected to start in 2020, but given the current status of the project, it is likely to miss the deadline, sources said. Kundu, however, said that once the proposal is sent to the Centre, the six months’ time for approval also covers ground work such as geo-technical and feasibility survey, and hence the project will most likely begin in the first half of next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delay-in-mobility-plan-to-hold-up-gurgaons-two-metro-corridor-projects/articleshow/78851943.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Popular jalebi shop still looking for the sweet spot after lockdown blow||GURUGRAM: Jag Mohan Singh’s father set up a jalebi shop in Sadar around seventy years ago. Hidden behind a tree in the middle of the market, its crispy, juicy jalebis attracted people even from far off localities in the national capital region, including celebrities. Over the years, it turned into a landmark in the city and the family business weathered many storms. But in April, the pandemic forced the family to shut their shop for two months for the first time in several decades. “We opened again in June and customers started trickling in. But we couldn’t sustain with the low daily footfall,” said Singh. He added boastfully that this is the only shop in the entire market which is a registered business. Singh runs the business with his son Gurdeep who often looks after the shop now. The family was hoping for business to pick up pace during the festive season but that turnaround has not arrived yet. “Around seven Ramlilas used to happen in and around Sadar which attracted large crowds to the market. Any other year, this footfall would converted into sales. But this year, only one Ramlila is taking place,” Singh told TOI, as he handed over the hot jalebis to the couple of customers who turned up. Singh has also had to ask some of his workers not to return from their hometowns. “I had eleven workers earlier, and now I have only seven. The other four had gone home during the lockdown and I asked them not to return until there is more work,” said Singh. Plans of expanding the business and opening another branch in the city that excited Jag Mohan and Gurdeep till this March, are on hold for now. Singh, however, is hopeful that the festive season will turn more favourable for them and the country, in general, will move back to normal, and with that his regular customers will return satiate their cravings for the shop’s sweet delicacies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/popular-jalebi-shop-still-looking-for-the-sweet-spot-after-lockdown-blow/articleshow/78852046.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 25, 2020||Faridabad||Delay in mobility plan to hold up Gurugram’s two metro corridor projects||GURUGRAM: The ambitious Gurugram metro and the Faridabad-Gurugram metro projects could get delayed as the detailed project reports (DPR) for these two corridors are unlikely to be approved by the Union government in the absence of a comprehensive mobility plan (CMP) for both the cities. While Gurugram’s CMP is almost ready, Faridabad’s is being prepared. A CMP is mandatory for the approvals related to metro projects. Officials said that while the DPRs are ready and have been approved by the Haryana cabinet, the two projects will have to wait until the CMP for both Gurugram and Faridabad is ready. “CMP is one of the guiding documents for the metro projects both in Gurugram and Faridabad, and hence it is required for getting the DPRs approved from the Centre,” Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) chief VS Kundu told TOI. While the work on the comprehensive mobility plan for Faridabad is still being prepared, officials said, Gurugram’s mobility plan is ready and expected to be published within this month. However, after it has been published, the plan will be sent to the resident advisory council for feedback and suggestions. Once approved, it will be tabled in the Authority meeting for approval from the chief minister, who is also the GMDA chairman. The entire process is likely to take at least a month from now, following which the metro DPR can be sent to the Centre for the final approval. And sources within GMDA said that once sent to the Centre, the proposal might take up to six months for approval. Consequently, the work on the project is unlikely to start for at least another six to eight months. CM Khattar had set a deadline of 2025 for the commissioning of the metro line officially, whereas he had directed his officials to ensure that the service starts from 2024. However, this was when the work was expected to start in 2020, but given the current status of the project, it is likely to miss the deadline, sources said. Kundu, however, said that once the proposal is sent to the Centre, the six months’ time for approval also covers ground work such as geo-technical and feasibility survey, and hence the project will most likely begin in the first half of next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/delay-in-mobility-plan-to-hold-up-gurgaons-two-metro-corridor-projects/articleshow/78853186.cms||Shubhra Pant
October 25, 2020||Goa||Bainguinim wrong place for waste plant: Shripad Naik||PANAJI: In a major setback to the state government, Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik on Saturday said the place identified for a solid waste management facility at Bainguinim is wrong and the government has to rethink over it. He defended the Goa-IIT besides three other projects at Mollem and said Congress is opposing those just to secure power. He said chief minister Pramod Sawant will visit the Bainguinim site soon. Recently, Old Goa residents had called on Naik and Sawant and submitted a memorandum opposing the garbage plant at Bainguinim. “We had opposed the projects earlier as it was close to heritage sites. A lot of churches are also there in the vicinity,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Naik said the process to set up the garbage treatment plant began during the Congress rule and since then it has faced opposition. He said that many residents have put their life’s savings to buy property in the peaceful environment of Kadamba plateau, and if the garbage project attains finality, then it will lead to pollution. “I had taken a group of Old Goa residents to meet the chief minister. They explained to him the reason behind their opposition to the plant and need to shift it at some other place,” Naik said. Ayush minister said that Old Goa residents requested CM to visit the place as it is a heritage site. Panaji corporation invited bids for proposed waste plantThe apprehension of Old Goa residents is appropriate… it is not the right place”. Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) had invited bids for setting up of a solid waste processing facility with a capacity of 250 tonnes per day. The plant, estimated to cost Rs 200 crore, is expected to cater to the entire Tiswadi taluka. The corporation has invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. The last date to submit the bids is November 9. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired the land at Bainguinim to set up the plant, and in 2017 it was handed over to the corporation. A public hearing was also conducted by GWMC, and subsequently environment clearance was obtained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-wrong-place-for-waste-plant-shripad-naik/articleshow/78853118.cms||---
October 25, 2020||World||Facebook, Twitter CEOs to testify before Senate on November 17 over Joe Biden article row||NEW YORK: The CEOs of Facebook and Twitter have agreed to testify on November 17 before a Senate panel looking into restrictions their companies put an on article about the son of Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden. The judiciary committee on Thursday authorised subpoenas for both Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and Twitter’s Jack Dorsey. The panel announced on Friday evening that they would appear voluntarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/facebook-twitter-ceos-to-testify-before-senate-on-november-17-over-joe-biden-article-row/articleshow/78853121.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Noida||Fire breaks out near Noida's Bhangel Market, no casualties reported||NOIDA: A fire broke out at a slum near Bhangel Market in Noida on late Saturday night, police said.  Fire tenders reached the spot and doused the flames. Noida: A fire had broken out at a slum near Bhangel Market. Fire tenders reached the spot and it was later doused.… https://t.co/W9cptiGPvI— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) 1603573059000 No casualties or loss of property have been reported so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/fire-breaks-out-near-noidas-bhangel-market-no-casualties-reported/articleshow/78853133.cms||---
October 25, 2020||World||US government suspends all diversity trainings||NEW YORK: The US state department has suspended all training programs for employees related to diversity and inclusion, an internal cable showed, after President Trump directed federal agencies last month to end programs deemed divisive by the White House. “Beginning October 23, 2020, the department is temporarily pausing all training programs related to diversity and inclusion in accordance with Executive Order ... on Combating Race and Sex Stereotyping,” the cable said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-government-suspends-all-diversity-trainings/articleshow/78853154.cms||---
October 25, 2020||World||Emmanuel Macron needs ‘treatment’: Tayyip Erdogan||NEW YORK: Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan launched a fresh attack on his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron on Saturday, saying he needed mental treatment over his attitude towards Islam. Earlier this month, Macron pledged to fight “Islamist separatism”, which he said was threatening to take control in some Muslim communities around France. “What is the problem of this person called Macron with Muslims and Islam? Macron needs treatment on a mental level,” Erdogan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/emmanuel-macron-needs-treatment-tayyip-erdogan/articleshow/78853172.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Centre reluctant to bear rehab & resettlement cost of Polavaram||VIJAYAWADA: The Centre is understood to have told the state government that it will bear only the cost of structure of the Polavaram project. This, in other words, means the state will have to bear the cost of rehabilitation and settlement of the displaced people. The AP government had revised the estimates of the prestigious project to 55,000 crore, which was initially accepted by the central government. However, the Centre is now learnt to have agreed to pay only the structural cost of the project, which comes to around Rs 22,000 crore. It has asked the state to take care of the rehabilitation and resettlement process, which includes the compensation to be paid to people whose land was acquired for the project or is likely to be submerged in the backwaters. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy held a meeting with finance minister Buggana Rajendranath and water resources minister P Anil Kumar, along with senior officials of both departments, at his Tadepalli camp office on Saturday. The finance minister briefed the chief minister about his meeting with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman in New Delhi on Friday, where he mentioned about the central government bringing down its share of the Polavaram project cost and leaving the rehabilitation and resettlement to the state government. Jagan emphasised that the cost of the component (land acquisition and rehabilitation) itself costs around Rs 29,000 crore as approved by the Polavaram Project Authority, Central Water Commission and Union ministry of Jal Shakti and therefore capping the entire project cost at Rs 20,398.61 crore has no relevance and it is impossible to complete the project with that cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/centre-reluctant-to-bear-rehab-resettlement-cost-of-polavaram/articleshow/78853177.cms||Gopi Dara
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government ropes in celebrities to give voice to dengue drive||NEW DELHI: Delhi government's anti-dengue campaign, which enters its eighth week on Sunday, will get support from celebrities like Shankar Mahadevan, who will be encouraging citizens to religiously follow the prevention guidelines. The drive aims to spread awareness and encourage people to inspect their houses for stagnant clean water and replace it with fresh water, as the former acts as a breeding ground for Aedes mosquitos responsible for dengue. As part of the drive, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other ministers, including AAP MLAs, inspect their houses every Sunday at 10am. Last year, similar cooperation and support from prominent celebrities like cricketer Virender Sehwag and others had made the campaign "10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute" a huge success. This year, too, it has engaged several celebrities and social media influencers to send in their recordings with their advice, the content of which will be shared with people through various channels. Last week, Kejriwal had encouraged traders to prevent dengue by inspecting their shops and surroundings for signs of accumulated water. "This time, the business community also took part in our fight against dengue. By doing so, they are protecting themselves and their customers from dengue," the government had said in a statement. To assist the general public, it has also launched a dengue helpline, 01123300012, and WhatsApp helpline, 8595920530.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-government-ropes-in-celebrities-to-give-voice-to-dengue-drive/articleshow/78853195.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Pune||PMC allows restaurants, bars to operate till 11.30pm from today||PUNE: Restaurants, bars and food courts would be able to operate till 11.30pm from Sunday at 50% capacity in the Pune civic limits. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday issued an order, extending the business hours of these establishments outside the containment zones by one-and-a-half hours. They would now be able to operate from 8am to 11.30pm. While announcing the extension of business hours of restaurants, bars and food courts, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar told the establishments to ensure that the social distancing norms were followed strictly. “We expect the owners of the establishments and visitors to follow the social distancing and other norms,” he said. Till Saturday, the restaurants in the PMC limits could operate till 10pm. The Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association had demanded extension of the deadline to 11.30pm. It had written to MLA Siddharth Shirole, requesting his intervention in extending the deadline. The Pune civic chief also gave the go-ahead to gymnasiums to reopen from Sunday. They have to follow the guidelines issued by the public health department pertaining to the placement of equipment, personal training to members and activities at the establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-restaurants-bars-to-operate-till-11-30pm-from-today/articleshow/78853189.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM clears enhanced DA for government staff, pensioners||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday cleared the proposal to pay the enhanced dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) to state government employees and pensioners. Over 4.49 lakh employees and 3.57 lakh pensioners in the state will benefit from the initiative. Both the DA and DR, which were pending since July 2018, would be paid along with the salaries and pensions of January 2021 on February 1, and will cost 86.41 crore per month and 1,037 crore per year to the exchequer. The DA and DR pending since January 2019 would be paid on August 1, 2021 along with the salaries and pensions of July. This would cost another Rs 172.82 crore per month and Rs 2,074 crore per year. The CM has also agreed to pay the revised DA and DR due from July 2019. This would be paid on February 1, 2022 along with the salaries and pensions of January 2022, and would cost the exchequer Rs 316.83 crore per month and Rs 3,802 crore annually. The arrears of the enhanced allowances will be paid in three instalments from February 2021, August 2021 and February 2022. The arrears alone would cost Rs 9,504 to the exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-cm-clears-enhanced-da-for-government-staff-pensioners/articleshow/78853196.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh CM clears enhanced DA for government staff, pensioners||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday cleared the proposal to pay the enhanced dearness allowance (DA) and dearness relief (DR) to state government employees and pensioners. Over 4.49 lakh employees and 3.57 lakh pensioners in the state will benefit from the initiative. Both the DA and DR, which were pending since July 2018, would be paid along with the salaries and pensions of January 2021 on February 1, and will cost 86.41 crore per month and 1,037 crore per year to the exchequer. The DA and DR pending since January 2019 would be paid on August 1, 2021 along with the salaries and pensions of July. This would cost another Rs 172.82 crore per month and Rs 2,074 crore per year. The CM has also agreed to pay the revised DA and DR due from July 2019. This would be paid on February 1, 2022 along with the salaries and pensions of January 2022, and would cost the exchequer Rs 316.83 crore per month and Rs 3,802 crore annually. The arrears of the enhanced allowances will be paid in three instalments from February 2021, August 2021 and February 2022. The arrears alone would cost Rs 9,504 to the exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-cm-clears-enhanced-da-for-government-staff-pensioners/articleshow/78853960.cms||---
October 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Implement GRAP strictly, pollution body tells district heads||GURUGRAM: With air pollution expected to rise further in coming days, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has directed all deputy commissioners in NCR districts of Haryana to ensure strict implementation of the graded response action plan (GRAP). Track the pollution level in your cityIn the last nine days since GRAP was implemented, HSPCB has imposed Rs 5 lakh as fines for unauthorised parking of vehicles — which leads to traffic snarls and emission of harmful gases — and driving vehicles polluting the environment. Penalties amounting to Rs 50,000 are being imposed on construction sites daily for not implementing dust mitigation methods. The city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has been in the ‘poor’ category since October 12, and has witnessed three ‘very poor’ days so far this month. On Saturday, Gurugram’s AQI was recorded at 325 (very poor).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/implement-grap-strictly-pollution-body-tells-district-heads/articleshow/78852260.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 25, 2020||Delhi||Vegetable vendor abducts girl after befriending kin in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old man, accused of kidnapping a minor girl from a south Delhi locality, was sent to Tihar Jail on Saturday after being produced before a court. The accused, Mohammad Dildar, was arrested from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh on Friday evening. He worked as a fruit vegetable vendor and had befriended their family, the girl's mother said. According to police, Dildar was earlier living with another girl for eleven months at a rented accommodation. However, she got pregnant and also fell sick last month. She eventually died on October 6. On October 18, Dildar lured a 13-year-old girl into accompanying him and fled from Delhi. He was known to the girl's family and visited their house often after befriending them while selling vegetables. "He asked us for our mobile numbers saying he would message us the wholesale rates and we could then buy the vegetables accordingly. We did not know his real name," the girl's mother said. After the family discovered their daughter was missing, they lodged a complaint with police after which an FIR of abduction was registered and investigation initiated. The footage from several CCTV cameras were scanned in which Dildar was spotted walking along with the girl. "During investigation, acquaintances of the missing girl were examined. They couldn't divulge much details about him. Three teams being led by SHO Harinder were then formed to trace the victim at the earliest," said a senior officer. Local inquiries were conducted and technical surveillance was used to track down the accused to Bareilly, police said. The cops are now probing into the allegations of Dildar having targeted multiple women. The family has alleged that they had found out that he had run away with another girl from his village several years ago and abandoned her after she became a mother of two. The family said they were satisfied with the police's investigation. We will now get the girl's statement recorded before the child welfare committee. Her medical examination will be conducted after a Covid test, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vegetable-vendor-abducts-girl-after-befriending-kin-in-delhi/articleshow/78853201.cms||---
