October 26, 2020||Goa||Chennai City close to securing massive European funding||PANAJI: Chennai City FC have begun talks with potential investors in Europe and are inching towards assurances that will provide them with immediate funding of €20 million, or approximately ₹170 crore. The first Indian club to attract investment from a foreign club and the first to sell 26% stake in the club to Switzerland-based FC Basel, Chennai City are now in the second stage of acquiring funds that will make them financially stable and allow them to work on the proposed academy in Coimbatore. “We are overall looking to raise around €40 million (or approximately ₹340 crore). We already have an European partner on board (in FCB) so this allows us to try and look for investors who would want to invest in Indian football through our club,” Chennai City co-owner Rohit Ramesh told TOI on Sunday. Chennai City and FC Basel – who won the Swiss Super League for eight years in a row from 2010 to 2017 – have already started talks with investors in Europe and are confident that they will have €20 million for a start. “The club is in the process of raising the second round of funding after the sale of 26% equity to FC Basel a year ago. We are inching close to around €20 million from sports funds in Europe. All investors will get equity in the club,” said Rohit. While FC Basel will help raise capital again, other potential investors are sports funds, including Fund Sports Business, Zurich. “We’ve spoken to several sports funds entities and high net worth individuals, all of whom are exploring the chance to come on board and invest. Since we already have FCB on board, it gives us a wider opening,” said Rohit. The flow of funds will hold Chennai City FC in good stead and allow them to create the necessary infrastructure in Coimbatore, where the club plans an academy. “We need to create the infra in Coimbatore. The funds will also ensure that we as a club are strong as far as our financial capabilities are concerned,” the club owner said. Since their direct entry into the I-League, then India’s premier football competition, Chennai City have proved they can do things differently and still succeed. There was limited success in the first two years, but the club’s philosophy helped them win the I-League in 2018-19. Current star footballers from Tamil Nadu – Michael Soosairaj, Edwin Vanspaul, Nandhakumar Sekar, Ajith Kumar and Michael Regin, to name a few – have all moved up the ranks through Chennai City. The club also sold Pedro Manzi to Japanese club Albirex Nigata for ₹1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chennai-city-close-to-securing-massive-european-funding/articleshow/78862187.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Nine days of Navratri art: How this art platform brought together 500+ people to play with (not) dandiya but art!||However, one unique art-focused platform, Rajasthan Studio, found an ingenious way to make Navratri exciting for people, from the comfort and safety of their homes. Rajasthan Studio, a niche tourism company offering immersive art-experiences hosted by award-winning Indian artists, conceptualized a first-ever virtual Navratri Art festival incorporating the significance of nine colors of Navratri in the festival theme and hosting a multitude of art and craft-making sessions with distinctive artists from around the country. In case you missed being a part of this innovative art festival, don’t worry. Below, we give you some major highlights of pre-Navratri and Navratri art sessions. Navratri Day 1: Brush Pen Calligraphy & Watercolor PaintingDay one of the Navratri Art festival began with a bang with two sessions. For Brush Pen Calligraphy, lettering artist and calligraphist, Namrata Baheti was invited to conduct the session where she taught the various calligraphy strokes to the 30 participants, who mostly were beginners in the field or wanted to try their hand in calligraphy. The Watercolour Painting was hosted by Farida Patel with the grey-color theme, signifying the colour of the first Navratri. She taught various techniques of watercolor and showed the participants how a stunning painting can be created even with two extreme colours: white and black. Navratri Day 2: Madhubani ArtDay two of the festival was dedicated to the unique, ancient art form of India, Madhubani art, hosted by a researcher turned artist, Preeti Dineshkumar which was attended by 30 participants from all corners of India. Navratri Day 3: Warli & Fluid ArtDay three of the art festival, too, was dedicated to a native artform of India, Warli art, a tribal art form belonging to an indigenous tribe (Adivasis). It is a form of wall painting depicting stories through bold-colored backgrounds and miniature figures. This creative session was conducted by Mrunal Diwakar, a freelance artist with deep knowledge in Warli paintings where she shared the traditional process of creating Warli art to the 40+ participants. The other session for the day was all about abstract artwork. Amisha Bulani, a design student and an enthusiastic artist, she presented two of the many fluid art techniques to the 40 participants. Showcasing the importance of experimentation and going with the flow, Amisha shared the basic processes of swirling and flip the cup techniques. Navratri Day 4: The Red Rune Sky Watercolor & DurgavtaraWith red being the theme for the fourth day of the Navratri Art festival, the first of the two sessions was curated and hosted by a passionate artist, Shalini Karanpuria. The highlight of the session for all the 35 participants was the 10-centimeter radius of the paper being their canvas of imagination for the entire session, where they painted the red rune sky using watercolors. As exclusive as the first one, the second session truly exemplified the vibe of the festival by intermixing two traditional artforms Tholu Bommalata and Madhubani to create the exquisite ornaments of Durgavtara. Hosted by a sustainability-focused master artist, Rashmi Singh, the session was not just about creating art but also learn about the long lineage of Indian art through these two ancient artforms. Navratri Day 5: Dazzling Blue Diya Holder & Clay Character ModellingNavratri Art festival’s fifth day began with a craft workshop on creating a diya holder using a decoupage technique hosted by an entrepreneurial artist, Swathi R Swamy. Truly envisaging the spirit of upcoming festive celebrations, Swathi helped the 30+ participants to master the craft of creating and decorating diya holders. The second session for the day was curated by an animation specialist, Abhilasha Bhartiya, who dedicated the workshop to Goddess Durga and created her miniature model with clay molding. Navratri Day 6: Tie and Dye & Madhubani Sun WorkshopThe sixth day of the one-of-its-kind art festival began with a workshop on a very famous textile dyeing technique of Rajasthan - Tie, and Dye. Curated by Vidhi Sanghrajka, a self-taught artist with her own art venture, Impressions Art, she taught the various tie and dye techniques of Shibori and Leheriya to the participants, along with sharing the basic tips on the fabric choices, twisting & pleating methods, etc. Yellow being the theme for day 6 of the festival, in the second session hosted by art educator and artist, Janhavi Mallapur, she indulged in creating a sun using the intricacies of Madhubani art. Navratri Day 7: Pattachitra & Mud ArtThe first workshop on the seventh day of the festival was on the famous cloth-based scroll paint art-form from Odisha and West Bengal - Pattachitra. Initiated by a brilliant artist, Monali Maohanty, the workshop was all about learning the heritage of this unique art form and understanding the basics of art form through Monali’s stunning portrayal of a woman doing Shringaar for a special occasion. The other workshop was another traditional mural craft from the Kutch area of Gujarat. Disha Teckchandani, an interior designer and a free-spirited artist, shared her love and passion for Lippan Kaam, popularly known as Mud Art or Mirror Work, with the 25+ participants. Navratri Day 8: Knife Painting & Art JournalingWell, day 8 was truly unique with very diverse art sessions. The first one, Knife Painting, was taken up by Amrita Sequeira, an artist-driven by motherhood and passion to inculcate her two kids with creative flair. Staying true to the peacock green colour theme of the day, Amrita taught how to paint a peacock using knives. Yes, you read that right, KNIVES! The swift strokes that she made with knives left all the 40 participants quite awestruck and amazed. Have you ever maintained an art journal of your day-to-day life? Well, the second session for the day by Sakshi Jain talked about the significance of creating an art journal for self-care and exploring the emotions within through visual art form. Navratri Day 9: The Finale One Stroke PaintingThe concluding session of the Navratri Art festival lived up to the spirit of the festival and saw this wondrous artist, Maria Manaswala demonstrating the art of one stroke painting. Sharing the importance of going with the flow when creating art, she shared exclusive tips on mastering the strokes for the first time to create personalized pieces of art.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nine-days-of-navratri-art-how-this-art-platform-brought-together-500-people-to-play-with-not-dandiya-but-art/articleshow/78863618.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Online lecture on Punjab's history, culinary heritage held||Panjab University's alumni association recently organised a web lecture on 'Punjab: A view of the History and Culinary Heritage'. Chef Jaswinder Singh, who is an assistant professor at University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management, PU was the main speaker during the event.Besides being an academician, writer, Singh is an active member of Indian culinary forum. He has been doing various workshops on culinary arts at other universities too, which includes Jammu university, Community College Nalagarh, Kashi University, GNDU, FCI Hoshiarpur, etc. The presentation began with the introduction of Punjab, its meaning, geography, and its various regions. Specialties, festivals and cultures of Punjab were also discussed before the foods of Punjab, the origin of Dhabas, concept of Langar, major dishes like Tikkas, Dal Makhani and Butter Chicken etc became a hot topic of the web event. later, he discussed the concept of zero-budget natural farming. He concluded by saying that one should adopt a right eating concept, if possible request a farmer to adopt his family, which means that you buy all organic products from that farmer and improve immunity by natural sources and yoga. He also discussed some famous personalities and tourist attractions of Punjab. The participants asked some questions about ingredients and places one can buy utensils of Kansa or Sarbloh. Later, on the participant’s request he shared recipes of Phirni and fruit conde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-lecture-on-punjabs-history-culinary-heritage-held/articleshow/78863729.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||'Popular Punjabi delicacy Chicken Tikka is Britain's national dish'||Chef Jaswinder Singh, an assistant professor at University Institute of Hotel and Tourism Management, Panjab University, talked about the popularity of Punjabi cuisine during a virtual session held recently. He highlighted various hidden facts to apprise participants about the way people abroad adore Punjabi dishes. He said the cuisine of Punjab is so widespread that even the national dish of Britain is Chicken Tikka Butter Masala. He explained about how to counter diseases related to food. Besides food, he talked about the negative impact of metal utensils, for they are harmful for health. Singh talked about the relevance of Baltoi, Kansa, Sarbloh, Brass, copper, etc. Regarding ingredients he advised to use mustard oil, desi ghee and the ingredients that are local and traditional like Kodra (millet), Arjun Chaal, Ashwagandha, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/popular-punjabi-delicacy-chicken-tikka-is-britains-national-dish/articleshow/78863773.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Digital economy, growth opportunities for youth discussed||A webinar on 'Digital Economy- Growth Opportunities for Youth' was organised by Central Placement Cell of Panjab University. The event was done in collaboration with University Business School (UBS) and University Institute of Applied Management and Sciences (UIAMS) recently. Prof Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor of PU talked about how to be innovative and to be job providers and not job seekers. He also emphasised the importance of NEP 2020 in creating new job opportunities. The speaker was Antarpreet Singh who has a experience of 35 years. He acquainted the students how digitalization is important for every business as well as education. He highlighted the significance of digital transformation and how it will lead to creation of new job opportunities. He emphasised on the need for retraining and reinventing. Later, he explained how New Education Policy-2020 will provide skill-based education and will be empowering youth to be future-ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/digital-economy-growth-opportunities-for-youth-discussed/articleshow/78863789.cms||---
October 26, 2020||---||Bihar economy back on rails, we will win: JP Nadda||PATNA: Striking a confident note on the Bihar polls, BJP president J P Nadda said PM Narendra Modi’s mantra of “scale and skill” were key to the party’s vision on which the NDA was seeking another term in the state and also said the new party office-bearers, which excluded some veterans, reflected a plan to create leadership for the future. “There has been the right type of leadership since we came together and the state economy is back on track,” Nadda said while speaking of the JD(U)-BJP alliance in an exclusive interview to TOI, adding that PM Modi believed states like Bihar were key to the country’s economic growth. “One should go and see the world class Kumhrar research centre, AIIMS was earlier derailed, now it is back, 11 medical colleges and a 5,000-bed hospital is being developed. This will be the biggest hospital in India,” Nadda said. He added that announcement of his team was delayed due to wide consultations and the Covid-19 crisis but was constituted to groom future leaders, who could take crucial positions in next 10-20 years. “Leaders who held key responsibilities for several terms were replaced by new faces. The move was strategic as there shouldn’t be a leadership vacuum,” Nadda said. The reconstitution of office-bearers had seen senior leaders Ram Madhav and Muralidhar Rao being dropped. The BJP chief said the party has pledged growth through which migration can be contained and added that while UPA had previously retarded Bihar's progress, BJP and JD(U) were able to work together for less than four years after they came together afresh in 2017. “People are coming back to Bihar and connecting themselves with their roots. The well-meaning leadership with support of PM Modi and the BJP has delivered stability and development in the state,” he added. Nadda said the past three years were crucial for Bihar in development of the state as the first time, the Centre and the state worked together. “There has been a sea change in Bihar after a long gap,” he added. On the opposition’s protests over farm laws, the BJP chief said there would be stumbling blocks but people were confident of the government’s intent. “The laws have freed farmers from the clutches of middlemen,” he said. Nadda said Congress had failed to behave responsibly as an opposition party and had failed to understand the laws. “While opposing Modi, they end up opposing the country,” he said, adding, “Congress’s arrogance reminds me of the infamous phrase ‘rassi jal gai, aithan nahi gaya’.” He said Congress’s opposition to Article 370 reflected their irony. “The WHO and more than 150 countries appreciated India for Covid-19 management but Congress leaders say Pakistan did better than us,” Nadda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-economy-back-on-rails-we-will-win-jp-nadda/articleshow/78863820.cms||Akhilesh Singh
October 26, 2020||India||Will fight on our soil as well as on foreign soil, says Ajit Doval||NEW DELHI: India will fight not only on its own territory but also on foreign soil which becomes the source of a security threat, national security advisor Ajit Doval said in remarks that struck many as significant in the context of the military standoff on the Line of Actual Control. Addressing the Parmarth Niketan ashram in Rishikesh, Doval said while India has never attacked anyone first, the new strategic thinking holds that perhaps we could have acted proactively to nip security threats. “It is not necessary that we only fight where you want to. India will take the battle to where the threat originates,” the NSA said, summing up the doctrine of what he called “New India”. Official sources, however, emphasised that Doval was speaking more in the context of civilisational ethos and his remarks were not directed against anyone in the current context. “We never became aggressors to serve our personal interests. We will surely fight, on our soil as well as on foreign soil, but not for our personal interests. But in the interests of Parmarth spirituality,” Doval said. “Ours is a civilisation state. It is not based on any religion, language or sect. What cannot be seen, what is the foundation of this nation… is its culture,” he added. However, coming on a day when RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat talked about China’s encroachment, Doval’s remarks struck many as reflecting the government’s intent to apply the doctrine of pre-emption to nip security threats. Chinese President Xi Jinping put out an equally stirring nationalistic message on the anniversary of the Korean War. “We will never sit back and allow damage to national sovereignty, security and development interests, and will never allow anyone or any force to invade and divide the sacred territory of the motherland. If such a serious situation occurs, the Chinese people will surely attack it head-on,” he said. It could have been about the US, Taiwan or India, the three big challenges to China at present. Watch NSA Ajit Doval says, 'Will fight on our soil as well as on foreign soil'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-fight-on-our-soil-as-well-as-on-foreign-soil-says-ajit-doval/articleshow/78863843.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Focus on China, Pakistan as meeting of Army brass begins today||NEW DELHI: The “extremely tense” border situation with China and Pakistan as well as the status of infrastructure development in forward areas and the strategically-located Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC) will be reviewed by the Army brass this week. The Army commanders’ conference chaired by General M M Naravane, from October 26 to 29 comes amid the continuing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh and the sharp rise in ceasefire violations (CFVs) by Pakistan. India has already registered over 3,800 CFVs across the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan this year, which is the highest in annual records since 2003. “Though there has been no major mobilisation of Pakistani forces along the LoC, Islamabad obviously intends to keep the LoC volatile at a time when our focus is on the troop standoff with China in eastern Ladakh,” an officer said. The two-front situation remains a major challenge for India. While the Army has deployed three additional divisions (each has over 12,000 soldiers) in eastern Ladakh, officers said adequate measures have been taken to also maintain operational readiness along the LoC. Defence minister Rajnath Singh will also address the conference on Tuesday, along with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat. There are also plans afoot to fast-track the infrastructure build-up in the ANC, which is the country’s only theatre command with all manpower and assets of the Army, Navy and IAF under one operational commander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/focus-on-china-pakistan-as-meeting-of-army-brass-begins-today/articleshow/78863851.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Won’t let anyone grab an inch of our land: Rajnath Singh||NEW DELHI: India wants to peacefully resolve the military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh but will not allow anyone to forcibly grab even an inch of its territory, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. The defence minister made the remarks after reviewing the operational military readiness along the LAC with China in the eastern sector and performing ‘shastra puja’ on the occasion of Dussehra at the Sukna-based 33 Corps of the Army. He was accompanied by Army chief General M M Naravane and Eastern Command chief Lt-General Anil Chauhan. Singh also dedicated to the nation the 19.85-km alternative alignment of National Highway-310, built by the Border Roads Organisation in Sikkim, which he said would “bolster defence preparedness” in the Nathu La sector in particular and the whole of east Sikkim in general. “India wants an end to the ongoing border tension with China and restoration of peace. This is our objective. But at times, some nefarious incidents keep happening. I am very confident that our soldiers will never allow even an inch of our land to be taken away by anyone,” Singh said. “I can say with confidence, on the basis of concrete information, that the courage and deeds of Indian soldiers during whatever has happened at the India-China border in Ladakh recently will be written in golden letters by historians,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-let-anyone-grab-an-inch-of-our-land-rajnath-singh/articleshow/78863855.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||2+2 talks to cement India-US defence ties||NEW DELHI: The India-US 2+2 dialogue between the foreign and defense ministers of the two countries, scheduled for Tuesday will be the last big diplomatic engagement between the two sides, before the US goes in for elections on November 3. The fact that it is being held at all has elicited surprise in diplomatic quarters, not to speak of the fact that it will be an in-person engagement, barely a week before elections. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo and defense secretary, Mark Esper are scheduled to arrive here on Monday, while the formal talks will happen on Tuesday. The two US cabinet ministers will also meet national security adviser Ajit Doval and call on the prime minister Narendra Modi. There is little fear that a potential Joe Biden administration would have a very different approach to India. There will certainly be some differences, but experts in Washington and New Delhi say the fundamentals of the India-US relationship and its inherent logic, converging interests would ensure both countries march together. The meeting is expected to seal the third and last foundational agreement between the two defense systems, BECA, which will cement the defense relationship between the two countries. In fact, the 2+2 assumes greater importance in the current context: India and China are locked in a deadly stand-off in eastern Ladakh; the US and China have sharpened their rivalry, the world is in the grip of a pandemic, and aggressive nationalism is running high in China as in many other parts of the world. To top it all, the US could be looking at a change in presidency. Unusually for traditional Indian diplomacy, the Modi government wants to lock in all the gains made with the Trump administration in the past few years, a far cry from the risk averse nature of Indian diplomacy. Giving a flavour of the coming discussions, US defense secretary Mark Esper told the Atlantic Council, a US think tank, this week, “they (India) face off every day Chinese aggression in the Himalayas, specifically along that Line of Actual Control. They all recognize what China is doing. In some cases it’s very overt. And in many more cases, it’s very opaque what they’re doing. But they are putting political pressure, diplomatic pressure, and in some cases like India, military pressure on countries to bend to their way. And we just can’t put up with that. We need all countries to follow the international rules-based order, to follow the norms that have served us so well. It’s not an issue about China’s rise, it’s how they rise.” Balancing China’s aggressive expansionism is one of the key goals of the global rebalancing currently under way. Significantly, Esper said a meeting of the “Five Eyes” (a Cold War vintage intelligence sharing arrangement between US, UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand) has concentrated its attention on the “challenges in the Indo-Pacific.” The India-US meeting also gives both sides an opportunity to talk about the current position between India and China on the LAC — India has said it would like to go alone in tackling China, but some amount of cooperation and assistance would be discussed. The other aspect of the discussions would centre on defense sales, co-development etc. India is buying more weapons and systems from the US, which is expected to go up after the BECA is inked. India and US occupy the top two places in the world in Covid-19 cases — there has been deepening cooperation on tackling Covid, both in the Quad Plus mechanism and bilaterally — this is expected to be discussed at the 2+2 meeting on Tuesday. Pompeo will be travelling to Male and Colombo afterwards, and the US engagement in these countries in India’s immediate neighbourhood is welcomed by India. That in itself is a major foreign policy shift by India, signalling the space the two countries currently occupy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/22-talks-to-cement-india-us-defence-ties/articleshow/78863899.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 26, 2020||---||For a Nitish-free Bihar, back BJP where LJP isn’t in fray: Chirag Paswan||NEW DELHI: Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan posed a fresh challenge for the NDA in Bihar on Sunday as he appealed to his supporters to vote for BJP wherever his party has not put up a candidate for a “Nitish free” government. This came two days after Paswan thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for remembering his father in a joint rally of BJP and JD(U). In an early morning tweet, Paswan said, “I request you all to vote for LJP candidates where they are contesting to implement Bihar1st Bihari1st and in the rest of the places, vote for BJP. The next government will be a Nitish free government.” Paswan took another swipe at Bihar CM Nitish Kumar by referring to a full page advertisement of BJP with only the PM’s photograph. Though the advertisement had the symbols of all four parties in the NDA, Paswan said, “I am happy that BJP’s advertisement has only the PM’s photograph. My BJP friends have realised that putting Nitish Kumar’s photograph is causing harm.” BJP leaders have said Paswan was trying to create confusion and the saffron party had no ties with the regional outfit. LJP has put up 138 candidates and 122 of them are against JD(U) and its ally, Jitin Ram Manjhi’s HAM. It has very few nominees against BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/for-a-nitish-free-bihar-back-bjp-where-ljp-isnt-in-fray-chirag-paswan/articleshow/78863915.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Guj ATS nabs 2 murder accused in Noida||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat ATS on Saturday nabbed two murder accused, Atul Kahar and Sanjay Yadav from Noida in Uttar Pradesh. Both had jumped parole, said inspector Rahul Rajput of the ATS. According to ATS sources, the two were found based on a tip-off. Sources said Kahar and his accomplice, Aashish Kahar, are from Chandlodia of Ahmedabad. They had a long-standing enmity with Vishal Kahar regarding a police case filed against them. “Atul had stabbed Vishal and Mayank Kahar. Vishal later died,” said an ATS official. “Atul was arrested by Sola police and got parole on July 1. He had remained absconding since.” As for Yadav, he had murdered Liyaqat Sandhi in Shahpur. “A case was registered against Yadav at Madhavpura police station and he was arrested in August,” the ATS official said. “He got parole on September 17 and did not return to jail.” ATS officials said both the accused have been handed over to the Ahmedabad Central Jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-ats-nabs-2-murder-accused-in-noida/articleshow/78862160.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||‘GST rate cut to 18% will boost auto industry’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com The pandemic has pushed back the auto industry by a decade and it will take 4-6 years for the sector to revive though we aim to recover before that, says auto parts maker Bosch India’s president & MD Soumitra Bhattacharya. He says the last fiscal was tough and this one will be tougher, though recovery signs are being seen in tractors and agri-segment vehicles, which will lead the revival... How far has your business returned to normal? The Indian auto industry has been going through a prolonged slump and with Covid, the situation has become dynamic. We have a shortage of liquidity accompanied with build-up of inventory that is already posing a big challenge and recovery will take longer than expected. With 80% of our revenues driven by mobility businesses, we have been hit the most as vehicle production in FY20 dropped 17% due to the slowdown. Post-lockdown demand is still less except for tractors and agri-segments, which are booming. The market has gone back to 2009-10 levels and we presume it will recover to peak levels of 2018-19. At Bosch, we aim to recover one year ahead of the market. How much cost increase are you grappling with? Bosch has had cost-control under strict monitoring with a focus on free cash flow. We have cut our capex strength this year only by 40-50% compared to the past. What is the key learning from this crisis? India is going through multiple unlocks with a chance of further lockdowns. Considering we still have challenges in containment zones, India will have some amount of truckling on part of reverse migration and supply chains. What additional steps are required from the government to help your businesses? The geopolitical situation has made the government think of a long-term policy to become self-reliant. If there are sectorial incentives like if the government gives a time-framed incentive of GST cut from 28% to 18%, it will be a significant boost. A scrappage policy will also be a massive boost. How are you maintaining work-life balance? I am an avid cyclist and I take time out to support my wife in her philanthropic activities. While working from home is the new norm, it has blurred some lines on work-life balance and hence I have taken time to talk to individuals in my organisation to reiterate the importance of this balance in their life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-rate-cut-to-18-will-boost-auto-industry/articleshow/78863473.cms||Avik Das
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||IMFL seized from cloth store in Navrangpura||Ahmedabad: Navrangpura police on Saturday seized 38 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 40,000 from a cloth store, No 103, Kalopsia of Princess Lane Complex in Navrangpura. Police have arrested one Jayesh Thakkar of Naranpura and hailing from Patan. According to police sources, based on tip-off received during patrolling on Saturday they raided the shop and found liquor bottles from cardboard cartons. Cops also recovered two mobile phones and an electricity bill in the name of Thakkar from the shop. Police said that one Dalpat Chauhan from Rajasthan used to deliver the bottles to Thakkar who sold them. “We have arrested Thakkar and have informed out counterparts in Rajasthan to search for Chauhan. We are also probing for involvement of others in the racket,” said a senior official of Navrangpura police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/imfl-seized-from-cloth-store-in-navrangpura/articleshow/78862520.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||GMR planning logistics park near Mopa airport||PANAJI: GMR Goa International Airport Limited (GGIAL) plans to set up a logistics park on the 232 acres of commercial land available at Mopa, where Goa’s new greenfield airport is set to come up. With an eye on freight cargo, GGIAL plans to outsource the handling of the cargo to a specialist company through a concessionaire agreement, and has also started marketing activities, said deputy CEO Kanwarbir Singh Kalra. Kalra, who was speaking at the CII Goa conference on logistics, said that GGIAL is working on all aspects required to promote logistics and cargo movement in Goa, particularly for the pharma sector. “We are planning to do something like a logistics park there,” said Kalra. GMR, which operates the Hyderabad and Delhi airports, expects cargo movement from Goa to cross 1,00,000 metric tonnes by around 2045. “We are planning for that, we have earmarked that much space in our land to handle air cargo movement, and we have kept the facility for a cargo terminal,” said Kalra. Kalra said that despite the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, construction work on the airport is on at full speed. “Work on the airside, ATC towers, passenger terminal building and admin building is currently on in full swing. We are targeting 2022 for the airport launch. We are on track and should be able to deliver the airport by August 2022.” GGIAL also said that wide body aircraft will be able to operate from the airport. “Goa’s industry is mostly pharma, and we understand that an ecosystem is required to handle such cargo. Our team is already working on airline marketing, and we are participating in global forums related to airline marketing. We are meeting airlines directly,” said Kalra. Kalra also said that the marketing for cargo services will be done by both the concessionaire and GGIAL. “We will be there to make sure that the concessionaire does what is required. This is an ecosystem that has to work together. There will be a concessionaire and there is a dedicated marketing team within GGIAL that is working with airlines and airports,” said Kalra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmr-planning-logistics-park-near-mopa-airport/articleshow/78863739.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: How do you kill a lake||AHMEDABAD: Back in 1999, when the municipal limits was 190.8 sq km there were 603 lakes in the city, according to Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA). In 2001, this number reduced to 137, while in 2006, when the city limits further expanded to 464 sq km the number of lakes dipped to 122. By 2017 as per a Cept University report prepared for AUDA, some 65 lakes within Ahmedabad had construction, garbage, building rubble and were choked with encroachment, which finally dries up the lakes. The number of lakes in this city has been constantly declining with the expanding municipal boundaries. Environment design consultant and urban water bodies expert Mansee Bal-Bhargava identifies this problem, “Any waterbody in a city without water is a piece of land for urban development. The land has no value but the use assigned to the land ascribes the value. This aspect has mostly worked against all kinds of water bodies.” This is starkly seen in case of Vastrapur lake and other lakes in the western part of the city. More than two decades ago, for many Vastrapur residents a generous monsoon meant a brimming lake, a flourish of green, and visits from migratory birds. The lake extended to the boundary of the GMDC ground. Today, the lake is dry even after bountiful rains. In those days, the lake’s sub-catchment area was 11.52 lakh square metres. Large amounts of water seeped through large vacant surfaces and natural drains fed the lake. By 2000, vacant land reduced to 32% and when AUDA began lake development in 2002, the built zone — roads, property construction, civic amenities —covered 60% of the area. Today only 9% of vacant land remains. “With the present AMC boundaries expanding to 503 sq km there is tremendous developmental pressures on lakes and small water canals near Rancherda, Sanand Road, areas around Shela and Ambli. We will lose these water bodies soon to TP roads,” admits a senior AUDA official. Gujarat government’s Bhaskaracharya Institute for Space Applications and Geoinformatics (BISAG) recently mentioned in a report that analysed land-use patterns via Landsat images of four decades that water bodies in Ahmedabad have been shrinking at a decadal rate of 1.57 square km because of increase in built-up space as well as pollution and dumping of wastes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/how-do-you-kill-a-lake-in-this-city/articleshow/78863537.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||RBI guv Das tests positive for Covid||Mumbai: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das has tested positive for Covid-19. He has been regularly attending the RBI central office building in Mumbai through the pandemic. Das disclosed his testing positive in a tweet where he said that he was asymptomatic and was feeling very much all right and would continue to work from isolation. “Work in the RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all the deputy governors and other officers through video-conferencing and telephone,” he said in his statement. The infection was detected during a routine diagnostic. According to an RBI spokesperson, the central office will continue to remain operational. The RBI has four deputy governors — B P Kanungo, M K Jain, Michael Patra and M Rajeshwar Rao. The deputy governors have all tested negative. The central office will continue to remain operational as usual as it undergoes frequent sanitisation and there are safeguards, including thermal screening and regular disinfection. On October 22, Das had appeared in an online panel discussion at the launch of N K Singh’s book. He had also chaired the 585th board meeting of the RBI on October 23 through video-conference. In the meeting, the board reviewed the current economic situation, continued global and domestic challenges and aspects of RBI’s operations. In the early days of the pandemic, the central bank had set up a war room where close to 120 officers were staying at the workplace. Most of RBI’s staff work from home with around a fourth attending office on rotation to avoid any infection risk. Earlier this month, the RBI had extended the working hours for the money, bond and forex markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-guv-das-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78863551.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Yes Bank cuts exposure to DHFL, sells Rs 500cr bonds||Mumbai: Yes Bank has significantly reduced its exposure to DHFL by selling the troubled housing finance company’s bonds in the secondary market. The sale of these bonds has helped the private bank realise Rs 500-crore investment gains as the exposure was fully provided for. “In DHFL, our exposure was in bonds. Part of it has already been monetised through a market sale and we have to see about the remaining bonds. These are essentially subordinated debt,” said Yes Bank MD & CEO Prashant Kumar. Lenders to DHFL will be meeting on Monday to decide on bids they have received for the company. “The recovery process has got elongated because of Covid. But we have still made a recovery of Rs 900 crore and expect a larger recovery during the current quarter,” said Kumar. In an exclusive interview to TOI, Kumar said that on advances growth, the bank would continue to shift to retail through a twin strategy of de-risking portfolio on the corporate side and growing the retail book. As a result, the growth has been 1.5%, we will see further growth but it will be in single digits,” said Kumar. The bank would be aggressive in growing its deposit base as it planned to improve the credit-deposit ratio from 123% to 100% by the end of the year. A flight of deposits before the takeover of the bank by an SBI-led consortium had resulted in the credit-deposit ratio crossing 163%. To increase deposits, the bank planned to expand the catchment area of existing branches by acquiring customers digitally through video KYC. It would also target current accounts of corporate customers by offering them cash management services and it would use analytics to acquire customers who currently use the bank’s Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform through its partnership with PhonePe. While non-performing assets are expected to rise because of Covid, the bank has made adequate provisions, Kumar said. “We have already taken care of all legacy issues in March 2020. But Covid has caused some distress,” said Kumar. He said that around Rs 2,300 crore worth loans have slipped into default but were not categorised as non-performing assets because of the Supreme Court decision. “Another Rs 4,000 crore, which is overdue more than 60 days, is at risk,” he added. These stressed loans would require provisioning of Rs 1,300 crore for the current year, against which the bank has made Rs 1,900 crore of provisioning for Covid stress. To free up capital, the bank would sell its mutual fund by the end of the year. It is also working on setting up an asset reconstruction company-like entity, which will take over its bad loans and was currently talking to stressed asset investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-cuts-exposure-to-dhfl-sells-rs-500cr-bonds/articleshow/78863548.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Torture and demand for dowry, male child||Ahmedabad: Dipali Kakran, 30, a resident of the Meadows, Adani Shantigram, lodged a complaint on Saturday against her husband Mayank Kakran and her in-laws Satyapal and Brijesh Kakran for allegedly torturing her for dowry. Ahmedabad district’s women’s police station has lodged an offence. According to the FIR, Dipali married Mayank of Noida in December 2017. Later that month, Dipali and Mayank went to Thailand and Singapore for honeymoon. On returning to India, they settled in Bengaluru where Mayank used to work. Dipali also got a job in Bengaluru. At that time, the FIR says, her husband used to demand money from her. Her in-laws wanted a car and eventually took Rs 15 lakh from her in lieu of the car. The complainant alleged that her in-laws demanded more money from her parents. When she refused to comply, they tortured her and treated her like a maid. “She has alleged that her in-laws told her that she has to give birth to a son,” said a police official. “Her husband used to beat her.” When the torture intensified, Dipali came to live with her parents in Ahmedabad two years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/torture-and-demand-for-dowry-male-child/articleshow/78862534.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Kotak may buy IndusInd Bank, says a report||Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Bank is exploring an acquisition of private sector rival IndusInd Bank, according to a report. The Hindujas’ IndusInd International Holdings (IIHL), which is the promoter of IndusInd Bank, has denied the report, while Kotak has been non-committal. In a late evening report on Sunday, Bloomberg said that Kotak is looking at an all-stock acquisition. It also said that the UK-based Hinduja family began the discussion for selling control of the Mumbai-based lender following a dispute between the four brothers over the family’s fortune. IndusInd promoters currently hold less than 15% in IndusInd Bank through IndusInd International Holdings (see graphic). Of the remaining 85%, the bulk is held by institutional investors who have seen the bank’s share price fall by more than 60% to Rs 607. At current prices, the bank has a market cap of less than Rs 46,000 crore. As against this Kotak Bank is only 20% down from its 52-week high even after a dilution and has a market cap of over Rs 2.7 lakh crore. A merger at current prices would bring the Hinduja promoter holding to just above 2%. A deal between Kotak and IndusInd would find favour with the banking regulator as Kotak Bank has a strong capital base and a good asset quality, which gives it a high capacity to absorb a smaller bank. Promoter Uday Kotak’s stake in his bank has fallen to about 26% after a qualified institutional placement of shares worth Rs 7,442 crore amid the lockdown. Should the merger materialise, this stake will come down further to 22.3% at current prices. Before the share sale, Kotak held 29% in the bank and had battled the RBI in court over its directive to bring down his stake to 15%. The court battle ended in a truce with the RBI agreeing to a 26% stake provided Kotak gave up voting rights over 15%.“We have no comments to offer,” Kotak Mahindra Group chief communication officer Rohit Rao said. IIHL, a Mauritius-based company, denied the reports by Bloomberg, stating that it is “malicious, untrue and baseless”. The statement said that the Hindujas have reiterated full support to IndusInd Bank — now and always. It added that the management had supported the bank during multiple acquisitions in the past. “The promoter would continue to support IndusInd Bank’s initiatives to grow inorganically should any such opportunities arise on the horizon in the future,” the statement said. Incidentally, of the nine original bank licensees granted in 1994, IndusInd is the only privately promoted bank to continue operations. The other four — HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and IDBI Bank — were promoted by institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-may-buy-indusind-bank-says-a-report/articleshow/78863562.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: One held in forex trader blackmailing case||AHMEDABAD: Satellite police station on Saturday arrested one more accused in the blackmailing case in which an Ambli based 41-year-old forex trader was trapped and blackmailed through a dating app and extorted of Rs 20 lakh in September this year. Asif Malek, a native Gedia of Surendranangar and the key accused who had lain the trap for the forex trader with the help of a woman named Jhanvi, was nabbed on Saturday. In the crime, Sameer Charaniya (35) of Commerce Six Roads had posed as a head constable of Gota Chowky. Earlier four persons were arrested by Anandnagar and Satellite police stations while three including Jhanvi are still absconding. Assistant commissioner of police, N division, Divya Raviya Jadeja said: “Jhanvi and the forex trader, who had separated from his wife about four years ago, came into contact on a dating application and first met on September 17 at a tea stall on CG Road. The next day Jhanvi took the trader to a flat located near Vaishnavdevi circle. Jhanvi undressed herself and asked the trader to do so. At this time, three persons barged into the flat, one claiming to be the brother of Jhanvi, while the others were Charaniya and Yuvraj Sinh.” ACP Jadeja added, “They first bashed up the trader and then put up a demand of Rs 50 lakh for not lodging a case of rape against him. Things were settled at Rs 20 lakh and the money was sent to one Asik Desai through a Navrangpura-based Angadia firm to him. Later while Charaniya was on his way home, he was caught by Anandnagar police station officials from Prahladnagar. The cops suspected him to be a bogus police as he was clad in a uniform. During his interrogation, the whole racket was busted.” According to the police, a day later Satellite police arrested Yuvraj Sinh, Jhanvi, Asik Desai and a girl who was living with them. The money was sent through an Angadia firm to Desai’s account. However, Malek and three others including Jhanvi were still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/key-accused-in-forex-trader-blackmailing-case-nabbed/articleshow/78862527.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Vistara to start flight service on Dehradun-Delhi route from Nov 9||DEHRADUN: Vistara Airlines will start daily flight service between Delhi and Dehradun from November. It is to be noted that the full service airlines had earlier announced to start operations on Delhi-Dehradun route from March 29 this year but the operations could not take off due to the outbreak of Covid-19. DK Gautam, director of Jolly Grant Airport, said, "Vistara Airlines is finally going to start its flight operations on the Dehradun-Delhi route from November 9." Besides, Air India is also going to start its Delhi-Lucknow-Dehradun flight thrice a week, according to airport officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vistara-to-start-flight-service-on-doon-delhi-route-from-nov-9/articleshow/78862204.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Glitch in service providing real-time bed vacancy info||Aurangabad: The online service providing real-time updates on the availability of beds for Covid-19 patients in the state-run health facilities and private hospitals has gone haywire, posing difficulties before new patients. The service was hosted on the Mazi Health Mazya Hati (MHMH), a dedicated mobile app devised by thr Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Around 31 private hospitals and six state-run health facilities were identified for treating Covid-19 patients in Aurangabad. The real-time information on the availability of beds in these institutions was made available on MHMH for a hassle-free admission process of new patients. In an upgraded version, the app was even providing bed-availability from the rural areas of Aurangabad district. Sharad Advant, of the advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad, said access to real-time updates on bed availability can help Covid-19 patients and their family members in many ways. “The patient and his/her family members can choose a hospital as per their convenience if real-time updates are available. We have come across cases in the past where the patients and their relatives had to run from pillar to post to get a bed for Covid-19 treatment. Such incidents can be avoided if consolidated information is available in the public domain,” he said. MHMH is the brainchild of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) administrator Astik Kumar Pandey. Though Pandey could not be reached for his comments, Basit Ali Khan, who has been supervising the operations of the Covid Control Room of the local civic body, on Sunday, said technical issues have plagued MHMH, resulting in its failure in sharing real-time updates. “We will ask the technical team concerned to rectify the issue at the earliest. The online service proved highly beneficial in past and it will be restored shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/glitch-in-service-providing-real-time-bed-vacancy-info/articleshow/78861578.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 26, 2020||Surat||Spike in Covid cases in posh Athwa zone a worry for SMC||Surat: Even as several Covid-19 parameters are seeing an improvement in the city, high positivity rate in some areas continues to be worry for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) which has warned people against letting their guard down.Covid positivity rate is number of people testing positive for the virus of the total numbers tested. While Surat’s average positive rate is around 3.5%, the same in several areas in the posh Athwa zone including Vesu, Althan, Bharthana and City Light are way above this.Althan is the worst with 21%. In fact, Athwa is the worst hit among all the eight civic zones with 4,776 cases. “We have launched a massive health surveillance programme to stall the infection spread and isolate patients. Athwa was the last zone where infection spread,” Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner told TOI.The testing was increased in the zone after positive rate was found above 5%, said Pani.“With winter approaching, we have deployed 2,800 members to look after senior citizens in the city and track them for their illness and health-related requirements,” he added.The cases in Athwa zone have spike after the lockdown relaxations as people started returning to their places of business in areas which were earlier highly infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/spike-in-covid-cases-in-posh-athwa-zone-a-worry-for-smc/articleshow/78861960.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Amazon gets stay on RIL-Future deal||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Kishore Biyani’s deal to sell off Future Group assets to Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries for Rs 24,713 crore is now on hold. The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has granted an interim relief in the issue to the Jeff Bezos-led Amazon, for now, two people aware of the matter said. Earlier this month, Amazon had approached SIAC over its dispute with Future Coupons, one of the holding companies of Biyani’s Future Group, where Amazon had invested Rs 1,431 crore, citing breach of terms due to its sale of retail assets to Reliance Industries. This was preceded with a legal notice from Amazon to Future Group citing breach of terms by the latter. While an interim order puts the merger on hold, the matter will continue to be heard at SIAC before the sole arbitrator, former attorney general of Singapore, comes to a decision. Legal experts said, typically, it’s the party dissatisfied with the international arbitration order that takes the matter to Indian courts, but Amazon might have to approach the Indian courts too, depending on the final order. “This was an emergency arbitration hearing, where they (Amazon) sought an interim stay on the merger so that the Future-Reliance deal doesn’t close formally, while the matter is in international arbitration,” a person aware of the development said. The development comes even as Reliance Industries has applied for a clearance with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on its deal with Future Group. Sources aware of the matter said the arbitration proceedings could go on for several weeks before a final order comes. This could also have an impact on banks that have lent to Biyani’s Future Group as the lenders are reportedly worried over their loans turning into non-performing assets (NPAs) owing to arbitration proceedings delaying the merger. “We welcome the award of the emergency arbitrator. We are grateful for the order which grants all the reliefs that were sought. We remain committed to an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process,” a spokesperson of Amazon said on Sunday. A Future Group spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. A spokesperson of Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) said it is informed of the interim order and that it intends to enforce the rights and complete the transaction with Future Group without any delay. “RRVL has entered into the transaction for acquisition of assets and business of Future Retail under proper legal advice and the rights and obligations are fully enforceable under Indian law. RRVL intends to enforce its rights and complete the transaction in terms of the scheme and agreement with Future Group without any delay,” the spokesperson added. Gopal Subramanium, former Solicitor General of India, is one of the legal counsels for Amazon. Harish Salve is representing Future Group in the matter. Meanwhile, Future Group is also considering all available legal remedies on this matter for its next course of action, one of the people mentioned earlier said. However, no decision has been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-gets-stay-on-ril-future-deal/articleshow/78863597.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beats mother, brother||Ahmedabad: Raishabanu Pathan, 45, of Vejalpur lodged a complaint against her elder son Mohamed Rehan Pathan, 27, for allegedly beating her younger son Faisal and herself. The complaint was lodged on Saturday. According to the complainant, her younger son Faisal had changed the electricity bill of the house to her name about two months ago. “Rehan came to know about the change in the bill on October 13 and started fighting with Faisal. When the complainant intervened to save Faisal, her elder son pushed her to the ground. We are probing the case,” said a Vejalpur police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beats-mother-brother/articleshow/78862505.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||SOG honours cops who gave their lives for duty||Ahmedabad: Whether it is maintaining peace, safety or security, social festivals or religious festivals, women’s safety or public service, communal harmony or social equality, natural disasters or a global pandemic — Ahmedabad police have stood by the city. On the occasion of Police Flag Day, the SOG crime branch honoured brave martyrs Jujarsinh Deepsinh Chavda (APC Rakhiyal police.station ), Ramnivas Gilaram Swami (ASI) SRP Group 2, Kirtikumar Babubhai (APC Gomtipur), Arvindsinh Babubhai Ansari (APC Naranpura ) Maheshbhai Ramjibhai Rathod (APC GIDC Vatva), Chandrakant Jayantibhai Makwana (APC crime branch), Pravin Lalchand Chaudhari (ASI Traffic M police station.)Vinaykumar Jagansinh Yadav (APC Maninagar) and Behlim Ali Mohammad Alad Khan (ASI -929) who sacrificed their lives for the city’s preservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sog-honours-cops-who-gave-their-lives-for-duty/articleshow/78862512.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Rajkot||Robbers impersonate cops to loot maskless woman in Kutch||Rajkot: Beware. Thugs now use masks as a ploy to rob unsuspecting victims. Such a case happened with a woman in Bhachau of Kutch district on Saturday morning who had to wash her hands off four gold bangles worth Rs1 lakh for not wearing a mask while going out of her home. Three three unidentified robbers approached 55-year-old Ila Mehta while she was going to the Jain derasar on Saturday morning posing as cops and asked her why she wasn’t wearing a mask and said she would be booked for violating laws. “The fake cops told Mehta that she would have to talk to their officer for her crime. But before that she would need to remove her gold bangles too as no one was allowed to wear jewellery too in the times of Covid-19 . The gullible woman did as was told and handed over her gold bangles to the criminals,” said S N Karangia, inspector with Bhachau police station. The accused then put her gold bangles in one pouch and then returned her another containing four imitation bangles before fleeing the spot. When Mehta realized that she had been duped, she told her husband and two sons who took her to the police station to lodge a complaint of loot.  “We have booked the accused under sections 406, 419, 114 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and started the investigation to ascertain their identities with the help of the footage of the CCTVs installed near the crime spot,” added Karangia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/robbers-impersonate-cops-to-loot-maskless-woman-in-kutch/articleshow/78861994.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three employees of car showroom arrested for speeding||AHMEDABAD: Vastrapur police on Sunday arrested three employees of a car showroom for overspeeding while bringing the vehicles from warehouse to showroom. The incident had taken place on Saturday night when a patrolling party of Vastrapur police saw the three cars have a fun race and trying to overtake each other at speed on Thaltej Gurudwara Road. Those arrested are Ajay Chowbey of Isanpur, Pratik Sevak of Paldi and Anil Maurya of Thaltej. All three work for the car company whose vehicles they were driving. “We signalled the cars to stop but the drivers ignored our signal and sped off towards NFD circle. We tried to chase the cars, but they were moving at high speed and vanished within moments,” said an official of of Vastrapur police. Inspector of Vastrapur police station V M Desai said initially they had registered a case under Section 279 IPC against three unknown car drivers and launched a hunt. “All three cars were of the same make and had no registration number plates. We traced the cars based on CCTV footage and reached the car showroom. From there we came to know that the cars were being brought to the showroom from the godown. We then got the names of the drivers of the cars and arrested them,” said Desai. Earlier, bikers often used to race on SG Road. “The menace of such bikers had increased so much that cops had to form a squad to catch them. Specially during Navratri such bikers would venture on SG Road and race and do stunts posing a risk to others,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-employees-of-car-showroom-arrested-for-speeding/articleshow/78862493.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Turncoat v/s outsider in Karjan’s first-ever bypoll||VADODARA: A defector will be taking on a man who may not have changed his party, but is being called an outsider in the byelection for the Karjan assembly constituency. It will be the first time in its history that a bypoll will take place in this constituency. The byelection was necessitated after Akshay Patel resigned as an MLA and defected to the BJP from the Congress. Patel is contesting on the seat on BJP ticket this time and is being challenged by Kiritsinh Jadeja of the Congress. While Patel is being targeted for changing loyalties and questioned about switching parties, Jadeja too has his own set of worries. Many in the Congress are not happy with the decision of giving a ticket to Jadeja as he is being seen as an outsider. Jadeja is from Saurashtra and settled in Karjan. Some members of his party had even made representations seeking that a ‘local’ person should have been given a ticket. Patel was also facing a tricky situation as Satish Nishaliya was also seeking a ticket on the seat. Nishaliya had lost against Patel in the 2017 assembly general elections. But BJP’s senior leaders claimed that Nishaliya was with Patel. “After filing nomination, Patel left with Nishaliya in the same car and they together waved to supporters. Seasoned party workers have been given district panchayat constituencies and our well-oiled organisation as well as election machinery is at work to ensure victory,” said a senior BJP member camping in the constituency. The Congress wants to retain the seat as it has been its bastion. Out of the 13 polls held for the constituency so far, it has won 10 while the BJP has won two and Janta Dal (JD) once. Veteran Chandu Dabhi won the seat on four occasions including once from the JD and thrice from Congress. A Congress spokesperson said that this time around, the party had got its homework right and had reached the grassroots level. “It is wrong to call Jadeja an outsider. He has been working in the constituency since years now and has become a household name due to the relief work he did during the Covid-19 lockdown. For once, we have our organisation in place even at the level of a single page of the electoral roll,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/turncoat-v/s-outsider-in-karjans-first-ever-bypoll/articleshow/78861764.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Franklin MF may move SC on fund closures||MUMBAI: Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, which was asked by the Karnataka high court to take investors’ permission to shut six of its debt schemes, indicated that it may move the Supreme Court on some of the points in the order. Chennai Financial Markets & Accountability (CFMA), an investors’ association, also plans to move the SC against the order. On Saturday, the Karnataka HC upheld the decision taken by the trustee of the fund to wind up the schemes. It also upheld the constitutional validity of some of the Sebi regulations relating to the winding-up of funds. However, the HC said that consent of the unitholders would be required to wind up the schemes, a letter from the fund house’s president to its investors said. On April 23, Franklin MF had decided to close down six of its debt schemes in the interest of investors since it faced, among other problems, liquidity issues to meet redemption pressure. As of that day, these schemes were managing assets worth nearly Rs 26,000 crore. Subsequently, some of its investors moved several courts around the country, challenging the decision to close down the schemes. Eventually, the SC transferred all the cases to the Karnataka HC, a neutral court. On October 24, it passed the order in the case. “While we are still in the process of studying the order, basis our initial review, we believe it may be necessary to appeal aspects of the order (in the SC). It will also be our endeavour to seek appropriate directions from the court regarding return of cash of over Rs 5,200 crore currently accumulated in the four cash-positive schemes, and with regard to any additional cash we may receive while the matter remains under the consideration of the court,” Franklin Templeton MF president Sanjay Sapre wrote in the letter. Reacting to the court order, CFMA said it would move the SC to protect the interest of investors as it feels that the HC didn’t address some important points that were raised in its petition. If left unanswered, this could set a bad precedent for the MF industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-mf-may-move-sc-on-fund-closures/articleshow/78863529.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Now, Goa grapples with home-grown cannabis||MAPUSA: While Goa has always had its fair share of problems with drugs, particularly in the touristy coastal belts, the state is now grappling with a new trend of cannabis cultivation here itself. October has kept the Goa police busy. Since 2017, the cops have made arrests of those who were found to be growing cannabis, the main ingredient for the production of popular drugs like charas and ganja. Numbers, though, were few and far between. Now, nine cases have been reported in the last 365 days and four of the raids have happened this month itself. Interestingly, three of them were in the taluka of Pernem, bordering neighbouring Maharashtra. According to sources, recent raids and seizures have shown cannabis plantations in special set-ups inside rented premises by foreigners. For those in villages of Keri, Palyem, Arambol, Mandrem and Morjim, this does not come as a surprise. “Earlier, Goa was a consumption and transit point for drugs. Now, the state is more known for the production and manufacturing of psychotropic and narcotics drugs,” a source who has been monitoring the developments told TOI. Last week, Pernem police arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in illegal cultivation of cannabis and seized drugs worth over Rs 1 crore. This was the second major raid by Pernem police within ten days accounting for seizure of drugs like charas, ganja and marijuana plants in Keri. According to those in the know, seeds for cannabis are largely procured from states like West Bengal, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir. Foreigners in this business personally visit these places and procure the seeds or use contacts who work at beach shacks, water sports and other tourism-related businesses. When the work force travel to Goa, they smuggle seeds of the cannabis plant into the state. To avoid any unwanted attention, foreigners have learned to even create an indoor set-up using artificial lighting and air-conditioning. Not surprisingly, in the past few months, the state has seen many cases of people growing cannabis inside residential premises. On October 14, a cannabis plantation was raided at Sawantwada in Mandrem and police recovered charas and ganja from 37-year-old Russain Oleg Nazarov. On the same day in another raid in Arambol, cultivated cannabis was seized by the police. “Goa is preferred as it is very difficult for the police, locals or informers to trace the accused. Most of them grow cannabis at home, so it’s difficult to track. “Information, including videos, on growing cannabis is easily available on the internet. Those who are in this business travel to areas where it’s cultivated, study the process and then return,” said police sources. Cannabis growers or chemical drugs producers in Goa don’t rely or use dealers, middlemen or peddlers in order to avoid leak of the trade. Most drugs are passed on by the producers themselves. This means there is no rivalry involved, besides no kickbacks for law enforcement agencies. Doing away with commissions to dealers, middlemen and peddlers means greater profits. Most producers prefer foreign clients to sell their products to avoid trouble. “For cannabis cultivation, foreigners rent houses in isolated places. Terraces are used for cultivation. Some have a set-up inside their houses. Lightning arrangements for the same are easily available online,” said another source. Chemical drugs are also produced in the state. Two such cases have been reported so far. Two Britons and a Vietnamese were among the four arrested from Goa by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in a raid at an industrial unit in Pissurlem where a Rs 40 crore drug smuggling racket was busted. On November 30 last year, in one of the biggest drug hauls in the state, 35-year-old Austrian national Christian Koller was arrested for manufacturing narcotic substances worth Rs 1 crore in a laboratory he had set up at his rented premises in Anjuna. “There have been four raids in October itself. This shows that growing of cannabis is not uncommon here. The police must remain more vigilant,” said one villager from Pernem. While cops tighten the screws on cultivation of cannabis, those in the business are surely discovering new ways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-state-grapples-with-home-grown-cannabis/articleshow/78863733.cms||Keshav Naik
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun observes a low-key Dussehra with Covid restrictions in place||DEHRADUN: Ravan dahan in the city was a low-key affair this year, with a handful of attendees at Prem Nagar cantonment ground and Bannu School in the Race Course area. “For the last 74 years, we have been organizing a huge event at Parade Ground in the presence of over 1 lakh people. This year’s Dussehra was limited to a few people and barely 5-feet-tall effigies. We had requested the district administration to allow a 10-feet-tall effigy and 200 people, but an assembly of only 50 people was allowed,” Harish Virmani, a Dussehra organiser, told TOI. The Bannu community had almost cancelled the celebrations this year but to maintain a tradition of seven decades, a small-size effigy was burnt.In Prem Nagar, only 20 people attended the celebrations. Organisers said that the restrictions though disappointing were necessary. Anil Singh Rawat, 70, a resident of Race Course, said “Children are the most disheartened at not being able to witness Ravan dahan this year. However, we hope that with Ravan, the virus also burns down and we are able to celebrate the festival next year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-observes-a-low-key-dussehra-with-covid-restrictions-in-place/articleshow/78862223.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Price cap on face masks stays only on paper||Aurangabad: Even though the state government has capped the price of N-95 and three-layered face masks at Rs 49 and Rs 3, respectively, the protective masks are still being sold at higher prices by many pharmacies across Aurangabad. The N-95 mask is being sold at around Rs 110 while the three-layered masks are priced at Rs 30 at retail stores. People said the Food and Drugs Administration has failed to take any action to protect the interest of the public during the ongoing pandemic. When contacted, some chemists said they have not received any order in writing about the price cap on face masks from FDA or any other government body. “At the beginning of the pandemic, we had received official communication about capped prices for sanitizers and we followed the norm. However, no such communication has been received about the price cap on face masks,” a city-based pharmacy owner said. Nikhil Sarda, the treasurer of Aurangabad Chemists and Druggists’ Association, said all association members have been informed about the price cap on the face masks. “We expect all members to comply with the government directives,” he said. Civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil said the official cap on prices of face masks must not remain only on paper. “Wearing of face mask is one of the most effective ways to contain the spread of Covid-19 till a vaccine hits the market. The FDA and other government authorities should deal with this issue strictly,” he said. The state government, on October 21, had announced that the price of face masks would be applicable to all manufacturing companies, distributors and retail sellers till the Epidemic Diseases Act is in force. FDA joint commissioner Sanjay Kale could not be reached for his comments despite repeated attempts to contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/price-cap-on-face-masks-stays-only-on-paper/articleshow/78861595.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 26, 2020||Goa||Govt official to be posted at panchayats to aid locals||Panaji: Under the Swayampurna Goem programme, one government official will spend four Saturdays every month at panchayat offices across the state to facilitate works of villagers, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday. “This will kickstart from November 1 to help people with various state and central government schemes. Right from farmers to fishermen, we will ensure that the schemes are availed of by those in need. With this, we want to make Goa self-sustainable,” he said. The CM, who was speaking after inaugurating the Agri Bazaar, said that such a diverse market is not found anywhere else in the country. The second phase of the Agri Bazaar building of the Goa Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing Board (GAPLMB) is a one of a kind bazaar that has state of the art features, including a cold storage, ripening chamber and fumigation chamber among other features. GAPLMB chairman Prakash Velip said that the bazaar is aimed at supporting local farmers and promoting the cultivation of local produce by traditional farmers and generating income in their direction. “The marketing board has completed the Agri Bazar project at the Ponda market subyard under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana Scheme (RKVY). For this, we got assistance from the central government to establish this bazaar and the first phase was inaugurated in 2018. In the second leg, we are inaugurating the premises. We have received 100 applications so far from interested candidates to be a part of the market,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-official-to-be-posted-at-panchayats-to-aid-locals/articleshow/78863824.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||212 more PHCs to become family health centres in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister K K Shailaja has said that all the primary health centres in the state will become family health centres soon as the government has decided to convert the remaining 212 more PHCs into FHCs. The PHCs are being converted into FHCs as part of Aardram mission. In the first phase 170 PHCs were converted into FHCs while in the second phase 503 PHCs were transformed into FHCs. Now, the government has given the sanction for converting the remaining ones too, said the health minister. In the third phase, 14 PHCs in Thiruvananthapuram, 12 in Kollam, 13 in Pathanamthitta, eight in Alappuzha, 17 in Kottayam, 12 in Idukki, 23 in Ernakulam, 15 in Thrissur, 18 in Palakkad, 29 in Malappuram, 14 in Kozhikode, six in Wayanad, 21 in Kannur and 10 PHCs in Kasaragod will be turned into FHCs. The minister said so far 461 FHCs in the state have become fully operational and the remaining are in the process of completing the works. By getting converted into FHCs, the minister said the service and working time of the hospitals will be improved and increased. Now, all these FHCs are working till evening with evening OPs. In addition to this, all these centres are having laboratory facilities, pre-check counselling, non-communicable disease clinics, yoga and wellness centre, etc. The minister said FHCs have been of great help during Covid-19 and it had played a crucial role in bringing down the death rate in the state even when the caseload was increasing. These centres are ensuring the best available primary health care to the people in the respective regions. Among the best primary health care centres in the country, 12 are from the state. This shows the crucial role played by such centres all these years in primary health care, said Shailaja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/212-more-phcs-to-become-family-health-centres/articleshow/78862253.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||No respite for Nandgaon as nCoV cases continue to rise||Nashik: At a time when Covid-19 cases being reported across the district are on the decline, Nandgaon is the only taluka in Nashik that is showing an opposite trend over the last 14 days. On October 12, the rural areas in Nashik had a total of 3,876 active cases, while Nandgaon taluka had 195 active cases. Though the number of active cases in rural areas went down to 2,699 on October 24, but in Nandgaon the number went up to 331. It should be noted that active cases in Sinnar taluka had dropped from over 1,000 to 560 on October 12. Similar was the case with the Niphad taluka where active cases dropped from 700 to 550. “Nandgaon is the last taluka in Nashik district and shares the border with neighbouring Jalgaon district,. Also, it has a major railway station in the form of Manmad. These are the factors that are adding to the number of Covid-19 patients in the taluka,” a health official said. Various measures have been activated to cut down the numbers of patients and arrest the spread of the infection. “We have been able to find out good number of patients through My Family, My Responsibility campaign as a result of which there was some spike in number of cases. The number of cases being reported is now expected to show a downward trend,” a senior official from the district health office said. The new patients are being found in specific villages and pockets where people are used to travelling for various reasons. “We cannot stop the movement of the people for any reason now. At the same time, we have a large number of people who have been home isolated indicating that they have been detected early and hence the spread of the disease was contained. A couple of days more and the situation will start showing improvement,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-respite-for-nandgaon-as-ncov-cases-continue-to-rise/articleshow/78861608.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||37 in old-age home test +ve||Ahmedabad: It was a Covid-19 blast for the Jeevan Sandhya old age home in Naranpura area, as 37 of the senior citizens living there tested positive, said the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials. Three staff members have also tested positive, they added. The health experts said that while old age homes or life of senior citizens there has not been affected much during the pandemic, it could be lack of outside contact or under-reporting. “As we have seen from the global experience, persons above 60 years of age and those with co-morbidities are highly susceptible for the viral infection and are among the high-risk group during the pandemic,” said a public health expert. “Based on the talks with the administrators, we got to know that one of the clerks had first tested positive. After a couple of other employees had complained of possible symptoms for the Covid-19 infection, a team visited the spot and carried out mass testing,” said an official. “The testing found 37 of the residents were Covid positive. They have been hospitalized for care,” he added. AMC officials now feel that similar health checks need to be conducted across old age homes. “Old age homes were advised in June and again in July to ensure limited interactions of its employees and those of elderly with outsiders,” said a senior IMC health official. Health teams will now be asked to keep a strict monitoring of old age homes as well claimed an AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/37-in-old-age-home-test-ve/articleshow/78862833.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Touts back in business at Nashik Road railway stn||Nashik: Touts are having a field day at the passenger reservation system (PRS) near Nashik Road railway station’s platform number 4 in the absence of a proper security system. The commuters are being forced by the touts to buy tickets from them by paying a hefty commission over the price of the ticket. The matter came to light on Friday when two commuters, who wanted to book tickets for Patna, were forced to pay Rs 1,600 for the ticket that would have cost them Rs 820 at the PRS. The duo then lodged a complaint with the railway authorities. According to the complaint filed by 19-year-old Vikar Kumar Dubey and his friend, the duo were standing in the queue to buy the tickets when they were approached by a person who offered them confirmed tickets — a must for travelling by train. After refusing initially, the duo agreed to buy the tickets from the touts after they saw other commuters also doing the same. “The touts were forcing us to buy the tickets from them. Since we are outsiders, we did not have the choice to say no and so we agreed to pay Rs 1,600,” Dubey said. “However, after getting our tickets we were waiting at the platform adjacent to the PRS where we saw few railway officials, station manager Rakesh Suthar and commercial inspector Kundan Mahapatra. This is when we gathered the courage to approach them and lodge a complaint,” he added. When the duo approached the station manager, the touts ran away. “We were carrying out routine inspection when the two commuters approached us and said that they were forced to buy tickets from the touts. We noted their ticket numbers and they have registered a complaint with us,” Suthar said, adding that they are planning to bring the entire PRS area under the cover of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras. “We had received a similar complaint. Hence, we have decided to keep a watch near the ticket counters through RPF personnel. We will also apprehend those involved in this illegal business,” an RPF official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/touts-back-in-business-at-nashik-road-railway-stn/articleshow/78861618.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 26, 2020||Surat||Speeding truck knocks down port official||Surat: A 43-year-old man suffered serious injuries after he was knocked down by a speeding truck on Saturday night near ONGC on Hazira road. The unidentified driver fled with his truck from the spot after the incident. Police are examining CCTV footage to identify the truck. Victim Bhavesh Patel was knocked down after he got down from his car to argue with another truck driver for rash driving and overtaking. The truck not only hit Patel, but also his friend Saurav Singh, 21, who suffered minor injuries. The truck then escaped from the spot, said a complaint lodged by Wajid Mansuri, 22, a barber. Police booked an unidentified truck driver for allegedly injuring Patel seriously. At around 7.30 pm Patel, Wajid and Singh were returning from the airport when they entered into an argument with a truck on Magdalla bridge while overtaking each other's vehicle. After crossing the bridge Patel stopped his car and he, along with Singh stopped the truck to argue with the trucker. Patel and Singh both were talking with the truck driver when another truck coming from their backside hit both of them. Patel has been admitted in hospital and a surgery was done on him on Sunday. "The victim is out of danger at present. He suffered serious injuries but he is recovering," said a police officer. Police investigation so far revealed that Patel, a customs house agent in a port at Hazira, owns a Honda City car and had offered to drop an employee of the salon, located at Ichhapore which Patel frequents, at the Surat airport. Shaquib Mansuri, an employee of Wajid’s salon, had to catch a flight in emergency on Saturday due to his father's death, said the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/speeding-truck-knocks-down-port-official/articleshow/78861968.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||Weapon attack in dispute over loan repayment||Vadodara: A heated argument over pending dues led to a murderous attack on two men in Bawamanpura area of the city on Sunday. While the two victims suffered injuries, the assault led to panic in the area. Based on a complaint by complainant Cheeni Farooqi, a resident of Bawamanpura, the police have registered an attempt to murder case against three men who are absconding. According to the police, ruckus began when Farooqi was on his way home on Sunday afternoon and one of the accused, Mohammed Shafi Sheikh, who owns a shop in the area, stopped him to talk about the issue of pending payment on a property that Farooqi’s son had bought from Sheikh. Their conversation soon heated up into an argument and Sheikh began assaulting Farooqi who then called up his son Imran. After Imran reached the spot with his friend Zakeer, Sheikh called the other two accused, Hayaaz Sheikh and Sonu Sheikh, to the place. Hayaz assaulted Imran with an iron pipe while Sonu attacked Zakeer with a sword. Imran and Zakeer have been admitted to the hospital with serious injuries, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/weapon-attack-in-dispute-over-loan-repayment/articleshow/78861781.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Causes unknown in several suicides’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A majority of children who committed suicide in the state between January 1- July 31 this year were in the age group of 15-18 years and among them, 66% were girls, said a report that analysed details of 158 children who killed themselves during the period. At the same time, boys accounted for 61% of the children who committed suicide in the age group of 9-14 years, according to the report prepared by a committee led by DGP and commandant general of fire and rescue services R Sreelekha. The analysis unveiled a range of factors for the suicides, some of them busting popular conceptions. The reasons for several instances of suicide seemed so trivial like wanting a cycle, fight for TV remote, sibling rivalry and getting scolded over spending too much time on mobiles. Four children committed suicide over sibling rivalry while 19 killed themselves after parents scolded them. In 41 cases, the reason remained ‘unknown’. Alarmingly, many of the children under this category were considered active and smart. Other reasons which drove them to suicide include failure of love affair and addiction to mobile games and internet. Twenty four children had mental health issues. The study debunked the notion that academically brilliant children would stay away from taking such an extreme step. As many as 50 children who committed suicide were good in studies. Among them, one had received a President’s award, another was a class leader and yet another one a student police cadet. Only 29 fared poorly in their studies. “Teachers and parents never addressed issues of active or smart children, assuming that everything is good as they excelled in their academic and extra-curricular activities,” the report said. The report said most parents were not able to identify the mental health issues faced by children. Indicators like place of committing suicide, time and type of family when read together, show a lack of inadequate support systems within the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/causes-unknown-in-several-suicides/articleshow/78862265.cms||KP Saikiran
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lets get your city back||Ahmedabad: Cities in Gujarat are at the heart of the spread of Covid-19. The density of cities aids the exponential spread of the virus. Even so, trans-mission can be curbed with better infrastructure in urban centres. Gujarat cities need to find new ways to live with the virus and to mitigate future pandemics. Here are ideas from a book called ‘Back to the City’ compiled by a team of urban planners. The guide was borne out of the collaboration be-tween the German Federal Minis-try of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), and was de-signed by Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenar-beit (GIZ) GmbH and Cept Univer-sity as part of the ‘Sustainable Urban Development - Smart Cities’ project in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lets-get-our-city-back/articleshow/78863577.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Admissions to start for 3k law seats||Ahmedabad: The admission committee will initiate the process for admission to about 3,000 seats of 21 law colleges affiliated to Gujarat University. Currently, the online PIN distribution and registration process are on till October 26. Students who have cleared the qualifying test from the university this year have to wait for next notification before filling the forms online, said sources. The results of the offline exam conducted by the university are being announced in a phased manner. In such a situation, the admission process has begun for postgraduation courses. The online PIN distribution has started for law or LLB programme as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/admissions-to-start-for-3k-law-seats/articleshow/78862838.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Peddlers enrol for drug rehab to scout for clients, ousted||PANAJI: The drug treatment clinic (DTC) set up in 2018 at the North Goa district hospital in Mapusa has been trying its level best to help addicts restart a new life, but three months ago, it was compelled to throw few of those reforming themselves from its premises as the staff found that they had enrolled just to scout for clients. Three abusers were caught-red handed selling drugs in the hospital premises. Their names were knocked off from the roll with a warning that they should not step into the hospital. “I apprehended two of them rolling joints behind the hospital mortuary. They were told to stop the abuse or else entry would be denied to them,” Dr Ravindra Patil, medical officer attached to the centre said. The hospital security was directed to keep a watch. He said the only reason they were not handed over to the police was that they wanted to see if any of them still wants to continue with the treatment and give up drugs. “It would not have helped in their treatment. So, we thought they ought to be given one more chance of redemption,” he said. The names of those who showed neither remorse nor inclination to continue the treatment seriously were taken off the list. Whenever any new person is enrolled for treatment, he/she has to sign on dotted lines including that they will not indulge in groupism at the clinic. The person will have to keep away from other patients who may be waiting in queue to see the doctor or for one’s regular dose of Methadone. “The condition has been laid down so that none seek out other former users and reintroduce them to drugs amid their treatment,” said Patil. “Some users double up as peddlers in times of need, basically to support their drug habits. Sourcing drugs isn’t a problem for them.” Robert D’Mello, 44, said the peddlers, who are also the end users, mostly trade in small quantities. He said his neighbour sought him out a few years ago, and he started selling drugs and was arrested three times in the last few years. “But now I want to give up drugs. I was told about this place by another former user who is undergoing treatment. I genuinely want to stop doing drugs,” he said at his first visit to the clinic. Most drug addicts start with the same intent but many of them crumble and go back to doing drugs. Not surprising, when the flow of drugs dries down in the off-tourist season, the centre has more people seeking help. As the season takes off, the number of attendees to the clinic drops. Patil says that except for one, they haven’t registered any new case since September. They have about 100 listed for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/peddlers-enrol-for-drug-rehab-to-scout-for-clients-ousted/articleshow/78863735.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 26, 2020||Goa||HC notice to govt over land maps of Mapusa, Panaji||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Saturday issued a notice to the chief town planner and others following a PIL challenging the preparation of land use maps and registers for Panaji and Mapusa. Both the plans were notified in December 2016 and the petitioners stated that the government had directed the North Goa Planning and Development Authority in 2018 to make changes in the outline development plans of Panaji and Mapusa. The petitioners are the Bodgeshwar Shetkari Sangh (BSS), the Tenants Association of Camarcasanacho Bundh, the Goa Bachao Abhiyan and the Goa Foundation. They stated that the government had directed the planning and development authority to prepare fresh land use registers and maps as there is no provision in the Town and Country Planning Act for such a procedure. The BSS submitted that the names of approximately 1,300 farmers, mostly tenanted, were missing from the Mapusa register and had been replaced with the names of those who originally owned the lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-notice-to-govt-over-land-maps-of-mapusa-panaji/articleshow/78863827.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ajmer||Active corona cases in Rajasthan dip for 12th consecutive day||JAIPUR: After the state reported the highest new daily infections on October 2, such cases have taken a significant dip, thereby reducing the number of acive cases which stood at 16,668 on Sunday. Active cases, which had peaked on October 13 with 21,924 infections, began falling from October 14. Since then, such cases have reduced by 5,256 or 24% over the last 12 days. “Active cases have taken a dip and it shows that the situation is improving in the state,” said a senior health department official. In Jaipur too, active cases have gone down rapidly in the past 17 days. On October 8, Jaipur had 9,241 active cases, but now they have fallen to 5,017. This is still the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,811) and Bikaner (1,069). On Sunday, 13 persons died, while 1,821 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 1,86,243. With 13 more deaths, the state's toll stands at 1,839. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 363, while Jodhpur's fatality rose to 177 with two more succumbing to the virus. Bikaner reported its 135th casualty, Ajmer 135th, Kota 116th, Udaipur 67th, Sikar 52nd, Barmer 34th, Dholpur 29th, Jhunjhunu 26th and Tonk its 25th Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (339), Jodhpur (283), Bikaner (203), Jalore (90), Ajmer (89), Nagaur (89), Alwar (83), Sriganganagar (75), Sikar (65), Pali (60), Kota (57), Bharatpur (51), Udaipur (45), Barmer (37), Dungarpur (35), Churu (32), Hanumangarh (25), Sirohi (25), Jhunjhunu (20), Bhilwara (18), Jaisalmer (18), Tonk(16), Dausa (15), Banswara (8), Chittorgarh (8), Rajsamand (8), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (6), Bundi (5), Jhalawar (4) and Sawai Madhopur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/active-corona-cases-in-raj-dip-for-12th-consecutive-day/articleshow/78865619.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Udaipur||Active corona cases in Rajasthan dip for 12th consecutive day||JAIPUR: After the state reported the highest new daily infections on October 2, such cases have taken a significant dip, thereby reducing the number of acive cases which stood at 16,668 on Sunday. Active cases, which had peaked on October 13 with 21,924 infections, began falling from October 14. Since then, such cases have reduced by 5,256 or 24% over the last 12 days. “Active cases have taken a dip and it shows that the situation is improving in the state,” said a senior health department official. In Jaipur too, active cases have gone down rapidly in the past 17 days. On October 8, Jaipur had 9,241 active cases, but now they have fallen to 5,017. This is still the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,811) and Bikaner (1,069). On Sunday, 13 persons died, while 1,821 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 1,86,243. With 13 more deaths, the state's toll stands at 1,839. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 363, while Jodhpur's fatality rose to 177 with two more succumbing to the virus. Bikaner reported its 135th casualty, Ajmer 135th, Kota 116th, Udaipur 67th, Sikar 52nd, Barmer 34th, Dholpur 29th, Jhunjhunu 26th and Tonk its 25th Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (339), Jodhpur (283), Bikaner (203), Jalore (90), Ajmer (89), Nagaur (89), Alwar (83), Sriganganagar (75), Sikar (65), Pali (60), Kota (57), Bharatpur (51), Udaipur (45), Barmer (37), Dungarpur (35), Churu (32), Hanumangarh (25), Sirohi (25), Jhunjhunu (20), Bhilwara (18), Jaisalmer (18), Tonk(16), Dausa (15), Banswara (8), Chittorgarh (8), Rajsamand (8), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (6), Bundi (5), Jhalawar (4) and Sawai Madhopur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/active-corona-cases-in-raj-dip-for-12th-consecutive-day/articleshow/78865618.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Active corona cases in Rajasthan dip for 12th consecutive day||JAIPUR: After the state reported the highest new daily infections on October 2, such cases have taken a significant dip, thereby reducing the number of acive cases which stood at 16,668 on Sunday. Active cases, which had peaked on October 13 with 21,924 infections, began falling from October 14. Since then, such cases have reduced by 5,256 or 24% over the last 12 days. “Active cases have taken a dip and it shows that the situation is improving in the state,” said a senior health department official. In Jaipur too, active cases have gone down rapidly in the past 17 days. On October 8, Jaipur had 9,241 active cases, but now they have fallen to 5,017. This is still the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,811) and Bikaner (1,069). On Sunday, 13 persons died, while 1,821 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 1,86,243. With 13 more deaths, the state's toll stands at 1,839. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 363, while Jodhpur's fatality rose to 177 with two more succumbing to the virus. Bikaner reported its 135th casualty, Ajmer 135th, Kota 116th, Udaipur 67th, Sikar 52nd, Barmer 34th, Dholpur 29th, Jhunjhunu 26th and Tonk its 25th Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (339), Jodhpur (283), Bikaner (203), Jalore (90), Ajmer (89), Nagaur (89), Alwar (83), Sriganganagar (75), Sikar (65), Pali (60), Kota (57), Bharatpur (51), Udaipur (45), Barmer (37), Dungarpur (35), Churu (32), Hanumangarh (25), Sirohi (25), Jhunjhunu (20), Bhilwara (18), Jaisalmer (18), Tonk(16), Dausa (15), Banswara (8), Chittorgarh (8), Rajsamand (8), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (6), Bundi (5), Jhalawar (4) and Sawai Madhopur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/active-corona-cases-in-raj-dip-for-12th-consecutive-day/articleshow/78865614.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Active corona cases in Rajasthan dip for 12th consecutive day||JAIPUR: After the state reported the highest new daily infections on October 2, such cases have taken a significant dip, thereby reducing the number of acive cases which stood at 16,668 on Sunday. Active cases, which had peaked on October 13 with 21,924 infections, began falling from October 14. Since then, such cases have reduced by 5,256 or 24% over the last 12 days. “Active cases have taken a dip and it shows that the situation is improving in the state,” said a senior health department official. In Jaipur too, active cases have gone down rapidly in the past 17 days. On October 8, Jaipur had 9,241 active cases, but now they have fallen to 5,017. This is still the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (4,811) and Bikaner (1,069). On Sunday, 13 persons died, while 1,821 others tested positive, bringing the overall tally to 1,86,243. With 13 more deaths, the state's toll stands at 1,839. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 363, while Jodhpur's fatality rose to 177 with two more succumbing to the virus. Bikaner reported its 135th casualty, Ajmer 135th, Kota 116th, Udaipur 67th, Sikar 52nd, Barmer 34th, Dholpur 29th, Jhunjhunu 26th and Tonk its 25th Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (339), Jodhpur (283), Bikaner (203), Jalore (90), Ajmer (89), Nagaur (89), Alwar (83), Sriganganagar (75), Sikar (65), Pali (60), Kota (57), Bharatpur (51), Udaipur (45), Barmer (37), Dungarpur (35), Churu (32), Hanumangarh (25), Sirohi (25), Jhunjhunu (20), Bhilwara (18), Jaisalmer (18), Tonk(16), Dausa (15), Banswara (8), Chittorgarh (8), Rajsamand (8), Baran (8), Pratapgarh (6), Bundi (5), Jhalawar (4) and Sawai Madhopur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-corona-cases-in-raj-dip-for-12th-consecutive-day/articleshow/78863564.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu re-exams from today||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has scheduled its re-examinations for the final-year students over a period of six days — beginning from Monday. The undergraduate and postgraduate students, who missed the examinations conducted earlier, can appear for the re-examinations that will be held only in the online format. Meanwhile, the Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU) in Nanded has announced that it will conduct the re-examinations in November. The detailed time-table for the examinations has already been shared with the students. Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde on Sunday said around 5% of all the total registered students failed to appear for the examination conducted earlier — between October 9 and October 17. “All arrangements are in place for the smooth conduct of the re-examination. The university has been ensuring that every student appears for the examination, and students have been advised to take the examination with positive and stress-free mindset,” he said. As per official schedule, the re-examinations will be held in two slots at identified centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-re-exams-from-today/articleshow/78861649.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University yet to take call on external candidates||Ahmedabad: There is uncertainty at Gujarat University over conducting exams for external students who are not in their intermediate semester. There are about 15,000 such candidates in BA, BCom, MA, MCom studies.The academic council meeting had earlier this month decided to give the students a question bank and conduct the examination on the basis of the same. There was also a discussion on conducting the exams online or analyzing performance of students based on their assignments, sources added.The varsity has, following the University Grants Commission’s guidelines, exempted regular students who are in their intermediate semesters from taking college exams. They have been assessed based on internal marks and previous semester performance.GU has already conducted exams for final year students. But it still has to decide about external students who are in their first or second year of undergraduate courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-university-yet-to-take-call-on-external-candidates/articleshow/78862869.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Power outage in North Goa dampens festive mood||PANAJI: North Goa faced a power outage on Sunday afternoon as the main 220 kVA lines feeding Tivim station catering to the district tripped at around 2pm. Superintending engineer of North Goa Stephen Fernandes said the lines were recharged within two hours at 3.52pm. However, TOI learnt that some areas in Bardez received power much later as it took time for the message to reach the substations downstream and for them to restore the power. Reasoning the delay in restoring the power, the electricity department said the thorough analysis into the fault caused both the lines to trip. The analysis involved engineers from Goa as well as the Mumbai office of the western region. “It took time to restore the power because we had to analyse the fault and wait for a code from the western region office to recharge the lines again,” Fernandes added. During the power outage, parts of North Goa were fed via the Ponda substation supplying power to Kadamba plateau, Panaji, Altinho, Santa Cruz and Ribandar. Several residents in Bardez have inverters installed due to the erratic power supply over the past few years. For those who didn’t, the power outage hampered Dussehra celebrations and time together with the family. “It was a Sunday and a festival day. The power cut coincided with the time of cooking our lunch and it delayed our meal. It ruined our family’s mood completely when we should have been celebrating and enjoying ourselves,” said Socorro resident Sarika Malkarnekar. “It is due to problems like this that we require a ring feed for Goa. The Goa Tanmar project is required because it will be a second feed at 400 kV level for the State. The substation at Dharbandora will be a second feed for Goa and will take care of these kind of problems,” Fernandes added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-outage-in-north-goa-dampens-festive-mood/articleshow/78863829.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Celebrate Eid in a simple manner: Cops||Nashik: Bhadrakali police on Sunday held a meeting with people from the Muslim community in order to sensitise them about the importance of following the Covid-19 related guidelines during Eid-e-Milad that is to be celebrated on Friday. Senior police inspector of Bhadrakali police station, while guiding the citizens during the meeting, said that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the procession of Eid-e-Milad should be taken out in a simple manner and at the same time all the guidelines issued by the government should be followed thoroughly. “Further, the district collector and the city police commissioner have also issued certain instructions to control the spread of infection which too should be followed by citizens,” the officer said. Citizens said that they will adhere to all the rules laid down by the government. “However, a meeting of the community members would soon be held when the final decision would be taken and the police will be informed about it,” a resident, who attended the meeting, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/celebrate-eid-in-a-simple-manner-cops/articleshow/78861655.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||99 new cases recorded, 1,552 under treatment||Vadodara: Even as the number of fresh Covid cases has remained below 100, there are still 1,552 patients who are under treatment in Vadodara city and district. By Sunday evening, Vadodara recorded 99 new cases after which the total number of Covid cases touched 14,495. The new cases were the results of 3,501 samples that had been tested since Saturday evening. According to the medical bulletin shared by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), the condition of 1,328 patients out of total 1,552 patients is stable, while 224 patients are critical. Of these, 160 patients are being treated with oxygen support, while 64 are under ventilator or BI-PAP machine. With the VMC not declaring any fresh death, the official death toll remained at 210. The new cases have been recorded from Diwalipura, Sawad, Tarsali, Karelibaug, Sudamapuri, Kapurai, Chhani, Jetalpur, Gajrawadi, Gotri, Jubileebaug, Siyabaug, Manjalpur, Kisanwadi, Ektanagar, Gokulnagar, Navi Dharti, Yamuna Mill, Navapura and Gorwa areas within the VMC limits. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases have been recorded from Padra, Jaspur, Karachiya, Savli, Undera, Ankodiya, Kundhela, Dabhoi, Karjan and Sevasi. The number of discharges on Sunday stood at 92 taking the total number of discharges during the pandemic to 12,733. Of the 92 who have been discharged, 20 were discharged from the government hospitals, 18 from the private hospitals and 54 from home isolation. Currently, 2,631 people are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/99-new-cases-recorded-1552-under-treatment/articleshow/78861792.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Surat||Diamantaire thrashed by three robbers||Surat: Robbers thrashed a 36-year-old diamond businessman till he fell unconscious in Mahidharpura market on Saturday, but got nothing except a bag without any valuables. The robbers injured Ashit Savani, diamond businessman and owner of Rati Impex. However, despite coming armed with two revolvers and knives to carry out their loot, the robbers failed in their attempt and had to escape with a bag that did not have any valuables. A complaint was lodged by Akshay Shah, a CA and Savani’s relative. On Saturday, when Shah went to Savani's office at 1.30 pm, three men with covered faces entered the office while one robber remained outside. One of them pointed a gun at Shah’s head and another aimed at Savani while inquiring about some Rasikbhai. When Savani said he didn’t know anybody by that name, they started arguing and the robbers started thrashing him till he fainted. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamantaire-thrashed-by-three-robbers/articleshow/78861976.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||101-day low for Gujarat with 919 Covid cases added in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Sunday added 919 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total to 1.67 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally for the state in 101 days and below 1,000 daily tally after a gap of five days. The new cases in Gujarat include 227 from Surat, 174 from Ahmedabad, 115 from Vadodara, and 97 from Rajkot. The four districts accounted for 67% of the daily tally. The cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot reached 41,540; 35,474; 15,140 and 12,259 respectively. The state also recorded deaths of seven Covid patients, taking the total to 3,689. The deaths included three from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara and Patan. It was the ninth consecutive day and 14th day in October of less than 10 daily deaths due to Covid-19 in Gujarat. The death toll in Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara reached 1,890; 835 and 209 respectively. A total of 963 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 1.49 lakh. The discharged patients included 253 in Surat, 107 from Ahmedabad, 112 from Rajkot, and 92 from Vadodara. It was the lowest daily discharge for the state in 63 days. With the update, the number of active patients dipped to 13,936. The share of active, discharged and deceased patients out of the total Covid-19 positive patients so far is 8.3%, 89.5% and 2.2% respectively. Gujarat carried out 51,370 tests, taking the total to 57.42 lakh. It was the lowest daily testing in the past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/101-day-low-for-gujarat-with-919-cases-added-in-24-hours/articleshow/78862877.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Below 400 infections for 12th consecutive day||PANAJI: While the state recorded 211 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday, six deaths have taken Goa’s death toll to 577. The state reported less than 400 daily Covid infections for the 12th consecutive day. Goa, now, has a total of 2,575 active cases. All the six mortalities were reported at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital. “All the patients were in the ICU for an average of at least 10 to 12 days and received care as per protocol. Despite optimum treatment they succumbed to the Covid-19 infection,” GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said. The mortalities included a 83-year-old woman from Panaji and five men aged 50, 59, 73, 75, 76 years, from Mandrem, Neura, Mapusa, Valpoi, Orlim respectively. While five of them had diabetes and hypertension along with other comorbidities, one had an earlier cerebrovascular accident. Almost all had developed bilateral Covid pneumonia and died after 14 to 21 days of admission at GMC. On the other side, state’s recovery rate has risen to 92.54% where a total of 39,090 persons have recovered. On Sunday, 321 persons have recovered and 40 new patients were hospitalised and 68 allowed to isolate themselves at home. A total of 1,018 samples were tested on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/below-400-infections-for-12th-consecutive-day/articleshow/78863832.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||Three children drown as vehicle falls into pond||Vadodara: A moment of celebration after birth of a child turned into a tragedy for the Bariya family from Dahod’s Chosala village after the newborn and two other children drowned when the rickshaw carrying the family fell into a pond from a height of nearly 30 foot. While the newborn’s mother Rangi Bariya and two other women Sita and Vechati survived with minor injuries, Priyanka (5) and Arya (4) drowned. Rangi had given birth to her second child at a health centre at Rentiya village on Saturday night and she was discharged on Sunday. She along with two women from her family along with the children were returning to home in rickshaw. While passing by Doki village, the driver lost control due to which the vehicle fell into the pond/ Bodies of the three kids were fished out by the firemen and the three women were rushed to Zydus Hospital in Dahod town. Police said that they suffered minor injuries. The unhurt driver escaped after the accident. “The accident happened around 7.30am. The driver was either new to the area or negligent because he misjudged the sharp curve on the road due to which the vehicle veered off the road and fell into the pond,” said sub-inspector G B Rathwa. He added that all victims from the same family. A case was registered against the absconding auto-rickshaw driver at Dahod Rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-children-drown-as-vehicle-falls-into-pond/articleshow/78861815.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||DBA prepares for Nov 6 elections amid objections from some candidates4||LUDHIANA: Even as preparations are going on for the District Bar Association (DBA) elections, which is slated for November 6, some advocates have raised objections saying it is too early as most chambers are yet to open. One of the candidates for the president post, Harjot Singh Harikay alleged that Bar Council has ignored ground reality, as 50% of the chambers are still closed. He claimed that Bar Council came up with the date without consulting stakeholders. But returning officer, advocate Amardeep Bhatia, said voting will be held on November 6 and voters will cast their votes physically. He added that there were reservations against the online system and such voting mode was challenged in the high court. Returning officer also said on the directions of Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, they have already issued notice for elections and arrangements are being made for elections. He added that keeping in view the Covid-19 norms, sanitisation of polling booths will be done and the mask is being made compulsory for voters. According to election officials, Jagmohan Singh Waraich is the chairman and Surinder Khakh is member of the election committee constituted by Bar Council. They added that the assistant returning officers include Lalita Jain, Avtar Singh Chopra, L S Rai, Ravinder Singh Arora, Vikas Gupta, Gurpreet Singh Arora, Adarsh Sharma, Mandeep Singh Sidhu and Roopali Molri. ARO Jain said earlier they would have five to seven polling booths in the bar room, but this time round, there will be 20 such booths, 10 each in library and bar room so that there is no crowding. She added that there will be separate booths for senior citizens and social distancing will be ensured. Jain further said election timings are from 9am to 4.30pm and there will be a lunch break between 12.30pm and 1pm. She added that counting of votes will start after polling and results will be declared on the same day. The ARO said they have come up with the list of the candidates after proper process and list of the voters too has been finalised. She added that there are three candidates each in fray for the president and vice-president posts. Election officials said for secretary post there are again three candidates and for joint secretary and finance secretary posts, two candidates each will be contesting. They added that 3,114 voters are expected to exercise their mandate in the elections. The elections of office bearers of DBA — president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary and executive members — were to be held on April 3, but were postponed to April 17 and then indefinitely. Recently, it had been decided that to hold the elections on November 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dba-prepares-for-nov-6-elections-amid-objections-from-some-candidates4/articleshow/78863637.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 26, 2020||Agra||15 Covid-19 deaths in Agra in October so far, case fatality rate above 2%||AGRA: The number of Covid-19 deaths continue to increase in Agra district. Till Sunday, a total of 15 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. In the past eight days, seven Covid-19 infected patients died under treatment. So far, 142 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra, taking the case fatality rate above 2% in the district. According to the health department officials, a majority of these patients were above 50 years of age and died due to co-morbid conditions. Diabetes was a common cause for about 80% Covid-19 fatalities in Agra. Last week, during a review meeting in Agra, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma had raised questions over the frequent deaths of Covid-19 patients in the district. Dr Sanjay Kala, principal of SN Medical College (SNMC), said, “Comorbidity is the main cause of death in Covid-19 positive patients above 60 years of age. Delay in detection of symptomatic Covid-19 patients and not getting them admitted to the hospital is also a major reason for the deaths, particularly in the age group 40 to 60. Anyone having fever and breathing difficulties should immediately contact a doctor." To provide best possible treatment, SNMC administration has started working on a plan to develop a super specialty centre for Covid. In its first phase, an 85-bed ICU facility will be developed for Covid-19 patients in critical condition. Here, 30 ventilators will be made available. Besides, 20 bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) and 25 high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) machines have been acquired. SNMC is also going to set up an advanced pathology for diagnosis of health issues related to Covid patients. For this, four modern machines have been acquired from a company authorised by the state. These include high-performance liquid chromatography, fully automated biochemistry analyzer, hormone analyzer, point of care testing and Elisa reader. Meanwhile, Chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “So far, 7,015 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Agra district. Of these, 6,450 [91.9%] have been declared cured of the infection. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district is 423. The current Covid-19 fatality rate is 2.02%."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-covid-19-deaths-in-agra-in-oct-so-far-case-fatality-rate-above-2/articleshow/78861705.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 26, 2020||Agra||UP-Rera slaps notices on 18 builders for pending realty projects in Agra||AGRA: The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) through Agra Development Authority (ADA) has issued notices to 18 builders and promoters over pending residential projects in Agra district. The notices were issued under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 for not completing the projects even after the declared deadline -- April 2020. RK Singh, chief town planner, said, “The builder and promoters are required to submit a completion report with UP-Rera before the final date of project completion declared by them. In case of any delay in project completion, they are required to apply with the regulatory authority for an extension to complete the remaining work. Eighteen builders and promoters in Agra have not fulfilled any of the two conditions. Notices have been issued to them seeking a response in 15 days. Penalty will be imposed on them if they fail to respond.” Shahganj locality resident Madan Agarwal said, “I had booked a flat in a residential project of a private real estate company two years ago. I was supposed to get possession of the property by February-end. But so far, the project has not been completed. The company is not providing a final date for the completion of the project. I have lodged a complaint with UP-Rera last month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-rera-slaps-notices-on-18-builders-for-pending-realty-projects-in-agra-district/articleshow/78861708.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Pandemic shifts focus on ‘lost livelihood’ as DBA goes to polls||LUDHIANA: As the elections of District Bar Association (DBA) are round the corner, the problems faced by advocates due to extended lockdown is brought to the limelight, as many candidates are listing this up as their top election promise. Advocate Gurkirpal Singh Gill, who is contesting elections for the president post, said most advocates want the courts to start functioning fully so that they can earn their livelihood. He added that his main demand would be that too. “There are cases where advocates have to make arguments and other cases where people don’t need to be present. We will work to ensure that at least such cases where people need not be present are taken up, so that advocates earn a livelihood,” said the president candidate. Candidates said for those who started their career in law recently, the situation had been challenging. “Due to the pandemic, advocates, especially youngsters, faced a lot of financial problems and mental stress. So we want that courts should open first and then elections should happen. If elected I will work to ensure that advocates do not face such problems,” said Gurmukh Singh, who is contesting elections for secretary post. “Welfare of advocates is top priority. They suffered so much during the pandemic. It’s a failure on the part of association. The advocates shouldn’t face such problem in future. There are other issues including new chambers for advocates, parking facility and monthly stipend for newly enrolled advocates that is being given by many associations,” said Amit Tandon, a senior advocate. Many senior advocates agree that elected representatives of DBA should sort out a way so that advocates are not caught without being able to earn their basic livelihood as during lockdown. “Very few advocates are coming to courts because of the pandemic so election buzz has not picked up yet. However, once the campaigning picks up, the candidates will declare their agenda on this issue. Only 10% of the advocates have good practice, others often struggle to make a living even in good days,” said advocate Rakesh Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-shifts-focus-on-lost-livelihood-as-dba-goes-to-polls/articleshow/78863640.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Talatis to prepare affidavits: Notaries move high court||Ahmedabad: Unhappy with the state government’s decision to delegate powers of preparing an affidavit in different types of documents to a gram panchayat talati, the Gujarat’s Notaries Association has moved the Gujarat high court against the government move.The association has filed a PIL questioning the government’s delegation of powers under Section 3 of the Oaths Act on gram panchayat talati to prepare affidavits for 22 types of documents. Apparently, the policy decision has a potential to dent the earnings of a notary, who is an advocate authorized to notarize an affidavit after due verification.According to the association’s president Diresh Shah, preparing and notarizing an affidavit is legal work. The powers to finalize such document are vested in an officer through the Oaths Act by a magistrate or a judge of the court. The association has raised objection to a clause which says that the government can appoint any person for the purpose. “The post of a gram panchayat talati can be held by a person who has education qualification of Class 12. This is legal work and a person who is authorized to notarize documents should be of equivalent qualification to a current notary. A peon cannot be a notary. Here many of the talatis do not know English too,” Shah said. “Delegating these powers to people who are not qualified enough may create problems for common people,” Shah said giving the rationale behind filing the PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/talatis-to-prepare-affidavits-notaries-move-high-court/articleshow/78862974.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Firecracker licence: Traders can submit applications from Oct 29||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana Commissionerate of Police has invited applications for issuing licences for selling firecrackers on temporary basis. Rakesh Agrawal, commissioner of police (CP), said the police will issue licences for 37 shops at six locations, including grain market in Salem Tabri, Pakhowal road near Sidhwan Canal, Model Town Extension, Glada ground Dugri Phase 2, Glada ground at Chandigarh Road, Humbran Road near Fire brigade office and Lodhi Club Road. Agarwal added that the applicants can get forms between October 27 and October 28 from CP office. They can submit applications from October 29. On November 3, a draw will be conducted. The traders can start selling firecrackers from November 6 till Diwali. The commissioner also added that the temporary licences are being issued on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/firecracker-licence-traders-can-submit-applications-from-oct-29/articleshow/78863644.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||70.25% appear for PAS exam from Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Punjab education board has concluded the result of revision of Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS), which was held last week. All the classes from VI to X in government schools and aided schools participated in this first revision test. From Ludhiana, 70.25% of the students appeared for the exam. Of the total 1,17,139 students enrolled in Punjab, 82,287 students appeared for the exam. The survey is expected to go a long way in strengthening the foundation of the understanding level as well as enhancing the reasoning ability of the students. The PAS will prepare students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS), to be conducted in November on the directions of the ministry of human resources and development. It is based on the parameters of the NAS and the learning outcome of students are being assessed on the basis of multiple-choice questions in selective subjects, including English, science, maths and social studies. Of the students appeared, 15% to 17% more were from government schools vis-a-vis aided schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/70-25-appear-for-pas-exam-from-ludhiana/articleshow/78863642.cms||Mehak Jain
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||Woman, daughter swept away in canal||Vadodara: A woman and her five-year-old daughter were swept away in Narmada Canal near Panchvati locality in Gorwa on Sunday. Police said Shilpa Vabul (25) was washing clothes on the bank of the canal and her daughter Urvashi was standing beside her. While loitering around her mother, Urvashi’s leg slipped and she fell into the canal. Shilpa jumped in to save her but got dragged in the current. Hearing her screams, locals rushed there and informed the fire brigade. Firemen searched in the canal till late evening but could not find the duo. On Monday morning, firemen from Chhani fire station will resume the search. “We have alerted Jawaharnagar police and Vadodara Taluka police to keep an eye in case they find anything in the canal in their jurisdiction,” said Gorwa police. The duo is native of Dahod and lives on Laxmipura-Ankodiya road. Shilpa’s husband works on contract in a private company in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-daughter-swept-away-in-canal/articleshow/78861828.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 40-year-old run over by cluster bus near Seelampur flyover||NEW DELHI: A 40-year-old man was run over by a speeding Cluster Scheme bus on the slip road next to the Seelampur flyover on Saturday night. The driver of the bus is absconding. The victim, identified as Raj Kumar Sharma, also worked as a driver. According to police, around 9.15pm, Sharma was returning home on his motorcycle and took the slip road when the speeding bus hit him from behind. Sharma was thrown off his bike. While the motorcycle went dragging meters ahead, Sharma came under the bus and died on the spot. Realising that the man has died, the driver of the bus, which was plying on a route between Kashmere Gate and Anand Vihar, took advantage of the crowd that had gathered at the site and managed to flee. Police are still looking for him. After a call from locals, a police team reached the spot and moved Sharma’s body to a mortuary for a postmortem. His family was also informed. Sharma is survived by his wife and two sons. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said a case of rash driving and for causing death due to negligence had been registered. A crime and forensic team also visited the spot. Police have seized the bus and Sharma’s bike for inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/40-yr-old-run-over-by-cluster-bus-near-seelampur-flyover/articleshow/78863009.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik police set to make tenant verification stricter||Nashik: The city police will be making it mandatory for the landlords of apartments and houses around the defence areas to mandatorily furnish all details of their tenants to the local police station.Two recent arrests made in connection with the passing of sensitive information — from the defence area of Deolali Camp and defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd — to Pakistan has prompted this step. DCP Vijay Kharat said while it is mandatory for landlords across the city to provide tenant information to the local police, in view of the two recent incidents, officials of the Deolali Camp, Upnagar and Indiranagar police stations, which are around defence establishments, will be instructed to strictly monitor if the landlords are actually furnishing information on their tenants.He said a meeting with the police officials would soon be held. If any landlord is found neglecting the directive, they will be booked under relevant sections of the IPC for not obeying police orders.Recently, a man was nabbed by the army personnel for sending a photograph of the prohibited area of Deolali Camp to a Pakistani WhatsApp group. Few days later, an employee of HAL was found sending secret information about the defence PSU to an ISI contact in Pakistan.In view of the two incidents, it became clear that Pakistan was trying to recruit agents in India through various means. In the two arrests made from Deolali Camp and HAL, the accused had no idea that they were working for Pakistan.Considering that the defence establishments in Nashik are sensitive, the city police have decided to increase their vigil around them and seeking tenant information from landlords to prevent any anti-national activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-set-to-make-tenant-verification-stricter/articleshow/78861745.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Undeterred, Tasnim Mir readies for Europe||AHMEDABAD: Tasnim Mir is no ordinary shuttler. Having won bronze at the Junior World Badminton Championship in Netherlands and lifted the Asian Junior (U-15) crown in Jakarta last year, apart from being the national champion in the under-13, 15 and 19 categories, the Mehsana girl is seen by many as the one to take up the mantle from Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu. “I have been involved with the Gujarat Badminton Association for more than two decades as an official and I have never seen such an exceptionally gifted player,”' said Mayur Parikh, secretary of the Gujarat Badminton Association and the joint secretary of Badminton Association of India. Tasnim is also one of the youngest shuttlers to be included in the Target Olympics Podium Scheme (TOPS) for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics. “The TOPS will be a big boost for her, morally and financially,” said her father Irfan Mir. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Tasnim’s progress has come to an abrupt halt, with international tournaments in Dubai, Slovakia and New Zealand cancelled this month. The 15-year-old is keeping her fingers crossed as some more international events are scheduled to take place in Portugal, Estonia and Denmark in the coming months. Speaking from Guwahati, where she is undergoing training at the Assam Badminton Academy under the supervision of world renowned coach Edwin Iriawan of Indonesia, Tasnim told TOI: “To keep myself fit, I am being coached by Edwin, who has earlier coached the top guns of Indian badminton at the Gopichand Badminton Academy in Hyderabad.” “I am able to increase my power and speed here as I play with boys,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/undeterred-tasnim-readies-for-europe/articleshow/78863059.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
October 26, 2020||Agra||UP Police launches probe after Mission Shakti awardee thrashes woman||AGRA: An inquiry was ordered on Sunday by police in Hathras after a woman councillor of the ruling BJP was given UP’s Mission Shakti award at a police station where an FIR was registered against her a few days ago for allegedly thrashing a woman. The state government has launched the Mission Shakti scheme to empower women. Opposition parties had launched an attack on the BJP government after councillor Babita Verma was given the award two days ago. And the probe was set up a day after TOI highlighted it. Circle officer (CO) Ruchi Gupta will inquire into the matter. CO Gupta said, “Mission Shakti programme was organised at Kotwali police station on October 23 in which many women representatives, including the councillor against whom a case has been registered, participated. The matter is being probed.” Congress district president Chandragupta Vikramaditya has said, “It is an irony that the woman who should be punished for harassing a poor family is being awarded in the same police station where an FIR has been registered against her.” A video purportedly showing the councillor beating a woman, Rukmani, was shared on social media platforms on October 16. The woman was opposing demolition of a wall of her rented house. In the video, Rukmani could be seen crying and pleading with the councillor and others not to demolish the wall. Instead of listening to her plea, Verma allegedly beat her up. District magistrate (DM) Praveen Kumar Laxkar took cognisance of the video and wrote on social media that action has been taken against her. Later, an FIR was registered against Verma, her husband and three others under various sections of IPC including 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 448 (house trespass) on a complaint filed by the victim's family. BJP’s city president of Hathras, Sarad Maheshwari, said that he will inform the party brass about this matter. “There is no place for such land grabbers in the party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-police-launch-probe-after-bjp-councillor-accused-of-thrashing-a-woman-gets-mission-shakti-award-at-a-thana/articleshow/78861742.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: M Sivasankar advised CA to stay quiet after racket bust||KOCHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) which submitted a chargesheet after probing into the money trail behind the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, has also found out that M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister, contacted his chartered accountant P Venugopal to talk about Swapna Suresh even after the racket got busted. ED, which arrayed Venugopal as a witness in their chargesheet, had relied on evidence including WhatsApp chats to state that ‘the role of M Sivasankar in the entire episode has to be thoroughly investigated’. However, it is yet to be seen if such evidence would be enough to charge Sivasankar with any offence. As per details of such a chat submitted in court by ED, Sivasankar texted Venugopal on August 1 asking, ‘All Ok?’ to which Venugopal responded: ‘Sir based on news reports my partners asked me…I told them the facts. I fully explained to my senior partner the full facts. What I told NIA, customs and my senior partner, wife, staff and the facts are the same. I shall forward all the WhatsApp chats with her.” On August 4, Sivasankar texted Venugopal again asking him, ‘All ok? Any updates?’ to which Venugopal replied: “I stayed in the house for two days. Newspaper people were trying to call and meet me in the house. I had kept the gate locked. I did not answer their calls so far.” To this Sivasankar replied: ‘Media has more or less moved on, stay quiet’ At the same time, ED has also found out that Sivasankar texted Venugopal on July 21 itself asking him to ready his financial documents. “Customs officials indicated that there will be an examination by Income Tax about my financial background, hope we have all documents. As you know, I have no clue at all about any of this,” Sivasankar told Venugopal and he responded to this saying: ‘I have full records with me. So, it is no problem…” ED has also found out that Sivasankar advised his CA to stay quiet and to even move out of the city to skip the media. “TV channels think Sanal Kumar is the CA. Just keep quiet. If possible just leave the city and be in Nagercoil or so,” Sivasankar texted Venugopal on August 1. In another message, on August 1, Sivasankar texted: “Is there a problem? If you stick to the truth, and reiterate the stated position that u advised the money can’t be deposited unless there is proof of source and tax paid, I think u won’t face any problem,” Sivasankar told Venugopal. Swapna was arrested from Bengaluru on July 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-advised-ca-to-stay-quiet-after-racket-bust/articleshow/78861753.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane for SoU trips leaves Maldives||File picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi boarding the seaplane on the Sabarmati riverfrontNew Delhi: The seaplane that will be used for starting flights between Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati riverfront and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s Statue of Unity in Kevadia from October 31 — the Iron Man’s birth anniversary — is on its way to India.A 15-seater DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft of Maldivian Aero, the country’s national airline, took off from Male on Sunday. It will reach Ahmedabad on Monday after two transit halts at Kochi and Goa, aviation ministry joint secretary Usha Padhee said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi — who famously took a seaplane from Ahmedabad in 2017 — will inaugurate this service. SpiceJet will use this leased aircraft to operate eight daily flights with a ticket price of about Rs 4,800.“For India’s first seaplane project, we had to turn to the experts in the field! The seaplane operations will take off with the assistance of Maldivian Aero (seaplane), pilots & crew! We thank the government of Maldives and Maldivian Aero for their support,” the High Commission of India in Maldives tweeted on Sunday.Following PM Modi’s direction, Airports Authority of India is developing water ports. The Centre had last year approved subsidised flights from six water airports that include Guwahati riverfront, Nagarjuna Sagar, Shatrunjay Dam and Umrangso reservoir under the third round of Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN) scheme. The first to take off will be the seaplane service between Sabarmati riverfront and the Statue of Unity.In August-end, the aviation ministry had approved 78 new routes under the fourth round of UDAN, which could see Kavaratti water aerodrome in Lakshadweep also getting flights. Agatti and Minicoy islands of Lakshadweep have also been connected by the new routes of UDAN-4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-for-sou-trips-leaves-maldives/articleshow/78863249.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 26, 2020||Delhi||ASI suspended after man dies in police station in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A suspect in a vehicle theft case died after allegedly jumping off the first floor of Lodhi Colony police station in south Delhi early on Sunday. A probe has been ordered and a magisterial inquiry has also been initiated. The cops inquiring the incident suspect that Dharambir (45) was trying to escape when the investigating officer went to the bathroom during questioning but fell on his head. The family has alleged foul play. Dharambir succumbed to the injuries in a hospital. Three policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector, have been sent to the district lines pending the inquiry. Vijay, the ASI who was the investigating officer, has been suspended for negligence. According to police, the car theft case was reported from Block 23 in Lodhi Colony on October 22. “During the examination of CCTV footage, it was seen that the accused people had come in an autorickshaw. The details of its registration number were obtained and the owner was traced,” said an officer. The owner told the cops that his father, Dharambir, had rented out the auto to two people. Dharambir, who was asked to join the investigation, led police to auto driver Satish and his associate Ghewar, who has 32 previous cases of vehicle thefts registered against him. Both were arrested. Police were also checking Dharambir’s role in the theft and called him to the Lodhi Colony police station on Saturday to be confronted with the disclosures of the other two. Investigations have revealed that the ASI, who was questioning him in a room on the first floor of the police station, went to the bathroom around 2.45am. On returning to the room, Vijay couldn’t find Dharambir and he was soon spotted lying in the central courtyard of the premises. He was immediately taken to AIIMS Trauma Center and the family members were informed. He died during treatment. “Information has been sent to the chief metropolitan magistrate for the needful action. Disciplinary action has been initiated and ASI Vijay has been suspended,” said a senior officer. The deceased’s family has alleged foul play. “He told us that he was inside the police station. Later, around 5am, we received a call from police saying that he has committed suicide and was at AIIMS.” The family briefly protested at Jorbagh Metro Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/asi-suspended-after-man-dies-in-police-stn-kin-allege-foul-play-probe-on/articleshow/78863013.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bareilly||Delhi businessman’s car runs over 3 army aspirants in UP’s Budaun||BAREILLY: Three youths were killed and another two were fighting for their lives in a hospital after a car of a Delhi-based businessman allegedly driven by his driver ran into a group of army aspirants jogging along the pavement in UP’s Budaun district early on Sunday. Sachin Singh (20), Yogendra Singh (18) and Jugnu Singh (21) died on the spot in Budaun’s Wazirganj area. Their two friends, Rahul, 18, and 15-year-old Dev, were taken to district hospital in a serious condition. All the youths belonged to families of farmers in nearby Kunhar village. According to police, the car came to a halt after ramming into a tree at 5:30am. The driver, identified as Asif, fled from the accident spot. He was later arrested. Locals held a protest on the highway and blocked the road, demanding action against the accused. The blockade was lifted a few hours later after senior police and administrative officials reached the spot and assured the protesters of action. The entire Kunhar village plunged into mourning on Sunday. And the three families, which lost their youths to the accident, were distraught. The group of youths used to get up as early as 4:30 in the morning for the jogging sessions. For them, a job in the army was a ticket out of poverty. Yogendra’s father Dhoom Singh said, “My son was intelligent and wanted to join the army. He was preparing hard to improve his fitness to ensure that he is able to crack the physical test whenever there is an opportunity. He and his friends used to leave at 4.30am every day and run for 10km.” Rajesh Kumar Singh, a local villager, told TOI, “Entire village is mourning the death of the three youths. We want strict action against the car driver whose negligence killed our children.” Budaun senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said, “We have arrested the car driver and seized the car from the spot. An FIR will be registered under IPC's sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-army-aspirants-killed-2-critical-as-car-of-a-delhi-bizman-runs-into-them-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/78861756.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi businessman’s car runs over 3 army aspirants in UP’s Budaun||BAREILLY: Three youths were killed and another two were fighting for their lives in a hospital after a car of a Delhi-based businessman allegedly driven by his driver ran into a group of army aspirants jogging along the pavement in UP’s Budaun district early on Sunday. Sachin Singh (20), Yogendra Singh (18) and Jugnu Singh (21) died on the spot in Budaun’s Wazirganj area. Their two friends, Rahul, 18, and 15-year-old Dev, were taken to district hospital in a serious condition. All the youths belonged to families of farmers in nearby Kunhar village. According to police, the car came to a halt after ramming into a tree at 5:30am. The driver, identified as Asif, fled from the accident spot. He was later arrested. Locals held a protest on the highway and blocked the road, demanding action against the accused. The blockade was lifted a few hours later after senior police and administrative officials reached the spot and assured the protesters of action. The entire Kunhar village plunged into mourning on Sunday. And the three families, which lost their youths to the accident, were distraught. The group of youths used to get up as early as 4:30 in the morning for the jogging sessions. For them, a job in the army was a ticket out of poverty. Yogendra’s father Dhoom Singh said, “My son was intelligent and wanted to join the army. He was preparing hard to improve his fitness to ensure that he is able to crack the physical test whenever there is an opportunity. He and his friends used to leave at 4.30am every day and run for 10km.” Rajesh Kumar Singh, a local villager, told TOI, “Entire village is mourning the death of the three youths. We want strict action against the car driver whose negligence killed our children.” Budaun senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said, “We have arrested the car driver and seized the car from the spot. An FIR will be registered under IPC's sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-army-aspirants-killed-2-critical-as-car-of-a-delhi-bizman-runs-into-them-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/78864115.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Recoveries climb above 2.96 lakh, day’s toll at 37||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 1,426 recoveries, double the new cases (771), on Saturday, taking its discharge count to more than 2.96 lakh. Among the new cases, 329 were added in the PMC limits, 172 in the PCMC limits and 270 in the rural as well as Cantonment areas. Besides, 37 more patients succumbed to Covid-related complications in PMR on Saturday, pushing its toll up to 7,676. Among the day’s fatalities, the highest 19 deaths were recorded in the PMC limits, six from the PCMC limits and 12 from the rural and Cantonment areas. With declining cases, the count of active cases in the region slipped below 15,000 to 14,789 on Saturday. Of these, as many as 7,630 patients were in home isolation and 7,159 admitted to various hospitals for the treatment, a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated. The report stated that 6,518 samples were tested in the region on Saturday, including 2,883 samples from the PMC limits, 1,984 from the PCMC limits and 1,651 from the rural areas. In the PMC limits, as many as 1,778 patients were on oxygen support till Saturday night. As many as 685 patients were at critical stage, of whom 366 were put on ventilator support. Health officials said they had been appealing citizens to get tested in case of basic symptoms. “Though the cases have dropped to some extent, the citizens still have to remain alert and follow all necessary precautionary measures. The citizens should not delay the treatment and they should get tested after developing basic symptoms,” a health official said. The officials said the residents were appealed to avoid overcrowding and strictly follow the social distancing norms at public places, especially during the festive period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-climb-to-2-96-lakh-days-toll-at-37/articleshow/78852259.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi hails two Gujarat initiatives: In 4G era, hardback wisdom||AHMEDABAD: For Ravjibhai Kacha, a retired school principal in Amreli, books are not just words printed on paper. “Books must be shared,” said the founder of five ‘Pustak Parabs’ in the town, including one in a hospital. His initiative was among the several mentioned by PM Narendra Modi in his radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ on Sunday. The other initiative from Gujarat cited by Modi was Vikas Vartul Trust from Bhavnagar. “This organization (Vikas Vartul Trust) is very helpful to students who are preparing for competitive exams,” the PM said. “This trust has been working since 1975 and provides 140 magazines and 5,000 books. ‘Pustak Parab’ is a similar organization. This is an innovative project which provides literary books along with other books, free of cost.” One of the two founders of the Vikas Vartul Trust said that the initiative started in 1975 when there was no source of guidance for those taking competitive or entrance exams. “We started as evening classes,” the co-founder said. “We then forayed into activities ranging from publishing a magazine for competitive exams and running a library to getting candidates exam forms and holding mock tests.” As for the PM’s words, Kacha said: “They will give the initiative new impetus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-hails-2-gujarat-initiatives-in-4g-era-hardback-wisdom/articleshow/78863222.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Man sells land using forged papers for Rs 16L, arrested||Nashik: The Adgaon police have arrested a 44-year-old man for allegedly taking Rs 16 lakh from a person on the pretext of selling a piece of land, which did not belong to him. The arrested man had two other accomplices. Police have launched a lookout for the two accomplices involved in the crime. The accused, identified as Rajendra Pandit Jagtap, is a resident of Untawadi in Nashik. The Adgaon police said Narendra Vijay Singh, a resident of Panchavati, had lodged a complaint with them on Friday. He said Jagatp, Mangesh Ahire of Tilakwadi and another person, who pretended to be Prakash Chaudhary, had taken Rs 16 lakh from him on the pretext of selling a plot. The complainant said the trio had prepared fake PAN card, election identity card for the Prakash Chaudhary imposter. They sold the complainant a plot measuring 241 sqmt in the Panchavati area , which actually belongs to the real Prakash Chaudhary, who currently resides in Malegaon. Subsequently, the complainant came to know that the person he bought the land from, was an imposter. The police arrested Rajendra Jagtap on Saturday and he was sent to police custody till October 30. Irfan Shaikh, a senior police inspector of the Adgaon police station, said the arrest was made under the guidance of police commissioner Deepak Pandey and deputy commissioner of police Amol Tambe. The police said Jagtap and the two other suspects could have cheated other people as well using the same modus operandi. If anyone from the city has been cheated similarly, the person concerned can contact the nearest police station or senior officials of the city police commissionerate, added the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-sells-land-using-forged-papers-for-rs-16l-arrested/articleshow/78861784.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Walayar girls’ mother on sathyagraha||PALAKKAD: Mother of the minor Dalit girls, who were allegedly raped and murdered three years ago, began an indefinite sathyagraha in front of her house at Walayar on Sunday demanding reinvestigation into the case. The Palakkad Pocso court had acquitted all the five accused last year for want of evidence and failure on the part of the prosecution to prove the charges. Inaugurating the sathyagraha, Palakkad M P V K Sreekatan accused the state government of not taking steps to conduct a reinvestigation into the case as promised to the family. The mother said that though chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had promised to conduct a reinvestigation, nothing happened. She said that there are six accused in the case. But only five were brought before the law. The sixth person was exempted, which remains a mystery. The stepfather of the girls said that the investigating officer had forced him to take the responsibility of the murder and assured to protect him in the case. But he refused to the demand of the officer and this shows that the police were protecting the culprits, he alleged. Meanwhile, minister for welfare of scheduled caste & scheduled tribes’ welfare A K Balan has appealed the mother of the deceased girls to end her sathyagraha as the government had gone for appeal in the case against acquitting the accused. Chennithala to visit parents today: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, on Monday, will visit the parents of the minor girls. The visit is to pledge his support to the mother, who is protesting in her house seeking justice. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/walayar-girls-mother-on-sathyagraha/articleshow/78861785.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Week 7: Dengue under control in Delhi, says CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: As the state government’s anti-dengue campaign — 10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute — entered its seventh week on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed that like last year, the vector-borne was under control in the capital. Kejriwal marked the eighth week of the campaign by changing accumulated water at his residence. The anti-dengue campaign has also garnered support from celebrities, who are, through the social media, encouraging citizens to change accumulated water to prevent mosquito breeding. A statement from the CM’s office said that well-known singer Shankar Mahadevan also participated in the campaign on Sunday to encourage citizens to follow dengue-prevention measures. Mahadevan will be encouraging Delhiites to religiously follow dengue prevention guidelines, such as inspecting their residences for signs of stagnant water, draining accumulated water or adding a layer of oil or petrol to it to prevent breeding of mosquitoes, the statement added. Last year, the anti-dengue campaign had received cooperation and support of public figures, such as veteran cricketer Virender Sehwag among others. Taking to social media, Kejriwal tweeted: “On the 8th Sunday of Delhi’s fight against dengue, I inspected my house for accumulated water and changed it. To prevent dengue, we have to stop the breeding of mosquitoes. Just like last year, dengue is under control in Delhi (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/week-7-dengue-under-control-in-capital-says-cm/articleshow/78863022.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dussehra symptom: Fafda-jalebi fever stays||AHMEDABAD: Even though long queues were missing outside farsan and sweet shops on Sunday morning, people were waiting with masks and in their parked cars or in waiting areas for their fafda-jalebi. Rushing food delivery personnel and the flood of posts about mouthwatering fafda with pickled pumpkin and crispy golden jalebis, hashtagged #foodgasm, roundly described Amdavadis’ appetite for sweets and savouries this Dussehra. Estimates suggest that an average of 50kg of jalebis and 100kg of fafda were sold on the day by each store in Ahmedabad on Dussehra. Farsan and sweet shop owners said their business remained lukewarm as the civic authorities had strictly forbidden queues outside stores on Dussehra. Estimates suggest that the demand, even though good, failed to fuel sales which did not go past 50% of sales made last year, when an estimated Rs 25 crore worth of fafda and jalebis were sold in the city. “After the pandemic, people have become health conscious. However, there are many others, waiting for Dussehra to relish their favourite sweets and savouries. Though sales was better than a normal day, it remained below 50% of last year’s festival,” said Hiren Gandhi, chairman, GCCI food committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dussehra-symptom-fafda-jalebi-fever-stays/articleshow/78863083.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Amritsar||Machines not enough to stop the fire in Punjab||BATHINDA: The rapid pace with which the leftover crop residue is being burnt in Punjab despite being provided a large number of machines under the crop residue management (CRM) is turning out to be a cause of concern for the state government. The claims of various district administrations of various village panchayats passing resolutions against stubble burning are falling flat. Read the entire story on TOI+Why farm fires continue to pollute our air||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/machines-not-enough-to-stop-the-fire/articleshow/78863671.cms||Neel Kamal
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||IT room of Manjalpur police station gutted||Vadodara: Computer room of Manjalpur police station was completely gutted as short-circuit sparked a fire in the early hours of Sunday. Police officials said that around 4.30am, the police station officer (PSO) Alsinhbhai Daliyabhai sensed a burning smell so he went to check behind the police station. He saw smoke coming out of the computer room so he immediately alerted Makarpura GIDC fire station. Firemen controlled the fire in a short span of time, but the computer room was completely gutted. Two computers, some records, CCTV cameras and electrical fittings were damaged. “The computer room is in the rear part of the police station and at night since the staff is less at the police station it would not have been possible to know about the fire until other parts would have caught fire,” said a police official. It was only because the PSO went and checked that the damage could be controlled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/it-room-of-manjalpur-police-station-gutted/articleshow/78861843.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||People with physical disabilities demand issuance of certificates||Nashik: People with physical disabilities have been demanding the issuance of ‘disability’ certificates which are required to get the benefits announced by the governments for them.Some of the benefits that are provided to them are by the railways and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). They are also entitled to benefits if they wish to apply as a beneficiary in some kind of government scheme that is related to some business, procuring loan or rehabilitation programme, or even as beneficiaries under Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana.Vikas Salve, one of the members of the organisation for the people with physical disabilities, said, “For the past seven months, people with physical disabilities have been unable to get their certificates from the authorities. Many of us are facing problems in providing certificates, which are required to get the benefits under government schemes at various levels. The certificates are issued in civil hospital but as of now, that office has been closed.Some people with physical disabilities are unable to travel to Mumbai even for their treatment. This becomes expensive at a time when Covid-19 has already affected their daily income.According to officials from the civil hospital, the certificates were being provided from the office but it was closed by the orders of the state government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It will take another 15 days at least to start the system. “The office was closed to avoid the rush of the citizens and contain the spread of the infection. But now, the government has allowed the functioning of the office and hence they will be shortly available for the citizens concerned,” an officer said. The officer also pointed out that the arrangement to file the applications at sub-civil hospitals is being made so that the people can file their applications at the place nearest to their houses. The same will be transported to the civil hospital for verification and other formalities before the certificates are issued to the person concerned, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/people-with-physical-disabilities-demand-issuance-of-certificates/articleshow/78861794.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Tiger which spread panic in Wayanad district trapped||KOZHIKODE: Forest department on Sunday captured the tiger which had spread panic in Cheyambam-73 and nearby areas along the forest fringes near Pulpally in Wayanad for one and a half months. The nine-year-old tigress got trapped in a cage installed by the department at Anappanthi on October 8. The department had deployed two cages to capture the tiger after it killed around 15 goats and strayed into human habitations frequently. According to south Wayanad divisional forest officer, P Renjithkumar the tiger does not have any visible injuries and a detailed medical examination would be done on Monday. After its capture at 6am, the tiger was taken to the Irulam forest station. Chief forest veterinary officer Dr Arun Zachariah conducted a preliminary examination of the tiger. “We will decide the next course of action after the tiger’s medical examination. There should be a reason for the animal’s frequent straying outside the forests and resorting to cattle lifting,” he said. Normally injured or aged animals stray outside the forests and engage in serial cattle lifting. Chethalayam range forest officer Sashi Kumar said that the tiger had killed 15 goats during the last 1.5 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tiger-which-spread-panic-in-wayanad-dist-trapped/articleshow/78861791.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 26, 2020||Bareilly||Cooperative society official booked in Pilibhit for 'fraud'||PILIBHIT: An official of a multipurpose cooperative society was booked in Pilibhit district on Saturday night for showing two motorcycles as trucks hired for the transportation of paddy from government procurement centres to rice mills for hulling. A complaint was filed by district manager of Uttar Pradesh Cooperative Union Limited (PCU), Ramkesh, against the accused Ashok Kumar. Sungarhi SHO Atar Singh said that Kumar has been booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property) of IPC. The matter came to light during the verification of vehicles by the assistant regional transport officer, administration. The complainant, Ramkesh, said that during the e-tendering of paddy transportation from seven procurement centres of PCU, the tenders had been finalised in the name of a cooperative society. After the departmental direction, Kumar had filed a list of seven trucks attached to seven procurement centres, their registration numbers and the concerned drivers’ names to the department. Here, the registration numbers of two trucks were found to be of motorcycles, he said. It is a fraud and against the norms of the departmental tendering procedure, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cooperative-society-official-booked-in-pilibhit-for-fraud/articleshow/78861788.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Teen’s body found under bed, uncle prime suspect||NEW DELHI: An 18-year-old woman was allegedly killed by her uncle at their house in northeast Delhi’s Nand Nagri on Saturday night. Her body was found under a bed in the house. The woman, who was a native Bihar, lived with her aunt and uncle. Police are searching for the woman’s uncle who is absconding since Saturday night and is the prime suspect in the murder. The aunt and the uncle worked as beggars in the area. A sexual assault on the woman is yet to be ruled out. Locals have alleged that the uncle seemed mentally disturbed. Police said that the aunt returned home on Saturday night and found the house locked from outside. She thought her husband and neice must have stepped out for some work and waited until late. She slept at a neighbour’s house when no one turned up. Finding the door still locked the next day, she took the help of neighbours to break into the house and found her neice’s body under a bed. The aunt then called the police and a case of murder was registered. The body was sent for an autopsy. Police are waiting for the report to ascertain the cause of death and also rule out the the possibility of a sexual assault. No visible injury marks were found on the teen’s body. A senior police officer said the uncle is missing since Saturday evening. When questioned, the aunt was also unaware of her husband’s whereabouts. She told the cops that her husband often returned home late. Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said the uncle is the main suspect in the case. “Several teams have been set up to probe the murder,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teens-body-found-under-bed-uncle-prime-suspect/articleshow/78863048.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Activists booked for attacking officials||CHANDIGARH: A day after the clash between Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force and members of Sikh organisations protesting inside Golden Temple over missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib, Amritsar police registered an FIR on charges of attempt to murder and rioting against over 50 Sikh activists. The criminal case has been registered on the complaint of SGPC’s Mahinder Singh against Sikh activists who have been protesting outside the SGPC office at Teja Singh Samundri Hall since September 14. The complainant submitted that the activists not only used abusive language against SGPC members but also attacked them with weapons on Saturday. Sukhjit Singh Khosa, Dilbagh Singh, Manjit Singh Chabhal, Baljit Singh Muchhal, Manjeet Kaur, Lakhbir Singh Mehkam and 50 others have been booked under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Over 10 persons on both sides were injured in clashes. Many of them are undergoing treatment in Guru Ram Das hospital. On September 15, a similar clash broke out between the SGPC task force and Sikh activists outside the Teja Singh Samundri Hall. Addressing media persons in Amritsar on Sunday, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal demanded strict action against those who attacked the SGPC employees. He alleged that the Congress government in Punjab is trying to overthrow the SGPC. Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee head Balbir Singh Muchhal said though the Amritsar police personnel were quick in registering a criminal case against them but they had not even asked about the condition of injured activists. Jathedar Jagtar Singh Hawara committee members termed the violent clash unfortunate and a violation of the Darbar Sahib code of conduct. SGPC should have provided information about saroops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/activists-booked-for-attacking-officials/articleshow/78863679.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab farmers demand cash, EPCA terms it perverse incentive||BATHINDA: Punjab farmers want that all the machinery, including tractors, be provided free of cost or cash incentive be given to them to manage the paddy straw. On the other hand, the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) has stressed the need to discourage the idea, calling it a perverse practice. EPCA — a central government constituted committee for the National Capital Region in compliance with the Supreme Court order — has told the the Punjab government that it can give cash incentive to farmers from its coffers if it wants. At its end, Punjab has made no provision for cash incentive but claims to have provided 62,000 machines to custom hiring centres and individual farmers to deal with crop residue. Yet, the state countryside is engulfed in flames and fumes. “We have no other option than burning stubble if the authorities do not provide us machines for management as well as transport to take the bales out of our fields at its own cost. Or they can give us cash for it. Stubble burning will continue. We are not afraid of any penal action,” said farmer Gobind Singh from Ferozepur, asking not to mention his village’s name. Ferozepur district has so far witnessed maximum straw burning cases after Tarn Taran and Amritsar. Farmer Gurmukh Singh from a Moga village said, “We do not want any confrontation but the government is forcing us. If we are unable to manage paddy straw, why doesn’t government or its agencies do it at their own cost if they are really worried about the environment.” Moga district administration had claimed that 73% of its panchayats have passed resolutions against stubble burning. The head of a panchayat in Mansa said they had asked farmers not to burn stubble. “We even made announcement from speaker system but some farmers have still burned it. We only can try to convince them and cannot use force against those who go against the panchayat’s directive.” Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said, “Either the government should make arrangement for managing the paddy stubble on its own or it should provide farmers Rs 200 per quintal bonus or Rs 5,000 per acre.” On September 30, EPCA, stated while there was a demand for additional funds to be paid to farmers for stubble management, it could be a perverse incentive and it may not be advisable. “After deliberations it was found that inclusion of cost of stubble removal in MSP may not be a viable option. It has been agreed that any such incentive, if at all necessary, should be provided by the state government from their own budget.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-demand-cash-epca-terms-it-perverse-incentive/articleshow/78863676.cms||Neel Kamal
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vehicle sales reach 83% of 2019 figures in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Driving a new vehicle home is considered auspicious on Dussehra and the day indeed spelled good news for car and two-wheeler dealerships across Gujarat, with buoyant sales. According to estimates by Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA), an estimated 11,100 vehicles were sold across Ahmedabad on Sunday. These include 8,500 two-wheelers and 2,600 four-wheelers. This means that the sales have 83% of that of last year’s in Ahmedabad. Sharing more details, Pranav Shah, chairman, Gujarat, FADA, said, “The sales were better than expected on Dussehra and it has given the much-needed cushion to the vehicle dealerships.” Others echoed the view. “Cashback offers, discounts worked well in wooing customers for buying two-wheeler,s mainly driven by pent-up demand of the past few months. Sales were significantly good at our dealerships. However, they still fell short by 10% against last year’s Dussehra sales,” said Malav Shah, a city-based two-wheeler dealer. “The rising preference for personal vehicles after the pandemic, as well as launching of new models has worked well as far as car sales are concerned,” said Rajnish Arora, CEO of a city-based group of dealerships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vehicle-sales-reach-83-of-2019-figures/articleshow/78863130.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Consumers can file grievances online from anywhere in Maha||Nashik: Consumers facing any issues regarding the goods and services they have purchased or utilized can now register their complaints online without having to visit the district consumer redressal commission.The Consumer Protection Act, 2019, allows for online filing of complaints. The facility is currently available only for Maharashtra and New Delhi. Already, the Act has made it possible for the people to register their complaints across the country, but in physical form. Soon, the same system will also be extended to ‘edaakhil’ so that consumers can register complaints from anywhere in the country.“The system is very simple and user-friendly. All one needs to do is visit edaakhil.nic.in, register on the website one time and file the complaint without anybody’s help. Videos and manuals in Hindi and English language have been made available to help complainants understand the process,” said Arun Deshpande, of food commission of Maharashtra and the national secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Grahak Panchayat.An officer of the district consumer redressal commission said a consumer in any part of Maharashtra can register the complaint from anywhere within the state without having to worry about jurisdiction.At the time of the final hearing, people can join via social interactive applications like Zoom or Google Meet, said Milind Sonawane, the president of the district consumers complaint redressal forum.There was another online initiative — Consumer Connect — in the past, but the complainant had to spend an additional sum besides the court fee.Explaining the process, the officer said a complainant can go through the videos and fill in the blanks as required by the website and submit their proof of transaction and file the complaint. The commission will verify the complainant, the claim and then issue notices to the other parties keeping the complainant in the loop. It will also provide a written reply from the other parties to the complainant who can again file a rejoinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/consumers-can-file-grievances-online-from-anywhere-in-maha/articleshow/78861800.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll: BJP’s Nayab move to counter LSP’s Saini||CHANDIGARH: To ensure mobilisation of non-Jat voters and check polarisation by Loktantar Suraksha Party (LSP) chief Raj Kumar Saini, Haryana BJP on Sunday pressed into service Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini for campaigning for Baroda assembly byelection. Accompanied by leaders of backward classes, Nayab will be visiting villages largely dominated by the non-Jat pockets of backward classes and scheduled caste voters. Nayab refrained from naming Raj Kumar Saini, but he intensified his attack on leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda. “Time has come when residents of Baroda want participation in governance, and that too through an elected representative of their own. People here understand the gimmicks of caste polarisation. Hence, this is an election on the issue of development,” said Nayab. “After demise of Sri Krishan Hooda ji, CM Manohar Lal himself has assured to represent this constituency till election of new MLA. He has got the development works done and has got approved the university and college for this area,” added Nayab. Interacting with media at Gohana office of BJP, Nayab continued to target Congress and Hoodas. Referring to issues related to farmers, Nayab categorically blamed Congress and its leaders for fanning farm legislation protests across the state. “Those agitating are not farmers, but members and workers of Congress,” said Nayab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/baroda-bypoll-bjps-nayab-move-to-counter-lsps-saini/articleshow/78863680.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Residents hold online protest against barat ghar in Greater Kailash-II||NEW DELHI: Residents of Greater Kailash-II, along with the area MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj, on Sunday held an e-protest against the usage of the community centre in Uday Shankar Park as a barat ghar. They alleged that wedding ceremonies would lead to disruption of peace in the locality, while adding to air and noise pollution and traffic congestion. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) deputy mayor and the area councillor Subhash Bhadana, however, claimed that the allegations were baseless and only a senior citizens’ recreational centre had been opened in a section of the building. “We also plan to add a library and an indoor games centre for youngsters, apart from anything else demanded by the local residents. There are no plans to open a barat ghar and any decision will be taken in consultation with the area residents. No one approached me or SDMC over the issue,” Bhadana said. Chetan Sharma, an organiser of the protest, said the civic body should assure categorically that the building won’t be turned into a marriage hall. “The building is in the heart of a residential area. Converting it into a marriage hall will ruin the peaceful environment of the neighbourhood. The narrow entry point will become a traffic nightmare,” he added. Bharadwaj said the issue was pending since 2014, when construction of the building had started. “All residents of GK-II and CR Park have been opposing it as this road is an arterial one for them. The local RWA conspired in providing an NOC in court. The judgment that came in 2019 is being executed secretly. The RWA didn’t even call a general body meeting,” he claimed. However, GK-II RWA president Sanjay Rana said they had always opposed creation of the barat ghar and the matter was being unnecessarily politicised. “The court gave permission to use the building as a community hall. There is no reference to a barat ghar in the judgment. The RWA has already sent two representations saying no barat ghat was acceptable keeping in mind the sentiments of people,” he added. Shikhar Talwar, a resident, said opening of the barat ghar would create a nuisance and cause them a lot of suffering. Bhavana Gupta, another resident, said that GK-II needed a club to conduct activities for children, youngsters and senior citizens. Tapan Mukherjee, a third resident, said that a community centre used for weddings already existed near Jahanpanah City Forest and its utilisation was very low. Rajiv Kumar, a local resident, said the place should be developed into a facility like India International Centre. “I have been living here since 1978. We need to protect this space for the next generation. Our fight is for a green gated colony,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-hold-online-protest-against-barat-ghar-in-gk-ii/articleshow/78863107.cms||Paras Singh
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||RT-PCR or rapid? Test ‘mix-up’ sparks concern in Bhopal||BHOPAL: If you undergo an antigen test in Bhopal, you may get a text message about your ‘RT-PCR report’. Or none at all — SMS or otherwise. The bizarre test mix-up could be giving people false hope that their sample was tested through the more reliable RT-PCR method, while antigen tests are known to often give false negatives. It’s particularly worrying since nearly 50% tests in Bhopal now are antigen tests. Most patients are unable to distinguish between rapid and RT-PCR test. Going by Union government protocol, if a person with symptoms comes negative in a rapid test, they must undergo an RT-PCR test. When a person undergoes Covid-19 test in a fever clinic, they receive an OTP to verify their report in “RT-PCR Mobile App” even if they underwent a rapid antigen test. “The message is creating confusion. One information channel indicates the test was through rapid antigen, while another says my test was through RT-PCR. We never received any formal report,” said a 40-year-old consultant. His neighbours, who underwent precautionary Covid-19 tests, have not received their reports after five days. As per protocol, all testing data is essentially uploaded on the Covid-19 web portal. Patients can view their result from a link and code sent to their registered mobile number. However, many patients were informed verbally that they had tested positive and never received a confirmation report. This is a recurring complaint. TOI contacted three Covid-19 patients at random to learn of their experience. They are in their 20s, well-educated, and quite tech savvy. A 29-year-old resident of Swardharmn Colony was tested at home after a family member came positive in August. He was admitted to an institutional quarantine centre. “I never received my test report. I just got a call saying my test was positive,” he said. Strangely, health records indicate a rapid test conducted through a private hospital while contact history says he was tested at a fever clinic. Both go against the account given by the patient. In September, a 28-year-old woman and her husband went for Covid tests the same day. She was tested twice. Government hospital doctors informed her that she was infected with Covid-19. A health team went to her home in Minal Residency and she was hospitalised. The family never received any text message, let alone a physical report, that she tested positive. Her husband still doesn’t know why she was tested twice the same day. Health records indicate she underwent rapid test, but her husband insists she underwent RT-PCR test too. A family from Hoshangabad got themselves tested at a clinic. They were told that one person tested positive through rapid test but they never received any report. They were tested twice in two weeks, and don’t have a report to show for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rt-pcr-or-rapid-test-mix-up-sparks-concern-in-bhopal/articleshow/78863134.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite low footfall, Mansa Devi temple gets Rs 1.31 crore||PANCHKULA: Despite half the number of devotees visiting the Mata Mansa Devi temple due to Covid-19 this year, the cash donations received by the temple during the Navaratras has broken all the records of the last two years. Mansa Devi and Kali Mata temples together received Rs 1.31 crore in donation, besides gold, silver and foreign currencies. Chief executive officer (CEO) of the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board M S Yadav said both the temples during the nine-day festival received Rs 1.31 crore in cash from 1,45,000 devotees. In 2019, the temple received Rs 1.29 crore in donation. In 2018, a total of Rs 1.28 crore cash was received. Besides gold and silver nuggets, foreign currencies, including 112 US Dollars, 45 Canadian Dollars, 225 Australian Dollars, 5 England Pounds and 75 European Euros, were also donated. On the last day, Mansa Devi temple received Rs 8.05 lakh and Kali Mata temple received Rs 5.12 lakh in donation. Sindoor Utsav at 9.30am The Tricity-based Bengali residents enjoyed the four-day long Durga Puja festivities. The immersion of the idols will not be a grand event this year. No visitor will be allowed to join the procession. However, women will be allowed to participate in the Sindoor Utsav at 9.30 am. The timing for the idol immersion is 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-low-footfall-mansa-devi-temple-gets-rs-1-31-crore/articleshow/78863683.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
October 26, 2020||Bareilly||18 months on, leopard suspected of killing domestic animals in Pilibhit's Amaria trapped||PILIBHIT: A leopard that is suspected to have killed over two dozen pedigreed pets and small livestock across six villages in Pilibhit's Amaria block in a span of 18 months was finally trapped late on Saturday night. Villagers woke up on Sunday morning to learn that the leopard had been caught. It was spitting and snarling as it paced about the cage set up to trap it at Surajpur village. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer of the forest and wildlife division, said the leopard was five years old and found to be afflicted with an old injury in its front paw during medical examination. This could be the reason why it hunted domestic animals as it was unable to chase wild herbivores. The leopard is being shifted to Kanpur zoo for treatment, he added. Kumar said four cages were placed at Surajpur, Bishanpur and Katmati villages on August 27 with live baits to trap the feline but it had managed to evade capture. “Three field teams were monitoring the leopard's movement for the past two months. Care was also taken of the goats kept as baits to capture the big cat during the day hours," the forest officer said. While locals heaved a sigh of relief over the big cat's capture, they expressed concern over the migration of new leopards to this agricultural belt -- a pair of three-year-old leopards spotted near Tanda Bijesi and another leopard at Tondarpur village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/18-months-on-leopard-suspected-of-killing-domestic-animals-in-pilibhits-amaria-trapped/articleshow/78861802.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Drug lab assistant shot at near home in Sector 22||CHANDIGARH: A masked man shot at a 48-year-old resident of Sector 22 near his house in the early hours of Sunday, the fifth gun crime in the city in a fortnight. Amrik Singh, a laboratory technician at the Drug & Food Chemical Laboratory, Kharar. Mohali, was walking back home from a gurdwara in his sector around 6am. As he reached near his house, a man wearing a hooded sweatshirt, a mask and half pants, pressed the trigger of his gun twice. One of the bullets hit the right thigh of Amrik, while the other misfired. Amrik had recently tested positive for Covid-19 and recovered just a few days back after spending two weeks in home isolation. Family members said he used to go to the gurdwara around 5am daily. Police said the accused knew about his routine and was waiting for him with a gun hidden in his sweatshirt. Cops are recording the statements of Amrik’s colleagues to know the reason behind the attack. He works in the same office where drug officer Neha Shoree was shot dead on March 29, 2019. A PCR vehicle took Amrik to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Later, the injured was shifted to the trauma centre at PGI. Doctors operated upon him and said he is out of danger. Police said no CCTV cameras were installed near the crime spot. Eyewitnesses said the accused fled on a motorcycle. A crime branch and forensic team and Sector 17 police inspected the crime spot. Police found one empty bullet shell and a live cartridge of .32 bore. Police registered an attempt to murder case and under Sections of Arms Act. WORKS IN OFFICE WHERE Officer WAS Killed Amrik Singh, the victim, works in the same Kharar office in which Neha Shoree, who was posted as zonal licensing authority, was shot dead on March 29, 2019. Mohali police had concluded accused Balwinder Singh had held her responsible for cancellation of his drug licence in 2009 and nursed a grudge against her. Neha’s parents have alleged she was killed at the behest of drug mafia. They had moved the high court alleging inaction TRIGGER-HAPPY GOONS October 19 | A garment and liquor trader of Sector 25 was shot at by two criminals at his shop. The victim had accused Shiv Charan , in-charge of Sector 24 police post of sending the shooters to kill him. Later, UT SSP suspended the cop. The accused are yet to be caught October 12 | A Zirakpur resident and a former TikTok star was shot at by an unidentified person at a nightclub in Sector 9 after a spat over throwing currency notes on the dance floor. The accused is on the run October 12 | Monty Shah, a resident of Sector 45 and a close aide of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, was caught on camera trying to kill two witnesses in the murder of history-sheeter Sonu Shah. Police had arrested three people from Hanumangarh in Rajasthan for sheltering Monty Shah, who is still on the run October 11 | Former SOPU president Gurlal Brar was gunned down by two assailants riding on a bike outside a mall in Industrial Area, Phase I||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/drug-lab-asst-shot-at-near-home-in-sec-22/articleshow/78863688.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Yellow metal beats Covid blues, shines on auspicious Dasara day||Nashik: The auspicious day of Dasara — traditionally a day when people buy jewellery, property, automobiles or consumer goods — helped gold regain its shine after a dull period of almost seven months brought on by the Covid crisis. According to sources, jewellers in the city did business worth nearly Rs 30 crore on Dasara. Customers thronged the different jewellery showrooms, particularly in the evening. Jewellers in the city said most people came to buy gold ornaments, bars and coins and other silver articles. Most of the customers who had booked their jewellery during Navaratra, took delivery on Dasara. “We had good business after almost seven months of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are expecting the positive trend to continue for the next two-three months considering the upcoming Diwali festival and wedding season,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, the president of Nashik Jewellers’ Association. “This year, we also saw the younger generation investing in gold. The youth have been encouraged by the good returns on gold over the past year” said Rajapurkar. Gold prices were recorded at Rs 53,200 for every 10gm on Sunday. Last year, on Dasara, gold was priced at Rs 38,500 per 10 gm. Silver price on Sunday was recorded at 64,000 per kg, against the price of Rs Rs 46,000 per kg on the same festive day last year. There are a total 5,000 small and large jewellery showrooms across the district, including 1,400 shops within the limits of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). There are close to 250 shops at the major jewellery market Saraf Bazaar alone. Realty sector builds on festive spirit The festive season has also provided some boost to the realty sector in the city. According to office-bearers of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) Nashik, more than 100 flats, collectively worth Rs 35 crore, were booked on the auspicious occasion of Dasara. “There were many bookings on Dasara. Moreover, we had many site visits by potential buyers. We are expecting more bookings by Diwali. The demand was mainly for mid-size flats in the Rs 30-40 lakh price range,” said an office-bearer of Credai-Nashik. The state government has already reduced the stamp duty to 3% and waived the 1% local body cess. Therefore, many people have booked flats on this auspicious occasion. The city also witnessed a positive mood in the automobile market as there was good demand for both four-wheelers and two-wheelers in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yellow-metal-beats-covid-blues-shines-on-auspicious-dasara-day/articleshow/78861830.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 Covid deaths, 61 new cases & 25 recoveries||CHANDIGARH: The city reported two deaths and 61 new cases on Sunday. The active case count has now reached 653, while the confirmed cases are 14,038. Till date 218 patients have died due to the virus. Meanwhile, 80 patients got discharged after treatment from home isolation. A total of 13167 patients have been cured of the virus. Those who died include a 73-year-old man from Sector 44. He was a case of Type II Diabetes Mellitus and Hypertension. Another patient is a 70-year-old woman from Sector 30. She was also a case of Type II Diabetes Mellitus and Hypertension and died at Governement Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh. After 20 days in succession, the Mohali district saw low recoveries then the number of positive cases on Sunday. However, the number of positive cases is gradually declining as 39 fresh cases were reported, with 16 recoveries. No death was reported. “With 16 more patients being discharged in Mohali and 39 fresh cases surfacing, the total active cases count has slightly increased, to be recorded at 548 and the total fatalities remaining at 232 in the district,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. “The Mohali urban areas saw 25 cases, which were 64.10% of the total positive cases, followed Kharar (7), Derabassi (4), Dhakoli (2) and Lalru (1),” said civil surgeon G B Singh. Panchkula too reported one death and eight fresh cases. Thus, taking the case tally to 6,979 cases, including 185 active cases and a total of 110 deaths. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said a 56-year-old woman, a resident of Marranwala, died due to Coid-19. The recovery rate in the district stands at 95.77 %. Out of 6,979 cases, 6,684 have been cured and discharged from the Sector 6 civil hospital. Ambala: One dies, 11 test positive Ambala: Ambala district reported one Covid-19 death and 11 fresh cases. The case tally is now 8,824 with 180 active cases and the death toll now stands at 110. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said the 37-year-old manm who died, did not have comorbidity, but was suffering from cough, cold, fever and faced breathing issues from the past seven days. The patient was taking medicines from a private doctor and neither the patient nor the doctor informed the health department. He was admitted to Mission Hospital in Ambala on October 22, from where he was referred to a private hospital in Panchkula and he succumbed. Ambala City reported five cases, followed by Ambala Cantt (4), Chourmastpur (1) and Shahzadpur (1). As many as 25 patients were discharged, taking the recovery count to 8,534 with 96.71% as the recovery rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-reports-2-covid-deaths-61-new-cases-25-recoveries/articleshow/78863685.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Nashik||Civic chief scraps tender committee||Nashik: Kailas Jadhav, the commissioner of the Nashik Municipal Corporation, has abolished the tender monitoring committee given the slow pace of finalising the tenders of various projects. Now, the senior officials of the department concerned will finalise the tenders. This committee was set up under the aegis of additional commissioner during the tenure of former municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game to speed up the tender process. But the slow pace has led to the delays in the tender process of several projects. Some members of the NMC’s Women and Children Welfare Committee had levelled allegations against the committee for delaying the tenders of various works from its department. Moreover, there were also allegations of this committee making tender norms for pest control project favourable for some specific contractors. The pest control project had come in controversy because of the increasing tender cost from the previous Rs 19 crore to Rs 47 crore. Taking the serious cognizance of this, the civic chief had also abolished the tender process of the pest control contract.  “I have abolished the tender monitoring committee of the NMC due to its slow pace of finalising the tenders of various projects. Now, the experts or senior officials from the department concerned will monitor the tender process of their projects,” said Jadhav. The commissioner has also set up a new committee, chaired by the superintending engineer, to prepare the draft of conditions for a tender of pest control project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-scraps-tender-committee/articleshow/78861819.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Check your slip before you leave parking lot||NEW DELHI: The next time you drive to a busy market during this festive season, be very careful while leaving your vehicle at authorised parking lots. A visitor to Connaught Place was shocked to discover that the parking attendant had handed him a used slip on which the old number had been scratched out and his vehicle’s number and time of entry scribbled on it. The incident took place on Saturday. The visitor realised this fraudulent act after nearly two hours of parking his vehicle. The situation was scary as anyone could have stolen his vehicle and there would have been no way he would have been able to prove that he had parked his car there. Besides posing a risk to vehicles, such practices even result in revenue losses to New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), which allots the parking lots in its areas to private concessionaires. Talking to TOI, the visitor said that he kept the parking slip in his pocket after it was issued by the attendant without giving it a glance. Later, when he checked the slip to see the time of entry as parking is chargeable by the hour, he was shocked to see his vehicle’s number scribbled on an old slip. “I was alarmed at this because if anything had happened to my vehicle, I wouldn’t have been able to claim anything,” he added. “When I returned to the parking lot and raised the matter with the attendant, he didn’t respond to my queries and kept ignoring the issue. Given his attitude, it made me realise that he must be adopting the same cheating tactic with other customers,” said the visitor. Amit Gupta, executive member of New Delhi Traders’ Association, said issuing of wrong or fake parking slips was rampant when manual slips used to be issued. “Now, all entries are done online using handheld devices. However, overwriting on old receipts may still be happening at the ground level,” he added. Unlike the other municipalities in the city, which charge fixed amounts annually from parking contractors, NDMC takes a fixed amount as well as a share in revenue. In Connaught Place, a contractor has to pay Rs 75 lakh annually, in addition to a share in the income generated each month. After NDMC was informed about this fraudulent act, it sought an explanation from the parking contractor. “We have forwarded a copy of the parking slip to the contractor and demanded a reply. We will take action if the reply is not found satisfactory. This kind of act, even if done by the contractor’s staff, is unacceptable and creates panic among users,” said an official. “We would also like to request visitors to always seek a fresh computerised slip from the attendants, apart from the final slip once you make the payment at the time of exit. We will also ask officials to conduct random checks to avert such malpractice,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/check-your-slip-before-you-leave-parking-lot/articleshow/78863137.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Festival fuels demand for jewellery||Ahmedabad: The auspicious muhurat of Dussehra fuelled the release of long pent-up demand for precious metals – gold and silver. Gold and silver jewellery sales remained buoyant on account of Dussehra on Sunday. While overall sales remained low by 60% across the city, several jewellery showrooms saw a decent rush of customers. Estimates by Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA) suggest that nearly 200kg of gold was traded across the state in a single day on Sunday. Gold price settled at Rs 52,700 per 10 gram on Sunday and silver price stood at Rs 63,500 per kilogram. “Stability in prices is the biggest factor that has driven the demand for precious metals, particularly gold. The demand was good, and after a long time jewellery stores across the state saw customer rush. However, there may be an average 60% decline against last year’s Dussehra in terms of volume,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). Due to the upcoming wedding season, the demand for gold and diamond jewellery was significantly good on Sunday. “Most of our customers came to purchase jewellery for weddings. The demand for lightweight jewellery was there, but minimal. Most are regular customers who tend to make purchases either in form of gold or silver coins or jewellery to honour the auspicious day,” said Manoj Soni, a city-based jeweller. Discounts offered by jewellers have further fuelled demand. “Demand from rural areas is typically good and we expect more demand in the days to come. We are offering good discounts on making charges and this is further driving sales. While sentimental purchases are less, planned purchases are significantly good for weddings and upcoming occasions,” said a city-based jeweller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/festival-fuels-demand-for-jewellery/articleshow/78863226.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bareilly||UP sugarcane department to send supply tickets via SMS to prevent Covid spread||PILIBHIT/BIJNOR: The state sugarcane administration has launched an exclusive system for sending the sugarcane supply tickets to farmers through SMS on their registered mobile phones. Prior to this, there was a practice of issuing the paper supply tickets. This is being done to curb crowding at crushing centres and check the spread of Covid-19. Instructions have been issued to all regional and district cane officers across the state to ensure its wide publicity and to launch a campaign for updating the correct mobile numbers of all sugarcane farmers with the departmental system. According to officials, the move is primarily aimed at dispelling the pandemic fear among the cane farmers. There are 119 sugar mills in the state, most of which are ready to begin operations. Additional cane commissioner VK Shukla said, “Preparations are almost made and we hope mills will start their operation from this month itself or the first week of November. They have given their tentative date of operation.” Additional chief secretary, sugarcane department, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said, “The new system is aimed at ensuring the complete transparency in the issuance of the supplytickets, reducing the expenditure of the sugarcane societies in ensuring the timely delivery of the paper tickets at the door steps of every sugarcane grower and saving the official time consumed till now by the traditional method. This will also wipe out farmers’ complaints normally filed about the delivery of the paper supply tickets to the wrong person or at the late stage.” “The farmers have been advised to ensure that they feed their correct mobile number to the department’s ERP (enterprise resource planning) system to avert the inconvenience. In case of the feeding of incorrect mobile numbers, they can either go for the rectification themselves through the ‘e-ganna app’ of the department or through the respective office of the district cane officer, he said. The SMS supply tickets would get automatically cancelled within 24 hours in case the message boxes of the farmers’ mobile phone were filled completely and failed to provide room to the supply ticket messages, he warned. “The daily acknowledgement sheet of supply tickets on which the sugarcane is to be weighed, will also be labeled at the cane purchasing centers through which the farmers can know the status of their supply tickets. The new system would also enable the farmers to harvest their sugarcane crop in time and supply the fresh cane to mills which would avoid the weight loss in cane after the harvesting. This will also help prevent the spread of novel coronavirus, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sugarcane-dept-to-send-supply-tickets-via-sms-to-prevent-covid-spread/articleshow/78861836.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Suspense over BJP’s RS nominee set to end||DEHRADUN: The suspense on the saffron party’s nominee for the Rajya Sabha seat is set to end with the central committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announcing the name shortly, sources familiar with the development told TOI. They added that the name may be announced late on Sunday night or on Monday. The saffron party’s state leadership has proposed five names to the central leadership, including former CM Vijay Bahuguna, Mahendra Pandey (the party’s national office secretary), former MP Balraj Passi, state vice-president Anil Goyal, and senior state leader Naresh Bansal. Bansidhar Bhagat, president of BJP in Uttarakhand, told TOI that the election for the Rajya Sabha seat is due in the state and the last date for filing the nominations is October 27 and therefore, they would not be any further delay in announcing the name. The Rajya Sabha election is due in the state since the term of current Rajya Sabha MP, Raj Babbar, is set to finish on November 25. It’s important to mention here that the victory of BJP in the Rajya Sabha is almost certain in this election as the party has 57 out of 70 assembly seats in the state. According to the party sources, Vijay Bahuguna is leading the race among the five proposed candidates. He was one of the top leaders who rebelled from Congress and joined the BJP. “The second front-runner in the race from the state is Balraj Passi who had defeated ND Tiwari in the 1991 polls from the Nainital seat and was then rewarded with organisational posts in the saffron party,” said a senior leader from BJP. Reacting to the speculation, Bhagat said, ‘We have given five names to the central team. They may pick one among those five or may pick a new name. It is completely their decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/suspense-over-bjps-rs-nominee-set-to-end/articleshow/78861838.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Apta plantation drive marks celebrations in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Dasara celebrations this year, subdued due to the Covid-19 pandemic, found expression in a few unconventional activities besides traditional festivities in the city on Sunday.Jansahyog, an NGO, planted apta saplings in the Padegaon area as a part of its eco-friendly celebrations. The leaves of this indigenous tree (Bauhinia racemosa) are traditionally exchanged to mark the festival. The NGO carried out the plantation drive to highlight the problem of dwindling number of apta trees in and around Aurangabad.“Apta trees are not found in abundance anymore. These native trees are home to many creatures and need to be planted and conserved to maintain the ecological balance,” NGO founder Prashant Gire said.Burning of Ravan effigy also did not take place at many places in the city due to the pandemic.Many people visited different temples of Goddess Durga in the city to seek blessings. Though the sanctum sanctorums of the shrines were closed, devotees took darshan from outside.“Covid-19 has cast a shadow on Dasara festivities this year. We usually visit the homes of our near and dear ones on the festive occasion. However, this year, we have consciously avoided such visits,” said Ulhas Dev, a private professional.In an unusual event, men’s rights group members burnt the effigy of Shurpanakha, Ravan’s sister, as a symbolic agitation in the Karodi area. “While an effigy of Ravana is burnt on the occasion of Dasara as a symbolic victory of good or evil, we tried to convey the same message, but by destroying Shurpanakha,” group founder advocate Bharat Phulare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/apta-plantation-drive-marks-celebrations-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78861847.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Surat||No gadget for online classes, Class X girl hangs herself in Surat||SURAT: A girl studying in Class X committed suicide at her house in Pandesara, reportedly because she couldn’t attend a single online class of her school as she did not have any electronic gadget. Akanksha Tiwari, a student of Decent Child High School, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at her house in Krishna Nagar early on Sunday. Postmortem confirmed hanging as the reason for death. On Saturday, Akanksha was called by the school authorities and she had gone with her mother Vandana for the meeting. Her father Shivshankar, a tempo driver, said, “During discussion, she informed the teachers that she could not attend online classes as she doesn’t have any medium to study. She also told them that there was just one smart phone in the house which I used.” Shivshankar used to remain out of the house most of the day due to work. Talking to TOI, he denied that the school authorities had reprimanded her for not attending classes. She was studying in English medium and had come to Surat two years ago to study from the family’s native in Ayodhya. She lived here with her five-year-old brother Om while her two other sisters Kashish (8) and Ankita (12) live in Ayodhya. The family informed that Akanksha was worried as she could not study online during lockdown, said Pandesara police station sources. “As parents, we never pressurised her for studies, but I had no clue that she was worried over not being able to study online. I earn reasonably well to support my family well, but I cannot afford to have more than one smart phone given the current situation,” said Shivshankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-gadget-for-online-classes-class-x-girl-hangs-herself/articleshow/78861988.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: With communal harmony, they ensure Covid-19 victims get dignity in death||VADODARA: Humanity often thrives in tragedy and Covid-19 is no exception. When the deaths due to Covid-19 started rising and it was becoming difficult for administration to handle the bodies, members of the minority community in Godhra and Vadodara took the onus on them and ensured that the last rites are performed in a dignified manner irrespective of their religion. While the label of being ‘Ground Zero’ of 2002 Gujarat riots has stuck to Godhra and Vadodara earning a notorious reputation of witnessing frequent communal flareups, a large group of volunteers and activists from the two cities, though not connected to each other, were kept busy making trips to graveyards or crematoriums. Work for Hanif Haji, an activist and a former corporator in Godhra, began even before Covid-19. “We had taken up the work of ensuring burials during the lockdown as people were finding it difficult to conduct these due to the strict restrictions. We started helping them and later health officials approached us for burials and cremations of bodies of Covid-19 bodies too,” said Haji. Haji and three of his friends have so far performed last rites of around 300 persons including Hindus, Muslims and Christians. In Vadodara, Baroda Muslim Doctors Association (BMDA) and other activists started work when the mortality became high. Patients from the Vadodara city and district, neighbouring districts as well as outside the state had died in the city. Suspected Covid-19 deaths too had to be handled with the same protocol as Covid-19 cases. “We were initially approached only to provide medicines, but later took up the task of performing last rites too. A group was formed and we used to rush to carry bodies to crematoriums and graveyards or perform last rites too,” said Zuber Gopalani who is coordinating between the BMDA and the administration. The group ensured that irrespective of religion, those who died in Covid hospitals got a dignified burial or cremation. “We had three teams of eight people each. The association has a fleet of eight ambulances and these were used to carry bodies whenever needed,” said Gopalani. On a couple of occasions, the group had to handle bodies of persons who had died at home. Whenever needed, the association also ensured that family members also got protective gear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/with-communal-harmony-they-ensure-covid-19-victims-get-dignity-in-death/articleshow/78861862.cms||Sachin Sharma
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Dates of Char Dham closure announced on Dussehra: Kedar shrine to close on Nov 16, Badri on Nov 19||DEHRADUN: Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines will be closed for the winter on the occasion of Bhai Dooj on November 16, while Gangotri will close on Govardhan Pooja (a day after Diwali) on November 15. The portals of Badrinath will close last, on November 19. The announcement was made by authorities of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Board on Sunday on the occasion of Dussehra. The dates were worked out based on astrological calculations. BD Singh, additional chief executive officer of the Devasthanam board, said, “The portals of Kedarnath will be closed at 8:30 am on November 16 while the Badrinath shrine will close at 3:35 pm on November 19.” Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri temple committee, said, “Portals of Gangotri temple will close on the auspicious occasion of Aankoot festival at 12:15 pm on November 15.” Bageshwar Uniyal, spokesperson of Yamunotri Temple Committee, said, “Portals of Yamunotri shrine will shut at 12:15pm on Bhai dooj on November 16.” Apart from the Char Dham shrines, Tungnath temple will close on November 4, Dwitiya Kedar (Madmaheshwar temple) will close on November 19 at 7am, while the annual Madmaheshwar fair will be held on November 22. Compared to a record 34 lakh pilgrims who visited the Char Dham shrines in 2019, this year’s turnout has been a modest 1.5 lakh so far. Due to the pandemic and consequent restrictions, a total of 1,89,195 people have registered for the Char Dham Yatra since July 1, when the shrines were opened for visitors despite priests’ protests. However, the number of registrations picked up pace in the last two months. While only around 22,000 people registered for the yatra till August, nearly 1.6 lakh pilgrims registered in the next 55 days. (With inputs from Abhyudaya Kotnala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dates-of-char-dham-closure-announced-on-dussehra-kedar-shrine-to-close-on-nov-16-badri-on-nov-19/articleshow/78861845.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Less than 1,000 new cases, recoveries up from 81% to 91.5% in a month||BHOPAL: With 951 fresh positive cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, the tally of positive patients in the state has reached 167349. Sunday was also the 25th consecutive day when the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. While 1181 people recovered on Sunday, only 951 new cases were reported in the state. With these new people recovering, the count of total people who had recovered from the disease reached 153127. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients as on October 25, stood at 91.55 % which has improved as it was 76% on August 31 and 81.7% on September 30. Apart from the new cases, 10 deaths were reported in the state on Sunday, says the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 2885. On Sunday fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of state. Among the districts where fresh cases were reported, maximum cases were reported from Indore where 263 people tested positive, followed by Bhopal where 213 people tested positive, Jabalpur where 54 people tested positive and Gwalior where 27 people tested positive for covid-19. Of the total 31101 samples that were tested on Sunday, a total of 951 people were found positive. Thus the positivity rate — number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested – for Sunday stood at 3%. The cumulative positivity rate as on October 25, in the state was 60.12%. This has increased in past months as it was only 4.6% on August 31. As on October 25, there were a total of 11237 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-1k-new-cases-recoveries-up-from-81-to-91-5-in-a-month/articleshow/78863163.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Meerut||Only 1 in 10 children may come back to school in 23 UP districts||MEERUT: More than a month past the deadline, re-enrolment data show less than half of UP’s students may make it back in class. State government data show that in 63 of the state’s 75 districts, less than 50% of all school students have enrolled to come back. Of these, 28 districts have seen 25-50% registration, while 12 districts have got back 10-25% of their students. And in 23 districts, less than 10% students have enrolled. The last date for enrolment was September 15. “During an inspection it was found that out of the total 75 districts, 63 districts have enrolled less than 50% of the total identified out of school students,” says the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, UP state project director. “The data is highly disappointing. It should be a priority to enrol out of school students in the age group of 7-14 years age and it is sad that despite identifying such students, the enrolment is so low.” In April, right after the lockdown was announced, unemployment in UP had shot up from 10% to 21.5%, according to data from independent thinktank CMIE. It did go down gradually (it’s 4.2% now). At the same time, the state also received the highest number of migrant workers back home — about 32.5 lakh, according to data from the Chief Labour Commissioner. The economic crisis meant many children were pulled in to work on fields, do menial jobs and help their families, and pushed out of school. But the state government means to correct that. The order said, “All districts are instructed to ensure that complete enrolment of the out-of-school students is done by November 10 or the concerned authorities will face action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/only-1-in-10-children-may-come-back-to-school-in-23-up-dists/articleshow/78862497.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As annual choke ritual begins, rules bite the dust at construction sites||NEW DELHI: For three consecutive days, the capital’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has been in the “very poor” category, but many construction sites still seem lax about undertaking dust control measures. Track the pollution level in your cityA visit by TOI to major construction sites across the city showed that rules were being flouted with heaps of uncovered soil and debris remaining unattended. At a few sites, barriers and nets put unevenly had failed to prevent dust from blowing out. A source apportionment carried out by The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri) and Automotive Research Association of India in 2018 revealed that dust (soil, road and construction) contributed 25% to PM10 and 17% to PM2.5 to Delhi’s air pollution during winter. Though Delhi government has been running an anti-dust campaign to control pollution levels, measures are not being followed properly at many construction sites. A haze hung over Pragati Maidan and surrounding areas as the metal sheets at the construction site were unevenly installed with 10-inch gaps between them. A short distance away, the construction agency had put up barricades and nets at the periphery of another site, but mounds of dug-up soil were lying uncovered. Things were no different at Bhairon Marg. Though the construction agency had put up metal sheets and green nets at the periphery of the site, dust was blowing from the excavated soil. The movement of vehicles was creating dust as the soil was not properly dampened. At Sunder Nagar, loose soil at the under-construction underpass was not properly covered. Dust control rules were also seen going for a toss at Barapullah Elevated Road Phase-III project from Sarai Kale Khan to Mayur Vihar Phase-I. Loose soil was piled up below the flyover, while the adjoining road was entirely covered with soil. When TOI visited the site near Mayur Vihar, it was found barricaded and water was being sprinkled, but the excavated soil was left uncovered. Measures to control dust include installing wind shields and barriers, covering debris and construction material with tarpaulin, using nets to prevent dust from blowing out, using sprinklers to settle dust, anti-smog guns at sites above 20,000 sqm, covering vehicles carrying construction material and washing their wheels regularly. Sumit Sharma, director, Teri earth science and climate change division, said, “Dust control measures should be enforced at construction and demolition sites. Public vigilance plays an important role. If anyone spots rules being flouted, a complaint should be lodged with the agencies concerned.” A DPCC official said, “We’ve been conducting random inspections and have imposed lakhs in fines on agencies flouting norms. We have a dedicated team to act on complaints received on our app and social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-annual-choke-ritual-begins-rules-bite-the-dust-at-construction-sites/articleshow/78863696.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Orchestra performance pioneer no more||AHMEDABAD: Mahesh Kanodia, 83, well-known Gujarati singer, music composer, film producer and three-time MP, breathed his last at his Gandhinagar residence on Sunday morning. Hitu Kanodia, BJP MLA from Idar, confirmed his uncle’s demise. “He was suffering from paralysis for long. He did not wake up on Sunday according to his routine. We thus got worried and called the doctor. He declared him dead,” said Kanodia, who is a Gujarati film actor. He added that hospitalization of his father Naresh — a former Gujarati film actor and younger brother of Mahesh Kanodia — due to Covid-19 infection had upset him and he was not keeping well. Naresh Kanodia is under treatment at the UNMICRC in Ahmedabad. Mahesh Kanodia’s last rites were performed in Gandhinagar with several members of Gujarati film fraternity and political circles were present. Mahesh Kanodia’s wife Uma and daughter Pooja have passed away earlier, said the family members. PM Narendra Modi tweeted, ‘Saddened by the passing of Mahesh Kanodiaji. As a politician, he was dedicated for the cause of empowering the poor and backward. He played an important role in popularizing Gujarati folk music.’ Hitu Kanodia told TOI that since 1947, Mahesh Kumar & Party was a known orchestra in Gujarat and beyond. “Hindi music was popular, but none had thought about organizing events around the film music. He could well be pioneer in the field of orchestra not only in Gujarat but perhaps in India. My father (Naresh Kanodia) also debuted in these performances. It was later named ‘Mahesh-Naresh,’ to signify bond of the brothers, which continued till he breathed his last,” he said. Experts of the Gujarati film industry said that Mahesh Kanodia rose to fame with his ability to sing in more than 20 voices including female playback singers. He and Naresh Kanodia have performed in hundreds of shows in India and abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/orchestra-performance-pioneer-no-more/articleshow/78863229.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Second arrest in SOPU ex-prez murder case||CHANDIGARH: Police arrested the second accused in the former SOPU president Gurlal Brar murder case from the Sector 43 bus stand on Sunday. The accused has been identified as Gurmeet Singh alias Geeta, a resident of Gharuan in Mohali. The 25-year-old is a member of the Davinder Bambiha gang, police said. After the encounter of Bambiha, Sukhpreet Budha and Dilpreet Baba are heading the gang. Gurmeet had helped Gurwinder Singh, the first accused arrested in the case, provide a motorcycle to the killers two days before the murder. Gurwinder is in four-day police remand. His disclosures led cops to Gurmeet. Cops said they received secret information that Gurmeet wanted to flee to Maharashtra by taking a bus. A naka was laid and Gurmeet was caught, cops said. Cops said Gurmeet had met Gaurav alias Lucky of Bambiha gang while he was lodged in Nabha jail in connection with an attempt to murder case He used to wash their utensils and clothes in jail. Once outside, he was in regular touch with Lucky on WhatsApp audio/video calls. Cops said Lucky had asked Gurmeet and Gurwinder to provide a motorcycle with fake registration to his men. Lucky had also assured Gurmeet, a drug addict and a smuggler, that he would get 20 grams of heroin if he did the job. Lucky also promised to send money to him, so that he could visit Sri Hazoor Sahib in Maharashtra. Kharar and Kurali police had arrested Gurmeet in four cases of attempt to murder, drug peddling, rioting and assault in the recent past. In the early hours of October 11, two assailants on a motorcycle with a fake number plate had gunned down Gurlal Brar near the City Emporium mall at Industrial Area, Phase I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2nd-arrest-in-sopu-ex-prez-murder-case/articleshow/78863698.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Goa flight resumes, arrives with 80 passengers||MOHALI: The most-awaited Chandigarh to Goa flight has resumed according to the winter schedule announced by the Airports Authority of India (AAI). Earlier, it had operated for two months from October last year. The first flight arrived at 7.35pm with 80 passengers on board in an airbus having a capacity for 180 passengers on Sunday. The flight will depart for Goa at 12.40pm from Chandigarh on Monday. The timing will be the same till Saturday, while on Sunday, it will leave at 1.35pm. Sources said 78 seats were booked for the Monday flight. The flight is one of the six to arrive in a day and stay at Chandigarh overnight before departing the following day. Lucknow flight will arrive at 4.15pm and depart the next day at 8.25am, Mumbai flight will arrive at 7.20pm and depart the next day at 7.30am, Kolkata flight will arrive at 7.20pm and depart the next day at 8am, Delhi flight will arrive at 8.20 pm and leave the next day at 7.30 am, Ahemdabad flight will arrive at 11.15 pm and depart the next day at 6.10 am. All these flights will operate seven days a week. Besides, 46 flights will arrive and depart daily from Chandigarh, connecting 11 cities. Private airlines IndiGo will be operating 30 to and fro flights out of 46 flights. Air India and GoAir will operate five flights each and Air Vistara three flights daily. All these flights will connect Chandigarh directly with 11 destinations like Delhi, Mumbai, Goa, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, Kulu, Dharamsala, Srinagar, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. In the last year’s winter schedule, 82 flights arrived and departed daily from Chandigarh and three flights were announced for overnight stay at Chandigarh but these could not be operational||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/goa-flight-resumes-arrives-with-80-passengers/articleshow/78863720.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No rub of green for traders as cracker sales face Covid, pollution blow||NEW DELHI: Wholesalers and retailers of green firecrackers expect a slow Diwali this year, with most of them planning to order much lesser stock than last year. While some shopkeepers have received their licences and started selling green firecrackers, they say production has been impacted due to the lockdown. They also believe that demand may reduce as air quality worsens, with the threat of Covid-19 still hanging in the air. Gurpreet Singh, owner of Sardarji Patakhe Wale in Kamla Nagar, hopes sales will pick up after Dussehra, even though he expects a slow Diwali. “There is a limited stock of green firecrackers. I’m yet to receive my licence from Delhi Police and it will probably be available only around Dussehra. Covid-19 may not be a reason to avoid these firecrackers, but a slump in the economy could contribute towards poor sales,” he added. “The green variants are much cleaner than the crackers we used to sell earlier. After a lengthy lockdown, people now want to celebrate festivals like Diwali and Dussehra. We hope sales are better than last year. The only negative factor is the economic slowdown,” said Singh. The low-emission or green firecrackers were officially launched on October 5 last year by Union science and technology ministry and CSIR-NEERI scientists. But the stock didn’t reach the markets even till late October, impacting sales before Diwali. Shop owners said that while stock had started arriving into the capital, the six-month lockdown had impacted the production of green crackers. “We face a double whammy as the Covid-19 threat hangs in the air and the economy is not what it used to be. As production has been impacted, we may not receive the same quantity as last year,” said Vishal Sehgal, owner of Centre Fireworks in Sadar Bazar. “We have made only about 5% of the sales than what’s normal during this season. We expect things to pick up after Dussehra. Only green crackers are currently available in the market,” Sehgal added. Vishal Kumar, who runs Gurukripa Fireworks in Uttam Nagar, said business was slow and he may order less stock than last year. “This is not a necessity, but a luxury item. Currently, people are spending money only on necessities. Sales are slow, but they tend to pick up after Dussehra. We’ll get a better idea of the market then, but we are not too optimistic,” he added. Green firecrackers have a reduced barium nitrate content resulting in 30% reduction in pollution. Certain other compositions have reduced by 90%. The packaging can be identified by a QR code, whose scan will reveal the item’s composition. Each box also sports a green logo and its certification number. The firecrackers have been made with new formulations in three variants — safe water releaser, safe thermite cracker and safe minimal aluminium. Other products can release water, air and dust suppressants. While the green version of popular fireworks such as sound-emitting crackers, flowerpots, Catherine wheels and sparklers were available, there were no alternatives for sky illuminations. Jitender Aggarwal , who runs Dharam Fireworks in Uttam Nagar, said, “During the lockdown, there was a shortage of labour, so production was bound to be impacted. We are planning to order only about 10% of our normal stock this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-rub-of-green-for-traders-as-cracker-sales-face-covid-pollution-blow/articleshow/78863718.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Nuptials at Re 1 as corona hits pocket||AHMEDABAD: If marriages are made in heaven, in this community the price of acquiring that blessing is just Re 1. The Saatso (700) Kadva Patidar Samaj of Visnagar has conceived an initiative to mitigate the effects of the Covid crisis. Under the initiative, couples can marry for a token amount of Re 1 in a public ceremony. The expenses for the party plot, decorations, food, wedding dresses, and gifts are borne by the community organization. “The pandemic has caused financial troubles for many. People from our community have come forward to help,” said Kirtibhai Patel, the chairman of Saatso Kadva Patidar Samaj Vivekanand Charitable Trust. The influential Patel community is known for big fat weddings costing crores. But due to Covid restrictions, only 100 people — 50 from each side — are allowed to attend weddings. The wedding cost organized by the samaj would be Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000. On Saturday, the samaj conducted the first wedding at a Visnagar venue. Deesa Patel of Shahpur village near Visnagar and Akshay Patel of Anandpura village married after shelling out Re 1. The samaj has 7,000 families as members in Vadnagar, Visnagar, Vijapur, Surat, Vadodara, Mumbai, and Ahmedabad. The samaj had planned a mass marriage ceremony on December 6. Every couple was to pay Rs 25,000. In all, 30 weddings were scheduled but Covid curbs nixed the programme. Eventually, many community members stepped in to financially help those planning weddings in the time of corona. “Some offered to serve food while others foot the bill for the party plot,” said Kiritbhai Patel. He said that the community was planning to charge Rs 5,000 per couple but a credit society formed by the community decided to bear that expense too. The couples availing the Re 1 scheme cannot hold a post-wedding reception. This is to minimize the risk of infections and to encourage people to save money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nuptials-re-1-as-corona-hits-pocket/articleshow/78863216.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Green warriors march in protest against tree felling for Dehradun airport expansion||DEHRADUN: People from different walks of life gathered at the Gandhi Park in Dehradun on Sunday and took out an awareness march to the mosque in Paltan Bazaar, a distance of 1.2 km, and back, to protest against the government’s decision to fell over 10,000 trees in the Shivalik Elephant Reserve in order to provide land for the expansion of the Jolly Grant airport. A street play to generate awareness on rampant tree felling and its impact was also enacted. To recall, hundreds of activists had gathered at Thano near the airport in a similar protest last Sunday. The issue of tree felling for the airport expansion had first been highlighted by TOI in a report earlier this month. The protesters also reacted sharply against the recent statement by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat that the protests were “a political ploy against the government” and that expansion of the airport will “only bring prosperity to the state.” “It is ironic that the government is deviating from basic science by claiming that the trees they plan to fell have less value in the ecosystem. They are planning to fell trees such as khair, sagoon, haldu, kanju, etc that have ‘broad leaves’ and are known to be good at carbon sequestration. The state government needs to create jobs, improve the education system and deal with corruption with an iron hand rather that building an international airport at the cost of our greenery and the ecosystem,” said Jagdamba Prasad Maithani of the NGO, Alaknanda Ghaati Shilpi (AAGAAS) Federation. On Monday, a group of young activists from the city-based students’ group Making A Difference by Being the Difference (MADbyBTD) plans to meet officials of Uttarakhand State Biodiversity Board and urge them not to fell the trees. "We will be sitting on a protest dharna outside the offices involved in the decision-making process from Wednesday if our demands are not met,” said Karan Kapoor, president of the group. Meanwhile, many people have also taken to social media to raise awareness over the issue. Various social media accounts such as ‘Save Thano Forest’ on instagram @save_thano, and @savethanoforest in Facebook are being created. On Sunday, too, Dussehra-themed caricatures with the hashtag #SaveThano, urging people to “bring out your inner Ram to stand against unsustainable development” were circulated by protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/green-warriors-march-in-protest-against-tree-felling-for-doon-airport-expansion/articleshow/78861868.cms||Shivani Azad
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Have presence in over 80% of booths in Uttarakhand: AAP||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which has been trying to make inroads into the state’s political scenario on Sunday said that it has achieved organisational presence in over 8,600 booths out of the total 10,872 in the state just during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Speaking to TOI, SS Kaler, state president of AAP, said that the party will also declare its candidates on all the 70 assembly seats at least three months before the polls. This comes after the AAP chief announced in August that his party would contest elections on all 70 seats in Uttarakhand. “Since March, we have achieved organisational presence in over 80% of booths in the state. This success has been achieved despite the nationwide lockdown and in the coming months, we will have a significant presence on all booths across the state. We have also decided that all our candidates will be declared on all assembly seats at least three months before the polls,” Kaler said. While no big names from the Congress or the BJP have so far joined the AAP, several members of the Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD) have joined AAP’s Uttarakhand unit, the most prominent name being Raju Maurya, who contested elections on a UKD ticket from Devprayag in the 2017 assembly elections. Before joining AAP, he held several organisation posts in UKD. The party has also inducted a Nainital-based hotelier and a veteran RSS worker Pradeep Sah into its fold. When asked about people from various backgrounds joining the party, Kaler said that AAP would welcome people from both BJP and Congress as long as they are willing to work for the party’s ideology. “Our party is open to people who want to join us. However, we are not here to play politics and therefore, only those who are committed to working for the state are welcome here,” he said. The party also said that they will continue with the message that they want to replicate the Delhi model and their focus will be on education and health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/have-presence-in-over-80-of-booths-in-ukhand-aap/articleshow/78861876.cms||Prashant Jha
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Sector 26 brawl: Six cops suspended||CHANDIGARH: The police on Sunday suspended six cops for exchanging blows in Sector 26 on Friday night. Three of them are from the crime branch and the rest from the Sector 26 police station. UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal told TOI said the suspended police officials include Satwinder Singh, inspector, crime branch, and Naveen Kumar, sub-inspector, Sector 26 police station. Other suspended cops are constables Sompal and Kavipal of Sector 26 police station and sub-inspector Neeraj Kumar and constable Sanjay of the crime branch. Harinder Singh Sekhon, in-charge, crime branch, and Narinder Patial, SHO, Sector 26 police station, were served-show cause notices. Satwinder and Naveen had fought over the credit for catching two armed suspects in Sector 26. Later, other cops from the crime branch and Sector 26 police station also joined the brawl. Satwinder and Ashok Kumar of Sector 26 police station had received injuries on their nose and other body parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sec-26-brawl-six-cops-suspended/articleshow/78863712.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid shares podium with Ravana||NEW DELHI: With pollution levels and the novel coronavirus cases rising alarmingly over the past few days, most of the Dussehra organisers across Delhi steered clear of burning effigies. While some worshipped Lord Ram after his victory over evil, a few set afire effigies of the “corona demon” along with Ravana and his family members. At Dwarka, the sky was dotted with 101 lanterns with messages for Covid front line warriors written on them. Mukesh Sinha from Association of Social and Cultural Events said they had been organising Ramlila since 2003, but this year they adapted to the changed circumstances brought about by the pandemic and last-minute permission from the authorities. “More than 1,000 locally sourced diyas were lit by families, along with a havan by 11 pandits. The sky lanterns with messages of hope for growth and prosperity are a token of thanks to those who have been endlessly working during the pandemic for the health and safety of people,” Sinha said. While every year politicians and key dignitaries, like the President and Prime Minister, used to attend Vijayadashami celebrations at crowded locations across the capital, this year no such public participation took place. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia shot at an effigy of Ravana with a bow and arrow at his residence. He said Covid-19 and pollution were the biggest evils in today’s times and appealed to people to celebrate a pollution-free Dussehra. At east Delhi’s Shastri Park, Vishnu Avtar Ramlila Committee organised Ramlila by innovatively featuring characters wearing PPE kits. The unique experiment culminated with the burning of a 20-foot “coronavirus demon” effigy. Police had placed barricades at 500m to avoid crowding. Committee head Prem Pal said they were happy that with Lord Ram’s blessings they were safely able to hold the manchan, even though at a smaller scale. “We ended the enactment of Ramayana with messages about defeating coronavirus using hand sanitisers, social distancing and masks,” he added. At CBD Ground, Balaji Ramlila Committee featured four effigies, including “Chinese corona”, all of which were set afire at sunset. Prakash Barathi from Nav Sri Dharmik Lila Committee said that instead of a grand nine-day celebrations at the Red Fort foregrounds, they had a one-day symbolic manchan on Vijayadashami. “After shastra puja, Ram-Ravana yudh was featured and Rajtilak was done. No effigies were burnt. A simple puja was held to seek forgiveness from Lord Ram for whatever mistakes may have been committed by people and help things return to normalcy. Next year, we will double the scale of celebrations,” Barathi added. Dalip Bindal from Indraprastha Ramlila Committee at IP Extension said they organised Sampurna Ramayana within three hours, but no effigies were burnt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-shares-podium-with-ravana/articleshow/78863725.cms||Paras Singh
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||BJP doesn’t believe in ethics and Constitution, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: After Congress MLA from Damoh, Rahul Lodhi joined BJP on Sunday, PCC chief Kamal Nath made a scathing attack against the ruling party. “With imminent defeat in the upcoming bypolls, the ruling BJP is apprehensive. It has completely lost trust in the people’s mandate,” the former chief minister said. In a tweet, Nath said that BJP does not believe in democracy and only greed for power. Nath said, “BJP doesn’t believe in democracy and doesn’t believe in people’s mandate. It doesn’t believe in ethics and doesn’t believe in the people’s vote. The saffron party only believes in ‘saudebaji’ (trading) and notes (currency). He said, “BJP continues to malign Madhya Pradesh and continuously indulges in politics that has given a bad name to the state”. Criticising BJP, Nath said in his tweet that BJP had burdened the state with more byelections. Nath also appealed to the people of the state “to give a befitting reply to BJP and protect the democracy and Constitution of the country.” He asked the people of the state to “put an end to such condemnable politics”. He said that people should come forward to protect their votes and mandate. Taking a dig at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan without mentioning his name, Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh tweeted, “It seems mama will fill up BJP with more and more sold out traitors from Congress. I feel pity for the genuine BJP party members and the Sangh Parivar.” Digvijaya asked, “Where is Jayant Malaiya ji”. Former finance minister Malaiya was defeated by Rahul Lodhi and in the local politics of Damoh, he had always vehemently opposed Lodhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-doesnt-believe-in-ethics-and-constitution-says-nath/articleshow/78863191.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Not many early birds, delayed winter keeps number of winged visitors low||NEW DELHI: A warm and dry September and delay in onset of winter have affected the movement of migratory birds at Yamuna Biodiversity Park. Though the birds have started descending on the waterbody, the park’s scientist in-charge said they were fewer in number compared with the past years. For instance, through over 150 large cormorants have arrived from China, the park officials were expecting at least 300 by this time of the year. Officials said since the temperature had started to dip from Tuesday, they were hopeful that the number of birds would go up by the end of the month. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said, “Changes in local climatic conditions impacted the flight path of migratory birds. Their population is lower than what was recorded at this time over the past years. A warm September with hardly any rainfall and delay in winter seem to be the primary reasons.” “As a few areas in Rajasthan received good rainfall, many waterbodies became suitable spots for the migratory birds. The birds will come to Delhi when those waterbodies dry up,” added Khudsar. Thousands of Eurasian coot, the first migratory birds to reach Delhi, used to be spotted by October-end. However, only 350 have been sighted till now. “In the last two days, Delhi’s weather has started turning cold. We expect more birds to arrive in the next 10 days,” Khudsar said. Birders said they had observed the same pattern at a few more wetlands in the region. Nikhil Devasar, founder of Delhi Bird, said, “All species of birds have arrived at the wetlands, but their number is low. October-end is usually full season. Species like short-eared owl and Demoiselle crane, which are usually spotted in the second week of November, have been sighted in the region.” Devasar, who was checking on birds in and around Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary, Yamuna Biodiversity Park and Basai wetland, said, “The birds leave their snow-covered native places when they find it difficult to get food. But it seems they can still find food there. When their native places will get colder, they will start migrating to a suitable place to spend the winter.” Another birder, Jaswinder Waraich, said, “Though many species of migratory birds have been sighted, their number seems to be on the lower side. This is nothing unusual and their count will increase in the coming weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-many-early-birds-delayed-winter-keeps-number-of-winged-visitors-low/articleshow/78863220.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard attacks surge in Uttarakhand; forest officials say lockdown & empty roads may have ‘emboldened big cats’||DEHRADUN: As the menace of man-eating leopards touch alarming proportions in Uttarakhand, forest officials and experts suspect that the coronavirus-induced lockdown is likely to have emboldened big cats. They say that leopards are frequenting human habitats more often due to roads being relatively empty in the hills during the lockdown, thereby leading to an increase in the number of human-wildlife conflict incidents. This year, 24 people in the state have lost their lives to leopard attacks. This is a rise of more than 30% in comparison to last year when 18 people had died in leopard attacks in the state. The latest such attack was reported on Saturday (October 24) when a leopard killed a 45-year-old woman in Nainital district’s Okhalkanda block. Last week, deaths of three women due to leopard attacks were reported from Nainital alone. In the wake of this unprecedented rise in human-wildlife conflict, scientists not just in India but also in other nations are studying the probable connection between the Covid-19 lockdown and the rise in movements of wild animals in human habitats. In a journal titled “Nature Ecology & Evolution” that was published on June 22, it was announced that a group of international scientists have formed a consortium — Covid-19 Bio-Logging Initiative — to investigate “movements, behaviour and stress levels of animals” before, during, and after Covid-19 lockdown using data. These scientists have agreed that subtle changes in the behaviour of mammals, aquatic species and birds can already be seen in the different videos shot after Covid-19 outbreak from across the world. In Uttarakhand, too, forest officials say that a possible reason behind the spurt in leopard attacks could be the lockdown. “In the hills, leopards have always moved on the sides of roads but the traffic movements dropped significantly during the lockdown. This gave the animals the freedom to move around freely. Now, they are venturing into the human landscape in search of easy prey. This has led to an increase in human-wildlife conflict. We are going to analyse this behavioural change through a proper study,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand forest department. The senior official said that this behavioural change is not just limited to Uttarakhand. “We saw how wild animals ventured out in human habitats in different states — like Punjab, Delhi, Gujarat, and Maharashtra, among others. It must also be kept in mind that leopards have a tendency of venturing into human landscapes and they are just doing it more frequently and freely now,” added Suhag. According to official data exclusively accessed by TOI, a total of 21 leopards have been caged in Almora so far this year. Almora is followed by Haridwar and Terai West forest divisions where eight leopards each were caged till October 15. Further, the forest department has given nod to cage/tranquilise/kill as many as 90 leopards this year. This year’s data also adds that the department has given the permission to tranquilise/kill five leopards, cage/tranquilise six leopards, and tranquilise seven leopards. This year, the maximum of four human deaths in leopard attacks have been recorded at Narendra Nagar forest division, followed by Almora (3), Pithoragarh (3), and Nainital (3). “The Narendra Nagar forest division has an abundance of leopards. Also, during hill cutting works for the all-weather Char Dham Road, the traffic remained blocked for a considerable period and this gave the leopards time to move around freely. As the traffic restored and people started using the stretch, the number of human-leopard conflict incidents rose,” added Suhag. Suggesting another probable reason behind leopards increasingly entering human habitats, Suhag said, “The Swachh Bharat scheme also has a role in this. Earlier, leopards used to attack those who went out to jungles to relieve themselves. But with villagers using toilets now, leopards aren’t getting easy prey. This has forced them to literally enter into homes to find food. In the last few months, we have recorded cases where leopards have lifted kids from courtyards or from kitchen doors.” Meanwhile, S Sathyakumar, senior scientist at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), who is spearheading Project Snow Leopard of Uttarakhand, said that the behaviour of leopards evolve with time. “Proper study needs to be conducted to ascertain the reason behind this change in behaviour of leopards. The best habitats also known as ‘optimal habitats’ are taken by the strongest leopards while the less strong ones resort to ‘sub optimal habitats’ and the weakest and old leopards are displaced to ‘scrub forest and villages’ by the stronger ones. The weakest lot attacks livestock and humans. They don’t fear human beings at all. It’s all about learning their behaviour. Everyone knows that big cats evolve and learn and once they figure out that human beings are easy prey, they would resort to more frequent human killings,” added Sathyakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-attacks-surge-in-state-forest-officials-say-lockdown-empty-roads-may-have-emboldened-big-cats/articleshow/78861905.cms||Shivani Azad
October 26, 2020||Goa||NGT orders restoration of Cavelossim dunes in 3 months||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered for a stretch of the Cavelossim beach to be restored within three months, after mud and construction material was found illegally dumped within the no development zone of the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) area. As per an order of the Goa coastal zone management authority (GCZMA), an illegal construction had already been demolished some time ago, but some of the mud, debris and concrete material was still lying on the beach. The Cavelossim villagers’ forum had filed an application before the NGT against the local panchayat, among others, pointing to the illegal activity on the beach. The forum had also asked NGT to direct the violators to compensate the village for the environmental damage caused by destroying sand dunes and undertaking illegal construction and commercial activities in violation of CRZ Regulation, 2011. A joint team from Goa state bio-diversity Board (GSBB) and GCZMA inspected the beach stretch this month and submitted a report. The team recommended that the concrete floors and parking floor on the beach side has to be removed, and to also remove boulders and prominent red coarse rocks protruding from the soil which the team pointed out, may not mix with the sand dune ecology. The experts also recommended that a bamboo fence be erected on the coastal side to prevent access to visitors to the sand dunes and which will also facilitate the restoration process. They said that during the restoration work using heavy earth moving equipment should be avoided as it may result in further instability of the sand dune ecosystem. “The job has to be mainly executed manually except for concrete platform removal which may be taken up by breaker machines but not heavy earth moving equipment,” the experts said. The experts said that the restoration is mainly to facilitate the natural process of regeneration of the sand dune ecosystem. They also said the execution of the work, including removal of debris and thrash from the site, has to be executed in a time-bound manner. “We accept the recommendations and direct the authorities concerned to take immediate remedial measures and to complete within 3 months as suggested in the report,” the NGT ordered. The experts said the restoration is mainly to facilitate the natural process of regeneration of the sand dune ecosystem. They also said that the execution of the work, including removal of debris and thrash from the site, has to be done in a time-bound manner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-orders-restoration-of-cavelossim-dunes-in-3-months/articleshow/78863728.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Meerut||200 self-help groups employ over 20,000 women||MUZAFFARNAGAR: At least 200 self-help groups (SHGs) have been formed in Muzaffarnagar district employing over 20,000 women. From making diyas, candles, masks and stitching uniforms for government school students to being allotted ration shops, the local administration claims that women have been getting direct employment and benefitting from these initiatives. An event, under Mission Shakti Programme, was organized on Saturday in which the beneficiary women put up stalls displaying products made by them. These products are being manufactured across the district. Union minister Sanjeev Balyan, district magistrate Selva Kumari J visited the event and spoke to the beneficiaries. Additional district magistrate Amit Kumar said, “Under the program National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM), beneficiary women were allowed to collect electricity bills and were given licence for government ration shops in rural areas.” Project director of NRLM, Jay Singh Yadav said, “Around 200 SHGs are operating in the district. Women are making various types of products with government’s help.” Shanti Devi, member of the working women group, said, “I joined the group in 2015 and since then my family’s condition has improved. My husband is a labourer and now I am also earning from making candles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/200-self-help-groups-employ-over-20k-women/articleshow/78862516.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: Sharpshooter who killed trader for extortion held||MEERUT: Sharpshooter of Udham Singh gang, Kamal Pawar, who had killed a cement trader, was nabbed by police in Baghpat district on Saturday evening. While Kamal has been arrested, one of his accomplices, Bunty, is still at-large. Kamal, said to be a relative of jailed gangster Udham Singh, has carried out several murders for the gang. On October 9, Kamal and Bunty went to the shop of local trader Pradeep Atreya and gunned him down after the latter resisted the extortion bid. “Kamal is accused of several murders. With many of the gang members, including Udham, languishing in jail, Kamal wanted to lead the gang and make a mark for himself,” Baghpat superintendent of police Abhishek Singh said. Kamal’s luck ran out after police got its first major breakthrough in the case when picture of a suspect in police record matched with assailant’s picture from the CCTV grab. “CCTV grab of the suspect was the key clue in tracing him down,” SP Singh said. As per police records, Kamal has 12 criminal cases registered in his name in three districts - Baghpat, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sharpshooter-who-killed-trader-for-extortion-held/articleshow/78862523.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Newborn girl found abandoned near NH-48||VADODARA: An infant girl was found abandoned at Jambuva near national highway-48 early on Sunday morning. The girl believed to be four to five days old was found crying under a tree by an auto-rickshaw driver who lives nearby. Mohammed Miya Sheikh told police that he had gone for his morning walk when he heard the infant crying as ants were crawling over her body. After removing the ants, Sheikh called the police and took the girl to his building where he informed people in his neighbourhood about his discovery. Locals fed her with water and later handed her over to the paramedical staff of 108 GVK-EMRI emergency services. The infant was taken to SSG Hospital where she is kept under observation. “The girl was wrapped in a blanket and has been admitted for a medical check-up,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/infant-girl-abandoned-near-nh-48/articleshow/78861882.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bareilly||Saharanpur farmer is UP’s surgarcane production champ||BIJNOR/PILIBHIT: Subhash Chandra Singh, a farmer from Saharanpur district’s Tondarpur cane zone, has bagged the first prize in state cane yield competition for the 2019-20 crushing season in the ratoon crop category. The results were announced by cane commissioner Sanjay R Bhoosreddy on Thursday evening. The average sugarcane yield in the state is 811 quintals per hectare. Among a total of 107 applicants from the 44 cane producing districts, Singh with a net production of 2,329 quintals per hectare, won the competition in the ratoon crop category. Neighbouring Shamli district's Satyaprakash Tiwari was a distant second at 1,851 quintals per hectare in the same category. Ranveer Singh of Ghaziabad got third position with a yield of 1,388 quintals per hectare. In the sugarcane plant production category, Satyaprakash from Gonda district bagged the first prize with a yield of 2,121 quintals per hectare. Besides, two Bijnor-based cane growers -- Jagat Singh of Chandpur and Brahampal Singh of Dhampur -- bagged second and third positions respectively, growing 2,069 and 1,902 quintals per hectare in the cane plant production category. Bhoosreddy said, “For ensuring complete transparency and fairness in selection of winners, the state sugarcane administration had deputed designated field officers who had managed the harvesting of sugarcane attributed to each contestant in their presence." The contest is organized every year and is aimed at motivating farmers to increase the yield per hectare. The department could not find any suitable winner for the general plant variety category. The winners would be awarded the cash prize of Rs 10,000, Rs 7,000 and Rs 5,000 along with certificates. The awards would be presented by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/saharanpur-farmer-is-ups-cane-production-champ/articleshow/78859950.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Four-year jail to woman for dumping baby||NEW DELHI: In a rare judgment, a 35-year-old woman has been given a four-year jail term for abandoning her newborn on a heap of garbage. The child later died. The punishment was based on the offence of “culpable homicide not amounting to murder” as she knew that the infant, who was barely 16 hours old, wouldn’t survive if abandoned. Additional sessions judge Naveen Gupta noted, “Even if the child was illegitimate, it was the duty of the convict, being his mother, to bring him up. Instead of performing her duty, she preferred to throw him on the garbage heap like a non-living thing. At the same time, the court cannot be oblivious of the education, income and social status of the convict.” It came on record that the widow had five children to fend for and didn't have the resources to bring up another child. One of the witnesses also stated that he had rented out his accommodation to the woman, who was visibly pregnant, but said that she had a stomach ailment. It was on April 6, 2016, when the police received a call about an abandoned child. The caller, Noor Hasan, had tried to rescue the child from the garbage heap when he heard its cries from a distance. Hasan brought the infant to his house and called up the police for assistance. When police arrived, the mother was in a bad state of health and was bleeding. She was taken to a hospital for medical assistance, but the child couldn't survive. The woman, in her defense, denied abandoning the child and said that the child was taken by the father, who handed over its custody to Hasan on the promise that she would be saved from naming and shaming by the society. Hasan filed the complaint to save the father of the child, she alleged. She also stated that it was the father who had thrown the child on the garbage heap. Relying in the woman’s statement, her counsel asked why the police didn’t try to trace the child’s father and seek his cooperation in the investigation. From the evidence and witness statements at hand, the court observed that the onus was on the woman to prove that when she had admittedly given birth around 5am, how she lost custody of the child between 6am and 7am. Judge Gupta said, “This is the period when the child was allegedly found by Hasan and the time when information was recorded after a call was received on 100.” The woman, the judgment highlighted, hadn’t produced any evidence that the father was present with her at the time of birth of the child or shown that she had called him after giving birth. “The convict threw her child on the garbage heap immediately after his birth and thereby abandoning him. The child was picked up by one Noor Hasan and thereafter, he was admitted to hospital, but he died on the same day,” the order said. The woman was, therefore, held guilty and sent to jail under sections 304 part 2 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-yr-jail-to-woman-for-dumping-baby/articleshow/78863352.cms||Aamir Khan
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Protesting doctors burn ‘vetan chor Ravana’ effigy at Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital||NEW DELHI: Unpaid for four months, the resident doctors’ association (RDA) of the north corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital continued their protest even on Dussehra and burned an effigy of “vetan chor (salary thief) Ravana” on the premises. Senior doctors are expected to go on mass casual leave on Monday to express solidarity with the association, which also protested at Connaught Place in the evening. Some senior doctors said paramedic staffers, nurses and senior doctors were likely to join the strike in a couple of days. Such a strike will affect the services at five big hospitals — Hindu Rao, Girdhari Lal, Kasturba, Rajan Babu and MVID — along with dispensaries and maternity centres where more than 10,000 patients come daily for treatment. Mayor Jai Prakash met protesting doctors at the dharna site. “I sat with them and discussed their issues. We are trying to arrange salaries by creating pressure on Delhi government and a solution will be found soon. We have also approached Delhi Medical Association,” he said. In the evening, over 20 doctors wearing stethoscopes and white coats, and holding posters could be seen standing at isolated spots at CP. Dr Abhimanyu Sardana, RDA president, said no resolution could be found in the meeting with the mayor and protests would continue. “We are not going back to work till our legitimate dues are paid. Doctors are facing a severe financial crisis and they cannot even pay their loans, rent and EMIs. It has become difficult to sustain our daily lives,” he added. A senior doctor said that at a time when others were being paid bonuses and other reimbursements for working during the pandemic, they hadn’t even got basic salaries for four months. “For the past 21 days, doctors have been protesting but no one is willing to pay us our salaries. Now our patience is exhausting,” a head of the department at Hindu Rao Hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protesting-docs-burn-vetan-chor-ravana-effigy-at-hindu-rao/articleshow/78863392.cms||Paras Singh
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP and BJP spar over doctors’ agitation||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) functionary Durgesh Pathak on Sunday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party-run municipal corporations are threatening doctors protesting against pending salaries. Pathak further claimed that senior doctors who have come out in support of the protest have also been transferred. The functionary claimed that four CMO-level senior doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital have been shifted because they were supporting the protest of the doctors and nurses asking for their pending salaries. He also alleged that BJP functionaries are continuously threatening the healthcare workers and asking them to withdraw the protest. “Doctors of the BJP-run municipal corporation hospitals are on hunger strikes. It is unfortunate that the Covid warriors who have fought day and night to protect the lives of people are going through such a situation,” he said, adding that the health workers have not been paid salaries for the last 5-6 months. “This inhuman activity has created havoc on their lives. For the last 10-12 days, these warriors are protesting and now they have been on a hunger strike for the last two days,” Pathak said, adding that the protesting doctors have met the mayor but no solution came out of it. The functionary also claimed that on Saturday, four senior doctors of the Hindu Rao Hospital were transferred because they were reportedly supported the protest. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor claimed that Pathak’s statement on the transfer of doctors is baseless. “North Delhi Municipal Corporation has not transferred any doctor. A deputation for a very short period has been permitted from Hindu Rao to Rajan Babu TB Hospital to meet the requirements of the diphtheria season,” Kapoor said. The spokesperson added that there is an urgent need for doctors at Rajan Babu TB, whose superintendent is facing a shortage. “On behalf of the AAP, I want to make it very clear that we oppose such inhuman behaviour. The BJP members are either threatening healthcare workers asking for their dues or throwing them out of their jobs,” Pathak claimed. “Delhi BJP advises AAP leaders to stop playing dirty politics in this health emergency season. Instead, Delhi government should come forward and extend a financial package immediately to help end the civic strike,” Kapoor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-and-bjp-spar-over-docs-agitation/articleshow/78863425.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||25 Denver_More clubs join chorus to save open space at Cunchelim||Saligao: Two more clubs have joined the chorus against any developmental work being taken up in the open space at Cuncehlim, presently being used by locals as a playground. Office bearers of the clubs have demanded that the Mapusa Municipal Council revoke any provisional NOC issued to comunidade of Cunchelim to carry out any work in this open space. “The high court of Bombay has encouraged the use of more open spaces as playgrounds, stating that cities are becoming concrete jungles with no places to relax or play. The municipality should play a protective role in maintaining green spaces in its jurisdiction,” said the representation, which was also presented to the Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza. For months now, sports enthusiasts residing in and around Mapusa have been fighting to retain the open space in Cunchelim, stating that this is the only such space left in the town and surrounding area for sports and recreational activities. The two clubs - Cunchelim football sports club and Sai Baba cricket club - have alleged that the communidade of Cunchelim has illegally sub-divided the plots in the open playground. In the representation to the Mapusa municipality, advisor of the Cuncelim sports club and ex vice-president of the Goa Football Association Francis Fernandes has said, “We strongly object to the use of the property for commercial purpose or any other purpose other than to play football or games.” The club members said it was vital to save the last remaining recreational space in and around Mapusa town so that future generations too take to playing football and other sports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/25-denver_more-clubs-join-chorus-to-save-open-space-at-cunchelim/articleshow/78863764.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||GSFC Univ holds virtual convocation||Vadodara: City-based GSFC University on Sunday held its second convocation on online platform. As students recited the oath administered by president P K Taneja, degrees were awarded to 259 graduating students. Six gold medals were awarded to students who secured first rank in their respective streams. University’s vice-chancellor Dr Nikhil Zaveri presented the university report while sharing achievements and awards received by students and faculties during academic year 2019-20. Padma Vibhushan awardee Dr R A Mashelkar, who was the chief guest, while making a comparison of pre and post Covid world stressed that recovery has to be imagined in terms of re-discovery, re-invention and re-thinking. Addressing the students, Mashelkar stressed that ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ should be created through ‘Aatmavishwas’ (self-confidence) and ‘Atmasamman’ (self-respect). Taneja mentioned academic initiatives of the university including hands-on training, activity credit bank for curricular, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities, bi-monthly newsletter Eventia, bi-annual magazine ‘Science View’ among others..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gsfc-univ-holds-virtual-convocation/articleshow/78861897.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus kills Machhiwara woman; case count tops 20,000||LUDHIANA: A Ludhiana woman died of Covid-19 and 55 tested positive on Sunday. As per the local media bulletin, the virus claimed the life of 55-year-old woman of Dana Mandi, Machhiwara. She had hypertension and diabetes and died at Ludhiana civil hospital. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has mounted to 828 and that of outsiders to 306. To date, 3,75,197 people have been tested. Of the 55 positive cases, eight were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 25 were positive cases’ contacts, 12 from OPD, one healthcare worker, one pregnant woman and eight through tracing process. The day also saw 11 patients from outside the district testing positive here. The Ludhiana case count has increased to 20,022 and that of outsiders to 2,691. So far, 18,945 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.62% of the total cases. There are 246 active cases here. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,127. On Sunday, 39 people were quarantined and 3,436 samples collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Fourteen patients, including two Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-kills-machhiwara-woman-case-count-tops-20k/articleshow/78862557.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||At 95%, district records its best cured percentage||LUDHIANA: In a major improvement on Covid-19 front, the cured percentage of the district has reached 95%, the highest so far, as per the state media bulletin with data till 5pm Saturday. The cured percentage is the proportion of recovered patients vis-à-vis total positive cases in a geographical area. The data of the health department shows that the cured percentage rose from 49% on July 9 to 61% on July 31 and 66% till August 15, even as intermittently it witnessed fluctuations. It was recorded at 74% till August 31 and increased to 85% by September 15, 90% till October 1 and 94% by October 15 before reaching the current value. At the present rate, Ludhiana, along with Patiala and Gurdaspur, is at the second spot in the state on the parameter. Moga has the best figure of 96%. SAS Nagar, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Faridkot, Pathankot, Ferozepur and Mansa share the third spot with 94%. Ropar has the lowest cured percentage of 87. Health department officials said there was a marked improvement in several parameters. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “Improvement in cured percentage as well as doubling rate and decrease in active cases, among others, suggest that the peak is over and the disease is on the decline. We are monitoring the ground situation to check the pandemic.” Residents said people should not lower their guard. “We must remain alert at this stage as there might be a second wave of infection. It is important for all to follow the guidelines,” said Ravi Kumar, a city resident. The cured percentage for the state is 94%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/at-95-dist-records-its-best-cured-percentage/articleshow/78862562.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Car, bike registrations in Mumbai up 30% over last Dussehra||MUMBAI: The desire to get a new vehicle on Dussehra day drove up registration of vehicles by approximately 30%, according to data released by the regional transport offices. Till Sunday evening, 609 new vehicles were registered across Mumbai’s four RTOs—Tardeo, Wadala, Andheri and Borivli—compared to 469 in 2019. RTO data shows 404 two-wheelers were registered this Dussehra compared to 308 last year—a 31% rise. Car registrations also grew 27% to 205 from 161 in 2019. On an average, 125 cars and 400 two-wheelers are registered in Mumbai every day. “The closure of public transport due to the pandemic has meant that more and more people are investing in private vehicles to travel to their workplace,” said an RTO official. Purchase of new vehicles usually peaks during Gudi Padwa, Akshaya Tritiya, Dussehra and Diwali, which are considered auspicious days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/car-bike-regns-in-city-up-30-over-last-dussehra/articleshow/78863740.cms||Manthan K Mehta
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||4 workers injured as boiler explodes at dyeing factory||LUDHIANA: Four workers were injured, two of them grievously, in a boiler blast at a dyeing factory on Tajpur Road early on Sunday morning. The incident that occurred around 5.30am brought a part of the unit crumbling down. The seriously injured workers have been identified as Nagmani, 35, and Mohammad Babad, 27, who are admitted to a hospital. Manoj Kumar, 25, and Amarjeet 27, suffered minor injuries. All four live in a labour quarter near the factory. After the explosion, neighbours called up the police and an ambulance. The blast damaged a few nearby factories, too. The factory owner, Ajay Kumar, said, “The employees were on night shift. They turned on the boiler and went to sleep. Nobody checked the temperature of the boiler. When the temperature increased, the boiler exploded. The incident took place due to the negligence of the workers.” Tibba Road police station SHO sub-inspector Davinder Singh said, “The high temperature of the boiler triggered the explosion. No worker has lodged a police complaint. The injured are undergoing treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-workers-injured-as-boiler-explodes-at-dyeing-factory/articleshow/78862565.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana’s worst air quality of year on Dussehra||LUDHIANA: The city witnessed the poorest air quality of the year on Dussehra as the air quality index (AQI) rose to 280. Ludhiana is just 21 points away from having ‘very poor quality’ air. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin, the AQI in Ludhiana on Sunday was 280, bringing city’s air under poor category with possible health impacts as “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. The CPCB data suggests that on the day, the city had the dirtiest air in the year. On Saturday, AQI was recorded at 248. The third high AQI was on October 15 at 230 and fourth high on October 23 at 222. The AQI value in the city was over 200 (poor category) on October 19 (218), October 13 (212) and February 19 (208). Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) authorities say there are many factors contributing to the drop in air quality. “Since the festive season is on, it has resulted in increased traffic and other related activities. Also as unlock was announced, industries have started work in full steam, besides stubble burning is adding to the problem,” says Ludhiana PPCB officer Sandeep Behl. The PPCB officer says as the lower strata is getting cooler by the day due to the onset of winter, heavy particles are getting stuck around the ground and since there is no wind, these are not getting dispersed. “Because of such stuck particles, AQI value is increasing,” he adds. PPCB officials say despite the many efforts to check stubble burning, many farmers are not paying heed, and people should also realise that celebrating festivals green is good for their health. Ajaydeep Singh, a city resident, says, “The authorities can check stubble burning only if they provide proper solution to farmers for its disposal. Besides to check air pollution due to crackers, government departments and NGOs must come together to bring about the change. Deteriorating air quality can be disastrous in pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/citys-worst-air-quality-of-year-on-dussehra/articleshow/78862601.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Private hospital gives Rs 12 lakh bill to kin of Covid-19 victim, body released after MLA’s intervention||DEHRADUN: The family members of a BJP leader, who died of Covid-19 on Sunday, have alleged that a city-based private hospital refused to hand over the body to them after they failed to pay the bill of Rs 12.3 lakh. The issue could only be resolved after the intervention of local MLA Khajan Das. BJP leader and former councilor, Jeevan Singh (56), died of Covid-19 in Dehradun on Sunday morning. His wife Rani Kaur is the incumbent councillor of Karanpur area. “I was told by Jeevan Singh's son that the hospital is not giving the body to the family as they were yet to pay the remaining Rs 4 lakh of the total bill amount. We have already paid Rs 5.5 lakh from the chief minister’s relief funds to the hospital while his son managed to pay over Rs 3 lakh from his insurance policy. I was surprised as to how the bill amount reached Rs 12 lakh when a cap has been put on the treatment of Covid-19 in the private hospital. When I questioned the hospital staff, they agreed to give the body,” said MLA Khajan Das. Reacting to the allegations, Dr Rahul Prasad, medical superintendent of the private hospital, told TOI that the patient was admitted to the hospital on October 7. “Singh was suffering from Covid-19 and was admitted in the ICU for the past few weeks. He was kept on ventilator support. Unfortunately, he passed away on Sunday. After his demise, a group of 30-40 people assembled at the hospital. In the cases of Covid-19 deaths, the hospitals have to follow a set process in handing over the body. This involves informing the police and the body can only be handed in their presence. Allegations regarding the hospital causing an unnecessary delay in handing over the mortal remains of the patient are untrue,” he added. However, the hospital refused to comment on the bill amount of 12.3 lakh. “The bill for the ICU is 18,000 per day but these charges must be for some drugs or tests. I will be able to share the details of treatment on Monday,” he said. Meanwhile, 221 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported on Sunday. With this, the tally of coronavirus cases reached 60,376 in Uttarakhand. Also, nine more fatalities took the Covid-19 toll to 993 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-hosp-gives-rs-12l-bill-to-kin-of-covid-19-victim-body-released-after-mlas-intervention/articleshow/78862606.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 26, 2020||Agra||CBI again quizzes kin of Hathras victim, accused||AGRA: A Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team on Sunday again questioned the family members of the Hathras victim and the accused, and reportedly "confronted them" with two local residents of the village in connection with the alleged gang-rape of the 19-year-old dalit girl. Sources said that though the victim's family and the accused had been questioned earlier, this was the first time when local residents of the village were called in and "confronted" with the others. The victim’s brothers were taken to the CBI’s camp office by its team at 12pm and were sent back after five hours of questioning. While the fathers of all the four accused were questioned by the team for seven hours along with two local residents of the village. The CBI took over the investigations of the alleged gang-rape and murder of the Dalit girl after registering an FIR on October 11. Two days later, the team recreated the crime scene and collected evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-again-quizzes-kin-of-hathras-victim-accused/articleshow/78861971.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Sutlej Club: Elections to six posts held, low turnout||LUDHIANA: Elections to six posts of managing committee of the Sutlej Club concluded on Saturday evening. The results were declared on the same day. As expected, the voter turnout was low at 976, which was about 40% less than the last elections of 2018 when 1,639 votes were polled. The club has 3,300 members, of which 2,800 have voting right. The reason for this year’s low turnout was that the candidates for five major posts, including general secretary, vice-president, sports secretary, bar secretary and executive member (woman), were elected unopposed. Eleven candidates were in the field for rest of the six posts. For the post of joint secretary, Gurmeet Singh Kairon secured 656 votes and defeated Sachin Gupta by 339 votes, which was the biggest margin. The closest contest was for the post of cultural secretary as Rattandeep Bawa secured 501 votes and defeated his rival Harkesh Mittal by mere 27 votes. For the post of finance secretary, KPS Walia got 569 votes and defeated Jasdeep Nalwa by a margin of 162 votes, while Maninder Bedi clinched mess secretary’s post by 571 votes and defeated Sanjeev Gupta by a margin of 167 votes. Gupta got 404 votes. For the two posts of executive members, winners Subodh Batish secured 442 votes and Dr Arun Dhawan 303, while Balwinder Bhanwra was ousted as he finished third by bagging 185 votes. There was festival-like atmosphere at the club after the results were announced. The already-elected office-bearers, led by general secretary Sanjeev Dhanda, and the former committee members met all the winners and congratulated them. Outgoing general secretary Gurinder Singh Kairon, whose brother Gurmeet Singh Kairon has been elected as the joint secretary, thanked club’s president DC Varinder Sharma for the successful conduct of the elections in such tough times and offered all help and support to the new team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sutlej-club-elections-to-six-posts-held-low-turnout/articleshow/78862607.cms||Mohit Behl
October 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: Bhim Army chief claims attack on his convoy, police deny it||MEERUT: Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar claimed on Sunday evening that shots were fired at his convoy in UP’s Bulandshahr district when he was campaigning for the upcoming bypoll. UP Police was quick to reject the claim. “Today’s rally (the turnout) has shocked everyone. The opposition is spending sleepless nights since we decided to field a candidate in the Bulandshahr by-election. Which is why my convoy was fired at today. It shows their frustration. They want to spoil the atmosphere. But we would not let it happen,” Chandrashekhar wrote on Twitter in Hindi soon after the rally in Bulandshahr which witnessed an impressive turnout. The denial came within minutes on the same platform. “We got information about a fight between the members of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and those of Bhim Army. Kotwali’s station in-charge rushed to the spot with a force. No firing took place there. We are probing it,” Bulandshahr Police wrote on Twitter. In the rally, the chief of the newly-floated Azad Samaj Party raked up the controversy surrounding Baghpat sub-inspector Intezar Ali who was suspended for sporting a beard. “Article 25 and 26 of the Constitution give freedom of religion to everyone be it Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Buddhist, Parsi or Jain. An SI in Baghpat sporting beard was told to shave it by the SP. When a Sikh can wear a turban and keep a beard, the country’s PM can sport a beard then why is a cop not allowed?” Chandrashekhar asked. “They thought the Muslims would protest. But Muslims here have become sensible now. The policeman shaved his beard and reported for duty,” he said. Chandrashekhar was speaking at Numaish grounds in Bulandshahr where he addressed a gathering in support of party candidate Haji Yameen. Azad Samaj Party is contesting only on Bulandshahr Sadar seat. Seven assembly seats are going to polls on November 3 in UP. Allahabad high court has recently asked the EC to hold elections on the Suar seat of Rampur district also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bhim-army-chief-claims-attack-on-his-convoy-police-deny-it/articleshow/78861972.cms||Piyush Rai
October 26, 2020||Goa||Opposition to Cunchelim ground development rises||Saligao: Two more clubs have joined the chorus against any development being taken up in the open space at Cuncehlim, presently being used as a playground. Office-bearers of the clubs have demanded that the Mapusa Municipal Council revoke any provisional NOC issued to the comunidade of Cunchelim to carry out work in this open space. “The high court has encouraged the use of open spaces as playgrounds, stating that cities are becoming concrete jungles with no places to relax or play. The municipality should play a protective role in maintaining green spaces in its jurisdiction,” the representation, which was also presented to Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza, stated. For months now, sports enthusiasts residing in and around Mapusa have been fighting to retain the open space in Cunchelim, stating that this is the only such space left in the town and surrounding area for sports and recreational activities. The two clubs - Cunchelim Football Sports Club and Sai Baba Cricket Club have alleged that the communidade of Cunchelim has illegally sub-divided the plots in the open playground. In the representation to the MMC, advisor of the Cuncelim sports club and ex vice-president of the Goa Football Association Francis Fernandes has said, “We strongly object to the use of the property for commercial purpose or any other purpose other than to play football or games.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposition-to-cunchelim-ground-development-rises/articleshow/78863795.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Meerut||Four injured in a shootout in Uttar Pradesh's Kairana, village head booked||MUZAFFARNAGAR: At least four persons were injured in a shootout following a dispute between two groups in Kairana area of Shamli district. The incident took place in Manna Majra village with one group led by village pradhan and his associates resorted to firing. The village pradhan has been booked. All the four injured were rushed to local hospitals and a police force was deployed to contain the situation. According to sources, on Sunday morning, after a fight among two groups of children, their families joined the melee and started kicking and punching each other. The situation turned ugly when a group started firing indiscriminately. Local police rushed to the place and controlled the situation. They shifted the injured to district hospital, where they are being treated. Police sources said that raids were being conducted to arrest the accused. SP of Shamli district Nityanand Rai said, "The clash erupted over a minor dispute between children which later involved the grown ups. Strict action will be taken." Kairana SHO Premveer Rana said, "One accused was arrested. A case has been registered against eight persons. We are trying to arrest the rest of them. Further investigation is on." A family member of the injured alleged, "The village pradhan had issues with us. In the morning, he came with some associates and fired indiscriminately in which four persons, including a girl, sustained bullet injuries."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-injured-in-a-shootout-in-kairana-village-head-booked/articleshow/78861974.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Misuse of Ayurveda medicines impacts health||JAIPUR: People in the city are trying all sorts of herbs and Ayurvedic medicines without prescriptions, which they think could be effective in strengthening their immunity in the wake of Covid pandemic.  As a result, a lot of people are developing all sorts of gastro-related disorders such as hepatotoxicity and piles. At times, even their blood pressure is also shooting up forcing them to rush to hospitals. A 48-year-old having influenza-like illness in Shastri Nagar area was rushed to a private hospital with high blood pressure. His systolic pressure was touching 180 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) while the diastolic pressure was above 90 mm Hg. Doctors conducted electrocardiogram which turned out to be normal. During investigations, it was found he was taking decoction (kadha) at least four times a day. With a lot of people using herbs and Ayurvedic medicines regularly, the sale of products such as giloy, tulsi, decoction and other such ‘immunity boosters’ has increased. “Cases of ill-effects of excessive use of herbs available at homes and Ayurvedic medicines such as giloy and decoction are being reported in increasing numbers. Consuming excessive decoctions is not good. People should understand the nature of herbs in decoction they may create heat in the body and lead to different sorts of ill effects such as piles, fissures and problems in rectal region,” said Dr CR Yadav, head of the department (sharir kriya), National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA). “The constitution of body of each individual is different from other and so the benefit of one medicine on somebody does not necessarily benefits the other,” he said. The other common ill-effects are hyperacidity, mouth ulcers and hypertension, he said. Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital’s gastroenterology department has also seen such patients having complaints related to stomach. “Patients with stomach ache, gastro-related issues are being reported. They also complaint of vomiting,” said Dr Sudhir Maharshi, associate professor (gastroentrology), SMS Hospital. Health experts claimed that people are excessively using herbs in homes such as ginger and turmeric. Excessive use of any such items is not recommended. Long term use of Ayurveda medicine aiming to boost immunity without consultation of registered doctors and Ayurveda practitoners might lead to adverse impact on the health of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/misuse-of-ayurveda-medicines-impacts-health/articleshow/78863428.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||4 injured in truck-car collision||LUDHIANA: Four persons, including a woman, got injured in a road accident which occurred at Sahnewal on the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway on Sunday afternoon. The accident occurred when a car collided with a truck from behind. According to police, the car was being driven at high speed. The injured were of Mandi Gobindgarh area who were travelling in a Celerio car. They rammed into a Tata 407 truck around 1pm on Sunday. The collision was so strong that the truck overturned on the highway. Soon after the incident, other commuters rushed to rescue of the injured. They also called the police and an ambulance too. Investigating officer ASI Bhupinder Singh said that during preliminary inquiry they came to know that both vehicles were overspeeding on the national highway. Meanwhile, the truck slowed down the speed but the driver of the car, which was behind the truck, could now control the speed and crashed into it from behind. The ASI added that in this incident the car was badly damaged and the truck also overturned on the road. After calling a crane the police managed to remove both vehicles from the road. He added that the truck driver also sustained minor injuries whereas the three car occupants, an elderly man, a youngster and a woman, received serious injuries. The injured have been admitted to a private hospital at Sherpur chowk and have not been identified yet. Police will visit the hospital to identify the injured and to record their statements. The traffic on the Ludhiana-Delhi highway was also affected for a few minutes when the police were getting the vehicles removed from the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-injured-in-truck-car-collision/articleshow/78862663.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Parents body supports independent candidates||JAIPUR: The Joint Parents Association Rajasthan has extended support to all independent candidates in the local body polls. In a press conference held here on Sunday, the body asked parents that none of the political parties – BJP, Congress, BSP — have assured them of any support in their demand of waiver in school fees. Association’s spokesperson Abhishek Jain Bittu said parents have been running from the pillar to the post but none of the party has offered any relief in the last six months. “Our members have met with all party leaders but none showed any interest in listening to our legitimate demands. It is now our time to tell them that they betray our trust standing with the corporate houses running these schools. This is why we have decided to they don’t deserve our votes and independent candidates who have assured us to stand with our demand will get our votes,” said Bittu. The association claimded that 35 lakh people will vote in the polls of which 20 lakh are parents whose wards go to school in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-body-supports-independent-candidates/articleshow/78863433.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan municipal elections: ‘Congress neglecting infra projects completed by BJP’||JAIPUR: The BJP criticised the state government for neglecting infrastructure projects which were completed during former chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s tenure. During campaigning for municipal polls, the BJP workers are highlighting the failure of government to operate important Dravyavati River project which was constructed after spending Rs 1,600 crore. BJP worker Ajay Gupta said, “The condition of Dravyavati River has deteriorated during the Congress regime which was highlighted by the BJP in the ‘black paper’ released by it. If the Congress had given it a push, the project would have benefited thousands of residents,” he said. The issue is also supported by many residents who believe that the project is facing a neglect after change in regime. Varun Saini, a resident of Hassanpura, said, “There is foul smell emanating from the river due to waterlogging. As proposed, there is no free-flowing water in the river even after sewerage treatment plants are constructed under the renovation projects. The JDA has wasted public money and not giving benefits. The ruling party should pull the civic body and make project operational,” he said. Countering the BJP workers, the Congress too is appeasing its voters. It is trying to convince people how the BJP has wasted public money in an impractical project. Ashok Mehta, a Congress supporter, said, “During rains this season, the utility of project was exposed. Moreover, as the floor of the river is cemented, the water level has gone down at a tremendous rate,” he said. In the black paper, the BJP has also mentioned that Rs 5,000 crore projects under the Centre funded smart city scheme is biting the dust during the Congress tenure. Moreover, revamping the Annapurna Rasoi is not benefiting the poor and daily wagers unlike it was in previous government. Varun Kapoor, a party worker, said, “After the mobile vans are removed from crucial points, the people are not able to reach to the subsided rates food joints. There was no requirement for the remodelling of scheme as it was made it reach,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-neglecting-infra-projects-completed-by-bjp/articleshow/78863430.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Polls stall repair work of roads||JAIPUR: Re-carpeting work of the major roads proposed to be completed before Diwali will be delayed as the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has stopped the tender process after the model code of conduct came into effect. After the torrential rains this season, layers of roads of many zones were washed away. Following this, the JDA in five important zones, proposed to carry out road repair work after inviting Rs 11 crore tenders. As per the proposal, the JDA planned to repair roads in Panipech and Subhash Nagar Scheme in zone-2, a patch between King’s lane to C-Junction in zone-5, Chitrakoot Scheme, Arjun Nagar Bypass, roads of PRN south and others. A JDA engineer said, “On October 11, model code of conduct was imposed. After that tenders could not be invited. The road repair work can only be completed after Diwali this year,” he said. Once the model code of conduct is lifted, the JDA will also start an exercise to re-model the Gopalpura Bypass. An official said, the commercial activities on this road will be regularised soon. In phase 1, the JDA would take the shops falling under 3.65km area falling between Gujjar Ki Thadi and Gopalpura Bypass. The JDA has recently proposed to develop 21 major roads of the city as model road. The pilot project will be initiated from the Gopalpura Road which is 160 feet road. The other major roads that will be included under the plan are JLN Marg, Tonk Road and Sikar Road. An official said, “Commercial activities are already continuing on these major roads. The JDA will prepare a plan which will include parameters such as size of a shop, link road, parking, height and others. The decision was taken in the Building Plan Committee (BPC) and implementation would be done soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/polls-stall-repair-work-of-roads/articleshow/78863431.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Fire brigade gears up for festivals with limited resources||LUDHIANA: With the onset of festival season fire brigade officials have also swung into action and they have started keeping their system intact so as to avoid any untoward incident in the city during the festivals, especially Diwali. However, this festival season also the fire brigade will have to manage fire incidents with limited resources only. The much awaited upgrading plan under smart city mission is still taking time to become a reality. However, another upgrading plan is on the cards at the state level and how much the city benefits from it is yet to be seen. The fire brigade upgrading is pending for a long time as with the passing of a number of years the staff count is falling and so is the quality of equipment. Under the smart city mission several proposals were made to buy new equipment to strengthen the working of department, but still except for five inflatable portable lights, the officials did not get anything. Requesting anonymity, one of the fire officials claimed that they had these lights earlier also but these were not that much useful and if there is some technical fault in these then these cannot be repaired locally. He said they required small fire tenders, fire-proof suits and hydraulic ladders at the earliest. He claimed that along with this, attention should be paid towards the appointment of staff in the fire brigade. Meanwhile, sub-fire officer Navrang Singh said they had made all necessary arrangements for the festival season and they had also demanded 15 extra drivers and generator sets from the civic body. He said they would also be conducting checking in the markets to see whether all fire hydrants were in working condition as in old city there were fire hydrants from where they could get water supply in case of any incident. Adviser at Punjab Fire Services Bhupinder Sandhu said the upgrading plan under the smart city mission for Ludhiana was going on as there were certain issues in the detailed project report which had been resolved now and very shortly condition of fire brigade would improve with addition of latest equipment. He said apart from this, even at the headquarter level they were going to purchase new equipment like hydraulic ladders, fire suits and other cutting tools very shortly. Sandhu claimed that these things would be distributed in all cities as per requirements. Staff crunch, lack of fire stations Though this year lesser fire incidents were witnessed as factories were closed due to lockdown, still there is a need to resolve the staff crunch issue as well. The city does not have a senior-level officer at the moment. The posts of assistant divisional fire officer and station fire officers are lying vacant. Recently, the fire officials were given the authority to conduct checking in the factories or other establishments for fire arrangements and if required they could even take steps like sealing of the unit. But in the absence of senior officials the sub-fire officials were unable to start any checking drive as well. There is acute shortage of regular firemen as well. However, for a city where there are 17 lakh people living only five fire stations are functional, whereas plans to establish more fire stations on Tajpur road or Rahon road are still pending. What is expected from upgrading The plan is to purchase mini-fire tenders, victim location cameras with wireless life detector, along with breaching system, aluminised fire proximity suit, light weight stretcher, eye protection equipment, portable radio set, safety torches, hydraulic aerial ladder platform (height 70m), etc. It is to be seen when the fire brigade will get these equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fire-brigade-gears-up-for-festivals-with-limited-resources/articleshow/78862684.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Vadodara||During Navratri, Anju Maasi turns into a celebrity||Vadodara: For the past nine days, Anju maasi’s phone hasn’t stopped ringing. Whether it’s an invite for a business launch or merely to attend a puja ceremony for a new house, her august presence is solicited. And why? Because, maasi is a eunuch and leads her community in the city. “Eunuchs are considered to be an avatar of Ma Amba. I have inaugurated at least 10 new businesses in the city since Navratri began. I was flooded with invitations on Sunday for Dussehra and had to turn down many,” flaunted Anju Maasi while telling TOI that her presence is premium during the festivities. Many people believe it is auspicious to invite an eunuch for launching their new business or in a housewarming ceremony, especially during Navratri. People invite her to inaugurate shops and offices or even to launch blood donation camps. Anju Maasi has been chief guests of many events this year, but added that she doesn’t charge a single penny for attending the events. “In fact, I put some cash at the counter and bless them for prosperity,” she said. “Till some years ago, many people were scared to invite eunuchs for their events. But things are changing slowly,” said the eunuch, who has also acted in a few Gujarati films. “On Sunday, Anju Maasi inaugurated my provision shop in the Wadi area. I am sure that her blessings will help me in establishing my business well,” said Sunny Patni, a resident of Wadi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/during-navratri-anju-maasi-turns-into-a-celebrity/articleshow/78861921.cms||Tushar Tere
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||AAI awaits land mutation in its name at Halwara before starting work||LUDHIANA: After getting land mutation of Sahnewal airport in the name of the Airport Authority of India (AAI), the AAI is now ‘waiting’ for mutation of land acquired at Halwara in its name before the start of work. The AAI officials shared that the AAI needs to show some assets in return before it spends hundreds of crores on Halwara international airport. A senior officer of the AAI in Ludhiana said that they had got the ‘fard’ (revenue document suggesting that land is in their name) suggesting that ownership of land at Sahnewal airport, measuring more than 134 acres which was previously state land, has been transferred in the name of AAI. He added that now they are waiting for mutation of acquired land at Aitiana village in the name of AAI as as per the agreement between the AAI and Punjab government. “The estimated cost of the Halwara international airport project is between Rs 300-Rs 400 crore. So, if we are spending such large amount of money, we need to have assets in return before investing money. Even as Sahnewal airport land has been mutated in AAI’s name, we are waiting for mutation of land acquired for Halwara international airport in the AAI’s name. We are hopeful that AAI’s headquarters will then provide necessary approval for starting work on the project,” said an AAI officer. “We want the project to start soon as we wish to shift operations to Halwara, which has landing systems that needs less visibility and longer runways at the airforce station.” He added that once the approval would be granted by the AAI’s headquarters, work will start on setting up of terminals, boundary wall of the acquired land, etc. The district administration officials said that matter was under consideration. “The matter has been referred to the government of Punjab by chief administrator, Glada. It will be transferred once a reply is received,” said DC Varinder Sharma. Meanwhile, the residents are anxiously waiting for start of work on Halwara airport. “The airport at Halwara can be a big development for an industrial city like Ludhiana as not only the business community, but people from cross sections of society here will benefit. The government should ensure that the work starts on the project soon,” said Vijay Kumar, a city resident. An official spokesperson had said the project would be implemented through a joint venture company (JVC), which has been formed with the majority stake of 51% of the AAI and 49% of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aai-awaits-land-mutation-in-its-name-at-halwara-before-starting-work/articleshow/78862689.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||US study backs remdesivir, boost for SMSM Medical College||JAIPUR: Days after Sawai Man Singh Medical College refuted WHO’s claim that remdesivir had little or no effect on the overall mortality of Covid-19 patients, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the drug for treatment. TOI on October 21 had published a freport on SMS Medical College refuting WHO’s claim on remdesivir. “We had refuted WHO’s claim on remdesivir and now USFDA has approved our claim. We have found it as a life-saving drug for Covid patients,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. “For patients with severe Covid, this approval gives hope that recovery from the infection would be effective and comprehensive when administered and titrated at the opportune time,” said the team of experts from SMS Medical College Hospital, Jaipur, headed by Bhandari. This comes at a time as doctors across the globe have been skeptical following a WHO report published on October 15 stating that nearly 3,000 people who received remdesivir were not more likely to survive infection with SARS-CoV-2 than those receiving standard of care. These findings were in direct contrast to the report published on October 8 in the New England Journal of Medicine by a team led by researchers at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) that documented the fact that remdesivir helped hospitalized Covid patients to recover faster compared to placebo, said the SMS Medical College officials. Moreover, the NIH (National Institutes of Health) guidelines on use of antiviral drugs in Covid recommend use of remdesivir among patients who required supplemental oxygen. Though remdesivir can reduce the mortality rate and duration of the illness, it was not considered entirely effective by WHO, said the officials. On the other hand, Rajasthan’s Covid management protocol drafted by team of experts from SMS Medical College Hospital, Jaipur, and issued on October 17 by the health department, had recommended the use of remdesivir in moderate to severe illness (those on oxygen), started early in the course of therapy. “We are providing it to patients with moderate symptoms and the results are encouraging,” said Dr Ajit Singh, member of Covid treatment group, SMS Hospital. The team of experts at SMS Medical College had refuted the WHO’s findings and reiterated its stance and confidence in remdesivir as an effective antiviral ribonucleotide inhibitor of viral RNA polymerase drug even before the FDA approval. Remdesivir was first described in the literature in 2016 as a potential treatment for Ebola. In 2017, its activity against the coronavirus family of viruses was also demonstrated. With the approval of FDA for use against the pandemic, the confidence among doctors has now been reinstated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/us-study-backs-remdesivir-boost-for-smsm-medical-college/articleshow/78863437.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Head constable kills self, cops register dowry death||KOTA: A 35-year-old married woman posted as the head constable at Hadi Rani battalion in Jaipur hanged herself from a ceiling fan in her house at Raghunathpura village under Talera police station of Bundi district on Sunday. Following a complaint by her family members, police lodged a case of dowry death under Section 304(B) of IPC against her husband and handed over the body to family members after postmortem. Anita Gurjar, wife of Pinku Gurjar, allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan in her house around 11.30am on Sunday, Talera SHO Mahesh Singh said. The woman was posted as head constable at Hadi Rani Battalion in Jaipur and was living with her husband and a son in her village in Bundi district, he added. Her husband is a physical education teacher, he added. “We are looking into the matter and statements of family members and neighbours will be recorded to find out if it was a dowry death or for some other reason,” Keshoraipatan DSP and circle officer Deepak Garg said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/head-constable-kills-self-cops-register-dowry-death/articleshow/78863436.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||BJP national president JP Nadda asks party in Rajasthan to highlight Congress failure||JAIPUR: BJP national president JP Nadda has asked the state unit to highlight the misgovernance of the Gehlot government via social media especially WhatsApp at the booth level. While inaugurating the BJP offices in Jaisalmer, Ajmer, Alwar, Dholpur, Udaipur and Bharatpur on Sunday, he held the Gehlot government responsible for the highest crime rate and corruption in the state. “It is also the duty of the party workers to engage people in the political discourse and highlight the social welfare works of the Modi government to the people at the booth level,” said Nadda. “The Gehlot government is immersed in crime and corruption while the BJP has been engaged in social welfare schemes. The government has no commitment for people of the state. Our party workers have to ensure that the lotus blossoms in the next state polls,” said Nadda. He directed party workers to highlight the shortcomings of the Gehlot government via social media. “It is very important for party workers to educate and highlight the misgovernance of the Gehlot government,” said Nadda. He asked the party presidents in all BJP offices to have e-libraries and place for party literature aiming to provide people with an opportunity to read about it. “I urge state president Satish Poonia to prepare a district-wise document on the relief work done by party workers. I will submit the national document at the UN in nine languages to showcase how we tackled Covid,” said Poonia. He also asked the party workers to counter the myth being spread by the Congress on the agriculture reforms introduced by the Modi government. “The landmark bills gives farmers the much need independence from the system which was meant for their exploitation,” said Nadda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nadda-asks-party-in-raj-to-highlight-cong-failure/articleshow/78863467.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Back-to-back firing incidents in Bikaner a cause of concern||JAIPUR: Three firing incidents in Bikaner in a week have raised the concerns of the police department and the government. Senior police officers including the Special Operations Group’s (SOG) chief were in Bikaner on Sunday to find the reasons as well as provide guidance to the investigators. While 40-year-old businessman Giriraj Aggarwal was shot dead in Bikaner’s Nayashaher, in the other two cases, including the firing at Congress leader Rameshwar Dudi’s house gate, no one was injured. SHOs of five police stations in Bikaner were also transferred. The back-to-back incidents of firing in the district sent off alarm bells in the government and the SOG was asked to intervene. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS), who was Bikaner’s SP earlier, has also dealt with similar incidents when he Jodhpur police commissioner. “We will keep a vigil on hardcore criminals and work in coordination with Bikaner police. Police are conducting investigations into the cases covering all aspects. We are keeping a constant vigil on betting, gambling along with taking preventive actions to curb crime. Checking of jails will be done on a regular basis.” The fatal shooting in Nayashaher was followed by outrage from the locals who demanded prompt arrest of the accused. Local leaders had also staged a protest demanding better law and order situation in the district. The victim’s family had demanded compensation as well as government job from one member. The district administration had assured them they will forward these demands to the state government. Cops had detained half a dozen accused in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/back-to-back-firing-incidents-in-bikaner-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/78863466.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four killed in Hanumangarh mishap||JAIPUR: Four persons were killed on Bhadra-Mothsara highway in Hanumangarh around 8pm on Sunday after the driver of the SUV in which they were travelling lost control and hit a roadside tree. The deceased were identified as Balram (45), Mahendra Jat (55), Ramesh Kumar (35) and Lekhram Kumar (25), all from Mothsara in Hanumangarh. Bhadra SHO Kavita Poonia said, “The accident happened at Rajgarh bypass and all were killed on the spot. The vehicle was badly damaged after hitting a Keekar tree. All of them were taken to a hospital where doctors declared them brought dead.” Cops are yet to find the reason why the mishap took place. The SHO added, “The road is very wide and we have not found any evidence that there was a stray animal due to which the driver lost control.” The bodies of the deceased were kept in the mortuary and the post-mortem will be done on Monday. With winters approaching, cases of accidents are likely to increase in the state, though officials claimed that they were taking necessary measures to prevent it. On Saturday too, a woman was killed and 20 were injured after a marriage party bus from Ghaziabad overtured in Dausa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-killed-in-hanumangarh-mishap/articleshow/78863460.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Few effigies, less fervour marks Dussehra celebrations this year||LUDHIANA: City residents celebrated Dussehra on Sunday with their family members. Though the usual Dusshera fervour was missing this time, the effigy of Ravans was still erected at a fewer places where these were burnt by Dusshera committees in the evening. The committee members had claimed that people would not be allowed near Dusshera venues due to Covid-19 guidelines and they managed to keep the number of people within the permissible limits. In the morning also only a few people visited the sites with their families for seeing the effigy of Ravana at Daresi ground, Upkaar Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, etc. Some were seen taking selfies with Ravana effigies. But most of the people were unhappy over the small size of the effigies this time. A resident of Daresi, Meenu Kapoor, said, “Since childhood days, I have been coming to the Dussehra ground for Dussehra celebrations but this time there is less response from people as well. Due to the pandemic people are avoiding coming to the venue in large numbers.” She said it has also led to losses for the poor who used to arrange swings and fair at Dussehra ground every year because they did not get chance to do anything this time. Another resident from Civil Lines Anup Kumar said since childhood Dussehra meant eating tikkis, golgappas, swings and fun for him, but not this year because all these things were missing from the venue at Upkar Nagar. He said the committee had organised the Dusshera symbolically so that their ritual should continue. He prayed to Lord Rama that next year Dussehra should be celebrated in the old traditional way and this pandemic should go away as soon as possible. Meanwhile, there was a rush in the market as people were out to get eatables for their households or were visiting their relatives to greet them for Dussehra. In the morning, there is a ritual in some families to worship Ravana for his intellect but in the evening he is burnt to show that pride has a fall and good always wins over evil. “Dussehra symbolises the victory of good over evil and everybody should learn a lesson from Ramayana and to educate my kids about such things I used to bring them every year to the Dussehra fair. But this time due to this disease even I preferred not to go anywhere,” said Mahinder Sharma, a resident of Haibowal. He further said that parents hardly get time with the children and only in festivals there used to be gala time for families. This year though pandemic hit many but it also gave enough time to families for spending good time together. Meanwhile, cops were also deployed near Dusshera venues so that there should not be a large gathering anywhere and any untoward incident could be avoided. It was at around 5.30pm that the effigies of Ravana were burnt at various locations and once again message of victory of good over evil got circulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/few-effigies-less-fervour-marks-dussehra-celebrations-this-year/articleshow/78862704.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Hotel owner dies due to self-immolation||JAIPUR: A hotel owner who immolated himself in Sriganganagar’s Anupgarh on October 22 succumbed to burns on Sunday. Before his death, he gave a statement in which he named a few persons and accused them of harassing him. “Vinod Sahni (32) poured fuel on himself and lit himself due to which he sustained critical injuries. After initial treatment in Sriganganagar, he was referred to Bikaner due to the severity of the injuries. Although the doctors tried to save him, he succumbed on Sunday,” said an official of Anupgarh police station. Though the victim left behind no suicide note, he named a few persons in his dying declaration. “In his statement, Sahni claimed that other hotel owners close to his own were harassing him due to which he had taken this extreme step.” Cops are yet to arrest or detain any of the persons named by the victim. “We have initiated an investigation to check the veracity of the allegations and once they are verified, we will arrest the persons if required. We will also question the victim’s family to get more details into the case as well to find exactly how Sahni was being harassed,” said the official. The locals in the victim’s village also demanded arrest of the accused. The deceased’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy. This is the second case in matter of weeks when a person has died due to burns. Earlier this month, a priest in Karauli was allegedly burnt alive over land dispute. A high-level investigation was launched in the Karauli case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hotel-owner-dies-due-to-self-immolation/articleshow/78863471.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||45 cartons of spurious ghee seized in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: The police here on Sunday seized 45 cartons of spurious ghee from a vehicle coming from Gujarat. A case has been lodged and investigation has started. SP Ajay Singh said police got a tip-off that a pick-up van from Gujarat was bringing spurious ghee to be supplied during the festive season on which barricading was done at Gogagada Fanta.  The pick-up van (RJ22-GA8936) was stopped at Phalsoond. The driver told his name to be Prakash (25), a resident of Barmer district. He said he was transporting ghee from Deesa to Pokaran and Ramdeora, but could not give satisfactory reply. When the ghee was checked, there were 35 cartons, including 1 kilogram and 2 kilogram packing, and 705 kilogram ghee was found adulterated, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-cartons-of-spurious-ghee-seized/articleshow/78863469.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Breather for bizmen after date of filing ITR extended||LUDHIANA: In a big breather for businessmen the income tax department has extended the due date for filing of the income tax returns (ITR) for the assessment year 2020-21 to January 31, 2021, in case where auditing of accounts is require, while for the individuals the last date of filing has been extended till December 31, 2020, from the earlier date of November 30, 2020. In another relief for businessmen in terms of GST , the last date for filing the annul returns of GST has also been extended by two months to December 31 from October 31. City businessmen had been demanding the extension of all these deadlines in the wake of the disruptions faced by them in their businesses due to coronavirus. Giving more information, tax professional NK Thamman said, “A large number of business and taxation associations have been requesting the government to extend the statutory deadlines for filing of various returns in the wake of unprecedented situation due to Covid-19 pandemic. In case of deadlines of GST, even the GST council had recommended extension of deadlines and taking a right decision in this regard, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has extended the due date for filing the annual return (form GSTR-9/GSTR9-A) and reconciliation statement (form GSTR-9C) for financial year 2018-19 to December 31, 2020, from the current deadline of October 31, 2020. This two-month extension will give a big relief not only to the taxpayers, but also to the tax professionals who all of sudden were experiencing huge workload due to the deadline.” According to Abhinav Sehgal, joint secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “We are thankful to the central government, CBIC and Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) for accepting our demands and extending the deadlines for filing of ITR and GST returns as well. During the last 6-7 months, we have faced the most toughest challenges of our lives and we were never prepared for these. As a result, all tasks, be it managing the account books or keeping up with the deadlines of all departments, have become very tough and challenging for us. With the extension for filing of annual returns of GST we are feeling very relieved as we have got ample time to do all our paperwork and reconcile our accounts with those of our buyers and sellers, based upon which we can file our correct returns.” According to Nitin Sharma, senior member of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, “The extension of filing of income tax returns till January 31 for the companies having audit requirements is a great move indeed. Coupled with the extension of date of filing annual GST returns, the decisions will immensely help the industry concentrate on the business, which has started picking up, and along side complete the formalities for filing of the returns before the due dates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/breather-for-bizmen-after-date-of-filing-itr-extended/articleshow/78862710.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Ravana effigies sold in throwaway prices||JAIPUR: Poor response of customers was visible on the faces of Ravana effigy makers as they ended up selling their products at throwaway prices. Because of the imposition of Section 144 CrPC in Jaipur in the wake of the pandemic, there were no big Dussehra celebrations in the city. Majority of the effigy makers had to sell the products at prices ranging from Rs 200 to Rs 2,500. Every year, places such as Shipra Path, Mansarover, Vidhyadhar Nagar and Aadarsh Nagar order big effigies but this year no such functions swere organised. In the absence of functions, people purchased smaller effigies for the ritual. “We were expecting good sales but at least 100 effigies remained unsold. By the evening, we had to sell those in throwaway prices as after Dussehra they would be of no use,” said Kishan Ram, an effigy maker at Gujjar Ki Thadi area on Sunday. In absence of big celebrations, people purchased effigies which they set on fire in the lanes inside their colonies. “We live in a joint family having 20 members. I purchased a 10-feet effigy and my father set it on fire,” said Kamal Agarwal, a native of Johari Bazaar. Though effigy makers were aware that due to Covid they would get a poor response, they had reduced the sizes of the effigies. “I have been coming to Jaipur for 10 years but have never witnessed this kind of poor response. Many of our effigies remained unsold and we can’t carry them back to our native village,” said Mangi Lal Jogi, a native of Pali district, who was at B2B bypass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ravana-effigies-sold-in-throwaway-prices/articleshow/78863474.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Veggies will pinch pockets till December||JAIPUR: Retail prices of vegetables are spiralling across the city. Onions, which were available for Rs 40 per kg, are now being sold at Rs 80 to Rs 100. There’s hardly any vegetable which is cheaper than Rs 50. Wholesale traders at Mohana Mandi said there would be no respite till November 15 until the locally harvested crops start arriving. As locally harvested crops got exhausted by mid-September, prices of veggies started increasing. Across the state, majority of the greens available in the markets are from other states such as Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Gujarat. “We are getting crunched supply of onions from Nashik and other parts of Maharastra which is the reason why the price of the tuber is just double of what we were selling in of September. Currently, small onions are available in Rs 80 per kg while the bigger ones are available for Rs 100 per kg,” said Abdul Sagir, a wholesale trader of vegetables, at Mohana Mandi on Sunday. Similarly, prices of other vegetables including ladyfinger, bottle gourd, round gourd, tomatoes, potatoes and others are on the rise. “Potatoes were sold for Rs 15 per kg till August and Rs 20 per kg in September. Now it costs Rs 35 to Rs 40 per kg,” said a wholesale dealer. Likewise, tomatoes are selling for Rs 50 to Rs 60 per kg while coriander costs around Rs 250 to Rs 350 per kg. “Also we are not getting good quality of cauliflowers,” said Balwant Saini,a wholesale trader at Hasanpura vegetable mandi. Wholesale traders maintained that due to the crunched supply, prices are increasing. “This will continue till November 15 and thereafter we will start getting vegetables from the local farms. By December, prices will come down,” said Prabhu Lal Prajapat, a wholesale dealer at Mohana mandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/veggies-will-pinch-pockets-till-december/articleshow/78863478.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Gold worth Rs 65 lakh seized from Dubai passenger||JAIPUR: Customs officials at the city airport detained a passenger with illegal possession of A 1.225 kg of gold bar worth having a market value of nearly Rs 65 lakh. According to customs officials, the passenger arrived from Dubai at 10am on Sunday. As soon as he landed, he rushed to the airport’s washroom. “His activities were suspicious and he was looking jittery. Our team entered the washroom and questioned him besides checking his baggage. “He had put two gold biscuits in the commode of the washroom and had planned to pick it up after clearing the customs. One of the biscuit weighted around 900 grams and the other around 325 grams,” said an officer of the customs department. Customs officials have not ruled out the involvement of local jewelers in the smuggling. “He appears to be a carrier who was paid by these jewelers. He is being questioned,” said an officer. Since April, customs officials have unearthed nearly 23 cases in which smugglers were seen using innovative ways of concealing gold. “In this case, he was trying to conceal it in the flush box of the commode of one of the toilets,” said an officer. Smugglers were seen concealing gold in their rectum and have brought it in rubbery form, as pens, iron, torches, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-worth-rs-65-lakh-seized-from-dubai-passenger/articleshow/78863475.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Meerut||Tension in Bulandshahr locality after a ward member stabs youth from different faith||Meerut: Heavy police force was deployed in Bulandshahr’s Kakod area on Sunday evening after a brawl between youths of two different faiths threatened to disturb law and order in the communally-volatile region. Rahul Jaiswal, in his late 20s, was allegedly stabbed by a local ward member, Nafees. A critically injured Rahul with multiple stab wounds was taken to a private hospital in Noida. Sources said that it all started after a fight between Nafees and a youth named Shahrukh. Police arrested Shahrukh, but he was bailed out by his friend and the victim Rahul. It irked Nafees who attacked Rahul in a fit of rage.Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said, “Rahul was stabbed multiple times and is currently admitted at a hospital in Noida. We have booked and arrested Nafees. Police deployment was made to ensure no untoward incident takes place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tension-in-bulandshahr-locality-after-a-ward-member-stabs-youth-from-different-faith/articleshow/78737119.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Rajkot||Burglars steal Rs 4L cash from parked SUV||Rajkot: Burglars targeted a parked SUV cash parked at a highway hotel on Khijadia bypass near Jamnagar and stole Rs 3.82 lakh cash kept inside the vehicle. The incident occurred on Friday night, but a complaint was lodged on Saturday night. Police said Devram Dabhi (33), a resident of Juvanpar village of Kalyanpur taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district was carrying the cash after selling cumin seeds at the Rajkot market yard. Dabhi, who had come to Rajkot along with two farmer friends were returning to their native in Juvanpar village when the theft took place.“The driver of the SUV, which Dabhi had hired, had parked the vehicle outside Kanaiya Hotel and the four occupants including Dabhi went inside the hotel to have dinner. When they were inside the burglars broke the window pane of the vehicle and took away the money,” said A B Sapia, assistant sub-inspector with Jamnagar Panchkoshi A division police station. “We have registered a case and started investigation on the basis of CCTV footage of the hotel and nearby areas,” added Sapia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/burglars-steal-rs-4l-cash-from-parked-suv/articleshow/78862068.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Depressed over losses, factory owner hangs self||RAJKOT: Unable to bear the loss he had incurred during the lockdown period, a factory owner hanged himself to death inside the store room of his factory in Shri Hari Industrial Area on the outskirts of Morbi on Saturday. Police said the deceased, Mahesh Vadavia (30) committed suicide on Saturday evening. His body was found hanging by his factory workers. “Patel, a native of Khakharala village of Morbi taluka, had set up a propane gas plant in Shri Hari Industrial Area before the imposition of the lockdown. After the lockdown period, he incurred a heavy loss in his business which made him sink into a deep depression,” said an official from Morbi taluka police station. “He had been suffering from depression for the past 20 days, which ultimately drove him to take the drastic step,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/depressed-over-losses-factory-owner-hangs-self/articleshow/78862077.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand pollution board to issue guidelines for complete ban on single-use plastic||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board is preparing detailed guidelines to put a complete ban on single-use plastic in the state. Use of single-use plastic was banned in 2019, but during the lockdown, restrictions were eased. Officials said this time, the guidelines will also cover disposal methods for different types of plastic that will cause less harm to the environment. Existing guidelines do not have specific rules for imposing a penalty on use of single-use plastic. The new guidelines will have stringent regulation for crackdown on plastic, which is in much use since the lockdown was imposed, officials said, adding that senior administrators like district magistrates, superintendent of police and forest officials will be given responsibility for imposing the guidelines. New guidelines are also expected to fix the range of penalty to be charged from manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers and consumers who demand single-use plastic items. They will also have provisions to appeal at both district and state level, to check misuse of regulations at any level of the system. Aggrieved parties will have a chance to lodge a complaint against any officer or competent authority if they feel that latter has taken advantage of the rules. Besides defining what qualifies as ‘single-use plastic’, the guidelines will categorise usable and unusable plastic, putting a complete ban on single-use plastic. The final draft will be placed before the state cabinet for formal approval and adoption. To recall, a human chain of over one lakh people was formed in Dehradun to raise awareness about the effects of single-use plastic last year, after which a massive drive was organised to restrict use of single-use plastic but the efforts were undone after the lockdown came into effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-pollution-board-to-issue-guidelines-for-complete-ban-on-single-use-plastic/articleshow/78862084.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Through maritime cluster, Goa can become manufacturing hub: Gadkari||Panaji: Goa has the ability to become a manufacturing hub of international standards for the maritime sector and could also play a role in promoting the country’s blue economy, union minister for road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday. Laying the foundation stone for the Konkan Maritime Cluster, Gadkari said that the maritime cluster will contribute to the country’s economy and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat. “Goa can be a growth centre for marine hub and maritime cluster, which is a need for future of India and this will be a historical contribution by Goa to the country,” Gadkari said. “Konkan Maritime Cluster will be a growth engine for the development of Goa creating employment potential for thousands of Goan youths.” Gadkari said that there is a need for ships with new designs which can fish 100 nautical miles out at sea. He also said that India’s shipping sector needs new ships, technology and engines. Chief minister Pramod Sawant who was present for the function, said that even though Goa has 11 rivers and one major port, the waterways and ports are not utilised to their optimum potential. “The government is ready to give required support. Goa has a lot of scope for blue industry. This industry should come forward and approach the government,” Sawant said. The maritime cluster, a consortium of 49 Goan enterprises, is coming up at Verna industrial estate where the Goa Industrial Development Corporation has allotted 14,380 sqm of land to setup a common facility for manufacturing, design and allied services for the shipbuilding industry. According to chairman and managing director of the Konkan Maritime Cluster Suraj Dialani, the cluster aims to represent the community, which stands unified to empower themselves and future generations. “The cluster aims at augmenting ship and boat building and marine equipment manufacturing in India,” Dialani said. Industries and health minister Vishwajit Rane said that Goa’s maritime industry needs to evolve and rise. Rane added that the Centre has also agreed to setup a medical device park in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/through-maritime-cluster-goa-can-become-manufacturing-hub-gadkari/articleshow/78863812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 26, 2020||Goa||Kalangutkar joins GFP, Sardesai promises him ticket in 2022||Panaji: Former BJP karyakarta and two time zilla panchayat winner Deepak Kalangutkar joined Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Sunday with GFP president Vijai Sardesai promising to give Kalangutakar the Mandrem ticket for the 2022 state assembly elections. Kalangutkar, who quit the BJP just a few days earlier, said that BJP has humiliated hard-working and loyal karyakartas. Former BJP MLA for Tivim Kiran Kandolkar is expected to join GFP on Monday. Sardesai lashed out at Congress for announcing that the Sonia Gandhi-led party will face the next assembly elections alone. “The intellectual bankruptcy of the country’s oldest party has reached such depths that, after searching all over the country, they found a Kannadiga who sat in protest demanding that Mhadei water should be diverted,” said Sardesai in a direct attack against the AICC desk in charge for Congress Dinesh Gundu Rao. Sardesai said that most voters want an alliance of all secular parties to fight against BJP in the state elections. The former TCP minister alleged that BJP and Congress had a tacit understanding and that he had documents to prove that Congress MLAs were in meetings with BJP and even took benefits from the BJP government while Sawant was the chief minister. Sardesai said that GFP is still open to an alliance with the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kalangutkar-joins-gfp-sardesai-promises-him-ticket-in-2022/articleshow/78863520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 26, 2020||Rajkot||Thieves steal valuables worth Rs 4L from locked house||Rajkot: Burglars broke into a locked house in Bhachau and stole valuables worth Rs 3.8 lakh on October 23. A complaint in this connection was, however, lodged on Sunday after owner Karsan Karia returned home on Saturday and lodged a complaint of theft the next day. In his complaint, Karia, who had gone to Mumbai with his family, said that they left on October 20. “On October 23, his daughter visited his house and detected the theft. She informed Karia, who came to Bhachau on Saturday night and lodged a complaint on Sunday morning,” said S N Karangia, inspector with Bhachau police station. Besides Rs 1.63 lakh in cash, burglars stole gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 1.96 lakh and also electronic items worth Rs 21,500, Karia, a realtor and a farmer, alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/thieves-steal-valuables-worth-rs-4l-from-locked-house/articleshow/78862087.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bareilly||Armed robbers loot Rs 7 lakh from cold storage in Budaun||BAREILLY: A group of armed robbers looted Rs seven lakh from a cold storage in Faizganj Behta area of Budaun district on Saturday. The robbers also thrashed two guards who tried to stop them. Police have registered an FIR and investigation is on. SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “Few armed robbers looted cash and valuables worth Rs seven lakh from cold storage of one Lalit Kishore. We have inspected the spot and deployed multiple teams to nab the accused. Prima facie, it looks that the accused were aware of the cash kept in the cold storage. Taking advantage of lack of security, they committed the crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/armed-robbers-loot-rs-7l-from-cold-storage-in-budaun/articleshow/78862095.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Rajkot||Spa owner operating sex den arrested||Rajkot: A spa owner was arrested on Sunday on charges of allegedly running a prostitution racket in his Ariva Wellness and Healthcare Spa in Rajkot. Police also rescued five women from the establishment.Police said accused Ravin Challa was oprating the clandestine business from his spa located on Patel Vihar Restaurant near Surya Complex in Manmoji Golavadi Sheri on Kalavad Road.“We had received a tip-off that Challa was running the racket at his spa, following which we raided the establishment. Apart from arresting the accused and rescuing the women, we also recovered condoms and Rs 13,500 in cash,” said M S Ansari, sub-inspector with anti-human trafficking unit.During investigation, cop also found out that Challa charged the clients Rs 3,300, of which he would pay Rs 1,500 to the worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/spa-owner-operating-sex-den-arrested/articleshow/78862099.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||PM hails Pulwama pencils in radio speech||NEW DELHI: In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’, PM Narendra Modi said Pulwama played an important role in educating India by contributing to pencil manufacturing, referring to the region of Jammu and Kashmir more often associated with encounters with terrorists. Modi said Pulwama was making India self-reliant in the field of pencil-making and lauded local entrepreneur Manzoor Ahmad Alai for his contribution to educating the young minds of the country. “Today, when children all over the nation do their homework, or prepare notes, somewhere behind this lies the hard work of the people of Pulwama. The Kashmir Valley meets almost 90% demand for pencil slats, timber casings of the entire country, and of that, a large share comes from Pulwama,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-hails-pulwama-pencils-in-radio-speech/articleshow/78864024.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||Parents & school officials react to SOPs issued by Uttarakhand govt||DEHRADUN: A day after the state government issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of schools from November 2 for students of Classes X and XII in the wake of Covid-19, both the school managements and parents’ bodies have raised their objections over certain points of the guidelines. While the school bodies said they have been asked to continue online classes against their wishes, the parents’ bodies are unhappy with the decision that schools won’t be held responsible if a student is found Covid-19-positive. The managements of several schools have stated that it will be extremely challenging for their teachers to teach students in classrooms for six hours and then conduct online classes for 2-3 hours. The SOPs state that there is no compulsion on the students to attend school physically and schools will have to provide students, who do not wish to come to schools, with the online teaching facility. School bodies said that they have come up with a ‘mid-way solution’ to the issue. “Now, we will run classes simultaneously for the students who are present at the schools and the ones who are staying back at their homes. We had a meeting with the heads of the respective schools. The parents will be given a time-table and the classes being held in the classroom will be live streamed so that the students not coming to the schools can also study. The duration of a single class has been increased from 35 minutes to 45 minutes,” said Prem Kashyap, president of the Principals Progressive Schools’ Association (PPSA). Kashyap added that for practical exams, students will have to come to the schools as it is not possible to conduct them virtually. Meanwhile, the parents have said that the schools or the government should take responsibility if a student catches Covid-19 infection. “It has yet not been clarified whether the schools will take up the responsibility if a child catches the virus. We feel that students should attend the school only for exams and not for regular classes,” said Arif Khan, president of the National Association for Parents and Students Rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-school-officials-react-to-sops-issued-by-state-govt/articleshow/78862113.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 26, 2020||Goa||Dudhsagar falls see weakest ever start to season with mere 110 visitors||PONDA: The Dudhsagar waterfalls saw the lowest number of footfalls at just 110, on Sunday, on the first day of the start of the tourist season to the spot. Even during the 2019 season, the falls had registered 315 visitors, but this year’s number is lowest since the falls opened for public in 1989. In 2018, as many as 1,127 people had visited the falls on day one of the season. Dudhsagar falls is a four-tiered cascade located in the Bhagwan Mahaveer Sanctury in Dharbandora taluka. With a height of 310m (1,017 feet), it is among India’s tallest waterfalls. Every year thousands of visitors, both domestic and foreign, throng here to get a glimpse of the milky waters cascading into the lake at its foot. However, this year opening day saw a weak response. Only 22 jeeps found business as compared to 45 on day one last year, chairman of the Dudhsagar Tour Operators’ Association (DTOA) Dilip Mairekar said. He said possibly tourists were unaware that the season opened on Sunday as there was no announcement regarding the start of the season. He, however, expressed confidence that footfalls would increase once the news got around. A total of 431 jeeps have been registered with the wildlife board to ferry passengers at the foot of the Dudhsagar falls. This year, the wildlife division has restricted the number of visitors in a jeep to five, instead of the earlier seven, to avert spread of Coronavirus pandemic. The reduction in number of visitors on Sunday saw the charges for ferrying passengers to the falls raised to Rs 700 per person against the earlier Rs 500. Mairekar, however, said the forest department has increased its gate fee from Rs 30 to Rs 100 per person from this year which has led to hike in jeep fare. The forest department has also restricted the number of jeep trips to 170 per day during weekdays and 225 per day on weekends, since last year. The move is aimed at restricting tourist footfall to a total of 1,190 (170 jeeps) during weekdays and 1,575 (225 jeeps) on weekends. Forest officials said wildlife’s welfare comes first in a sanctuary and that allowing more vehicles would result in disturbing the wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dudhsagar-falls-see-weakest-ever-start-to-season-with-mere-110-visitors/articleshow/78863817.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
October 26, 2020||India||RSS and BJP scared to acknowledge truth on LAC: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh and the BJP were “scared” to acknowledge the truth about Chinese soldiers squatting on Indian land. Rahul was responding to RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s assertions during the Dussehra programme that India intended to be friendly with all, but that “attempts to disintegrate or weaken us by brute force is unacceptable”. “Deep inside, Mr Bhagwat knows the truth. He is just scared to face it. The truth is China has taken our land and GOI and RSS have allowed it,” Rahul said on Twitter. His criticism came on the back of Bhagwat’s assertion that India needed to be militarily better prepared against China's expansionist attitude. Rahul has mounted an aggressive and persistent attack on PM Narendra Modi on the border standoff with China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rss-and-bjp-scared-to-acknowledge-truth-on-lac-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/78864045.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Congress MLA joins BJP in MP; 26th since March||BHOPAL: In a major blow to Congress in Madhya Pradesh, a week ahead of bypolls to 28 seats, MLA Rahul Singh Lodhi joined BJP on Sunday, reducing Congress to 87 seats in the 230-member assembly. BJP has 107 seats. Rahul, who was the MLA from Damoh, took membership of BJP in the presence of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state BJP chief VD Sharma. He is the 26th Congress MLA to switch to BJP since March this year. Within hours, the CM appointed him as chairman of MP State Civil Supplies Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mla-joins-bjp-in-mp-26th-since-march/articleshow/78864057.cms||---
October 26, 2020||---||BJP asks RJD to explain Cong’s ties with ‘radical outfits’ like PFI||NEW DELHI: Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi attacked Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Sunday over its ally Congress’s alleged ties with the Popular Front of India (PFI). The BJP leader said RJD should make its stance on the issue clear to the people of Bihar ahead of the . “We want to ask Tejashwi Yadav whether along with Congress, his party also has an understanding with Jamaat-e-Islami and other radical elements in Bihar. These are questions of national security, not politics,” Naqvi said at a press conference here. “The party which calls itself secular is sponsoring radicalism. They tweet different questions for us, but they should clarify their stance on their plans with the Jamaat-e-Islami, PFI and other such elements. There is a competition between Left and Congress parties to become the bigger protector of radical elements. They have no concern for national security or clearing out radical elements,” he added. Naqvi also raised the issue of Jamaat-e-Islami flags being raised during Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s campaign in Wayanad ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “When Rahul Gandhi was fighting elections from Wayanad, the country was surprised why more Jamaat-e-Islami flags were visible than those of the Congress? The first party to call itself nationalistic post-independence, Congress had entered into an agreement with the Muslim League too,” Naqvi said. “They then said it was due to coalition pressure. The same political pressure is with Jamaat-e-Islami and the agreements with PFI. Congress should clarify what pressures are there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-asks-rjd-to-explain-congs-ties-with-radical-outfits-like-pfi/articleshow/78864064.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 'Social worker' fined Rs 1 lakh for beating up doctor after Covid death||MUMBAI: Justice Bharati Dangre of the Bombay high court has imposed a hefty fine on a person claiming to be a 'social worker' who was accused of roughing up doctors after a Covid patient's death. He was directed to cough up Rs 1 lakh for the chief minister's relief fund for Corona care as a condition for pre-arrest bail. Prosecutors say the amount is the highest levied so far during the lockdown in a case of violence against doctors. Times ViewMany states including Maharashtra have specific laws to provide protection to the medical fraternity against attacks. Offenders can get jail up to three years and a fine of Rs 50,000. However, there is very little awareness even among law enforcers about it and rarely or perhaps never has a conviction been secured under the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions Act.Sorrow and grief of families of Covid patients can well be understood, but it cannot be forgotten that doctors, nurses and other health staff have "selflessly" "acted as corona warriors" throughout the pandemic, said the court while granting relief to the man in a case registered by Baramati city police. The HC said it was "unfortunate'' that the "medical fraternity itself was subjected to an attack." It said, "...their stress hard work is to be just appreciated and acknowledged if not rewarded.'' Shivaji Jadhav, 28, through his advocate Shriram Chaudhari said he may have "over reacted'' while seeking answers as a relative had succumbed and the grieving family got "no satisfactory explanation." Opposing his plea, a public prosecutor SV Gavand said the FIR alleges that Jadhav "barged into" a consulting room in a Baramati hospital despite a warning, threatened a doctor with "dire consequences'', abused nurses and staff, and punched the complainant, a doctor. The HC factored in Jadhav's "remorse'' but said he must be held accountable'' and "take... responsibility for his reckless and supercilious act and this can only be attained if he contributes to the cause for which he had fought the so-called battle." The doctor, Sujit Adsul, said the ruckus had caused him and other staff "tremendous stress". Appreciating the role played by health workers during the pandemic, Justice Dangre said, "their contribution for welfare of humanity is priceless and deserves lifelong gratitude." Jadhav was granted pre-arrest bail of Rs 25,000 but given two weeks after release, to deposit Rs 1 lakh into the CM's fund. “Failure to deposit would denude from of the protection from his arrest,’’ said the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-social-worker-fined-rs-1-lakh-for-beating-up-doctor-after-covid-death/articleshow/78864075.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 26, 2020||---||Sushant Singh Rajput no longer a poll issue in Bihar campaign||PATNA: As Bihar enters the business end of the assembly elections, the justice-for-Sushant Singh Rajput poll slogan has fallen silent. From being the “issue” every party wanted to flag in the run-up to the polls, the actor’s death in Mumbai on June 14 is now a virtual non-issue in the election scheme of things. Even sitting BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, a cousin of Sushant, hasn’t spoken about the case once while campaigning for re-election from the Chhatapur seat in Supaul district. CM Nitish Kumar made only a passing mention of the probe during his first virtual rally in early October, saying he pitched for a CBI probe in deference to the wishes of the late actor’s family. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Nitish Kumar’s initiative for a CBI probe was aimed at providing justice to the actor and his family. The JD(U) never said that it would make it an election issue.” RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the opposition’s CM face, had been among the first to take up cudgels for Sushant’s kin and demand a CBI investigation into his death. But his election campaign so far has been devoid of any reference to the actor. “It’s a fact that he had raised the need to probe Sushant’s death both in the assembly and outside. But the case isn’t a political issue,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. BJP’s art and culture cell, which had printed 60,000 posters and banners featuring Sushant’s face and the slogan “Na Bhule Hain, Na Bhulne Denge (haven’t forgotten, won’t allow to be forgotten)”, has quietly retreated to the sidelines. “The issue will be raised again after the elections,” Pravin Singh, the convener of the culture cell, said on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/sushant-singh-rajput-no-longer-a-poll-issue-in-bihar-campaign/articleshow/78864073.cms||Ramashankar
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 10th arrest in TRP scam, man linked to channel payments||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the TRP scam by five television channels arrested the proprietor of a marketing firm known as Max Media, Abhishek Kolwade alias Amit Mahadik alias Ajit, after he surrendered on Sunday. This is the 10th arrest in the case linked to rigging of viewership figures of television channels, in a bid to influence the placing of advertisements by media-buying houses. Abhishek appeared before the crime branch Sunday afternoon in the presence of his lawyer A K Giri, police said. Police said they discovered the role of Max Media through interrogations of arrested suspects, Ramji Sharma and Dineshkumar Vishwakarma. Kolwade used to allegedly disburse money to be distributed among homes to watch certain TV channels for at least two hours five days a week. According to police, the fund trail leads to the channels. A police officer said, "we learnt there were financial transactions between Max Media's proprietor and another arrested accused Harish Patil which reflected in the latter's bank accounts.'' The EOW has been roped in to probe the financial transactions. Police said they had sent out teams in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa to trace Abhishek. They claim to have statements from witnesses that Kolwade and other suspects connived and accepted funds from officials of three channels -- Maha Movie, Republic TV and New Nation -- to help increase their TRPs. On Saturday, police referred to "owners and directors" of three TV channels -- Republic TV, Maha Movie and New Nation -- as accused in a remand application submitted before the Esplanade Metropolitan Magistrate court seeking the custody of two of the suspects. The two other channels whose names have come up in the scam are Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema, whose owners are currently under arrest. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) has installed 2,000 bar-o-meters in Mumbai. BARC had given the contract of monitoring the meters to Hansa Research. Those under investigation are accused of manipulating TRPs and causing huge losses to other channels, advertising agencies and misleading the general people, said police. Police said Abhishek will be produced before the court on Monday. Police have also summoned the CEO of Maha Movie, Sandeep Verma, and business head Amit Dave for questioning on Monday. Sources said four officers from the Economic Offences Wing have been asked to help the special investigation team (SIT) led by ACP Shashank Sanbhor and assistant inspector Sachin Waze in the investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-10th-arrest-in-trp-scam-man-linked-to-channel-payments/articleshow/78864078.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Gyms across the Mumbai celebrate 'rebirth' on day 1 of reopening, tick safety boxes||Mumbai: Dussehra spelt victory for gym owners who were finally able to unlock on Sunday. Several marked the occasion with a small 'pooja' to mark their 'rebirth'. With regular gym goers set to trickle in from Monday, the fitness industry is looking to rise like a phoenix from the ruins of ravage caused by the virus. "The response on Day 1 of reopening was amazing. Though it was Dussehra, more than 80 customers turned up. People have understood the value of fitness and know the best way to combat Covid is to strengthen their immunity. You don't get the same atmosphere to work out at home as you would at a gym," Suraj Shetty, manager of Gold Gym in Mulund, told TOI. Shetty said they had spent the past 10 days cleaning and sanitising the gym. "We're adhering to all the SOPs issued by the government. We have increased the housekeeping staff. We have told our members to bring their own towels and napkins. Temperature checks and sanitisation of customers is being done at the gate. Our trainers are also wearing gloves, windshields and masks, and ensuring they don't touch customers. Only half our treadmills are functional to maintain social distancing. Showers and saunas are shut for now," he said. "It is very exciting to be back in the gym after almost eight months. I hope we make a collective effort to keep the evil of Covid-19 out of our lives and that fitness and health win this battle," said Swapneel Hazare, a former Mumbai fast bowler who is the strengthening and conditioning coach and founder of 'Shield Fitness'. Prabhakar Kadam, who owns Prabodhan gym in Andheri, says they have been receiving a lot of inquiries. "We will have different batches with around 12 people in each batch, but our real struggle starts on November 1 after we fully reopen as that is when we'll know if people are willing to come back to gyms or are scared," said Kadam, who is also treasurer of Greater Bombay Bodybuilding Association and a bodybuilding coach with Western Railway. He feels smaller gyms, spread over 1,000-1,200 sq feet, will be able to get back on track sooner due to lower overheads. "These are the gyms where professional bodybuilders train. We plan to give three months free membership to professional body builders as people will feel safe about joining gyms after seeing them. Special schemes to attract memberships are also on the cards," he added. Parindi Shah, who owns Parindi's Fitness Hub in Ghatkopar, says they will reopen after Diwali since they don't expect much footfall during the festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gyms-across-the-mumbai-celebrate-rebirth-on-day-1-of-reopening-tick-safety-boxes/articleshow/78864086.cms||Gaurav Gupta
October 26, 2020||---||Will create jobs via economic push, curb Bihar migration: JP Nadda||On way back to Delhi after campaigning in Bihar, BJP president J P Nadda spoke to TOI’s Akhilesh Kumar Singh about the NDA’s prospects in the state where he spent several years as a student. Excerpts from the interview: You have studied in Bihar. Do you consider the elections here to be a special challenge?See, our intent is very clear that we have worked in the right direction, leading to a sense of hope and optimism among the people of Bihar. For a long time, the Bihar leadership (as it then was) could not facilitate development. Subsequently, people migrated. Bihar has been the seat of learning for a long time. I just read the ‘Who is Who’ series and came across over 30 professors from Bihar, who did well in the 60s, 70s, 80s. However, after Lalu Prasad took over, the situation took a U-turn and people from all sections preferred to leave Bihar. Unfortunately, when Nitish Kumar took over, Congress-led UPA was at the Centre, which remained hostile towards the state. Development did take place under Nitishji but there was no support of the Centre. The last three years have been different as the Centre and state have worked together. Nitish Kumar has been Bihar CM for over 15 years. Is jungle raj still an issue given that RJD has been out of office for several years now?Jungle raj can’t be seen in isolation as even now the character of RJD has not changed. That was the reason that Nitish Kumar had to quit the ‘Mahagathbandhan’ as his ‘sushashan’ was turning to be ‘kushashan’. Look at their current campaign, it is full of arrogance and negativity. I was health minister in the earlier government and found difficulty in coordinating with Tej Pratap, who was holding the portfolio. How many times has Tejashwi Yadav attended the state assembly in 2019 and where was he during the corona crisis. Their politics is dependent on support of a particular community. Since you took charge, BJP lost the Delhi election. How important is it to win Bihar?Every poll is a challenge for me and I take political tests as a Test match, with patience and hard work. I have travelled across the state and will be travelling to Seemanchal now. Bhupender Yadav is camping in the state and working hard so is Smriti Irani. Amitji led the party from the front and I am also doing the same. You took your time in announcing your team. But contrary to expectations, several changes were made in the organisation with seniors being replaced by new faces. Were the changes done keeping in mind the possible cabinet expansion?PM Narendra Modi, the parliamentary board and senior leaders helped me in finalising the team. However, ministry is the PM’s prerogative and the two are not linked at all. When I was head of Yuva Morcha, I formed my own team and leaders like Ravi Shankar Prasad, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Om Birla, Shahnawaz Hussain, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi were part of that team. When Nitin Gadkari took over as party president, he made experiments. But my team is a bigger experiment. When Nitinji included people like us in his team, many were unaware and asked who are Nadda and Bhupender Yadav. And today we are here. PM Modi, in his first rally in Bihar, raised the issue of Article 370 and clashes between Indian and Chinese forces in Galwan Valley. Are they relevant in an assembly poll?All issues are equally important in an election and we touch upon all, be it national or local. Galwan clashes relate to national security for which Bihar made the supreme sacrifice. PM Modi has won the confidence of the people, who feel safe and Bihar’s contributions are important. About Article 370, I remember since childhood we used to oppose it. Now, since we have delivered, we assert that the party has fulfilled a long cherished dream of the nation. Congress has developed a tendency to oppose the government, so let them do it, people will answer. They (Congress) didn’t want construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. And when construction started, people from Bihar (a Dalit, Kameshwar Chaupal) performed puja. Nitish Kumar is the NDA’s face in Bihar. How will the alliance counter the jobs promise of Tejashwi?RJD and Tejashwi Yadav are clueless about nuances of governance. Unlike RJD, we have promised to create jobs through economic activity, which will contain migration. What we say is practical, in fact RJD’s promise is a jumla. Opposition parties have been critical of BJP’s announcement of free Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar.This is the state leadership’s decision and at the national level, the decision has to be taken by the PM and the health minister. However, several vaccination campaigns have been launched for free at the national level. Bihar leadership was confident to deliver on its own, so we made the promise. While JD(U) and BJP are old partners, there have been frictions for a while. Will the departure of LJP weaken the alliance?The LJP leadership might be having its own ambitions due to which they quit the alliance. We tried to take them along but they preferred to walk away. However, their exit will have no impact on NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/will-create-jobs-via-economic-push-curb-bihar-migration-jp-nadda/articleshow/78864079.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
October 26, 2020||Nagpur||Ravan ‘dahan’ a subdued affair this time||NAGPUR: Sanatan Dharam Yuvak Sabha continued with the legacy of celebrating Ravan ‘dahan’ on Dussehra day by burning an 8-feet effigy at a small event attended by a few members at Kadbi Chowk. This is the 69th year of the celebrations. Every year the event is held at Kasturchand Park and is attended by thousands of people. The effigy would be nearly 70-feet tall. But, this year, the Sabha kept the celebrations small and only burned a small effigy of Ravan. Only 15 members of the organization attended the event as per Covid guidelines. A bigger celebration was cancelled as the government’s Covid guidelines did not permit it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ravan-dahan-a-subdued-affair-this-time/articleshow/78859452.cms||Ranjit Deshmukh
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||NCB arrests television actress shopping for ganja in Andheri||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a TV and film actress while accepting 99 grams of ganja from a drug peddler in Andheri on Sunday. The actress, an engineering graduate, has acted in some serials and a Hindi film. The NCB action has its origins in its investigation of the drugs angle in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede's team laid a trap and caught the actress while accepting the ganja from Faisal Yasin Shaikh (20), said to be a street peddler operating in Versova. Booked under the NDPS Act, the actress and Faisal were produced before a holiday court and remanded in NCB custody till November 8. The amount seized falls under the category of small quantity, which attracts a year's RI and fine of Rs 10,000. Advocate Ayaz Khan, who appeared for the actress, said he would move court for bail. The NCB later detained a man, Deepak Rathuar, on suspicion of having supplied ganja to Faisal. The NCB said that the actress paid money to Faisal but they were yet to ascertain the amount. Rathaur was arrested by the Anti-Narcotic Cell before for peddling in Yari Road, Versova and Andheri. "There are a few more people who are connected in this case," an official said. "We have seized her mobile and are going through the WhatsApp messages and call data records for more information." Watch NCB raids two places in Mumbai, TV actress caught red-handed shopping for ganja||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-arrests-television-actress-shopping-for-ganja-in-andheri/articleshow/78864101.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 4,136 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate at 48-day high of 8.4%||NEW DELHI: The capital on Sunday reported 4,136 fresh Covid-19 cases — the highest single-day spike in 37 days. From 7.4% on Saturday, the positivity rate climbed up to 8.4% — the highest in 48 days. A total of 33 fatalities were reported on Saturday against 36 a day earlier. For more than a month, Delhi has been recording less than 4,000 new Covid cases each day, but since Friday, the number of cases has been peaking 4,000 fresh cases daily. The last time the city had recorded more fresh cases was on September 17, when 4,431 cases were reported and the positivity rate stood at 7.38%. Health minister Satyendar Jain, however, said the Covid situation was under control and the state government is extremely alert. Jain claimed the Dr Paul expert committee had stated that due to the festive and winter season, Delhi was likely to witness 12,000-14,000 cases a day, “but at the moment, the number of cases per day is around 4,000, so the situation is contained”. “Our full focus is on containment and as soon as someone is found positive, we are immediately carrying out contact tracing and isolation,” Jain said at a press conference on Sunday, adding that Delhi government is fully prepared for the festive and winter season. The capital conducted 49,069 Covid-19 tests in the past 24 hours, which included 14,627 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 34,442 rapid antigen tests. The number of patients who have recovered in the past day is 3,826, with the recovery rate at a comfortable 90.7%. The positivity rate in Delhi has steadily risen from less than 6% a week ago to going above 6%, then 7% and is at 8.4% at the moment. The last time the positivity rate was higher in Delhi was on September 7, when the positivity rate stood at 9%. The number of active cases stood at 26,744 on Sunday, out of which 16,115 are in home isolation. Jain said the reason behind the spike in positivity rate is extensive testing of those who have come in contact of patients. “Everyone who has come in contact with those testing positive are traced and tested. If one person is found positive, there is a high possibility of many people in the family also testing positive,” he said, adding that there are many cases of the entire family testing positive for Covid-19. “Corona does not seem to be ending anytime soon and till the time there is a vaccine or medicine, we have to remain cautious and wear masks and maintain social distancing,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-4136-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-at-48-day-high-of-8-4/articleshow/78864103.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Man hits doctors over Covid death, Bombay HC slaps Rs 1 lakh ‘fine’||MUMBAI:" Justice Bharati Dangre of the Bombay high court has imposed a hefty fine on a person claiming to be a ‘social worker’ who was accused of roughing up doctors after a Covid patient’s death. He was directed to cough up Rs 1 lakh for the CM’s relief fund for Corona care as a condition for pre-arrest bail. Prosecutors say the amount is the highest levied so far during the lockdown in a case of violence against doctors. Grief of families of Covid patients can well be understood, but it can’t be forgotten that doctors, nurses and other health staff have “selflessly “acted as corona warriors” throughout the pandemic, said the court while granting relief to the man in a case registered by Baramati city police. The HC said it was “very unfortunate’’ that the “medical fraternity itself was subjected to an attack...verbal and physical.” It said, “...their hard work is to be just appreciated and acknowledged if not rewarded.” Shivaji Jadhav, 28, through his advocate Shriram Chaudhari said he may have “over reacted” while seeking answers as a close relative had succumbed and the family got “no satisfactory explanation.” Opposing his plea, public prosecutor SV Gavand said the FIR alleges that Jadhav “barged into” a consulting room in a Baramati hospital despite a warning, threatened a doctor with “dire consequences”, abused nurses verbally and punched a doctor. The court factored in Jadhav’s “remorse” but said he must be made accountable and “take up responsibility for his reckless act and this can only be attained if he contributes to the cause for which he had fought the so-called battle.” The doctor, Sujit Adsul, said the trigger for a sudden Covid death can’t be explained so easily, but the ruckus had caused him and other staff “tremendous stress”. Jadhav was granted pre-arrest bail of Rs 25,000 but has been given two weeks to deposit Rs 1 lakh into the CM’s fund. “Failure to deposit would denude from the protection from his arrest,” said the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-hits-doctors-over-covid-death-bombay-hc-slaps-rs-1-lakh-fine/articleshow/78864108.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 26, 2020||India||10th arrest in TRP scam, man linked to channel payments||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the TRP scam by five television channels arrested the proprietor of a marketing firm known as Max Media, Abhishek Kolwade alias Amit Mahadik alias Ajit, after he surrendered on Sunday. This is the 10th arrest in the case linked to rigging of viewership figures of television channels, in a bid to influence the placing of advertisements by media-buying houses. Abhishek appeared before the crime branch on Sunday in the presence of his lawyer AK Giri, police said. Police said they discovered the role of Max Media through interrogations of arrested suspects, Ramji Sharma and Dineshkumar Vishwakarma. Kolwade used to allegedly disburse money to be distributed among homes to watch certain TV channels for at least two hours five days a week. As per police, the fund trail leads to the channels. A police officer said,“We learnt there were financial transactions between Max Media’s proprietor and another arrested accused Harish Patil which reflected in the latter’s bank accounts.” The EOW has been roped in to probe the financial transactions. Police said they had sent out teams in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Goa to trace Abhishek. They claim to have statements from witnesses that Kolwade and other suspects connived and accepted funds from officials of three channels — Maha Movie, Republic TV and New Nation — to help increase their TRPs. On Saturday, police referred to “owners and directors” of three TV channels — Republic TV, Maha Movie and New Nation — as accused in a remand application submitted before the Esplanade Metropolitan Magistrate court seeking the custody of two of the suspects. The two other channels whose names have come up in the scam are Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema, whose owners are currently under arrest. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council has installed 2,000 bar-o-meters in Mumbai. BARC had given the contract of monitoring the meters to Hansa Research. Those under investigation are accused of manipulating TRPs and causing huge losses to other channels, advertising agencies and misleading the people, said police. Police said that Abhishek will be produced before the court on Monday. Police have also summoned the CEO of Maha Movie, Sandeep Verma, and business head Amit Dave for questioning on Monday. Sources said four officers from the Economic Offences Wing have been asked to help the special investigation team led by ACP Shashank Sanbhor and assistant inspector Sachin Waze in the investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10th-arrest-in-trp-scam-man-linked-to-channel-payments/articleshow/78864113.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 26, 2020||Goa||Luthria case: HC acquits son of dad’s murder||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has upheld the order of the sessions court acquitting Deepak Luthria of the charge of killing his hotelier father Shyam in their hotel premises in Calangute seven years ago. The case of the prosecution was that on November 4, 2013, between 11pm and 11.30pm, Deepak drove with his father to the side of the hotel where the maintenance shed is, and during the discussion that ensued, allegedly stabbed his father with a knife causing his instant death. The sessions court by an order dated April 21, 2018, had acquitted Deepak of the murder charge. The state then went in appeal against the order before the high court. Considering the arguments put up by both parties, the court found that the prosecution had failed to prove the charge against Deepak. It also held that the prosecution had failed to establish the motive to kill the businessman. “Some usual differences cannot be held to be the motive for a son to commit murder of his father,” the court observed, adding that there were material contradictions in the deposition of the witnesses. The additional public prosecutor Pravin Faldessai submitted that the sessions court failed to appreciate evidence on record and argued that it was a clear case of conviction as it was a serious offence. On the other hand, defence lawyer Menino Teles picked holes in the prosecution and argued that there were several contradictions in the prosecution theory. He argued that the prosecution had miserably failed to establish the charge of murder against Deepak and as such the sessions court had rightly acquitted the accused. Even the motive of the crime couldn’t be established by the prosecution, he contended. The court found that the investigation was not beyond suspicion and that “there was no fair investigation” before dismissing the state appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/luthria-case-hc-acquits-son-of-dads-murder/articleshow/78863434.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Centre busy trying to topple state govts amid Covid: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: In a no-holds-barred attack on the BJP in his Dussehra rally speech, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said at a time when the country was in the grips of a pandemic, "a peculiar thing is happening", the Centre's focus is on toppling governments in non-BJP ruled states. The nation is on the verge of chaos because of the BJP's unbridled greed for power, he said, "They (the BJP) have been deceiving their partners. The NDA is finished. They talk of friendship and later stab their friends in the back. They will treat Nitish Kumar in a similar fashion after the assembly polls in Bihar." The chief minister, targeted by the BJP for not re-opening places of worship, said Sena's Hindutva was not confined to the symbolism of cymbals and lamps. "Trouncing terrorists is the Sena's idea of Hindutva," he declared. Thackeray quoted from Mohan Bhagwat's Dussehra speech in which the RSS Sar Sanghchalak said praying in temples or performing poojas should not be equated with Hindutva. "All those writing letters to me should pay heed to Bhagwat first," he said in a not-so-oblique reference to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari's recent letter in which he questioned the Sena's commitment to Hindutva while demanding that places of worship be re-opened. Thackeray also slammed the BJP over its free vaccine promise to people of Bihar if it retained power. "You are talking about giving free vaccines in Bihar. Is the rest of the country a part of Pakistan or Bangladesh?" Thackeray asked. Referring to the Sushant Singh Rajput case, Thackeray said that those "crying for justice for Bihar's son" are "indulging in character assassination of Maharashtra's son, (Aaditya Thackeray) and the Mumbai police." "A lot of mudslinging was on the government, on our family and even on Aaditya. However, since we were clean we didn't have to worry, but those indulging in these tricks stink of the cow's urine," said Thackeray. The CM said the Modi government hasn't helped the state financially despite several natural disasters since June, and has also not paid Rs 38,000 crore worth of GST dues to the state. He urged CMs of all states to sink party differences and exert pressure on the Centre to undertake a comprehensive review of GST. "When they were introducing GST we were opposed to it. It is a flawed system. I appeal to CMs of other states to come ahead for a discussion on the issue. GST should be scrapped if it is not working, and the earlier tax collection system regime should be revived," he said. Thackeray said in the recent past many have tried to defame the state and city. "Someone said Mumbai is like PoK... they come to Mumbai for work and then defame the city. This amounts to namak harami," said Thackeray without naming Kangana Ranaut. "A narrative has been painted to show that the entire city and the state is a drug haven. Everyone here is a drug addict. Any attempt to defame Mumbai and the state will be dealt with strictly," said Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-busy-trying-to-topple-state-govts-amid-covid-maharashtra-cm/articleshow/78864116.cms||Ambarish Mishra
October 26, 2020||Goa||Seaplane headed to Gujarat makes night halt in Mandovi||PANAJI: A 15-seater DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft of Maldivian Aero, landed at Panaji in river Mandovi on Sunday for a technical halt while on its way to Ahmedabad. The seaplane, which belongs to Maldives’ national airline, has been leased by Indian private airline SpiceJet to operate eight daily flights between Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati river front and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel’s statue of unity in Kevadia from October 31. The seaplane’s arrival attracted a large crowd near the Captain of Port’s (CoP) jetty and led to a small traffic jam. The aircraft will leave on Monday between 8.30am and 10am after refuelling. The DHC-6 Twin Otter took off from Male on Sunday morning and made a brief halt at Kochi in the afternoon before flying to Goa. “This is a technical halt. They will refuel and since they cannot fly at night time, there is a night halt and in the morning they will be leaving,” said deputy Captain of Ports, Premlal Sirsaikar. The director general of civil aviation (DGCA) and SpiceJet coordinated the seaplane’s flight, with Goa’s CoP providing infrastructure support. “COP is only allowing them to halt and use infrastructure for refuelling. Everything has been handled by SpiceJet,” said Sarsaikar. The seaplane landed at the CoP’s floating jetty just after 5.30pm and quickly docked at the floating jetty, which has been built by Marinetek India. Marinetek India is manufacturing four floating concrete jetties in the Mandovi. The company has also installed two floating jetties in Ahmedabad from where the seaplane will operate. The seaplane will start operations from October 31. The Prime Minister will inaugurate the service. Mehair, a private aviation company, had shown interest in starting seaplane services in Goa. “For India’s first seaplane project, we had to turn to the experts in the field,” said the High Commission of India in Maldives, adding, “The seaplane operations will take off with the assistance of Maldivian Aero, pilots and crew.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seaplane-headed-to-gujarat-makes-night-halt-in-mandovi/articleshow/78863463.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Goa begins process to set up 10 minor dams in Mandovi basin||PANAJI: While Goa continues to battle out the Mhadei water diversion issue with Karnataka in the Apex Court, the state Water Resources Department (WRD) has now initiated the process to set up ten minor dams in the Mandovi river basin. The ten water conservation projects are being taken up in locations as identified in the masterplan drawn up in 1999 for the basin. Of the ten dams, four will be located in Sattari taluka, at Golali, Dongurwada, Zarme and Keri. Three of the water conversation projects will come up at Kajumol, Suktoli and Tatodi in Dharbandora taluka. In Ponda, two of the minor projects are expected to be set up at Nirankal and Kodar. One project will be located at Advalpal in Bicholim. “Soil investigation has been taken up of the ten projects with assistance of forest department. The projects still need to go through many stages like it has to have its environment impact assessment done, get forest and wildlife clearance. The projects also need approval of the central water commission of the Union ministry of water resources, irrespective of the fact that they are minor projects, since they are in contested basin,” said a state WRD official. Goa government had appointed the panel of experts to prepare a master plan of water potential of the Mandovi river basin to meet the state’s long term needs. The panel, which had submitted its report on January 31, 1999, had identified 61 locations for dams in the basin. Accordingly, the Anjunem and Amthane reservoirs were readied, while work on 59 other projects was still waiting to be taken up. Of the ten minor reservoirs, for which survey and investigation work has now begun, work on the two located in Dharbandora in Kajumol and in Tatodi is expected to be taken up first. As Goa had submitted earlier before the Mahadayi water disputes tribunal, the state intends to meet the demand for its ‘major uses’ through these projects identified by the panel of experts. The 61 dams are expected to meet Goa’s water requirement upto 2051.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-begins-process-to-set-up-10-minor-dams-in-mandovi-basin/articleshow/78863476.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Dream bridge turns into traffic nightmare for Canacona locals||Poinguinim: When the 7.4km-long, four-lane Canacona bypass road was opened for use in November 2019, it was a dream come true for locals. The Manohar Parrikar bypass road cut down travel distance for residents from Chaudi to Mashem by 15km. The Central government-funded project consists of three bridges, one of them at Mashem, which now, however, is turning into an annoyance for Canacona residents. Here’s why. The scenic view of the sea and a tiny natural island from this bridge has turned it into a popular selfie spot and viewpoint. Several motorists halt their vehicles here to capture the scenery, turning the bridge into a traffic hazard. “Vehicles are often stopped right in the middle of the bridge, inconveniencing locals. Those using the road on a daily basis are finding this hazardous and troublesome,” said a local, Prakash Naik. Galgibaga resident Juanita Pereira said necessary signages have not been put up by the authorities to indicate that stopping on the bridge is not allowed. “It is high time the PWD erects some signboards to stop vehicles from halting over the bridge. Police should also be posted on either side of the bridge to keep the traffic moving,” Pereira said. Loliem-Polem sarpanch Sachin Naik said, “Motorists are not permitted to halt over a bridge. Canacona traffic police is expected to fine any such motorists.” Poinguinim deputy sarpanch of Elda Fernandes said the purpose of a new, wide road is defeated if vehicles stop in the middle of the bridge, making travelling on the expanded highway stretch dangerous. Another local, Caitan Barretto said traffic police must crack the whip before any untoward incident occurs on this stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dream-bridge-turns-into-traffic-nightmare-for-canacona-locals/articleshow/78863479.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Sixth day of dip in new Covid cases as Maharashtra adds 6,059 patients||MUMBAI: For the sixth day in a row, the state registered a drop in Covid-19 cases on Sunday, although the case fatality rate (CFR) moved upwards. The state added 6,059 cases and 112 deaths. The case total reached 16,45,020 and the death toll, 43,264. Daily discharges dipped lower than the daily additions. As 5,648 people were discharged, it took the total to 14.6 lakh. The recovery rate touched almost 89%. Active cases in the state, too, were on the decline, The state had over 1.4 lakh active cases, with 18,307 of these in the city. The state CFR, which had dropped to 2.3% about three weeks ago, continued its steady climb to reach 2.63%. The CFR in the city was 4%. The city reported 1,222 cases, taking the overall caseload to 2,51,281. Around 48% of the Covid-19 burden of the state has come from the districts of the city (15%), Pune (20%) and Thane (13%). The city continued to report more cases and deaths than both the other districts. It also recorded 46 Covid-19 deaths, taking its toll to 10,105. Pune did not register any deaths. The Thane district toll was 5,274 while the Pune district toll remained 6,604. A state official said a rising CFR was a cause for concern even if the daily case detections were dipping. "A drop in the number of new detections is a good thing, but we are expecting a surge after the festive season. The high death rate is worrying, but a lot of the deaths being reported now have occurred previously," a state official said. There is still a need to bring down fatalities occurring within 24-48 hours of admission, a sign of late detection or delay in seeking care. At the state level, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) recorded 2,210 cases and 56 deaths, taking the total cases to 5.7 lakh and fatalities to 17,713. Three of the nine corporations from the MMR did not have Covid-19 deaths on Sunday, namely, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Ulhasnagar and Mira-Bhayander. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 167 new patients and a death, taking the tally to 49,182, including 994 deaths. There were 206 discharges, leaving around 2,208 under active treatment. In Thane city, 170 new cases took the tally to 45,411, while three deaths took the toll to 1130. The Thane recovery rate increased to 92% with only 2,514 active cases. (Inputs: Manoj Badgeri & Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sixth-day-of-dip-in-new-covid-cases-as-maharashtra-adds-6059-patients/articleshow/78864123.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 26, 2020||Goa||KTC services to be extended to industrial estates: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) will build connectivity for people employed at industrial estates, chief minister Pramod Sawant announced on Sunday on the occasion of the corporation’s 40th anniversary celebrations. The KTC, the chief minister said, has “played an important part in connecting rural areas with the urban” and that despite dropped revenue the state government is ensuring that the “best infrastructure is set up”. “Hopefully, our financial conditions will improve by next year and we will complete the incomplete KTC projects at Sakhali and Vasco. Under a PPP model, we intend to take up more projects,” Sawant said. Talking about the changes the state government intends to bring about keeping in mind the demand of the times, like protecting the environment, he said that government is looking at procuring around 250 electric buses in batches. “Around 50 will start plying by December,” he said. During the lockdown, KTC drivers and conductors rescued stranded passengers from as far as Rajasthan and MP despite the risk of getting infected. “KTC is a service-giving corporation, not a profit-making one. Over the past 40 years, all they have done is give service. KTC staff are Covid warriors and have been on the forefront during the lockdown,” he said. Transport minister Mauvin Godinho and KTCL chairman Carlos Almeida also appreciated the staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-services-to-be-extended-to-industrial-estates-sawant/articleshow/78863499.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Noida||How household wastewater has brought life back to dead ponds in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: Four ponds in Greater Noida have been revived using a natural reverse osmosis method to clean household wastewater and channel that into water bodies. These ponds, once just dirt pools, have now become clean aquifers and are being used to cultivate fish locally. The latest one is in Chauganpur tehsil in Dadri. Experts feel that this could be the way forward for managing rural water waste where sewage treatment plants (STPs) are absent. Ramveer Tanwar, a Greater Noida-based water conservator, has converted 12 highly polluted and toxic ponds into usable water bodies, including four with the the reverse osmosis method. He has also introduced a three-step natural reverse osmosis and filtration method to clean domestic effluents and make the water suitable for pond recharge. These ponds are at Rauni, Kulipura, Mirpur and Ajampur. Tanwar said that the water table has gone below 100ft in most places in the district because of development and construction. “Since the water table is low, ponds do not get recharged naturally. We need to introduce water artificially to fill them up or wait till it rains. But it does not rain so profusely here so channeling domestic waste water is a plausible method. However, installation of STP is expensive, so we have introduced this natural alternative and it is working well in four ponds and this is the fifth in the district,” Tanwar said, adding that he has been working on the Chauganpur pond since June. Explaining the process, he said, “Waste water is collected in an open chamber, which is then released into a small pond filled with hyacinth and canna flower plants. In the next level of filtration process, it is made to pass through a mesh into the pond. The technique is supported by the Global Foundation for Advancement of Environment and Human Wellness. We call this an artificial wetland creation.” Pranab J Patar, of Global Foundation for Advancement of Environment and Human Wellness, said that one needs to be very careful about the water which is being let into the pond as it can affect the water table. “So, toxicity tests are conducted to see that the pond water is safe. While the colour of the pond water is still a little muddy, we ensure its quality to be nontoxic at this stage,” he said. The Chauganpur pond revival is being supported by the HCL foundation and Global Foundation for Advancement of Environment and Human Wellness. Tanwar, an engineer-turned-conservator, has consulted various other states apart from Uttar Pradesh regarding the conservation process. He said that the ponds are now being used for fish cultivation as well. “The ponds are being let out for fish cultivation so that the water remains healthy and it can also be used as a source of income. This model of reviving ponds is practical and sustainable and so the administration has given ponds on lease,” he said. He added that conservation of water bodies in GB Nagar should pick up pace now. “We lost some six months due to the lockdown and also missed the opportunity to harvest rainwater. There are hundreds of polluted water bodies in the district and with this method we can revive most of them. Once cleaned, they should also be used as a source of income. Many corporates have so far sponsored these initiatives and we the local community should also be involved to revive them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/how-household-wastewater-has-brought-life-back-to-dead-ponds/articleshow/78863515.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
October 26, 2020||Goa||Shadow council slams Lobo over Sonsoddo project||Margao: The shadow council for Margao on Sunday condemned statements by waste management minister Michael Lobo against it for raising doubts over financial estimates of the biodigesters that have been proposed to be set up. “When nobody has claimed that he (Lobo) has eaten money on the bio-methanation project of Sonsodo, why does he have to scream his gut out pleading innocence?” Savio Coutinho of the shadow council asked. “All that we expect from our waste management minister is to clarify what makes his plants more special so as to cost more than double as compared a plant of the same capacity plant proposed at Sakhali.” Coutinho further challenged the minister to make public the specifications of the bio-methanation plants that his corporation proposes to set up at Sakhali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shadow-council-slams-lobo-over-sonsoddo-project/articleshow/78863510.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||240% rise in Punjab farm fires: Centre||NEW DELHI: Punjab accounted for 82% of stubble burning cases among three states, along with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, between October 1 and 23, which contributed heavily to foul air choking the NCR, the Centre said. Track the pollution level in your cityOn October 23, satellites detected 1,471 incidents in the three states and Punjab accounted for 86%, or 1,267 cases, Haryana 133 and UP 71. “There were 14,326 cases in three states between October 1 and 23, which are distributed as 11,796, 1,944 and 586 in Punjab, Haryana and UP, respectively,” the Centre said, adding cases in Punjab were 2.4 times higher than last year. Punjab accounted for over 80% of farm fire incidentsDuring the same period last year, there were 4,889 stubble burning cases in Punjab. This current year, 11,796 stubble burning events were reported, 2.4 times higher than last year, the Centre said. Both Haryana and UP registered lower number of stubble burning incidents this year as compared to last year during the same period. In Haryana, it decreased by 30% from 2,806 last year to 1,944 this year. In UP, it decreased by 33% from 879 to 586. “Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur in Punjab recorded the highest number of events, while in Haryana, Kaithal, Karnal and Kurukshetra districts recorded more number of burning events,” the Centre said. The SC is scheduled to take up the issue for hearing on Monday and this data collated by the Centre from three states is likely to be presented to the court. Farmers agitation against the farm bills were identified as one of the major reasons for crop burning in Punjab. “Farmers in districts where more burning events are reported grow vegetable crops in between the season of paddy harvesting and wheat sowing. In order to prepare fields for vegetable plantation in a short window, they prefer to burn paddy stubbles,” the Centre stated. “Due to early sowing of paddy during the current year, early harvesting has taken place. The harvested area during the current year is more than last year and accordingly, the burning events are more during the current year,” it said. On the working of the Justice M B Lokur commission appointed by the SC, the Centre said inputs from Punjab and Haryana indicated that “field surveillance by the commission has yet not started”. The commission has sought preliminary data on paddy area, areas of stubble burning, paddy varieties, data on stubble burning for last three years, monitoring mechanism in the form of questionnaires which have been supplied by the states, it added. On the status of supply of machinery to farmers to take out stubble from fields, the Centre said in the last two years, more than 1,12,162 machines were supplied to individual farmers and custom hiring centres (Punjab 51,762, Haryana 36,821and Uttar Pradesh 23,579). “As on October 23, against the target of 27,000 machines, Punjab has distributed 14,000 machines (52% of target). In Haryana, 13,700 machines were distributed against the target of 19,700 machines (70% of target). In UP, 10,346 machines were distributed against the target of 15,039 machines (69% of target).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/240-rise-in-punjab-farm-fires-centre/articleshow/78864128.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: ‘Kitabon Wali Didi’ thanks PM, says I did my duty||BHOPAL: Usha Dubey, a teacher from Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, who was praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his radio talk ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday was taken by surprise over the acknowledgement and said, “I never expected our Prime Minister to mention me. I was just doing my duty.” Soon after the Prime Minister mentioned her, she received calls from acquaintances and even unknown people, said the teacher. Usha Dubey, 43, posted at govt secondary school, Harrai East under Waidhan block of Singrauli district has been a teacher for about 21years and is now better known as ‘Kitabon Wali Didi’, due to her efforts during lockdown to reach out to students with books. “Schools were closed during lockdown and we were instructed by Rajya Shiksha Kendra (RSK) to reach out to students in the areas where there was no risk of Covid-19 infection. An idea struck me that during the lockdown when children are getting bored and cannot go out, books can be their best friends. If I carry story books to the students maybe they will be interested in reading them. ‘Thankful to PM, was just doing my duty’So, I got an iron frame made and attached to my scooter and started going to students’ localities carrying the books. Initially, I used to visit door-to-door to lend books. Later, I selected places where more and more children could gather. From August, I started this mobile library with a few books. I carry around 100 books. Majority of the students who gather are from our school while a few are from other private schools,” Usha Dubey told TOI over phone. On being asked her reaction to Prime Minister Modi acknowledging her efforts, she said, “I had never expected it. I was doing my duty, trying to motivate students. Even today, I was unaware and had gone to the temple where I was informed by a media person about the Prime Minister naming me. I am thankful to the Prime Minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-kitabon-wali-didi-thanks-pm-says-i-did-my-duty/articleshow/78864140.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Ravana effigies shrink in Covid Dussehra||BHOPAL: The Covid effect has dwarfed Ravana effigies in Bhopal this Dussehra. And the Asura king’s brother Kumbhakarna and son Meghnad have been cut out in cost-cutting. The bustling Kolar township, for instance, used to burn the tallest Ravana effigy in MP — a neck-straining 105 ft. This year, the effigy of the 10-headed conqueror of two worlds is barely 12-ft tall. Ravan Dahan at the Chhola Temple has a history of at least 100 years, and its effigy has always been an impressive 60-foottall, towering over nearby buildings. This year, it has been reduced to just 35 feet. In these two places, Ravana at least has the company of his warrior son and brother. But Meghnad and Kumbhakarna are missing at TT Nagar Dussehra ground, Awadhpuri BHEL ground and several others. The TT Nagar Dussehra celebration, one of the oldest in the state capital, is the most frugal in its history this year. “We have managed to put up a Ravana effigy. There were several permission issues over Meghnad and Kumbhakarna. Funds were also a problem, which forced the organisers to minimise costs,” said a patron of the Awadhpuri Dussehra organising committee. Ravana effigies are burnt at 75 places in Bhopal. Most of them are keeping the tradition alive but under severe constraints. Usually, Dussehra celebrations are dazzling affairs in Bhopal, often paired with melas. This year, Covid restrictions mean there will be no procession and no gathering. At most places, the Ravana effigies will be consigned to flames with only the organisers in attendance. “We used to pull crowds of over 1 lakh every year. This time, only around 5,000 may gather,” said coordinator of Chhola Dussehra organising committee, Dharmendra Pegwar. Everyone accepts that the Covid restrictions are necessary. In fact, many organisers are using the occasion to spread awareness on Corona precautions. “We have put masks on the effigy of Ravana, which is an attempt to tell people how important it is to wear a mask. We have urged citizens to support organisers and obey Covid precautions. We have tried our best to keep the tradition of Dussehra alive, even in Covid times,” said Pegwar. Effigy-makers are the hardest hit. Demand has plummeted this year, they say. Last year, they made 40 Ravana effigies of 35-ft height. This year, only 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-ravana-effigies-shrink-in-covid-dussehra/articleshow/78864130.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's AQI very poor again, respite unlikely for 2 days||NEW DELHI: The capital’s air quality was “very poor” for the third consecutive day on Sunday and is likely to remain so for the next two days. Track the pollution level in your cityThough the number of fire counts dropped to 867 on Saturday, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 shot up to 19% on Sunday against 9% on Saturday due to wind direction and moderate wind speed. Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) was 349 on Sunday, according to the daily bulletin of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), a central forecasting agency, has predicted that AQI will be “very poor” for the next two days “without any further deterioration”. “The average wind speed has been recorded at eight kmph and conditions have been extremely calm at night and in the early hours of the day, affecting dispersion of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department. “The wind speed is expected to pick up to 12-15kmph on Tuesday afternoon and the air quality may improve slightly on Wednesday.” According to Safar, though a marginal improvement in the current condition is expected by Monday, AQI is likely to remain “very poor”. Though stubble fire counts recorded a reduction on Saturday, the boundary layer wind direction is north-westerly and wind speed is moderate and “this will lead to an increase in pollutant transport towards the Delhi region”, it stated. Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said, “The overall ventilation coefficients in northern India being very poor, the same is reflected in AQI too. The passage through the Indo-Gangetic plain is not clear and no diversion and dilution of pollution is taking place.” Met officials have predicted that mist in the morning will be witnessed for the next few days. On Sunday, the minimum temperature dropped to 13.8° Celsius, three notches below normal. It was the second lowest temperature recorded this season after 13.7° on Tuesday, the lowest in 11years for October. The maximum temperature was 33.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday. “The minimum and maximum temperature will start decreasing in the coming days,” added an IMD scientist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-aqi-very-poor-again-respite-unlikely-for-2-days/articleshow/78864147.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||The fasting monk: Jain Acharya performs 3,400 fasts in 6,800 days||AHMEDABAD: Sunday marked the 124th day of fasting for Jain Acharya Hansratnasuri, currently based at Vasupujya Jinalay in Kandivali (West). The fast had started on June 23, which he is still continuing, said his devotees. What is surprising is, in the past 6,800 days or about 18 years and six months, he has fasted for nine years and three months (3,400 days). Atul Shah, convenor of Tapdharma Anumodan Samiti and trustee of Vardhaman Parivar, said that it’s one of the rare instances of continuous fasting by a Shwetambar Jain muni. “More astonishing fact is, we often talk about immunity boosters and importance of diet in fighting Covid-19 – but in almost seven months of the epidemic, the Acharya has continued his fasting, even while moving around in Mumbai, a Covid-19 hotspot, and performing his daily tasks,” said Shah, a chartered accountant. Acharya’s devotees told TOI that the ascetic has performed 180 fasts three times earlier. In Jainism, a sadhu or sadhvi can perform 180 fasts at a go – a figure they don’t cross as Mahavir Swami had performed the 180-day fasts. The fasts only allow drinking boiled water during day hours. So many fasts by monk a wonderAnd it’s not the days without activity – he walked 10 km on 96th day of his fast to meet gachchadhipati Acharya Rajendrasuri and he also engages in other duties,” said a devotee. He added that the monk's fasting journey began with the Acharya praising a 13-year-old monk when performing 20-day fast. Acharya Ratnasundar Maharaj, guru of Acharya Hansratnasuri and recipient of Padma Bhushan in 2017, said that it’s really a wonder in the history of Jain religion that a monk performed so many fasts. “It’s important when someone performs these fasts that the organs don’t get damaged – one needs to take care of the rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/the-fasting-monk-jain-acharya-performs-3400-fasts-in-6800-days/articleshow/78864146.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 26, 2020||Business||Kotak may buy IndusInd Bank, says a report||MUMBAI: Kotak Mahindra Bank is exploring an acquisition of private sector rival IndusInd Bank, according to a report. The Hindujas’ IndusInd International Holdings (IIHL), which is the promoter of IndusInd Bank, has denied the report, while Kotak has been non-committal. In a late evening report on Sunday, Bloomberg said that Kotak is looking at an all-stock acquisition. It also said that the UK-based Hinduja family began the discussion for selling control of the Mumbai-based lender following a dispute between the four brothers over the family’s fortune.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); IndusInd promoters currently hold less than 15% in IndusInd Bank through IndusInd InternationalHoldings (see graphic).Ofthe remaining 85%, the bulk is held by institutional investors who have seen the bank’s share price fall by more than 60% to Rs 607. At current prices, the bank has a market cap of less than Rs 46,000 crore. As against this Kotak Bank is only 20% down from its 52-week high even after a dilution and has a market cap of over Rs 2.7 lakh crore. A merger at current prices would bring the Hinduja promoter holding to just above 2%. A deal between Kotak and IndusInd would find favour with the banking regulator as Kotak Bank has a strong capital base and a good asset quality, which gives it a high capacity to absorb a smaller bank. Promoter Uday Kotak’s stake in his bank has fallen to about 26% after a qualified institutional placement of shares worth Rs 7,442 crore amid the lockdown. “We have no comments to offer,” Kotak Mahindra Group chief communication officer Rohit Rao said. IIHL, a Mauritius-based company, denied the reports by Bloomberg, stating that it is “malicious, untrue and baseless”. The statement said that the Hindujas have reiterated full support to IndusInd Bank — now and always. Watch Kotak may buy IndusInd Bank, says a report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-may-buy-indusind-bank-says-a-report/articleshow/78864149.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||EC sends notices to ministers Anuppur Bisahulal, Mohan Yadav||BHOPAL: The Election Commission on Sunday issued notices to BJP candidate from Anuppur Bisahulal Singh, for his remark against his Congress rival’s wife, and his cabinet colleague minister Mohan Yadav for allegedly issuing a threat. They have been told to reply within 48 hours. ECI ordered that both notices be served through special messengers and acknowledgement obtained. Bisahulal had made derogatory remarks against his Congress opponent Vishwanath Singh Kunjam’s wife on October 18 while talking to mediapersons. A video of his statement had gone viral on October 19, prompting Congress to file a complaint. Police also registered an FIR against Bisahulal after Kunjam’s wife led hundreds of women in a protest at Anuppur Kotwali police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ec-sends-notices-to-ministers-anuppur-bisahulal-mohan-yadav/articleshow/78864127.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Congress MLA Rahul Singh Lodhi joins BJP||BHOPAL: In a major blow to Congress a week ahead of bypolls to 28 seats, party MLA Rahul Singh Lodhi broke ranks and joined BJP on Sunday, reducing Congress to 87 seats in the 230-member assembly. BJP has 107 seats. Rahul, who was the MLA from Damoh, took membership of BJP in the presence of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state BJP chief V D Sharma. He is the 26th Congress MLA to switch to BJP since March this year, leading Congress to accuse the saffron party of continuing with its ‘deals’ even during elections. Rahul is the cousin of Pradyuman Singh Lodhi, who quit Congress in a similar manner three months back and joined BJP. Within hours, CM Chouhan appointed him chairman of MP State Civil Supplies Corporation. In 2018, Rahul had defeated former finance minister Jayant Malaiya by just 798 votes. Malaiya, a six-time MLA, was undefeated in Damoh since 1990 and it was one of the prize fights of the 2018 assembly polls, which propelled Congress to power. On Sunday, Rahul took BJP membership in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and said it was development of Damoh and the demand for a medical college that compelled him to quit Congress. “Congress is disintegrating and its future is bleak under Kamal Nath. Rahul's Congress is different from Kamal Nath’s Congress,” said Chouhan. Cong stalled welfare schemes: LodhiNath condemned BJP’s “unethical” ways. “BJP senses its defeat in the coming bypolls, and is apprehensive. It has completely lost trust in people’s mandate. BJP doesn't believe in democracy and only has greed for power. It only believes in saudebaji (trading ) and notes (money),” Nath tweeted. Lodhi said he joined BJP for Damoh’s welfare. “I worked with Congress for around 14 months but I couldn’t work for development or fulfil public demand for a medical college. All public welfare schemes in Damoh have been put on hold. Today, I have joined BJP willingly. I am sure that Damoh will rise to great heights,” Lodhi said at a press conference at the BJP state head office. Lodhi denied laying down any condition before joining BJP. “A couple of months ago, I had rejected reports that I’d be joining BJP but the situation changed when I witnessed development work being undertaken by the current BJP government in the last six months. Welfare of Bundelkhand was seriously compromised during Congress rule. In the interest of Damoh, I decided to join BJP. It will make a clean sweep in the upcoming bypolls,” he said. Pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma said Lodhi had submitted his resignation on Saturday evening itself. “I advised him to decide after thorough consideration. But when he remained adamant, we finally accepted the resignation,” said Sharma. Lodhi went to CM Chouhan’s residence in the morning and then to the BJP office to take saffron membership. The CM promised that Damoh will get a medical college. “Congress failed to carry out development worth a single paisa in the state. The party stalled important schemes for public welfare during its 15-month rule. Dissatisfied with Nath’s style of working, people are quitting Congress,” said Chouhan. “Kamal Nath needs to introspect. Abusing Shivraj will not work,” said Chouhan, adding: “If Kamal Nath is not an industrialist, then how did he get property worth millions that he has declared. He must tell this to people.” Sharma and cabinet minister Bhupendra Singh played a crucial role in bringing Lodhi to the saffron fold. Sources say two more Congress MLAs may follow suit. “If any public representative shows confidence in BJP and the work undertaken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, then BJP’s doors are open for him,” said Sharma. In a Twitter post, MP Congress said, “By purchasing another MLA, BJP has made it clear that it is not winning even a single of the 28 (bypoll) seats. People of Madhya Pradesh will give a strong reply to BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/congress-mla-rahul-singh-lodhi-joins-bjp/articleshow/78864119.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Amazon gets stay on RIL-Future deal||BENGALURU: Kishore Biyani’s deal to sell off Future Group assets to Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries for Rs 24,713 crore is now on hold. The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has granted an interim relief in the issue to the Jeff Bezosled Amazon, for now, two people aware of the matter said. Earlier this month, Amazon had approached SIAC over its dispute with Future Coupons, one of the holding companies of Biyani’s Future Group, where Amazon had invested Rs 1,431 crore, citing breach of terms due to its sale of retail assets to Reliance Industries. This was preceded with a legal notice from Amazon to Future Group. While an interim order puts the merger on hold, the matter will continue to be heard at SIAC before the sole arbitrator, former attorney general of Singapore, comes to a decision. Legal experts said, typically, it’s the party dissatisfied with the international arbitration order that takes the matter to Indian courts, but Amazon might have to approach the Indian courts too, depending on the final order. “This was an emergency arbitration hearing, where they (Amazon) sought an interim stay on the merger so that the Future-Reliance deal doesn’t close formally, while the matter is in international arbitration,” a person aware of the development said. The development comes even as Reliance Industries has applied for a clearance with the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on its deal with Future Group. Sources aware of the matter said the arbitration proceedings could go on for several weeks before a final order comes. This could also have an impact on banks that have lent to Biyani’s Future Group as the lenders are reportedly worried over their loans turning into non-performing assets (NPAs) owing to arbitration proceedings delaying the merger. “We welcome the award of the emergency arbitrator. We are grateful for the order which grants all the reliefs that were sought. We remain committed to an expeditious conclusion of the arbitration process,” a spokesperson of Amazon said on Sunday. A Future Group spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. A spokesperson of Reliance Retail Ventures (RRVL) said it is informed of the interim order and that it intends to enforce the rights and complete the transaction with Future Group without any delay. “RRVL has entered into the transaction for acquisition of assets and business of Future Retail under proper legal advice and the rights and obligations are fully enforceable under Indian law. RRVL intends to enforce its rights and complete the transaction in terms of the scheme and agreement with Future Group without any delay,” the spokesperson added. Gopal Subramanium, former Solicitor General of India, is one of the legal counsels for Amazon. Harish Salve is representing Future Group in the matter. Meanwhile, Future Group is also considering all available legal remedies on this matter for its next course of action, one of the people mentioned earlier said. However, no decision has been made yet. Watch Now, Amazon gets stay on RIL and Future Group deal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-gets-stay-on-ril-future-deal/articleshow/78864186.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Locked car mystery: Youth dead, friend critically ill in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A child lifted the covers of a car parked in Bhopal’s Kotwali area on Saturday night and peeked in. The windows were rolled up. He could hear the music system blaring inside. And two youngsters lay unconscious. His screams for help had neighbours running out of their homes. By the time the duo was taken to hospital, one of them, 22-year-old Faisal, was dead. His friend, Altamash, 20, is in critical condition in ICU. Police have found the friends often smoked in the vehicle for hours, with all the windows rolled up and the cover on, and that is what they are believed to have done on Saturday as well though no cigarette butts were found. Police have sent Faisal’s viscera for forensic tests and are hoping Altamash will regain consciousness. Investigators haven’t ruled out the possibility of foul play. Faisal was a resident of Ibrahimpura and Altamash lives in Budhwara. They worked as electricians. Investigating officer Rajendra Singh said the CNG-kit-fitted car is registered in the name of Faisal’s father, and it would often remained parked on the street outside their home. “Due to the fear of their family members, they would cover up the car and smoke inside for two to three hours. On Saturday, they are believed to be doing the same and had also turned up the music,” said SI Singh, adding that the child who found them unconscious informed Faisal’s father. Altamash’s oxygen level is low, say sources. “We haven’t been able to record the statements of family members, but local residents have informed police about the duo’s habits. The forensic team found that one of them had vomited inside the car,” said the investigator. One of the windows was open a crack, say police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/locked-car-mystery-youth-dead-friend-critically-ill/articleshow/78864196.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Man sets factory on fire in Haryana, booked||GURUGRAM: A man was been booked for allegedly entering in a manufacturing unit in Bilaspur and setting it on fire on Saturday. Police said the accused has been identified as Praveen alias Kalu. The owner of the manufacturing unit, that makes fabricators, said the crime took place on Saturday morning around 9am when the accused barged into the factory. “He sprinkled petrol all over the factory premises and light a matchstick to it. All the computers and documents inside the factory are destroyed,” said Kuldeep Singh, the owner The accused also beat up the workers present inside the premises at the time. “He also threatened to burn the premises again before Diwali,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/man-sets-factory-on-fire-booked/articleshow/78863629.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ticket, visa, Covid test: Ghaziabad firm’s job lure takes 150 for a ride||GHAZIABAD: About 150 people have been duped by a Vaishali-based company that allegedly promised them jobs in foreign countries and took money from them to process applications and complete paperwork. The fraud came to light earlier this month after a group of people, who found the office shut, approached Kaushambi police and filed a complaint. An FIR in the case was lodged on Sunday. No one has been arrested. According to some of the victims, the company had put up advertisements on social media platforms targeting residents of Delhi, NCR, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Pankaj Singh, who has been duped, said that he had been working in Saudi Arabia and he returned to India in December last year. “A friend who stays in Buxar told me that there are lots of vacancies as carpenter in Kuwait and he also told me to visit Flyline Manpower Recruitment Services office at Sector 3, Vaishali, and enquire about jobs abroad. When I visited the firm, people there told me that I will get a job as a carpenter and Rs 40,000 a month. They asked me to deposit Rs 80,000 and the amount included visa and ticket costs,” he said. “In January, I visited the firm again, along with some of my friends. I had already paid Rs 40,000. They filled up my form and all the documents mentioned were taken. In February, they sent a copy of my visa in WhatsApp and asked me to pay Rs 10,000 for medical tests. In June, they demanded Rs 12,000 saying the tests would include a Covid-19 exam.” He added that when he called up an official from the firm, the man asked him to visit the office on October 14 along with Rs 30,000. When Singh reached, he was told that all those who had applied for jobs will leave for Kuwait on October 17. Another victim, Sunil Kumar, said: “They told us we will get the visa and flight tickets within two hours. But after three hours, when we asked them about the status, they said their server was down. They asked us to visit the office the next day. On October 15, when we reached the office, we saw it was shut. We tried calling them, but all mobile numbers given to us were switched off,” Sunil said. According to the victims, over 150 people had been duped by the firm. “We saw the advertisement in February. When my father called up to enquire, they asked for his resume. They called after a week to tell him he had been shortlisted for a job. They also asked for his passport and a medical certificate,” Nitesh Pathak (24), from Bihar, said. His father, Sanjay (45), had been looking for a job. “He wanted to go abroad and work as a painter. We sold some of our land to get the money, as our earnings took a hit during the lockdown,” Nitesh said. Ajay Kumar Singh, the SHO, Kaushambi, said that on the basis of the complaint, an FIR has been lodged under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. “We have started an investigation,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ticket-visa-covid-test-firms-job-lure-takes-150-for-a-ride/articleshow/78863524.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
October 26, 2020||Business||Lee Kun-hee, who built Samsung empire, dead||NEW YORK: Lee Kun-hee, who transformed Samsung Electronics from a copycat South Korean appliance maker into the world’s biggest producer of smartphones, televisions and memory chips, has died. He was 78. Lee passed away on Sunday, the company said in a statement, without mentioning the cause of death. He had surgery in 2014 after a heart attack and was treated for lung cancer in the late 1990s. Lee, who told employees to “change everything except your wife and children” during his drive to foster innovation and challenge rivals such as Sony, was South Korea’s richest person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/lee-kun-hee-who-built-samsung-empire-dead/articleshow/78864199.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Central coordinating system vital to handle paddy stubble: Study||CHANDIGARH: India needs a central coordinating mechanism for paddy stubble management and crop diversification with adequate resources, clear assignment of responsibilities between national and sub-national agencies to counter the ill-effects of crop stubble burning during Covid-19 pandemic. This has been recommended by a study conducted by National Institute of Public Finance and Policy senior researchers Rita Pandey and Anuja Malhotra and The Energy and Resources Institute’s Shailly Kedia. The study was part of the policy series by Punjabi University’s centre for development economics and innovation studies. Emphasising on the need for all stakeholders, including government, industry and the civil society to shift their strategy from reactive to proactive, the study points out that the national programme on crop diversification does not have clear provisions on outreach activities to sensitise farmers about alternate crop options. Similarly, there is insufficient convergence with other programmes such as the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, National Rural Livelihood Mission, and agro-enterprise related schemes which could help in management of paddy stubble or crop diversification. Rural Punjab spends ₹ 7.6cr annually to treat ailmentsThe study says that people in rural Punjab spend more than Rs 7.6 crore every year on treatment for ailments caused by stubble burning. It is estimated that 20 million tonnes of rice stubble is produced every year in Punjab, out of which 80% is burnt on farms. Cost of air pollution due to stubble burning in India is estimated to be US $30 billion annually. Stubble burning emits particulate matter (PM 2.5), which is the most adverse for human health since the particles can get trapped inside the lungs and raise the lung cancer risk by 36%. Burning one tonne of rice (paddy stubble) accounts for a loss of nitrogen (5.5kg), phosphorus (2.3kg), potassium (25kg), and sulphur (1.2kg) in the soil. Moreover, the heat from burning crop residue kills critical bacterial and fungal populations in the soil, apart from organic carbon. Implementation IssuesThe research found that the unavailability of crop residue management (CRM) machines has been a key issue in mitigating paddy stubble burning. In 2019, despite a sanction of 22,854 machines, only 14,625 were available for use. The in-situ management machines are still unaffordable to many farmers despite subsidy provisions. Small farmers cannot afford machines despite subsidyHappy seeder costs Rs 1.50 lakh and requires a 65-horsepower tractor. Small farmers cannot afford to buy the machinery, even with a subsidy of 50% at current rates. Even though the central sector scheme (CSS) provides 80% subsidy to cooperative societies to rent out machines to farmers, most (cooperative societies) did not have funds to buy such machinery even on subsidy, says the study. Diversification Issues“Crop diversification package should be a mix of policy measures, encouragement of agrobusiness enterprises possibly under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan scheme, awareness campaigns for farmers explaining the importance of the scheme for them and what it offers, economic incentives such as minimum support pricesfor alternative crops, along with infrastructure support like agricultural inputs for identified alternative crops,” reads the study. There is a need for a detailed study involving all stakeholders to understand slow progress towards crop diversification in spite of regulatory policy nudges and fiscal policy incentives announced by the central as well as state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/central-coordinating-system-vital-to-handle-paddy-stubble-study/articleshow/78864205.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 26, 2020||Business||Yes Bank cuts exposure to DHFL, sells Rs 500 crore bonds||MUMBAI:" Yes Bank has significantly reduced its exposure to DHFL by selling the troubled housing finance company’s bonds in the secondary market. The sale of these bonds has helped the private bank realise Rs 500-crore investment gains as the exposure was fully provided for. “In DHFL, our exposure was in bonds. Part of it has already been monetised through a market sale and we have to see about the remaining bonds. These are essentially subordinated debt,” said Yes Bank MD & CEO Prashant Kumar. Lenders to DHFL will be meeting on Monday to decide on bids they have received for the company. “The recovery process has got elongated because of Covid. But we have still made a recovery of Rs 900 crore and expect a larger recovery during the current quarter,” said Kumar. In an exclusive interview to TOI, Kumar said that on advances growth, the bank would continue to shift to retail through a twin strategy of derisking portfolio on the corporate side and growing the retail book. As a result, the growth has been 1.5%, we will see further growth but it will be in single digits,” said Kumar. The bank would be aggressive in growing its deposit base as it planned to improve the creditdeposit ratio from 123% to 100% by the end of the year. A flight of deposits before the takeover of the bank by an SBI-led consortium had resulted in the creditdeposit ratio crossing 163%. To increase deposits, the bank planned to expand the catchment area of existing branches by acquiring customers digitally through video KYC. It would also target current accounts of corporate customers by offering them cash management services and it would use analytics to acquire customers who currently use the bank’s Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform through its partnership with PhonePe. While non-performing assets are expected to rise because of Covid, the bank has made adequate provisions, Kumar said. He said that around Rs 2,300 crore worth loans have slipped into default but were not categorised as non-performing assets because of the Supreme Court decision. “Another Rs 4,000 crore, which is overdue more than 60 days, is at risk,” he added. These stressed loans would require provisioning of Rs 1,300 crore for the current year, against which the bank has made Rs 1,900 crore of provisioning for Covid stress. To free up capital, the bank would sell its mutual fund by the end of the year. It is also working on setting up an asset reconstruction company-like entity, which will take over its bad loans and was currently talking to stressed asset investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-cuts-exposure-to-dhfl-sells-rs-500-crore-bonds/articleshow/78864210.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Goa||Infra being built is not for coal sector, says Goa CM||PANAJI: Even as opposition to coal transportation and major infrastructure projects increases across the state, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Sunday that the state government is not creating infrastructure for the coal industry. Sawant, who was speaking at the foundation stone ceremony for the construction of the Konkan maritime cluster at Verna industrial estate, urged locals and activists not to launch agitations against coal. “There is a wrong mindset among many that Goan ports are only for coal business, which needs to be changed,” said Sawant. “There is no need for agitation..,” he said. Goencho Ekvott, Goyant Kolso Naka and Goencho Avaaz have launched multiple agitations across the state against coal transportation, coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust and against South Western Railway’s double tracking project. Sawant said that development of Goa’s ports and other infrastructure is to facilitate exports, trade and shipment of manufactured goods from Goa’s industries. The chief minister also said that Goa has a lot of scope to become a maritime and logistics destination as it has the capabilities and skilled manpower required to efficiently use waterways and ports for different kinds of industries. Sawant said that the use of waterways for Goa’s tourism industry can benefit the state, as it could improve connectivity with Goa International Airport at Dabolim. He said that the state government is planning to develop a connectivity through public private partnership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/infra-being-built-is-not-for-coal-sector-says-goa-cm/articleshow/78864231.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Girls on attaining majority entitled to make own choices: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that young women who have attained the age of majority are entitled to make their choice and to live wherever they want. In such cases, the court cannot assume the role of super guardian to impose any restrictions on them, the high court clarified in its order to allow two young women, who have attained the age of majority and belong to Haryana’s Nuh district, to live in the place of their choice. Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi dismissed the habeas corpus petition filed by a resident of Nuh district, seeking directions to police to search for his daughters (names not mentioned to protect their identity) and get them released from illegal custody of some persons. The petitioner had submitted that his daughters are unmarried and taken some money and jewellery from his house and had allegedly been kidnapped by some people named in the petition. His petition mentioned that he had submitted a representation to the SP Nuh on July 13, 2020 in this regard but no action was taken. On hearing the plea, the high court on August 11, appointed a warrant officer who raided the addresses associated with people named in the petition. However, the young women could not be traced at the place suggested by their father. However, on September 25, the two young women approached the HC through their counsel and denied their father’s allegations about their abduction. On this, the high court ordered them to be kept at Nari Niketan Chandigarh and asked the Chandigarh judicial magistrate to record their statements under Section 164 of the CrPc. Left home due to abuse, court toldIn their statement before the magistrate, the sisters revealed that they had left their home because both of them had been raped by the sons of their maternal uncles and when they narrated their ordeal to their father, he reprimanded them. The sisters claimed that they were also beaten up after which they had left their home on their own due to exploitation and abuse inflicted upon them. A report, on the directions of the HC, was also submitted by SP Nuh on October 1, informing them that the two sisters had refused to return to their parents and had expressed their willingness to stay in Mohali home. Justice Tyagi also interacted with the sisters and during the interaction they said that they are more than 18 years of age, have attained the age of majority, had not been abducted by anyone, had left their home on their own and they wanted to live on their own in Mohali and sustain themselves by carrying out the tailoring work. Hearing the case, Justice Tyagi observed, “The detenues being major are entitled to make their choice and to live wherever they want and the court cannot assume the role of super guardian and impose any restriction.” Directing their release from Nari Niketan, Sector 26, Chandigarh, the HC made it clear that the girls will be at liberty to go to any place desired by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/girls-on-attaining-majority-entitled-to-make-own-choices-hc/articleshow/78864238.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das tests positive for Covid||MUMBAI: RBI governor Shaktikanta Das has tested positive for Covid-19. He has been regularly attending the RBI central office building in Mumbai through the pandemic. Das disclosed his testing positive in a tweet where he said that he was asymptomatic and was feeling very much all right and would continue to work from isolation. “Work in the RBI will go on normally. I am in touch with all the deputy governors and other officers through video-conferencing and telephone,” he said in his statement. The infection was detected during a routine diagnostic. According to an RBI spokesperson, the central office will continue to remain operational. The RBI has four deputy governors — B P Kanungo, M K Jain, Michael Patra and M Rajeshwar Rao. The deputy governors have all tested negative. The central office will continue to remain operational as usual as it undergoes frequent sanitisation and there are safeguards, including thermal screening and regular disinfection. On October 22, Das had appeared in an online panel discussion at the launch of N K Singh’s book. He had also chaired the 585th board meeting of the RBI on October 23 through videoconference. In the meeting, the board reviewed the current economic situation, continued global and domestic challenges and aspects of RBI’s operations. In the early days of the pandemic, the central bank had set up a war room where close to 120 officers were staying at the workplace. Most of RBI’s staff work from home with around a fourth attending office on rotation to avoid any infection risk. Earlier this month, the RBI had extended the working hours for the money, bond and forex markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-governor-shaktikanta-das-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/78864243.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Amritsar||Effigies of PM, corporate houses, MNCs set aflame this Dussehra||BATHINDA: Accusing the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of enacting three farm laws to benefit multinational companies and corporate houses, farmers burnt effigies of the Narendra Modi government, MNCs and corporates to mark Dussehra on Sunday at a number of places across the state. Several farm activists assembled at every place where different kinds of Ravanas were burnt to showcase their anger towards the central farm laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) burnt Ravanas at 40 places in 14 districts whereas the other 30 farm organisations burnt effigies at other places. The protesters made 20 to 30ft effigies using pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, heads of corporate houses and Uncle Sam. Women were seen hitting the photos with chappals at many places. A massive gathering assembled in Malerkotla where a tall effigy was burnt. BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said the Union government has tried to crush the farmers by enacting anti-farmer laws. “The government wants to stop the practice of minimum support price (MSP) and wants to provide large chunks of land to corporates through the contract farming law. Farmers will not sit back till these laws are withdrawn. We have showcased the anger of the farming community by burning effigies as Ravanas and protests against these laws will be intensified,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/effigies-of-pm-corporate-houses-mncs-set-aflame-this-dussehra/articleshow/78864252.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||FPIs net invest Rs 17,749 crore in October||NEW DELHI: Foreign portfolio investors have been net buyers in Indian markets in October, pumping in a net Rs 17,749 crore in the month as better than expected quarterly results, the opening up of the economy, and resumption of business activities kept investor interest intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fpis-net-invest-rs-17749-crore-in-october/articleshow/78864258.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Rare post Covid complication usually seen in kids now strikes adults in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A post Covid-19 complication, multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C), that was typically seen in kids is now being reported among adults. A 52-year-old woman treated at Andheri's Kokilaben Hospital is likely to be the first confirmed case of the syndrome in the city that can potentially be life-threatening if not identified and treated on time. Since then the hospital has seen five cases of this syndrome, which has been dubbed as MIS-A in adults. Of the five patients, all above 50 years, two are critical.  MIS-C is rare and appears 2-5 weeks after the infection and may not come with any typical signs of Covid. In this syndrome, organs and tissues, including heart, liver, kidneys, blood vessels, digestive system, can become hyper inflamed. The patients may not test positive for Covid but can have positive antibody reports, showing Covid exposure in the immediate past. In Mumbai, where over 24 children have been affected by MIS-C, most presented with Kawasaki-like symptoms of red eyes, rashes and fever. The woman came to the Andheri hospital around two weeks ago with no previous illnesses but a 10-day history of fever, abdominal pain, headache, nausea and jaundice. She had been hospitalised twice and tested negative for Covid before coming to Kokilaben. Here, doctors found her heart and respiratory rates elevated and blood pressure low.With an oxygen saturation level of 90% and other deteriorating parameters, doctors shifted her to ICU, where she was put on oxygen support. "She again tested negative and even a CT scan of the chest showed no abnormalities. But an echocardiogram showed cardiac dysfunction," said Dr Sharad Sheth, head of nephrology. The patient's white cell count too was very high, along with other inflammatory markers like D-dimer and C-reactive protein. Meanwhile, investigations for dengue, malaria, leptospirosis, typhoid, urinary tract infection all returned negative, leaving the doctors baffled. As her condition continued to deteriorate, infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, who also treats paediatric cases, was roped in. Having treated 10 MIS-C cases, Dr Singhal suspected that the woman was struck by the rare syndrome. An antibody test came positive, confirming their suspicion. "Medical literature in the US and Europe have mentioned several confirmed cases in adults," said Dr Si-nghal, adding that as they started treating her with high dose steroids and intravenous immunoglobulins, her condition significantly improved within 48 hours. The woman is likely to be discharged on Monday. "When doctors see such abnormal markers, deranged organ functions and a Covid exposure which is a few weeks old, they should think of multisystem inflammatory syndrome. But the key is to rule out all other causes," said Dr Sheth. Dr Singhal added that unlike kids, only one of the five patients had Kawasaki-like symptoms. A few MIS-A cases have been seen in Bengaluru and Chennai too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rare-post-covid-complication-usually-seen-in-kids-now-strikes-adults-in-mumbai/articleshow/78864265.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Ninth day of drop in Navi Mumbai||NAVI MUMBAI: Covid-19 cases in Navi Mumbai have declined substantially despite the unlocking, and so has the daily fatality rate. The recovery rate improved further and breached the 92% mark, better than the national average. The steady drop in Covid-19 detections in the city continued for the ninth consecutive day with under 250 new cases even as the number of tests remained the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-ninth-day-of-drop-in-navi-mumbai/articleshow/78864272.cms||B B Nayak
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Customers duped through fake web portal of hospital in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Cashing in on the Covid-19 pandemic, fraudsters have created a fake web portal of Tata Memorial Centre's pharmacy and are duping people who place an online order for medicines. The hospital filed a complaint with Bhoiwada police on October 17 on learning about the fake portal that lists the contact numbers of Tata Memorial Centre in Parel. Police are collecting details and believe many unsuspecting victims were duped after placing orders for medicines on the fake web portal created in the name of 'Tata Pharmacy'. The fraud came to light on October 14 when Nilesh Patil, employed as a pharmacist in the hospital's medical store, attended a call from a person inquiring about an online order he had placed earlier in the month. The caller said he had made payment through UPI, but the medicines were not delivered. "Someone has created a fake web portal of the hospital. Tata Hospital does not have any online service and medicines are available only over the counter. We have sought details from the search engine where the hospital's contact number was found," said inspector Sushilkumar Gaikwad. In his statement to the police, Patil has said, "The caller mentioned he was from Kolhapur and said he had ordered medicines through Tata Pharmacy web portal and made payment through UPI. He said he had placed the order a few days ago, but had not received the medicines." "Patil informed medical officer, Dr Vineet Samant. They filed a complaint after scanning the search engine link that took them to the fake 'Tata Pharmacy' portal which had contact details of Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel," said a police officer. Humayun Jafri, spokesperson for Tata Memorial Centre, told TOI, "Tata hospital does not take online orders for medicines. Those who come across such kind of fraud should alert us so that we can take necessary action." A case has been filed against unknown persons under the Indian Penal Code and IT Act sections for cheating, impersonation and identity theft. To protect against such scams, police have advised people to cross-check the contact details and numbers on search engines before placing orders. The customer care number should be directly contacted to verify if the link is genuine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/customers-duped-through-fake-web-portal-of-hospital-in-mumbai/articleshow/78864274.cms||V Narayan
October 26, 2020||Business||Tough to buy global quality coffee: Starbucks India||NEW DELHI: Procuring a steady supply of global quality Indian coffee is a challenge, Tata Starbucks CEO Navin Gurnaney said. The comments come even as the world’s largest coffee house chain is ramping up its capacity to export indigenous coffee to its international outlets. Tata Starbucks is piloting projects in regional plantations to build a seamless supply chain of quality Indian coffee. “The strategy was to always take more Indian coffee blends global,” Gurnaney told TOI. “The challenges are not insurmountable and we are working to solve them.” Starbucks had earlier sourced the Tata Nullore Estate coffee from India, which was sold at its Reserve outlet in Seattle. It has followed this up by taking to its global stores the Diwali blend coffee, the company’s first blend to have been remotely created, sourced from Valparai, Jumboor and Suntikoppa estates in the hills of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. When asked about the company’s ongoing talks to acquire certain businesses of India’s largest cafe chain, Cafe Coffee Day, Gurnaney said all opportunities are being explored keeping in mind Tata Starbucks’s best interests. The Seattle-headquartered Starbucks, which entered India in 2012 after forging a 50:50 alliance with the Tata Group company Tata Consumer Products, has opened its 200th store in Amritsar and will follow it up by foraying into Kerala. Although the pandemic has made a dent in the domestic cafe business, the company has no plans to slow down expansion in India. “There will be no fundamental shift in the format size of our outlets in India. The pandemic has just accelerated our plans that were already in the works,” said Gurnaney. “Occupancy, currently is back to 33-50% in our outlets, given the social distancing norms that have to be followed. The reopening of dine-in in Maharashtra has also been a big boost to our business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tough-to-buy-global-quality-coffee-starbucks-india/articleshow/78864275.cms||John Sarkar
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Whole Jalalpur village stood by us in our grief: Victim’s kin||JALALPUR (HOSHIARPUR): Family of the six-year-old girl, who was raped and murdered on October 21, said on Sunday that they have received a lot of support from the residents of Jalalpur village. The village, with around 3,500 voters and located six kilometers from Tanda town in Hoshiarpur district has many NRI families and its affluence is visible from the huge houses. The poor migrant family from Bihar has been getting many visitors daily at its kutcha courtyard outside the two-room dwelling. Not just politicians, people from across classes and communities have been visiting them. On Sunday too, quite a few women from well-off families of the village called on the family. “The shock was very big but the whole village has united behind us. Hundreds from the village gathered at my daughter’s cremation on Friday. Sardars and Biharis, all were there from the village. I think almost the entire village has visited us. This support from the village and the administration has come as a big support for us,” said the girl’s father, who moved to the village two decades ago. He has been working as a daily wager doing sundry jobs from driving tractor to working in the fields and all of his six daughters — the victim was his youngest — were born here. The girl’s father had been working for the accused’s family for the last quite a few years and that was the reason that the 19 year-old accused was known to the family and could easily lure the young child. “My entire family had worked in the fields of the accused during transplantation of the paddy,” he said. The girl’s mother said that police reached quickly just after somebody from the village informed them. “They acted quickly and arrested the accused youth and his grandfather. We hope that now we shall get justice from the court,” she said. Challan in the case soon: Punjab CMPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said on Sunday that his government had taken swift action in the Hoshiarpur rape-murder case and the challan in case will be presented in court this week. Unlike Hathras, prompt action had been taken by the Punjab Police and the accused had been caught without delay. Commenting on Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s remarks on ‘selective outrage,’ he reiterated that had the Punjab government or police failed to respond with swiftness in the Hoshiarpur case, Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi along with others would have reacted the same way as they did in the case of Hathras. ‘No villager expressed any support for accused’Sarpanch Sukhwinder Singh said that the entire village wanted quick justice for the victim and stood behind the family the moment they came to know about the ghastly incident. “The family of the accused is facing complete isolation. Now some political persons are comparing this incident to Hathras. This comparison is completely misplaced. In our village all local residents from across communities and classes stood behind the victim’s family and have participated in their grief. The accused was arrested quickly and none from the village ever expressed any support for the accused on community lines,” he said. The accused, who was arrested along with his grandfather, belongs to a well-off family. His embarrassed parents left the village at night, hours after the crime on October 21and their house remains locked. The villagers said that the accused’s octogenarian grandfather had informed the girl’s family on the evening of October 21 that she was lying burnt in their haveli (cattle-yard) and claimed that she had burnt herself. Punjab plans to rehabilitate familyThe Punjab government has already handed over a cheque of Rs 4 lakh to the victim’s family. Minister Sunder Sham Arora during his visit to the family on Saturday said he would pay them Rs 2.5 lakh from his own pocket and the family would be given a five-marla plot from panchayat land. On Sunday, state’s women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary along with Tanda MLA Sangat Singh Giljian, Hoshiarpur DC Apneet Riyat and senior police officials visited the family. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/whole-jalalpur-village-stood-by-us-in-our-grief-victims-kin/articleshow/78864277.cms||IP Singh
October 26, 2020||Business||E-tailers seek tie-ups as khadi sales pick up||NEW DELHI: Unable to convince e-commerce giants to hawk its products on “favourable terms”, Khadi & Village Industries Commission (KVIC) launched its own platform to sell masks in July. From sales of around Rs 7,000 a day, three months later, it is clocking a daily turnover of Rs 1-1.5 lakh and is hoping to double it by the end of March. From around 600 products, it is hoping to sell nearly 1,000 products online in around a fortnight. This could include products such as ornaments from khadi institutions, phulkari from Punjab and the famous chillies, haldi and ginger from Arunachal Pradesh. Sales may be only a fraction of the over Rs 1 crore that just the flagship khadi store in the capital clocked on October 2, but it was sufficient to draw interest from the e-tailers, which are now knocking on its doors — offering to sell products at less than half the commission and with other flexibilities. When talks were held last year, the e-commerce players wanted pricing flexibility and rights to take off products whenever they wanted to, something that the government and KVIC were unwilling to offer. “We have got a very favourable response and the interest is increasing by the day as awareness about our online sales increases through word of mouth,” said KVIC chairman V K Saxena, but refused to discuss tie-ups with the ecommerce players. In several segments, such as khadi footwear, which was launched last week, the response is so high that products are now sold out within days. While khadi masks, which PM Narendra Modi spoke about in his monthly address on Sunday, remain the main draw, fabrics are second on the list, followed by the humble papad and soap bars. Close to 19 lakh masks have been sold so far, of this around 1-1.3 lakh have been sold online, said Saxena. But unlike traditional ecommerce and retail platforms, KVIC is discovering that there are limits to its strategy. For instance, unlike other e-tailers, which can click a picture and sell saris, the agency responsible for khadi does not have two saris that look the same. For delivery, KVIC has tied up with India Post, which is seeking to revive its fortunes through ecommerce tieups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/e-tailers-seek-tie-ups-as-khadi-sales-pick-up/articleshow/78864286.cms||Sidhartha
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis will now realise it's serious: Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: With ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis contracting Covid-19, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut was quoted as saying the BJP leader would now realise that the situation is serious. He said the Opposition had needlessly targeted CM Uddhav Thackeray for staying home during the pandemic. "We were telling him to take care. He will now realise the situation outside is serious," Raut said. He said Thackeray has issued orders to ensure Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the assembly, gets the best treatment. Fadnavis revealed he was positive on Saturday. His condition is stable, a party source said. He got tested after some BJP leaders he travelled with during the Bihar poll campaign came positive, the source said. He had also toured flood-hit areas of the state from October 19 to 21. Raut said Fadnavis had set a good example by getting admitted to a government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/devendra-fadnavis-will-now-realise-its-serious-sanjay-raut/articleshow/78864297.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hacker clones cop's Facebook account, seeks money 'help'||MUMBAI: A hacker tried to seek funds in the name of Vile Parle police inspector of crime department, Rajendra Kane, by cloning his Facebook account. Though a case has not been registered, Kane decided to conduct an investigation himself. He found that the hacker is from Uttarakhand with the contact number that the latter had shared with one of his friends whom he had sent a money request to. A hunt is on for the culprit. The hacker had created the fake FB account with Kane's name and photograph on October 22 and sent messages to at least 10 people on the cop's friend list claiming that he is in trouble and in need of money. "I immediately started receiving calls from my friends asking about my well being. It was then that the fraud came to light. I asked my friends to reply to the hacker on online chat and get his phone number," said Kane. "The hacker asked them to pay Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 on a number via GooglePay." The same day, Kane posted on his own FB page that someone has created a fake account in his name to alert others on his contact list. The fake profile has been blocked after Kane reported the matter to Facebook. "This is not the first time someone has targeted a cop's social media account and made money requests. Recently, senior IPS officer Krishna Prakash fell prey to the same fraud," Kane told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-hacker-clones-cops-facebook-account-seeks-money-help/articleshow/78864313.cms||V Narayan
October 26, 2020||World||Vaccine verdict due by early December: Fauci||LONDON: US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said on Sunday it would be clear whether a Covid-19 vaccine was safe and effective by early December, but that more widespread vaccination would not be likely until later in 2021. “We will know whether a vaccine is safe and effective by the end of November, the beginning of December,” Fauci told the BBC. “When you talk about vaccinating a substantial proportion of the population, so that you can have a significant impact on the outbreak, that very likely will not be until the second or third quarter of the year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/vaccine-verdict-due-by-early-december-fauci/articleshow/78864331.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Spain announces new state of emergency as infections soar||MADRID: Spanish PM Pedro Sanchez announced a new state of emergency on Sunday in an effort to curb soaring coronavirus infections, imposing local nighttime curfews and banning travel between regions in some cases. The measures go into force from Sunday night and will require all regions except the Canary Islands to impose a nighttime curfew and limit the number of people allowed to meet to six. Spain has one of the highest numbers of infections in Western Europe, with total cases on Friday 1,046,132 and toll 35,000. The state of emergency will need parliamentary nod to last beyond 15 days and PM is to seek extension till May 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/spain-announces-new-state-of-emergency-as-infections-soar/articleshow/78864365.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||6,843 Covid-19 cases, 7,000 recoveries in Kerala on Sunday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Sunday reported 6,843 Covid-19 cases taking the total close to four lakh. To date, Kerala has reported 3,92,930 cases. At present, there are 96,585 active cases while 2,94,910 have recovered, including 7,649 on Sunday. Among the new cases, 159 came from other states while 82 are healthcare workers. In 24 hours, 48,212 samples were tested in the state. The test positivity rate remains high at 14.19%. Meanwhile, 26 recent deaths were confirmed as due to Covid taking the total to 1,333. The deceased are Vijayamma (59), Zubaida Beevi (68), Krishnankutty (72), Babu (66), Ashokan (60), A R Saleem (60) and Abdul Razzaq (75) from Thiruvananthapuram; Jayamma (48), Bhaskaran (84), Gopalakrishnan (77), Thankamma (83) and Krishnakumar (58) from Alappuzha; Alina (24) from Pathanamthitta; K S Nair (72) from Kottayam, M K Pappu (87), Rajamma (83), Mariamma Patros (88), K A Subaida (65) and Kumari (62) from Ernakulam; Alavi (75), Govindan (74), Mary (75), Muhammad (60), Suharbi (45) and Yashoda (65) from Malappuram; and K Anandan (76) from Kannur. Five districts have recorded over 100 deaths with Thiruvananthapuram top of the chart with 387 deaths followed by 131 deaths each in Malappuram and Ernakulam, 122 in Kozhikode, and 100 in Kollam. Thrissur topped the new active cases list with 1,011 cases followed by Kozhikode 869.There are 2,82,568 under surveillance in various districts. With 58 places added as hotspots and 13 areas excluded, the state has 669 hotspots. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/6843-covid-19-cases-7000-recoveries-in-kerala-on-sunday/articleshow/78864374.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||France sees record 52,010 cases in 24 hours||PARIS: France registered a record 52,010 new confirmed coronavirus cases over the past 24 hours, following a record 45,422 on Saturday, the health ministry said in a statement on Sunday. The new cases took the total to 1,138,507, with France now ahead of Argentina and Spain to become the country with the world's fifth highest number of cases, after the US, India, Brazil and Russia. The ministry said that 116 people had died from coronavirus infection over the past 24 hours, compared to from 137 on Saturday, taking the total to 34,761.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/france-sees-record-52010-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/78864376.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Municipal Corporation sets up 7 ghats to ensure safe visarjan with Covid-19 norms||BHOPAL: In keeping with Covid-19 protocols, Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) has made adequate arrangements for Durga idol immersion this year. In order to ensure social distancing, barricades have been placed along seven ghats designated for idol immersion. Only 10 members of a festival committee are allowed to join the immersion rituals, which is expected to last three days beginning on Sunday. Passionate devotees were seen ensuring eco-friendly immersion of idols at options besides Prempura Ghat, the demarcated site for immersion of all large idols. Bhopal has made extensive arrangements at immersion sites, said an official. BMC commissioner, K V S Chaudary has designated each of the BMC additional commissioners to respective assembly constituencies to ensure better arrangements. Responsibility of nodal officers has also been fixed. BMC additional commissioner Harendra Narayan will coordinate all arrangements, BMC official said. Elaborate arrangements for cleanliness, drinking water, lights as well as cranes, divers, life jackets, loud speakers and others have been made at each of the immersion sites. Identified immersion sites or ghats of the city for immersion of idols includes made at one at Bairagarh, Prempura Ghat, Kamalapati Ghat, Khatlapura Ghat, Hathikheda Dam, Shahpura Visarjan Ghat and Malikheri Visarjan Ghat. A police control room has also been set up in these locations. Access routes to these idol immersion sites has been laid out by the administration. BMC commissioner has all officers to appoint their subordinate officers or employees at their respective immersion ghats. Round the clock monitoring and reporting of the information is shared on real-time basis. Only 10 members of the puja committees are be allowed to reach immersion site. They are not permitted to board small or large boats for immersion of the idol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-municipal-corporation-sets-up-7-ghats-to-ensure-safe-visarjan-with-covid-19-norms/articleshow/78864372.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||China city spots 137 asymptomatic cases: Official||BEIJING: China detected 137 new asymptomatic coronavirus cases on Sunday in Kashgar city in northwestern Chinese region of Xinjiang after one person was found to have the virus the previous day — the first local new cases for 10 days in mainland China. All 137 new cases were linked to a garment factory. The parents of a 17-year-old girl who tested positive on Saturday and did not have any symptoms worked there, a health official said. Kashgar launched a testing programme on Saturday covering the region’s 4.8 million people. As of Sunday, over 2.8 million people had been tested and the rest would be covered within two days, the city government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-city-spots-137-asymptomatic-cases-official/articleshow/78864380.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||From Masjid Bunder to Versova, NCB finds coke, ecstasy, charas||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided a place near Masjid Bunder in south Mumbai and arrested a Tanzanian identified as Bruno John Ngwale, from whom it recovered four grams of cocaine. From Versova in Andheri, the NCB arrested two people and seized 4.4 grams of ecstasy tablets. The NCB said nearly 1.9 grams was seized from a man identified as Rohit Hire. The interrogation of the two led the NCB to more recoveries, of 3.25 grams of ganja, 32 grams of charas and five grams of methamphetamine hidden in a car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-masjid-bunder-to-versova-ncb-finds-coke-ecstasy-charas/articleshow/78864385.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Man loses claim under mother's life insurance policy over incorrect info||Raj Kumari had taken a policy of Rs2 lakh from Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). When she died on February 14, 2016, her son Rajesh Kumar made a claim under the policy. It was rejected on the grounds that false answers were given to the questions in the proposal form, pre-existing ailments had been suppressed, and wrong information was furnished about the leave taken by the insured. LIC merely offered to refund the premium of Rs81,216. Rajesh Kumar filed a complaint before the district forum, which ordered the claim to be paid. LIC's appeal to the Himachal Pradesh State Commission was also dismissed. LIC then went in revision before the National Commission, arguing that orders were passed without considering the evidence produced by it. LIC relied on the previous treatment record and leave certificates which showed Raj Kumari was suffering from rheumatic heart disease, diabetes and hypertension since 2010, but she had suppressed these ailments in the proposal form submitted on March 4, 2013 by intentionally giving false answers. Rajesh Kumar contended that LIC's panel doctor had examined his mother prior to issuance of the policy and had found her to be in good health. The National Commission rejected this argument, observing it may not be possible to detect all ailments during a clinical examination and tests conducted at that time, especially when the documentary evidence clearly established that treatment had been sought for pre-existing ailments, and that her leave record at work coincided with her hospitalization. The Commission pointed out that the insured had failed in her duty to disclose relevant information by truthfully answering the questions in the proposal form. Rajesh Kumar tried to argue that the form had been filled in by the agent without consulting the proposer, in this case Raj Kumari herself. The Commission held that a proposer who signs the form cannot normally disown the statements made. Since such an allegation was neither made in the complaint nor was the agent made a party to the dispute, the Commission rejected this argument. By its order of October 15 delivered by Justice V K Jain, the National Commission upheld the LIC's stand and dismissed the complaint. (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His email is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-loses-claim-under-mothers-life-insurance-policy-over-incorrect-info/articleshow/78864388.cms||Jehangir B. Gai
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Reverse quarantine slip-ups leading to many deaths in Kerala: Audit||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An audit for August and the first week of September found that of the 252 deaths reported at government hospitals in the state 223, or 88.5% of the total, were due to Covid-19. Making some critical observations, it found that failure of reverse quarantine had led to 61 deaths. “Failure of reverse quarantine was observed in 61(24%) of Covid deaths. Mortality may be prevented by vigilant observation of reverse quarantine,'' said the report, prepared by death audit committee of the health department. It suggested that dialysis centres, oncology wards and cancer-care centres, which provide care to high-risk patients and severely morbid patients, should ensure strict infection, prevention and control (IPC). Comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease and cancer are established determinants of mortality in Covid-19. A similar pattern was also observed in the audit. Among the victims, 116 had hypertension, 120 had diabetes and 15 had cancer. Hospitals reported 13 (5%) ‘brought dead’ cases. Five bedridden patients had succumbed to the novel coronavirus. There were 20 deaths where the underlying cause was not Covid-19, while nine were kept pending for more clinical details. Among districts that reported 20 or more deaths, Kollam recorded the highest number of 34 deaths. The mean age of death was 63.5 years and 157 were males, says the report. “Age is an established determinant of Covid-19 mortality. The chance of death due to Covid-19 is likely to be higher as age increases,'' it said. The committee recommended that the importance of reverse quarantine be re-emphasized and the practice monitored using grassroots-level workers. Vulnerable persons, even if mildly symptomatic, should be tested for Covid-19. Antigen testing may be increased to improve surveillance. Contact tracing, testing and treatment should be followed, it said. The panel suggested that each peripheral health institution review the mapping of elderly and severely comorbid patients in their respective field areas. Ensure that health education and motivation are provided to these households so that reverse quarantine is ensured, it said. Symptom surveillance should be strengthened in these households. These persons may be motivated to monitor oxygen saturation so as to enable early detection of signs and complications and prompt health seeking, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/reverse-quarantine-slip-ups-leading-to-many-deaths-in-kerala-audit/articleshow/78864390.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG lags in recovery of tax dues, misses Rs 1,100 crore target||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has barely collected 15% of the projected property tax collection of Rs 1,100 crore this year. The civic body has been struggling to recover taxes and other dues, which add up to more than Rs 570 crore, for many years now. According to a state report, MCG tops the list of municipal corporations with the highest dues. It is followed by the municipal corporations of Panipat (Rs 259 crore) and Karnal (Rs 168 crore). MCG has managed to collect only Rs 157 crore in form of property tax till the month of October. Last year, the civic body mopped up around Rs 165 crore. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and urban local bodies (ULB) minister Anil Vij recently issued directions to the 10 municipal corporations in Haryana to gear up revenue generation. In a meeting earlier this week, Vij recommended that the commissioner of the municipal corporation of Panipat be suspended for a “lethargic attitude” towards revenue generation and recovery of dues. The ULB minister made the recommendation after reviewing the revenue collection and financial status reports of the corporations. Sources said while MCG has already collected Rs 157 crore as property tax, it won’t be able to collect more than Rs 50 crore from the remaining property owners who haven't paid tax yet. As a result, the total revenue from property tax this year is likely to be around Rs 200 crore, which will be only 20% of the projected property tax revenue in the MCG’s budget. The corporation struggled to generate revenue in the first quarter of this financial year due to the Covid-induced lockdown. A senior MCG official said that property tax collection was extremely slow in the first quarter, but geared up in the month of July. By the end of July, the civic body had collected around Rs 100 crore, he said. Over four lakh properties are registered with MCG, but less than 1.4 lakh owners have paid property tax, the collection of which has been a recurrent problem for the civic body. The corporation had set the target of recovering Rs 250 crore as property tax in the 2018-2019 fiscal, but received only Rs 196 crore. In the next fiscal, it managed to collect only Rs 166 crore against the target of Rs 250 crore. Earlier this month, MCG had served notices to 2,800 owners with unpaid property tax amounting to Rs 1 lakh or more to clear dues within 15 days, failing which they would lose sewerage and water connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-lags-in-recovery-of-tax-dues-misses-rs-1-1kcr-target/articleshow/78862828.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Two BMC workers held for beating 'thief' to death||MUMBAI: Dongri police cracked a murder case within four hours with the arrest of two BMC contract labourers. On Sunday, around 4am, Mangesh Kondar (35) and Suraj Bolke (24) caught Majid Shaikh (23) sneaking around a BMC-owned property at Wadi Bunder. Suspecting him to be a thief, the duo allegedly rained punches on him and assaulted him with a stick, said the police. Shaikh died on the spot, they added. ACP Avinash Dharmadhikari said the victim had theft cases registered against him. "We identified the accused from CCTV footage and arrested from their homes in Vasai-Virar within a few hours," he said. They have been booked for murder under the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-bmc-workers-held-for-beating-thief-to-death/articleshow/78864401.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram’s Covid-19 toll breaches 200-mark||GURUGRAM: With two more deaths, the city’s Covid-19 toll breached the 200-mark on Sunday. As many as 201 people have succumbed to the infection so far. While the first 100 deaths were recorded in 46 days — the district crossed that mark on July 5 — the next set of 100 has taken 112 days. The death rate in the city currently stands at 0.7%, down from 1.7% on July 5. Gurugram reported its first death on May 21. By the end of that month, the toll stood at four. While the month of June was the worst in terms of deaths, recording 86, the next two months saw a decline. There were 32 deaths reported in July and 10 in August. While the monthly figures rose to 40 in September, October so far has seen 29 deaths. In nearly 60% of the total deaths, the patients either had comorbidities or were aged above 60 years, the health department said. The fatality rate is higher among older patients, as compared to the young. The 61-70 age bracket was the worst hit, with 55 deaths, while 42 patients in the 71-80 age group succumbed. A total of 24 patients between the ages of 81 and 90 years died, while two people over the age of 91 succumbed to the virus. In the 51-60 age bracket, 31 deaths were reported while in the 41-50 group, there were 23 deaths. Among younger groups, there were 19 deaths in the 31-40 age group while four people between the ages of 21 and 30 years died. No deaths have been reported in patients below 20 years of age. Of the 201 deaths, comorbidities were reported in 148 cases. While 53 had no other ailments, 55 had multiple comorbidities. As many as 20 patients had diabetes and 17 heart disease while 12 had cancer and eight others hypertension. Three patients had neurological disorders, three suffered from liver problems and two had kidney issues. Another 28 deaths counted under comorbidities are under investigation. While Haryana has reported 23 deaths in home isolation — Bhiwani, Faridabad and Fatehabad topping the list with four each — none of those are accounted for by Gurugram. “The majority of active cases are in home isolation. Our teams have been reaching out to them daily. We have appealed to people to monitor their oxygen levels at regular intervals and to inform our teams at the earliest if there’s any discomfort,” said chief medical officer Virender Yadav. The city on Sunday reported 366 fresh cases, taking its tally to 27,615. The health department said 269 people also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 24,543. The district has 2,871 active cases, of which 2,666 are in home isolation. So far, 3,38,707 people have been put under surveillance in Gurugram. The health department has sent 3,35,391 samples for testing so far, of which 3,05,151 returned negative while the results of 1,515 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaons-covid-19-toll-breaches-200-mark/articleshow/78863556.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 26, 2020||Faridabad||Gurugram’s Covid-19 toll breaches 200-mark||GURUGRAM: With two more deaths, the city’s Covid-19 toll breached the 200-mark on Sunday. As many as 201 people have succumbed to the infection so far. While the first 100 deaths were recorded in 46 days — the district crossed that mark on July 5 — the next set of 100 has taken 112 days. The death rate in the city currently stands at 0.7%, down from 1.7% on July 5. Gurugram reported its first death on May 21. By the end of that month, the toll stood at four. While the month of June was the worst in terms of deaths, recording 86, the next two months saw a decline. There were 32 deaths reported in July and 10 in August. While the monthly figures rose to 40 in September, October so far has seen 29 deaths. In nearly 60% of the total deaths, the patients either had comorbidities or were aged above 60 years, the health department said. The fatality rate is higher among older patients, as compared to the young. The 61-70 age bracket was the worst hit, with 55 deaths, while 42 patients in the 71-80 age group succumbed. A total of 24 patients between the ages of 81 and 90 years died, while two people over the age of 91 succumbed to the virus. In the 51-60 age bracket, 31 deaths were reported while in the 41-50 group, there were 23 deaths. Among younger groups, there were 19 deaths in the 31-40 age group while four people between the ages of 21 and 30 years died. No deaths have been reported in patients below 20 years of age. Of the 201 deaths, comorbidities were reported in 148 cases. While 53 had no other ailments, 55 had multiple comorbidities. As many as 20 patients had diabetes and 17 heart disease while 12 had cancer and eight others hypertension. Three patients had neurological disorders, three suffered from liver problems and two had kidney issues. Another 28 deaths counted under comorbidities are under investigation. While Haryana has reported 23 deaths in home isolation — Bhiwani, Faridabad and Fatehabad topping the list with four each — none of those are accounted for by Gurugram. “The majority of active cases are in home isolation. Our teams have been reaching out to them daily. We have appealed to people to monitor their oxygen levels at regular intervals and to inform our teams at the earliest if there’s any discomfort,” said chief medical officer Virender Yadav. The city on Sunday reported 366 fresh cases, taking its tally to 27,615. The health department said 269 people also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 24,543. The district has 2,871 active cases, of which 2,666 are in home isolation. So far, 3,38,707 people have been put under surveillance in Gurugram. The health department has sent 3,35,391 samples for testing so far, of which 3,05,151 returned negative while the results of 1,515 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/gurgaons-covid-19-toll-breaches-200-mark/articleshow/78867425.cms||Ipsita Pati
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis writes over 100 letters to Maharashtra CM, but fails to get a response||Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has written more than 100 letters to CM Uddhav Thackeray on subjects of public interest, but says he is yet to receive a reply. After Thackeray took over the reins in November 2019, Fadnavis was elected leader of the opposition BJP. Between December 2019 and March 2020, he sent routine letters to the CM. After the pandemic outbreak, Fadnavis began an extensive tour of the state and found the efforts of the administration grossly inadequate. He felt there was an urgent need to step up testing and make remdesivir available to more patients. He was also the view that Covid-19 centres needed better management and trained paramedical staff. After each tour, he wrote letters which were advisory in nature to the CM, health minister Rajesh Tope and chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, suggesting a slew of measures. He also highlighted the law and order situation, particularly in light of the Palghar lynching case. The lack of response has been a letdown, says the former CM, who had set up a special cell during his tenure to respond to letters from elected representatives. Bureaucrat sparks rowAdditional chief secretary Arvind Kumar's late night controversial WhatApp messages to colleagues have caused a flutter. The immediate fallout was that the 1985 batch IAS officer was relieved from the department of rural development department following a complaint lodged by a former chief secretary . While a section of senior IAS officers feel Kumar's actions were blatantly wrong, some junior officers are of the opinion his rant was a result of frustration, since he has never been considered for a plum assignment in his entire career. A senior bureaucrat feels the IAS association should take up the cause of officers who have been sidelined for a prolonged period or are awaiting a posting for several months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/devendra-fadnavis-writes-over-100-letters-to-maharashtra-cm-but-fails-to-get-a-response/articleshow/78864416.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Only 30% trains back on tracks at Bhopal station||BHOPAL: Although several important trains like Shatabdi Express and Bhopal Express have resumed their services, about 70% of the trains are yet to restart. Passengers are waiting for resumption of services of these trains at the Bhopal station. In fact, the frequency of trains at Bhopal station has come down to 60 after the lockdown from the 200 trains that used to run earlier. Gradually, trains have increased, but it is still far from the prelockdown numbers. After lockdown was imposed in March, train services were also stopped. The services began when Indian Railways announced resumption of 44 trains from June 1in Bhopal division. On September 12, another 14 trains began their services. Habibganj-New Delhi Special Shatabdi Express started from October 17. Important destinations like UP, Bihar, Maharashtra, Delhi and other places have been reconnected with the state capital. Even trains like Bhopal Express (Bhopal-New Delhi-Bhopal) and Bhopal-Jabalpur Jan Shatabdi Express are also back on the tracks. Bhopal division officials said that Indian Railways may announce more trains in the month of November. “Gradually, train services have begun. We may see the services of more trains next month,” said an official, not wishing to be named. Passengers said that the railways should start the trains on other routes also. “Being at the centre of the state, Bhopal is an important station when it comes to railways. Most of the trains that have resumed are for UP, Bihar. Maharashtra and New Delhi. Few places like Bengaluru are also connected, still the southern part of the country is not well connected. Same is the situation with the eastern part of the country, which needs to be reconnected,” said a passenger Shaiju Pillai. He added, “I am hoping that southern states will have the same frequency connecting Bhopal as it used to be before the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/only-30-trains-back-on-tracks-at-bhopal-station/articleshow/78864413.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Indian-origin Wavel Ramkalawan is elected Seychelles President||VICTORIA (SEYCHELLES): The Seychelles elected an opposition candidate as president for the first time since 1977, authorities announced on Sunday, and winner, Indian-origin Wavel Ramkalawan, reaffirmed a pledge to hike the minimum wage after Covid-19 stifled the tourism-dependent economy. Seychelles State House said in a statement on its website that Ramkalawan and his vice-president Ahmed Afif would be inaugurated on Monday. Ramkalawan, a former Anglican priest, defeated President Danny Faure after three decades of unsuccessful runs for the presidency of the East African nation. Ramkalawan captured 54.9% of the vote while Faure got 43.5% in the vote held from Thursday through Saturday, the electoral commission announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/indian-origin-wavel-ramkalawan-is-elected-seychelles-president/articleshow/78864411.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Car rams into barricade, home guard injured; 2 held||GURUGRAM: Two men have been arrested after the car they were in rammed into a police barricade, injuring a home guard, near Shankar Chowk on Friday. Police said both were drunk. The men have been identified as Arnav Bhattacharya and Naveen Parnasi. According to police personnel who were present at the checkpost, they were checking for drunk driving late on Friday night when a car came speeding from the Sikanderpur side and rammed into the barricade. “One of the home guards was hit in the accident and thrown off,” a police officer said. When the police personnel checked the men inside the car, they were found to be heavily drunk. They were detained and sent to custody. An FIR registered against them at DLF phase-2 police station. “We have arrested them as per the law. They will be produced in court for further action,” a police officer said. Incidents of policemen getting injured due to people attempting to drive through barricades are often witnessed in the city, especially during the weekends. In 2019, a traffic police officer was injured after the motorcycle he was riding was hit by a speeding Fortuner on the Gurugram-Faridabad Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/car-rams-into-barricade-home-guard-injured-2-held/articleshow/78863612.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP: 40-year-old abducted, assaulted & gang-raped by two in TT Nagar||BHOPAL: A 40-year-old woman was allegedly abducted, assaulted and gangraped by her two former acquaintances in TT Nagar area on Saturday night. The survivor narrated her ordeal to her husband after the incident and informed police on Dial-100. A case of abduction and gang-rape hasbeen registered against the duo accused and they were taken into custody. Police said that the survivor is a resident of TT Nagar and she stated in her complaint that on Saturday night, when her husband, who works as a security guard, had gone on duty and she went to see the Navratri tableaux. Accused Sanjay alias Amit and Rahul, a resident of Ambedkar Nagar in TT Nagar, met her on her way and abducted her on the pretext of returning money. Police said that the survivor and the accused came in contact during lockdown when the accused used to distribute food. The accused told cops that the survivor had borrowed money from him while the survivor alleged that the accused had borrowed money from her.Police said the accused took her to his home in Ambedkar Nagar on his motorcycle and threatened to kill her husband. Sanjay was riding the motorcycle while Rahul was the pillion rider. Police said the duo accused assaulted her and outraged her modesty. When she protested, they beat her up and choked her mouth with a cloth. Later, Sanjay left the survivor to her home and fled threatening her of dire consequences if she revealed the incident to anyone. Terrified, the woman approached her husband and later to the police. Police said the accused work as a daily wagers and they were arrested on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-40-year-old-abducted-assaulted-gang-raped-by-two-in-tt-nagar/articleshow/78864437.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thane||'Customer care' executive dupes Dombivli man of Rs 6 lakh||KALYAN: A-35-year old Dombivli man was duped of Rs 6 lakh by a fake customer care executive for an e-payment platform. The man was made to download the 'AnyDesk' app, which allowed the fraudster to view Datta Bhosale's bank details and OTPs, and within minutes, Bhosale's account had been wiped clean. On October 8, Bhosale searched for a customer care number for the payment platform online, and called the first one he found. The man who answered tricked him into downloading the app, allowing him to view Bhosale's OTP and siphon off Rs 6,16,524. Bhosale then approached the police and a case was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/customer-care-executive-dupes-dombivli-man-of-rs-6-lakh/articleshow/78864438.cms||Pradeep Gupta
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Malibu Towne builders under lens for green nod||GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning, which has got an FIR registered against the developers of Malibu Towne, has pulled them up again for alleged misuse of community sites, commercial use of basements and demolition of a dispensary building. The developer has also been asked to submit details of the environmental clearance from the Centre, which is mandatory for developing any project. It had been alleged that the housing society had been developed without the environmental nod. The action by the enforcement wing of DTCP followed a complaint by Raman Sharma, a resident of Malibu Towne. The project has been developed over 205 acres after taking licence from the DTCP. But one of the prerequisites in the layout plan was the mandatory clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forests. The developer has now been asked to produce documents that prove it has taken the nod. The builder has also been accused of demolishing a dispensary site. “It has also come to light that a dispensary site, measuring a little more than an acre, has been demolished. Even the occupation certificate was granted by the STP in September 2018. The developer has been directed to explain the reason for demolition of the structure,” said RS Batth, the district town planner (enforcement). The community sites, which house educational institutions, are also under the scanner. It has been alleged that the builder has misused the basement area, which is only meant for storage and other such services. “The developer was directed to share the status details of all such sites in the society and if any third party rights have been created for it. It was also told to show if necessary permission for creating third party rights was taken or not,” said Batth, adding that the builder has to reply within 10 days, failing which legal action would be taken against it. On October 17, the developers and directors of Malibu Towne were booked by Gurugram police for multiple violations of norms and regulations related to the construction of a private colony. The case was registered after the district town planner lodged a complaint when the developers failed to come up with satisfactory responses. The developers could not be reached despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/malibu-towne-builders-under-lens-for-green-nod/articleshow/78862912.cms||Bagish Jha
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In 21 out of 24 civic wards, doubling rate is over 100 days in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In another sign the virus spread is slowing down in the city, the doubling rate in 21 of the 24 administrative wards is over 100 days and only three wards are lagging behind. The average projected doubling rate is 126 days, while FSouth (Parel) has a doubling rate of 224 days. The number of containment zones in the city (slum or congested pockets) has reduced to 633 from 686 and sealed building are down to 8,585 from 10,871 in the last one month. Doubling time refers to a sequence of intervals in which cases of Covid-19 double in value. It is calculated on the basis of the daily growth rate of Covid-19 positive cases in the last seven days. The decreased growth rate helps to increase the projected doubling rate. The daily average growth rate of the virus in the city reduced to 0.55% on Sunday. The three wards with lowest projected doubling rates wards are R-South (Kandivli), R-Central (Borivli), R-North (Dahisar). They have a doubling rate between 89-96 days. Borivli ward, which has reported the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases ---16,911—till date, is a virus hotspot. Officials stated the growth rate is slowing down thanks to ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ drive where they surveyed over one crore people in the first round. Officials stated the next few days will be crucial due to the festival season and more establishments opening up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-in-21-out-of-24-civic-wards-doubling-rate-is-over-100-days-in-mumbai/articleshow/78864321.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 26, 2020||India||PM Narendra Modi greets new Seychelles President on his victory||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted Wavel Ramkalawan following his win in the presidential elections in Seychelles. In his tweets, Modi said, “Felicitations to H.E. @wavelramkalawan on his historic win in the Presidential and Assembly elections in Seychelles. We look forward to a strengthening of the close and traditional relationship between India and Seychelles under his leadership... This is a victory for democracy, a common value that binds India and Seychelles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-narendra-modi-greets-new-seychelles-president-on-his-victory/articleshow/78864457.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: After falling in trap, adoptive parents set up foundation to clean up system||MUMBAI: Delhi residents Abhinav Aggarwal and his wife, awaiting custody of their four-year-old son after a city civil court earlier this month declared them his adoptive parents, launched a foundation on Sunday to streamline the adoption system and create awareness. The couple is among six who in June last year were accused of buying children. Even as the criminal proceedings against the couple stand, they have set up the Yathartha Child Rights Foundation to clean up a system they claim to be victims of. "There is a lot of misinformation and lack of awareness even among the legal community. We realised that there was a gap, which also resulted in us falling in the trap," Aggarwal said. The couple said they adopted the boy in November 2016 through an intermediary. The prime accused is Bhagyashree Koli (26) from the city and Pawan Kumar Sharma from New Delhi. After approaching the high court, couples who had adopted these children were allowed access to them. Yatartha will move the judiciary for changes. "There are lakhs of children in orphanages but only a few thousand get adopted each year. The waiting period for adoption is at least a couple of years. Some take advantage of this and parents who really want a child, believe them," Aggarwal said. The foundation will file a PIL in the SC after the child is back home. The procedure for custody will begin after the appeal period ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-after-falling-in-trap-adoptive-parents-set-up-foundation-to-clean-up-system/articleshow/78864461.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab cannot afford to procure entire farm produce at MSP: Bharat Bhushan Ashu||CHANDIGARH: As the Centre’s new farm laws continue to generate political heat, Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has rejected the demand of opposition parties that the state should commit itself to buying any leftover stocks of wheat and paddy at the minimum support price (MSP). “Even for the public distribution system (PDS), Punjab only needs a little over 8 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of foodgrain but the state produces 130 LMT of wheat every season. Punjab produces a lot more surplus that is contributed to the national food basket. Even if the Punjab government were to start purchasing outside the PDS, Akali Dal very well knows that to procure wheat and paddy produce, the state will need Rs 60,000 crore. Given the annual revenue collections of the state, there will be no funds for any other financial commitment,” he told TOI. On the demand of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) that the entire state should be declared a principal market yard, Ashu said that option was already available with the Punjab Mandi Board under the existing laws. “There is no need for a new Act to do that. We have 1,872 purchase centers for wheat procurement but to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, the state notified 4,400 markets for staggered procurement. However, to declare the entire state as the principal market yard would mean that all traders will have to pay market fee and rural development charge on transactions. So, these are just political statements to mislead people. If the situation does arise, the state can easily notify principal mandi yard,” he said. After supporting the Congress government’s four Bills to blunt the Centre’s farm laws in the Vidhan Sabha, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) later demanded that the state government should commit itself to purchasing crops of Punjab farmers on MSP if the central purchase agencies decide to withdraw from the present system. Besides, the Congress should have talked about other crops apart from wheat and paddy and the government should bring a bill on MSP and guarantee purchase of every grain, demanded AAP MLAs. Reacting to this, Ashu said, “These are all hypothetical things. If the Food Corporation of India (FCI) decides to stop procurement then the issue will be dealt with at that stage. As of now, the issue that Punjab’s farmers are worried about is the possibility of creation of private mandis and that the private players may indulge in hoarding and farmers not fulfilling the contracts may lose their land. The state’s Bills now propose to ensure that there will be no purchase below the MSP and the interests of farmers under the APMC Act will be protected. The rival parties don’t know what the real issue is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-cannot-afford-to-procure-entire-farm-produce-at-msp-ashu/articleshow/78863620.cms||Vibhor Mohan
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||PM, corporates, MNCs replace Ravana this Dussehra||Bathinda: Accusing the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of enacting three farm laws to benefit multinational companies and corporate houses, farmers burnt effigies of the Narendra Modi government, MNCs and corporates to mark Dussehra on Sunday at a number of places across the state. Several farm activists assembled at every place where different kinds of Ravanas were burnt to showcase their anger towards the central farm laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) burnt Ravanas at 40 places in 14 districts whereas the other 30 farm organisations burnt effigies at other places. The protesters made 20 to 30ft effigies using pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, heads of corporate houses and Uncle Sam. Women were seen hitting the photos with chappals at many places. A massive gathering assembled in Malerkotla where a tall effigy was burnt. BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said the Union government has tried to crush the farmers by enacting anti-farmer laws. “The government wants to stop the practice of minimum support price (MSP) and wants to provide large chunks of land to corporates through the contract farming law. Farmers will not sit back till these laws are withdrawn. We have showcased the anger of the farming community by burning effigies as Ravanas and protests against these laws will be intensified,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pm-corporates-mncs-replace-ravana-this-dussehra/articleshow/78863627.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Protest against farm laws in Delhi, why cause losses to Punjab: Amarinder to farmers||PATIALA: With the state smarting under the double whammy of the pandemic and the extended blockades by agitating farmers, chief minister Amarinder Singh once again appealed on Sunday to farmers to stage protest in Delhi and not in Punjab against the Centre’s new farm laws. He said the coal stock was limited in the private plants and the state may face a power crisis within two to more days. Even as the farmer unions collectively ended their rail-roko agitation, BKU Ekta Ugrahan blocked railway tracks near the private thermal power plants in Rajpura and Mansa and demanded that only government plants should operate. “Our fight is with the central government who had enacted these farm laws. We have supported the farmers. If you (farmers) want to protest, then protest in Delhi. The road or rail blockade cause losses to Punjab. Only one day’s coal stocks and 10% urea are available with the state. The option to buy power from the national grid does not exist since the state has no money. We need 8 lakh MT of DAP but only 2 lakh MT is available,” CM said, while replying to a query after laying the foundation stone of the Sports University in Patiala on Monday. He said his ministers were in talks with farmer unions to resolve the problem. There were 11 non-BJP state governments in country and the Congress was in power in four of these states. All Congress governments would move similar resolutions against the central rules, he said, expressing the hope that other non-BJP governments, like that of West Bengal, would also follow suit. On the enforcement directorate (ED) summoning his son Raninder Singh, Capt Amarinder said it was not the first time the agency had issued summons to his family. Ridiculing the Akali allegations of him being hand in glove with the central government on the farm laws issue, he said, “Everyone knows who is colluding with whom.” “It is the Akalis who are mixed up with the BJP. They quit NDA under pressure but are still working together,” he said, adding that Harsimrat Badal was clearly involved in the introduction of the anti-farmer ordinances and was a cabinet minister at the time these were brought in by the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protest-against-farm-laws-in-delhi-why-cause-losses-to-punjab-amarinder-to-farmers/articleshow/78863623.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Faridabad||Soil testing for Delhi-Mumbai expressway link begins in Faridabad||GURUGRAM: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has begun soil testing on the Faridabad-Sohna bypass road for accelerating work on the extension of the Delhi-Mumbai expressway to DND Flyway in Delhi. On Sunday, bores were sunk at two locations in Faridabad — near Chandawali Bridge and Sector 37 — which are near the proposed interchange without disturbing traffic. A third spot has been identified at Kaili Mod in Ballabhgarh. After the soil testing report is received, work will begin in full swing, NHAI officials said. Under the project, NHAI has planned construction of a new ring road from DND Flyway to Sohna and an interchange to connect the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway with the Delhi-Vadodara-Mumbai Expressway at a cross-section of Sohna, Palwal, Manesar and Nuh. After the work was recently awarded to a Gujrat-based construction company, work has started for second and third phase of the highway. Work on first phase will start from February. “NHAI will build the 59-km-long highway in three packages. Package 1 includes an eight-km-long, six-lane flyover between DND to Jaitpur along the Yamuna, while the second package of 25km from Jaitpur to Ballabhgarh will be a six-lane, signal-free stretch. Both stretches will have six-lane service roads for local traffic,” an NHAI official said. He also said that the third package from Ballabhgarh to Sohna, which will be 26km long, will have six lanes with an interchange linking the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway with KMP Expressway. “The project is expected to be completed within the next three years. The project will reduce traffic congestion in Delhi’s Ashram and Badarpur, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh and Gurugram. With the DND Flyway the entry point, traffic from east Delhi and UP can bypass Delhi and head straight towards Mumbai,” said Dheeraj Singh, NHAI project manager (technical). The highways authority has acquired about 150 hectares of land in Faridabad, Gurugram, Palwal and Nuh for the project. The road will pass through Sikri, Harfla, Jajru, Calgaon, Bhanakpur, Nangla Jogian and Mohla in Faridabad, Paroli, Khedli Jeet, Sahrala and Kalwaka in Palwal and Hajipur and Loh villages in Gurugram. A part of the expressway will also fall in Nuh. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will have two starting points for commuters — one on DND Flyway in Delhi and another near Alipur in Sohna. An official said, “The loop will be designed in such a way that the KMP Expressway and Delhi-Mumbai Expressway can easily be connected. The interchange will have four loops for commuters to travel from Delhi to Vadodara. Commuters can use this interchange if they wish to travel till Palwal or Manesar. The loops will be designed in such a manner that there will be no stoppage for commuters.” “Slip roads will be constructed for commuters to travel from Manesar towards Delhi or Vadodara. Commuters who are coming from Manesar can use the ramp to go towards Delhi or they can take the other road and go towards Vadodara,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/soil-testing-for-delhi-mumbai-expressway-link-begins-in-faridabad/articleshow/78863632.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Three men caught betting on IPL match in Gurugram, booked||GURUGRAM: Two men were arrested for allegedly betting on IPL matches on Saturday in Bilaspur. Police said their third accomplice had managed to escape. The three men were identified as Suresh, Yogesh and Naveen. On Saturday, ASI Kuldeep received a tip-off from one of his sources regarding three men betting over the ongoing IPL matches. “We reached the identified house with the team and our source went inside posing as a customer interested in placing a bet. It was then we noticed that the betting was on the match between Sunrisers Hyderabad and Kings XI Punjab,” said Kuldeep in his statement. The cops had parked their car away from the house so as to not give away their identity. When they reached inside the house, they noticed that one of the accused was making entries in a register about the game. While his accomplice was on the phone talking about the rates for Sunrisers Hyderabad. “When the police tried to nab the youth on the phone, he pushed the cop and ran away while the other two were detained,” the ASI added. A case has been registered against the three men under sections 332 (whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) and 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We are trying to trace the third accused who managed to run away from the spot,” said a police officer from Bilaspur police station. The other two men will be produced in the court on Monday and sent to the custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-men-caught-betting-on-ipl-match-in-gurgaon-booked/articleshow/78862956.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Serial thief 'maid' who cleaned out flats arrested in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Khar police recently arrested a 'serial thief', who approaches homes in the western suburbs as a domestic help, and steals cash and gold ornaments within two hours of starting work. Accused Vanitha Gaikwad (34), with an accomplice, stole cash, gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs 1.8 lakh from a businessman's house in Bandra on October 19. Gaikwad and the accomplice were arrested within 24 hours of the incident. The stolen valuables were recovered from the two. Gaikwad was identified and traced to her residence in Mankhurd, based on CCTV footage from cameras in the businessman's house. She committed the offence a month after she was released on bail, after her arrest in August for similar offences committed in Andheri. "She has committed at least 44 offences since 1990, and has been arrested by police across the city," said senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule. In March 2019, arrested Gaikwad was arrested for stealing ornaments worth Rs 5.3 lakh two hours after she started working at a teacher's flat in in Santacruz on January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/serial-thief-maid-who-cleaned-out-flats-arrested-in-mumbai/articleshow/78864469.cms||V Narayan
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||15-year-old raped by social media friend in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her social media friend in Shahjehanabad locality on July 21. Police lodged a complaint on Saturday and started investigation. Investigating officer SI Kalpana Gurjar said, “the survivor is a student of class 10 and resides with her family in a colony in Shahjehanabad. She stated in her complaint that she came in contact with Aditya on Snapchat in March. The accused lured her into his trap of friendship and came to meet the survivor at her home on July 21 when her parents had gone out for some work. The accused allegedly outraged her modesty and fled the spot”. SI Gurjar added that for the past few days when the accused pressurized her to meet him again, she somehow mustered courage and narrated the ordeal to her parents. Survivor informed police that the accused told her that he resides in Lalghati area and studied at a private college in Bhopal. “A case of rape was registered against the accused and investigations are underway to nab him as soon as possible”, added SI Gurjar. Meanwhile, a 26-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her former colleague on the pretext of marriage for around four years. Few days back when the accused refused to marry her, she approached police on Saturday and lodged a complaint. Police said the survivor stated in her complaint that she came in contact with accused Rahul, a resident of Parwalia in 2016 when she worked at a hospital and the accused used to work as a driver at the same hospital. Police said that the accused befriended her and promised to marry her. The accused outraged her modesty on November 16, 2016 on the pretext of marriage. Since then he repeatedly raped her on the fake promise of marriage. A few days back when he refused to marry her, she mustered courage and approached police. The accused is in custody, police added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/15-year-old-raped-by-social-media-friend-in-bhopal/articleshow/78864398.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Jain Acharya performs 3,400 fasts in 6,800 days||AHMEDABAD: Sunday marked the 124th day of fasting for Jain Acharya Hansratnasuri, currently based at Vasupujya Jinalay in Kandivali (West). The fast had started on June 23, which he is still continuing, said his devotees. What is surprising is, in the past 6,800 days or about 18 years and six months, he has fasted for nine years and three months (3,400 days). Atul Shah, convenor of Tapdharma Anumodan Samiti and trustee of Vardhaman Parivar, said that it’s one of the rare instances of continuous fasting by a Shwetambar Jain muni. “More astonishing fact is, we often talk about immunity boosters and importance of diet in fighting Covid-19 – but in almost seven months of the epidemic, the Acharya has continued his fasting, even while moving around in Mumbai, a Covid-19 hotspot, and performing his daily tasks,” said Shah, a chartered accountant. Acharya’s devotees told TOI that the ascetic has performed 180 fasts three times earlier. In Jainism, a sadhu or sadhvi can perform 180 fasts at a go – a figure they don’t cross as Mahavir Swami had performed the 180-day fasts. The fasts only allow drinking boiled water during day hours. So many fasts by monk a wonderAnd it’s not the days without activity – he walked 10 km on 96th day of his fast to meet gachchadhipati Acharya Rajendrasuri and he also engages in other duties,” said a devotee. He added that the monk's fasting journey began with the Acharya praising a 13-year-old monk when performing 20-day fast. Acharya Ratnasundar Maharaj, guru of Acharya Hansratnasuri and recipient of Padma Bhushan in 2017, said that it’s really a wonder in the history of Jain religion that a monk performed so many fasts. “It’s important when someone performs these fasts that the organs don’t get damaged – one needs to take care of the rules,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-jain-acharya-performs-3400-fasts-in-6800-days/articleshow/78864470.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers also see Ravana in new agricultural laws||AMBALA: In protest against the new three agriculture laws and registration of alleged murder case against farmers in Naraingarh, effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were burnt on Dussehra in parts of Ambala, Kurukshetra, and Yamunanagar districts on Sunday. BKU (Charuni) had given the call for such a protest calling the PM “kisano ka Ravan”. On the other hand, Anti-Terrorist Front of India’s national president Viresh Shandilya on Saturday evening complained to Ambala police alleging that the call made by farm body to burn the effigy of the PM at Lakhnaur Sahib village in Ambala could disturb the peace. The police lodged a daily diary entry (DDE) at Ambala Sadar police station on Saturday and on Sunday early morning, conducted raids to detain workers of BKU in the region. Farmer Harkesh Singh of Teja Mohri village of Ambala district said, “I was detained by the police from my house at about 4.30am on Sunday and they took me to the CIA staff office in Ambala Cantt and questioned about the protest spot. They released me after the protest in the evening.” On Sunday morning, BKU (Charuni) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni released a video, he said, “Police are raiding to arrest me and workers of the union. Burn the effigies of the PM Modi in each village and make videos viral on social media.” Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia confirmed, “Raids were conducted in parts of Ambala as preventive action as a complaint was received against the protesters.” In Sirsa too, farmers staged sit-in at Bhumanshah Chowk and burnt effigies of the Prime Minister and industrialists and politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-also-see-ravana-in-new-agri-laws/articleshow/78863634.cms||Jaskaran Singh
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid cases rising among people above 70 years in Ernakulam||KOCHI: A worrying shift is emerging in Ernakulam with regards to Covid cases among the age group 71 to 80. Infections in the particular age group almost doubled in October compared to last month. The situation was similar in the case of those above 81 in the district. While 2.9% of the 12,192 cases reported in Ernakulam in September belonged to the age group, 71-80, the share rose to 4% in 24 days of this month. Meanwhile, those above 81, made up nearly 3% of the 21,602 cases reported in October in the district, as opposed to 1.3% in September. "The doubling of infection is not reflected in age groups other than 71 and 80 Years and above 81 years old," said a district health official. "The shift is likely to increase mortality without early intervention. The elderly are infected by their family members who work. They should follow the protocols to keep the elderly safe. Those who step out might be asymptomatic and unaware of the infection. But the elderly are vulnerable. About 280 deaths due to Covid have occurred in Ernakulam so far." The demographic shift in infection has also started to reflect on hospital admissions. Only 224 patients were undergoing treatment in the government medical college and PVS Hospital, Kaloor as of September 24. During the same period, there were 381 in private hospitals. However, in a month since, the numbers rose to 273 in the government sector and 703 in private hospitals. The majority of the cases were above 50 years. Health authorities have informed district administration to increase daily testing two to three times. As only symptomatic and vulnerable people who came in contact with the former category are tested, a major section of asymptomatic secondary contacts, who are told to undergo quarantine for 14 days, go untested. The tertiary contacts are not even identified. It has also been noted that the secondary contacts with mild symptoms are not even willing to undergo testing and are released from quarantine after 14 days. Meanwhile, RT-PCR testing in the government sector has dropped drastically in October compared to September, despite having three full-fledged PCR machines ready. Between September 19 and 25, the government sector conducted 3,664 PCR tests in the district. It dropped to 2,462 over seven days during the same period this month. On August 20, the government sector had conducted 1,013 PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-covid-cases-rising-among-people-above-70-years-in-ernakulam/articleshow/78864479.cms||T C Sreemol
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Samples taken at Hero Honda Chowk flyover to check strength||GURUGRAM: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has resumed the structural strength testing of the Hero Honda Chowk flyover. According to officials, samples were collected on Saturday and have been sent to a private laboratory in Delhi. On Saturday, the NHAI implemented the recommendations of its special committee and conducted sample collection of the entire stretch. A Delhi-based private laboratory was hired by the highways authority to collect samples. Samples from nearly 24 spots across the 1.4-km long stretch were taken to analyse quality of the material and overall strength at different spots. These samples have been taken for further analysis in the laboratory. “Our special committee had strongly recommended conducting scientific investigation to examine the overall strength of the flyover. For this purpose, we had asked a private lab to collect samples from different spots and test the samples for the material quality and over strength to sustain vehicular load,” said an NHAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/samples-taken-at-hero-honda-chowk-flyover-to-check-strength/articleshow/78862971.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Amritsar||Farmer outfits to discuss strategy to intensify protest in Delhi meeting||BATHINDA: The group of 30 farmer organisations has accused the Union government of “stopping the movement of goods train in Punjab” and playing “Dalit card to ensure dissensions in the farm organisations”. On Sunday, these outfits held an online meeting to discuss the issues and announced to take part in the meeting at Delhi on October 26-27 where farm organisations from across the country would reach to prepare strategy for intensifying the protests against the new central farm laws. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal and BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said when they had vacated the railway tracks for the movement of goods trains, the Union government stopped goods trains, saying the passenger trains also should be allowed to move. “By doing so the Union government wants to slow down our protest but we will not sit back. Likewise, BJP wants to play the Dalit card in Punjab aiming to create divisions between farmers and Dalits whereas we are with the Dalits and nobody could divide us,” Pal said. SIngh said they would attend the meeting of farmer organisations from across the country at Delhi on Monday and Tuesday to discuss intensifying the protest against farm laws at the national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmer-outfits-to-discuss-strategy-to-intensify-protest-in-delhi-meeting/articleshow/78863641.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Rishi Sunak ‘barred for life’ from UK pub||LONDON: UK finance minister Rishi Sunak and three fellow ruling Conservative Party MPs have been “barred for life” by a local pub and restaurant in their constituency region after they voted against free school meals for kids during the holidays. The Mill pub and its connected Il Mulino restaurant in North Yorkshire, which falls within Sunak’s constituency of Richmond, took to social media after a vote in the House of Commons earlier this week on extending the government’s temporary free meals for schoolchildren campaign. “The government voted against extending free school meals. This is disgusting,” Alex Cook, the owner of the eatery, said. The pub said it will deliver 100 meals to three separate food banks next week to try and make up for the government decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/rishi-sunak-barred-for-life-from-uk-pub/articleshow/78864483.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ludhiana||2 injured in group clash in Patiala||PATIALA: Two persons were injured in a clash that took place on Sunday afternoon in Patiala city. The clash allegedly took place not far from the venue of rally of chief minister Amarinder Singh that had ended only a few minutes after the event. The police said they were verifying details of the incident and the reason behind the clash. DSP city I Yogesh Sharma said evidence were being collected from the spot. It was learned that two or three rounds of shots were fired while two persons were injured in the clash. He said details of the injured were also being collected as they were hospitalised and undergoing treatment. Sources said one of the group members were also present at the rally of Capt Amarinder earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-injured-in-group-clash/articleshow/78863645.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai mall stops smouldering after 56-hour operation||MUMBAI: The fire brigade extinguished the last embers at Orchid City Centre early on Sunday, after 56 hours of operations. The Mumbai Central mall fire was brought under control on Saturday afternoon, after 40 hours of firefighting, following which cooling operations continued for 16 hours more. After the fire brigade left, BMC workers went in to start removing debris from the mall. But smoke continued to emanate from the mall till Sunday evening, because of which the residents of the adjoining 55-floor Orchid residential block, evacuated in the intervening night between Thursday and Friday, refused to move back. The housing society's office sent a message to its members stating that smoke continued to enter the children's playroom, threatening to enter the lift via ducts. Officials said firefighters faced a tough time controlling the fire because the mall's floors, which once had large showrooms, had been partitioned into hundreds of small galas (units), mainly occupied by mobile accessory retailers and wholesalers. An official said that inflammable packaging material helped fire to spread, with batteries of gadgets exploding every now and then. Samajwadi Party MLA Rais Shaikh, who lives in the building, said, "Although the fire brigade claims that the fire is extinguished, smoke is still coming into our building. The brigade did not give us a clear picture of the situation. We have not been back to our homes for three days now." But chief fire officer Shashikant Kale said, "We have extinguished the fire. For safety, we have stationed a fire engine at the spot. Everything is safe now." Fire broke out in the mall close to 9pm on Thursday. It was minor to begin with, but as the hours passed, the fire spread. The fire brigade had initially declared the fire as Level 1, but had its severity kept increasing to Level 4, ultimately leading to a brigade call, which is the most serious fire incident, requiring all possible interventions with the highest manpower and equipment deployment. The fire destroyed hundreds of shops in the mall, causing losses of over Rs 100 crore to shopkeepers, though shops on the ground and first floors were spared. A shopkeeper who entered the mall on Sunday afternoon said the top floor was full of smoke and nothing was visible. He said the entire second and third floors were gutted, along with the escalators. Local MLA Amin Patel said, "Due to the Diwali season, many wholesalers had stored material for outstation supply and they lost everything. On Sunday, shopkeepers who had businesses on the ground floor were allowed to collect their valuables. The fire went on for days. There is a need to strengthen the mall's internal firefighting system."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mall-stops-smouldering-after-56-hour-operation/articleshow/78864490.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 300 gm drugs, two phones found inside Bhondsi jail||GURUGRAM: Two mobile phones and 300 grams of drugs were found inside the jail compound on Saturday during a regular inspection by the jail authorities. “We found three packets behind barrack number seven. When we opened the packets, we found two Samsung mobile phones and a packet of 300 grams of drugs,” said Harinder Singh, the jail superintendent. The jail superintendent submitted a complaint and a case has been registered at the Bhondsi police station under the Prisons Act and the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances Act. This comes days after a jail warden was found supplying drugs to the inmates. Investigations revealed that jail warden Prem Chandra took Rs 15,000 every time he supplied drugs to inmates. The crime unit of DLF-4 had received a tip off last month about the sale of drugs in Bhondsi jail. Upon preliminary investigation, Chandra revealed that the drugs were for an inmate named Deepak, who would contact his brother get the drugs arranged. The two were produced in court on Sunday and sent to police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/300-gm-drugs-two-phones-found-inside-bhondsi-jail/articleshow/78862990.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Indore||Congress is a divided house, says Shivraj Sing Chouhan||INDORE: Taking a dig at Congres, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the opposition party is a divided house and its state leaders are not able to run the organisation properly. Addressing a public rally in Agar-Malwa on Sunday, Chouhan said, “No leader is left in the state Congress, except Kamal Nath. Nath is one and all — CM candidate, leader of opposition and party chief. And Nath’s son, Nakul, is the youth leader of the Congress party.” Chouhan also addressed bypoll gatherings in Mandsaur and Dewas districts. Chouhan said that Congress is divided into three parties — Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and Kamal Nath. “It’s not our fault if their leaders and workers are joining BJP,” he said, while referring to Damoh Congress MLA Rahul Lodhi who quit the party and joined BJP on Sunday. Chouhan also slammed Nath for his remark against BJP leader Imarti Devi. “Even Rahul Gandhi did not appreciate Nath’s remark against Imarti. But he even refused to apologise and instead claimed that Rahul Gandhi has been manipulated,” the chief minister said. Chouhan accused Nath of stopping various public welfare schemes launched during his earlier tenure. “A government must serve people and ensure development, but Congress does not believe in welfare of the people. All development works were stopped,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/congress-is-a-divided-house-says-shivraj-sing-chouhan/articleshow/78864493.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Pollution board to DG set owners: Expect notice on non-compliance||GURUGRAM: Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has said that it has not received a single compliance report from DG set owners for its July order mandating conversion from diesel to CNG or PNG based generators, the deadline for which was October 23. The board will now send individual notices to each genset operator in the city threatening action on further non-compliance. In July, HSPCB chairman Ashok Kheterpal sent official instructions to regional offices in five NCR districts — Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonipat, Panipat, and Bahadurgarh, asking them to ensure new gensets that run on cleaner energy are installed or all DG sets with a capacity of 500kVA and above are retrofitted with emission control equipment within three month to reduce air pollution. The industrial bodies in Gurugram, who use diesel gensets for their production units, however, have said that the HSPCB order is not feasible due to lack of proper CNG and PNG infrastructure in the millennium city. The prevailing Covid-19 situation has made them all the more unprepared for this switch, they said. “The HSPCB order is not realistic for a city like Gurugram. Many industrial hubs are outside planned areas in places like Basai Road, Begumpur, Daultabad, Behrampur and other parts of the city. Even planned industrial areas do not have proper basic infrastructure like roads and sewer connections, and things like CNG/PNG connections are a distant dream. How can we get the connection without pipelines?” said Deepak Maini, General Secretary for the Haryana Chapter of Federation of Indian Industry. According to official figures, around 5,540 diesel generators of more than 100 kW capacity are running in the industrial areas, especially in the interior parts of Udyog Vihar, Sector 37, IMT Manesar and other unplanned industrial pockets but these have no proper PNG or CNG connection. Another industrialist and president of Gurugram Udyog Association, Praveen Yadav echoes this view. “The cost of a new CNG generator for 500 kVA is around Rs 33 lakh while DG set available at 14 lakh. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic we are facing a huge financial crunch. Converting DG sets to CNG/PNG-based generators is very expensive,” he said. Industry owners have asked the government to subsidise the cost of the new equipment. Most entrepreneurs said the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) needs to first address the electricity deficit that plagues the industrial areas due to which they are still dependent on DG set for uninterrupted power supply. HSPCB, on the other hand, warns of action against those who have not switched to CNG generators. “Earlier, we had issued a public notice on our website and in newspapers about the need to switch to CNG gensets from diesel ones. However, no compliance reports in this matter have been received from licenced DG set operators till October 23 in my jurisdiction. We will send individual notices to all, cautioning that action can be taken under the Air Act and Environment Protection Act if they fail to comply with the directive,” said Kuldeep Singh, Regional Officer (North).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pollution-board-to-dg-set-owners-expect-notice-on-non-compliance/articleshow/78863018.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Faridabad||Pollution board to DG set owners: Expect notice on non-compliance||GURUGRAM: Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has said that it has not received a single compliance report from DG set owners for its July order mandating conversion from diesel to CNG or PNG based generators, the deadline for which was October 23. The board will now send individual notices to each genset operator in the city threatening action on further non-compliance. In July, HSPCB chairman Ashok Kheterpal sent official instructions to regional offices in five NCR districts — Faridabad, Gurugram, Sonipat, Panipat, and Bahadurgarh, asking them to ensure new gensets that run on cleaner energy are installed or all DG sets with a capacity of 500kVA and above are retrofitted with emission control equipment within three month to reduce air pollution. The industrial bodies in Gurugram, who use diesel gensets for their production units, however, have said that the HSPCB order is not feasible due to lack of proper CNG and PNG infrastructure in the millennium city. The prevailing Covid-19 situation has made them all the more unprepared for this switch, they said. “The HSPCB order is not realistic for a city like Gurugram. Many industrial hubs are outside planned areas in places like Basai Road, Begumpur, Daultabad, Behrampur and other parts of the city. Even planned industrial areas do not have proper basic infrastructure like roads and sewer connections, and things like CNG/PNG connections are a distant dream. How can we get the connection without pipelines?” said Deepak Maini, General Secretary for the Haryana Chapter of Federation of Indian Industry. According to official figures, around 5,540 diesel generators of more than 100 kW capacity are running in the industrial areas, especially in the interior parts of Udyog Vihar, Sector 37, IMT Manesar and other unplanned industrial pockets but these have no proper PNG or CNG connection. Another industrialist and president of Gurugram Udyog Association, Praveen Yadav echoes this view. “The cost of a new CNG generator for 500 kVA is around Rs 33 lakh while DG set available at 14 lakh. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic we are facing a huge financial crunch. Converting DG sets to CNG/PNG-based generators is very expensive,” he said. Industry owners have asked the government to subsidise the cost of the new equipment. Most entrepreneurs said the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) needs to first address the electricity deficit that plagues the industrial areas due to which they are still dependent on DG set for uninterrupted power supply. HSPCB, on the other hand, warns of action against those who have not switched to CNG generators. “Earlier, we had issued a public notice on our website and in newspapers about the need to switch to CNG gensets from diesel ones. However, no compliance reports in this matter have been received from licenced DG set operators till October 23 in my jurisdiction. We will send individual notices to all, cautioning that action can be taken under the Air Act and Environment Protection Act if they fail to comply with the directive,” said Kuldeep Singh, Regional Officer (North).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/pollution-board-to-dg-set-owners-expect-notice-on-non-compliance/articleshow/78867870.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Students in Haryana to get mid-day meal ration till November-end||GURUGRAM: As schools will remain closed for students of classes 1 to 8 for one more month, the state government has decided to extend the doorstep delivery of mid-day meal services till November 30. The directions come in continuation to the previous directive that had extended mid-day meal delivery till October 23. District education department has noted that the schools have provided mid-day meal and cooking costs until October 23 and as per the new directives the same would be followed for another 37 days. “We have provided mid-day meals to the students till October 23. Now, as the district education department is not reopening schools till November, this scheme would be further extended. Students will get the ration and cooking cost until November 30. We have received the orders and the necessary directions have been communicated to the school heads,” said an education department official. Along with the home delivery of dry ration, a substitute for cooked mid-day meals to all the students in the primary and upper primary segment, the district education department will also provide cooking cost. The department has calculated cooking cost and meal requirements on the basis of the cooked mid-day meals that were provided in the pre-lockdown period. Under this arrangement, students between class 1 to class 5 will be given Rs 149.10 per month and students from class 6 to class 8 will get Rs 223.50 per month as the cooking cost. Unlike the previous order, where the department had also provisioned free delivery of flavoured milk powder for six days a week, this time the department has gone for cost-cutting. Students will get flavoured milk powder only for three days a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/students-to-get-mid-day-meal-ration-till-november-end/articleshow/78863051.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Labourer held for raping dog at Nerul railway station||NAVI MUMBAI: A 65-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for sexually abusing a female dog at the Nerul station complex. After this issue came to light over a week ago through CCTV footage, animal rights activists from the People for Animals (PFA) Mumbai, Unit 2, had been inquiring into the matter and demanding action be taken. The accused has been identified as Mahendra D Pawar, a daily wage labourer. PFA activist Rangare said footage showing a man raping the dog on the west side of the station complex was sent to their unit. Rangare and a colleague inquired about him, and found that the suspect was a labourer who slept inside the complex. They traced the suspect and informed the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-labourer-held-for-raping-dog-at-nerul-railway-station/articleshow/78864515.cms||Vijay Singh
October 26, 2020||Indore||Covid-19 positive cases register a drop in Indore as rapid tests up 120%||INDORE: District health authorities have decided to rely on ‘less efficient’ Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for detection of Covid-19 infection in last 10 days between October 15-24 leading to a sharp decline in positive cases and positivity rate. The information came to fore through comparative analysis of sample testing, RAT testing, positive cases released in daily health bulletin from chief medical and health officer (CMHO) between October 5 and 24. According to figures, testing of samples of suspect for virus infection through RAT witnessed an increase of about 119.13% during October 15-24 as compared to the period October 5-14. This also led to increase in share of RAT in total tested figures to over 60% for the first time in the last two months since it was launched. This doubling of testing through RAT reported despite increase of only 41.54% in total testing in district in same period. Dr Amit Malakar, district nodal officer Covid-19 said, “Health officials have increased sampling in last couple of weeks on direction of district administration following an order from state government. ” The district health authorities are asked to test at least 4,000 people daily. Following this, a meeting was held with health workers employed in sample collection and testing work. They were directed to increase the sample testing in the district, said Dr Malakar. So, in order to increase the testing RAT usage increased in last couple of weeks. Also, the residents have preferring this test, claimed Dr Malakar. In case of any symptomatic person is tested negative with RAT for virus infection, his sample is collected for RT-PCR testing, added Dr Malakar. The district had reported a decline of about 35% in positive case and around 8.72% in positivity rate in the period. Dr Sadhna Sodani, associate professor department of microbiology Mahatma Gandhi Memorial medical college said, “Positivity rate certainly depends on the type of testing method because of the difference in sensitivity of methods employed.” It can be as low as 40% to 60% based on the type of the kit employed in RAT testing. There are also many grey areas because of variables including collection of samples, testing methods, technical issues, contamination of samples, type of kits used in testing, affecting results, added Dr Sodani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-19-positive-cases-register-a-drop-in-indore-as-rapid-tests-up-120/articleshow/78864523.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||CCTV footage helps nab man who assaulted canine in Powai||MUMBAI: The Powai police arrested a 36-year-old man, who hails from West Bengal, on Sunday for sexually assaulting a female dog on October 18 at midnight. The accused, identified as Sambhunath Pradhan, was caught on CCTV camera inserting an 11-inch bamboo stick into the private parts of the dog. Pradhan confessed to committing the offence and said he regretted harming the dog. Pradhan is employed as a sweeper at a sweet shop at the Galleria Mall in Powai. The case was filed on Thursday, after a member of an NGO found the stray dog in pain while feeding dogs around 5.30 pm near the mall, at Hiranandani Gardens. Based on Jiten Dudhani's complaint, zonal DCP Mahesh Reddy supervised senior inspector Vijay Dalvi and a detection team that tracked the accused to the sweet shop. "The canine is stable. Pradhan was arrested based on CCTV footage, in which he was caught committing the offence," said Dalvi. Pradhan will be produced before the Andheri Metropolitan Magistrate Court on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cctv-footage-helps-nab-man-who-assaulted-canine-in-powai/articleshow/78864540.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Indore||Covid curve stabilises in hotspots of Indore||INDORE: Indore has seen stabilisation of Covid curve in five hotspots of the city — which saw the highest number of cases in the fourth and fifth week of September, says the analysis by community medicine department of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College. The analysis shows that four of five areas, except Nanda Nagar saw stabilisation of curve of total number of positive cases of infection. Dr Salil Sakalle, head of the department community medicine MGM said, “The rate of acceleration of virus spread has declined in those areas with highest number of cases in September. This means already maximum number of persons had already got infected.” Dr Rajesh Wavare, professor of community medicine and dean of Sri Aurobindo Institute of Medical Sciences said, “The stabilisation shows that most of the population had already been infected with virus leading to less availability of fresh bodies for easy spread.” “The decline in number of positive cases, positivity rate in October could also be attributed to this stabilisation because those areas had been the major contributor for infection cases,” said Dr Wavare. Scheme78, Scheme 54 and Scheme 71 curves got stabilised in August and they slipped down in list of areas with highest number of cumulative cases, said Dr Wavare. All those areas witnessing stabilisation of curve in September either have witnessed a similar fate in October or shown a dip in curve. But, this would be clear once the month ends, said Dr Wavare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-curve-stabilises-in-hotspots-of-indore/articleshow/78864553.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Indore||Indore: Soaring onion prices pinching pockets in festive season||INDORE: Onion prices are pinching hard on consumers’ pockets with a jump by over 50 per cent in wholesale market due to a squeeze in supplies and reports of crop damage in leading cultivating regions of the country including Maharashtra. At Choithram, Indore’s largest vegetable market, onion is priced at Rs 60 per kg as against Rs 35-Rs 40 per kg until last week, while in retail the bulb has touched Rs 100 per kg in areas like Kanadia, Vijay Nagar and Saket. Om Prakash Rajore, a wholesale trader of onion at Choithram market said, “Onion prices have soared in the past week and are likely to remain firm as supplies have dropped. Outstation arrivals of onions have reduced significantly after rains caused heavy damage to the crop.” Supplies of the key kitchen staple at Choithram have dropped to 40,000-45,000 bags (1 bag weighs 55 kg) every day in comparison to over 60,000 bags daily, said onion traders. Choithram market caters to demand of many markets surrounding Indore and outstations. Local onion supplies have also taken a hit due to damage to the crop. Heavy rainfall on ready-to-harvest crops damaged a major chunk of kharif crop across the state. According to a survey by the horticulture department, onion seedlings have suffered around 30 per cent damage due to rain as it was nearing the transplant season in mid-September. This region is a major horticulture growing area with an average acreage of over 1 lakh hectare covered under kharif and rabi season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-soaring-onion-prices-pinching-pockets-in-festive-season/articleshow/78864586.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kochi-Muziris Biennale postponed to November 2021||KOCHI: The fifth edition of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale (KMB) has been postponed to November 1, 2021, due to the prevailing pandemic in Kerala. The international art exhibition was earlier scheduled to be held from December 12. “We have been discussing the Covid-19 situation with our stakeholders. With the pandemic showing no signs of abatement in India, the state of Kerala having slipped into a second spike of cases, we have decided to move the opening of the Biennale to November 1, 2021. We expect that circumstances by then would be conducive for visitors, artists, staff and others for a safe and complete Biennale gathering,” said a statement from Kochi Biennale Foundation. In the interim, KBF and its programmes will continue to function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-muziris-biennale-postponed-to-november-2021/articleshow/78864590.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Resolve to defeat Covid-19 & stay united, says Governor||BHOPAL: Governor Anandi Ben Patel called upon everyone to resolve to defeat Covid-19 and become united and virtuous (Ek Bane, Nek Bane). She was addressing the people while inaugurating the new office of Gujarati Samaj here on Sunday. Earlier, the Governor also took part in the aarti of Durga Ashtami Pujan organized by the Samaj. Governor Patel said that in the initial phase of Covid-19 infection, all families stayed indoors, which helped the family members to strengthen their feelings of respect and affection for elders. She said that we should be grateful to the doctors, nurses and all Corona warriors who have risked their lives and worked continuously for us. While greeting the people of the state on the occasion of Vijayadashmi, Diwali and New Year, she said Gujarati Samaj is such, that wherever it goes, it takes along its culture and celebrate all their festivals and ceremonies with much enthusiasm and zeal. Patel said that every person in the society should come forward for empowerment of women and meritorious children. Citing the example of Padmashree Phulbasan, daughter of Chhattisgarh, who was a participant in Kaun Banega Crorepati, the Governor said that Phulbasan was an illiterate woman who used to graze cattle. She has connected and empowered about two lakh women. She said that all of us should take inspiration from her. If an illiterate woman can do such a big job, then all of us should also try at our own levels. The Governor said that such efforts can bring big changes in the society. She said that I am happy that the Gujarati Samaj and the resident families of Raj Bhavan campus participated in the garba organise at Raj Bhavan with enthusiasm and zeal. President of Gujarati Samaj, Sanjay Patel welcomed the Governor and thanked for inviting the Samaj for Garba at Raj Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/resolve-to-defeat-covid-19-stay-united-says-governor/articleshow/78864624.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Natives gain from loss of guest labour||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The native workforce seems to have shown better resilience during the lockdown in recovering from job losses when compared to guest workers in the unorganized sector, as per a study released by the department of economics and statistics. The report by the newly formed data research and analysis wing of the department focused on the impact of the Covid-19-induced lockdown on the unincorporated sector in the state. The survey was based on data collected from 9,261 enterprises under three activity groups: manufacturing, trade and other services. As per the report, the unincorporated sector suffered heavily in April, with 74% of jobs lost. The situation improved in July when job losses fell to 29%. Early on in the lockdown, 73% of native workers and 81% of guest workers lost their jobs. In the following months, representation of native workers picked up gradually. However, even in July almost 55% of guest workers were either out of work or not available for work, the report says. “We collected data for four months. Unemployment, which was above 80% for the migrant workforce, did not improve considerably even into the fifth month of the outbreak in the state. In the meantime, native workforce replaced migrant workers who had gone out of work. For instance, wayside shops which employed migrant labourers found replacements in local residents or family members,” said an official associated with the survey. At the start of April, job loss was highest in the service sector (78%), followed by manufacturing (77%). Later, employment rates slowly increased as the central government initiated unlock measures. Trade seems to be more stable than other sectors, the report notes. The survey was done for the period till July 2020 and by that time the employment loss in all sectors had dropped notably. In service sector it fell to 37% while in manufacturing and trade it came down to 30% and 14%, respectively. As per the 73rd National Sample Survey on Unincorporated Sector Enterprises held during 2015-16, about 43 lakh workers earn their livelihood from almost 23 lakh enterprises. Although job participation of native workers in the sector increased with each passing month, guest workers did not record even 50% in July. By July, the unemployment rate of the native workforce had dropped to 24% in manufacturing sector. In April, around 82% were jobless in this sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-natives-gain-from-loss-of-guest-labour/articleshow/78864648.cms||Aswin J Kumar
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Youth who beat Covid found dead in Thiruvananthapuram MCH||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 37-year-old man, who was awaiting discharge after recovering from Covid-19 reportedly committed suicide at Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital here on Sunday. The deceased is Biji, a resident of Kazhakkoottam, who was an auto driver. Hospital authorities said that Biji allegedly hanged himself in the bathroom of a special ward in the super-specialty block of the hospital around 1.30 pm. He was admitted to the intensive care unit soon after but died around 6.45 pm. Biji was undergoing treatment at the hospital since October 3. On October 11, he tested negative but had continued at the hospital to undergo the mandatory quarantine. Medical College Superintendent Dr M S Sharmad said that Biji was suffering from mental issues. A few days before he tested positive, his brother had died.The hospital authorities said a psychiatrist regularly used to visit him. ‘’On Sunday, he was about to be discharged from the hospital. But, since morning, he appeared gloomier than ever and I suggested the psychiatrist give him a counselling’’, Sharmad said. He was found hanging from the window bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/youth-who-beat-covid-found-dead-in-thiruvananthapuram-mch/articleshow/78864677.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Covid-19: Trump aide says ‘we’re not going to control the pandemic’||Donald Trump's chief of staff said Sunday that "we're not going to control the pandemic," drawing a rebuke from the Biden campaign that "they are admitting defeat." Chief of staff Mark Meadows was speaking amid a sharp resurgence of the coronavirus across the US, with case numbers setting daily records and the death toll fast approaching 225,000. When a CNN interviewer asked Meadows why the administration would not get control of the virus, he replied, "Because it is a contagious virus just like the flu." He then qualified that, saying, "We are making efforts to contain it." Democrat Joe Biden's running mate Kamala Harris was asked during a campaign stop in Michigan about Meadows' comments and said, "They are admitting defeat, and I've been saying that, and Joe Biden has been saying that since the beginning." She criticized Meadows for likening the coronavirus to the flu, according to a pool report. "This is the greatest failure of any presidential administration in the history of America," she said. Biden and Harris have been hammering Trump over his handling of the pandemic, which has seen the US suffer roughly one-fifth the world death total though its population is only four percent the total. The disease has reached deep inside the White House itself. Three weeks after Trump was hospitalized with Covid-19, a spokesman announced Saturday that Vice President Mike Pence's chief of staff, Marc Short, had tested positive -- but added that Pence would nonetheless continue criss-crossing the country in the final days of the campaign. CNN interviewer Jake Tapper pressed Meadows about Pence, who heads the White House coronavirus task force, seemingly flaunting guidelines of the federal Centers for Disease Control by traveling and not self-quarantining after exposure to Short. "I can tell you he is wearing a mask and will be wearing a mask today," Meadows said. "Obviously, when you have an exposure you have to take additional mitigation factors." Harris stayed off the campaign trail briefly after a top aide tested positive. Meantime, even as Biden regularly wears masks and holds small, socially distanced rallies, Trump will continue to hold much larger events with no mask requirement, Meadows said. "We don't mandate masks," he said. "We offer them out. We live in a free society."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/covid-19-trump-aide-says-were-not-going-to-control-the-pandemic/articleshow/78864683.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Covid-19: Trump aide says ‘we’re not going to control the pandemic’||Donald Trump's chief of staff said Sunday that "we're not going to control the pandemic," drawing a rebuke from the Biden campaign that "they are admitting defeat." Chief of staff Mark Meadows was speaking amid a sharp resurgence of the coronavirus across the US, with case numbers setting daily records and the death toll fast approaching 225,000. When a CNN interviewer asked Meadows why the administration would not get control of the virus, he replied, "Because it is a contagious virus just like the flu." He then qualified that, saying, "We are making efforts to contain it." Democrat Joe Biden's running mate Kamala Harris was asked during a campaign stop in Michigan about Meadows' comments and said, "They are admitting defeat, and I've been saying that, and Joe Biden has been saying that since the beginning." She criticized Meadows for likening the coronavirus to the flu, according to a pool report. "This is the greatest failure of any presidential administration in the history of America," she said. Biden and Harris have been hammering Trump over his handling of the pandemic, which has seen the US suffer roughly one-fifth the world death total though its population is only four percent the total. The disease has reached deep inside the White House itself. Three weeks after Trump was hospitalized with Covid-19, a spokesman announced Saturday that Vice President Mike Pence's chief of staff, Marc Short, had tested positive -- but added that Pence would nonetheless continue criss-crossing the country in the final days of the campaign. CNN interviewer Jake Tapper pressed Meadows about Pence, who heads the White House coronavirus task force, seemingly flaunting guidelines of the federal Centers for Disease Control by traveling and not self-quarantining after exposure to Short. "I can tell you he is wearing a mask and will be wearing a mask today," Meadows said. "Obviously, when you have an exposure you have to take additional mitigation factors." Harris stayed off the campaign trail briefly after a top aide tested positive. Meantime, even as Biden regularly wears masks and holds small, socially distanced rallies, Trump will continue to hold much larger events with no mask requirement, Meadows said. "We don't mandate masks," he said. "We offer them out. We live in a free society."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/covid-19-trump-aide-says-were-not-going-to-control-the-pandemic/articleshow/78864679.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Indore||Indore: 99% outfalls fixed, Swachh water will flow into Saraswati again||INDORE: Swachh water will flow into Saraswati again with Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) completing its ongoing nallah trapping work on 12-km stretch starting from Bijalpur to Sanjay Setu. The civic body had in its initial phase of survey identified around 486 outfalls including 278 small outfalls, and work on their closure was going on for almost three years. Civic body officials claimed that closure of primary outfalls was a time consuming process, while small outfalls were closed within just one month. “We are in the final stage of nallah tapping work and almost 99 percent of the outfalls have been closed, and the work is in its final stage,” said IMC’s executive engineer Sunil Gupta. He said that this work which is expected to be completed within a day or so will prevent mixing of over 100MLD sewerage and household wastewater into the river. Of this 100MLD, around 15MLD of upstream waste water is being supplied to sewage treatment plants (STPs) of Rajendra Nagar, Bijalpur and Neher Bhandara, while remaining 85MLD is being supplied to Kabitkhedi STP for treatment. “We have already started releasing clean water into the river, and it will take some time before clean water can be seen flowing in the river,” he added. Officials said that preventing mixing of waste water into the river was a challenge, especially the individual ones, as a large amount of waste water was released from households through unauthorized lines installed by local residents. The civic body had been running extensive awareness drives and also initiated punitive against residents, who fail to close down unauthorized lines. Corporation authorities are also planning to host an event within the next three days to make an official announcement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-99-outfalls-fixed-swachh-water-will-flow-into-saraswati-again/articleshow/78864680.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mask sampling can help detect tuberculosis in kids: Study||MUMBAI: In an interesting finding that could pave the way for simpler and non-invasive ways of detecting tuberculosis (TB) in children, a city-based research organisation has found that the bacteria can be detected from the respiratory aerosols collected on masks. Through mask sampling, experts from the Foundation for Medical Research (FMR) could pick up tuberculosis bacilli in nine of the ten studied samples. The study, presented at the virtually held 51st Union World Conference on Thursday, garnered much interest as sampling remains one of the major challenges in detecting paediatric tuberculosis. Obtaining sputum samples from children is often difficult due to which doctors have to rely on more invasive ways like collecting gastric lavage or bronchoalveolar lavage, which involves inserting a tube to collect contents from the stomach and lungs respectively. The pilot study by FMR was carried out on 10 children who were made to wear N-95 masks containing a gelatin membrane (used to capture airborne microbes) for 10 minutes during which they were asked to read, recite, talk, cough and take tidal breaths 20 times to collect exhaled aerosols in the mask. The researchers then took out the membrane attached to the mask and processed it for isolation of TB RNA and looked for TB specific genes through the quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QT-PCR) test. Children who already had a microbiologically confirmed diagnosis of TB were selected for the study. "Through mask sampling, we could pick up TB in nine out of 10 samples, hence showing that it could be developed as a reliable approach," said Kalpana Sriraman, researcher from FMR. Children account for 10% of TB burden, but less than 7% are notified. "There is a huge detection gap owing to limitations in diagnosis," she added. Infectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, who treats paediatric tuberculosis cases, said that there was a need for simpler, reliable tests for children that will work in real world settings. "Among newer techniques, stool detection is coming up, but the sensitivity is not as good as gastric lavage or nasopharyngeal. Many centres also rely on induced sputum tests but that needs a negative pressure room," Dr Singhal said. However, FMR researchers also found that the Genexpert test that is widely used for TB detection didn't have much success in picking up the bacteria from mask samples. It could only detect one of the 10 cases, whereas RT-PCR could find TB in nine samples. "But RT-PCR is resource intensive and has scalability issues unlike Genexpert," said Dr Nerges Mistry, director of FMR, adding that the institute will now work towards making mask sampling more viable for TB detection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mask-sampling-can-help-detect-tuberculosis-in-kids-study/articleshow/78864699.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi man arrested for firing outside Gurugram mall||GURUGRAM: A 24-year-old man was arrested for opening fire at a mall on Mehrauli-Gurugram Road in the early hours of Sunday. A countrymade pistol, five cartridges and one spent cartridge were seized from Musaddiq Ansari after he fired in the parking lot of the Metropolitan Mall. Ansari, a resident of Bijwasan in south Delhi, runs a food supplement shop and was a regular visitor to a club in the mall over the last 2-3 years. On Saturday night, he visited the mall during and returned to the parking lot in an inebriated state around 3am, he allegedly fired a shot into the air. However, no one was hurt in the incident. “A passerby informed a police patrol vehicle stationed at the MG Road Metro station. The police rushed to the spot and arrested him,” said DLF Phase-II police station SHO Inspector Aman. “During questioning, he confessed to firing in the air just to show off,” the SHO said. Cops have filed a case under IPC and Arms Act are probing from where Ansari obtained the weapon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/delhi-man-arrested-for-firing-outside-gurugram-mall/articleshow/78864705.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Sharpest weekly drop in Covid numbers||NEW DELHI: In the steepest weekly fall yet in Covid-19 numbers in India, fresh infections recorded this week (October 19-25) were nearly 16% less than the previous week’s tally while deaths from the virus fell by 19% during this period. India recorded just over 3.6 lakh fresh cases during the week, the lowest in absolute terms in three months (since 3.2 lakh were detected in the July 20-26 week), as per data collated from state governments. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news This marked a drop of 15.7% from the previous week’s numbers, the sharpest weekly fall in cases since the pandemic hit India. Last week, nearly 4.3 lakh cases were recorded in the country.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Sixth straight week of decline in fresh Covid cases in IndiaThis was the sixth straight week of decline in fresh Covid-19 cases from the peak of 6,45,014 infections reported during September 7-13, indicating a sustained reduction in the pandemic’s spread in India. Meanwhile, India achieved another positive milestone when the number of recoveries crossed 90% of all cases on Sunday. Close to 71.3 lakh people have now recovered from the infection, out of a total caseload so far of 79.1 lakh, as per TOI’s database. Deaths from the virus were down 19% from last week’s toll. This week India recorded just over 4,400 fatalities due to Covid-19, as compared with 5,455 last week. Deaths too have been declining for five consecutive weeks since peaking at 8,175 during September 14-20.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Last week (October 12-18) had seen a 13.3% fall in fresh cases and a 15.9% drop in fatalities, the highest weekly fall till then. The fall in daily cases continued, with 46,135 fresh infections recorded on Sunday. This was the lowest daily tally of cases (not counting Mondays when the numbers fall due to other reasons) in 95 days since 38,444 cases were reported on July 21. Sunday’s death toll, at 489, was also the lowest daily fatalities in 108 days since July 9. Numbers fell in almost all states on Sunday, which also coincided with festivals of Dussehra and Durga Puja. Delhi was an exception, recording 4,136 fresh cases, the highest in 38 days. This is despite the fact that there has been no drop in testing.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Karnataka became the third state in the country to record 8 lakh Covid-19 cases. It reached the grim milestone with 4,439 fresh cases taking the total to 8,02,813 on Sunday. Gujarat added 919 new cases, taking the total to 1.67 lakh. The new cases in Gujarat included 227 from Surat, 174 from Ahmedabad, 115 from Vadodara, and 97 from Rajkot. Watch Covid-19: Sharpest weekly drop in numbers in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharpest-weekly-drop-in-covid-numbers/articleshow/78863677.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Need exclusive FLTCs for accused: Kochi police||KOCHI: In the wake of recent incidents of accused under treatment for Covid-19 giving cops the slip, police officials have called for setting up exclusive First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTC) for such people. On September 15, a 19-year-old accused in a child abuse case who was admitted to the FLTC in Nedumbassery escaped. He stole a nurse's mobile phone and pawned it to get to Adimali via Kothamangalam. He has been on the run since and police suspect that the youth has sneaked into the woods. Four other accused were quarantined at the same FLTC even though policemen were on duty, they had to be stationed about 200 metres away as per the Covid protocol. Besides, notorious burglar, Dracula Suresh made multiple attempts to escape last month. Twice he escaped from detention centres where accused are maintained till their test results arrive and once from the Kalamassery medical college, where he was admitted with Covid. “There are two major risks while guarding such accused. Firstly, cops run the risk of infection, and secondly, if they manage to escape then tracking and arresting them would expose more officials and the general public to the virus," said a police officer, who has suggested an exclusive facility for such accused. However, Suresh had escaped from the detention centre at Karukutty, where only the accused were kept. The incident throws light on the type of facilities that would be appropriate to quarantine the accused. “Most of these accused are seasoned burglars so if they can enter a house without waking up a family, it won't be a surprise if they escaped from civilian detention centres. Buildings for FLTCs or detention centres for accused have to be carefully chosen,” said a police officer. Meanwhile, there is also a clamour to set up exclusive FLTCs for policemen as more cops are testing positive for Covid-19. According to sources, nearly 200 policemen have contracted the virus. “Cops are on the streets dealing with public issues, besides dealing with accused persons, who are taking advantage of the situation. They purposefully try mischievous activities like spitting on cops,” said an officer. Officials are demanding more quarantine facilities for cops who have come in contact with Covid patients so that they can isolate themselves and safeguard their families. “Exclusive FLTCs for policemen have to be opened so that the personnel can beat the virus and get back on duty as quickly as possible,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/need-exclusive-fltcs-for-accused-kochi-police/articleshow/78864723.cms||Disney Tom
October 26, 2020||Imphal||Manipur: Landslide in Senapati cuts off connectivity via National Highway-2||SENAPATI: A landslide that occurred on October 23 in Senapati district has cut off connectivity via the National Highway-2, said an official on Sunday.  Jayson, project manager, BIPL said that the administration was trying its best to resume the connectivity but it may take longer if the weather remains unfavourable. Manipur: A landslide that occurred on Oct 23 in Senapati district has cut off connectivity via national highway-2.… https://t.co/2pl5JVYYqj— ANI (@ANI) 1603663561000 "We are trying our best to resume connectivity within a week, it may take longer if the weather remains unfavourable," he said.  The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted generally cloudy sky with light rain for Manipur from October 26 to October 29.  The maximum temperature will be at 26 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will stand at 19 degrees Celsius on Monday, the weather department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/manipur-landslide-in-senapati-cut-off-connectivity-via-national-highway-2/articleshow/78864741.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Covid hospital set up at Viyyur jail after 80 contract virus||THRISSUR: A section of the jail complex at Viyyur has been converted into a hospital after 69 inmates and 11staff tested positive for Covid-19. According to the jail sources, the central jail has 600 people, including 485 inmates. At least 145 were tested on Saturday and 125 on Sunday. DMO Dr K J Reena said others attached to the jail will be tested in the coming days. The doctor and nurses in jail will be deployed at the temporary hospital initially. The DMO said a physician from the state health department has been deputed to the jail to guide the jail staff and that more nurses will also be deployed. Meanwhile, the district authorities have tightened restrictions following reports of a continued rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases. On Sunday, the district reported 1,011 positive cases, which is the single-day high. Barring one all fresh cases contracted the virus through local transmission. The authorities have identified 31 local bodies, including the Thrissur corporation, where the caseload has been on the higher side for several days. A triple lockdown has been introduced in Thrikkur panchayat while the whole of Kaipmangalam panchayat has been brought under lockdown. Restrictions are also in force in Guruvayur, and Kunnamkulam municipalities as well in Choondal, and Velur panchayats. Street vendors have been banned in Guruvayur after the district collector S Shanavaz found Covid-19 protocol violations during a surprise inspection on Sunday. Shops in Chalakkudy municipality will be closed down on Tuesday and Wednesday. Meanwhile, the DMO informed that occupancy in 11 FLTCs in the district is only around 54 percent. Another seven FLTCs are ready for operation, and 12 more units that can be converted into FLTCs have been identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-hospital-set-up-at-viyyur-jail-after-80-contract-virus/articleshow/78864757.cms||T Ramavarman
October 26, 2020||India||Vaccine storage issues could leave 3 billion people without access||GAMPELA, BURKINA FASO: The chain breaks here, in a tiny medical clinic in Burkina Faso that went nearly a year without a working refrigerator. From factory to syringe, the world's most promising coronavirus vaccine candidates need non-stop sterile refrigeration to stay potent and safe. But despite enormous strides in equipping developing countries to maintain the vaccine "cold chain," nearly 3 billion of the world's 7.8 billion people live where temperature-controlled storage is insufficient for an immunization campaign to bring Covid-19 under control. Complete coverage: Coronavirus pandemicThe result: Poor people around the world who were among the hardest hit by the virus pandemic are also likely to be the last to recover from it. From labs to syringes: How a Covid-19 vaccine will reach youThe vaccine cold chain hurdle is just the latest disparity of the pandemic weighted against the poor, who more often live and work in crowded conditions that allow the virus to spread, have little access to medical oxygen that is vital to Covid-19 treatment, and whose health systems lack labs, supplies or technicians to carry out large-scale testing. Maintaining the cold chain for coronavirus vaccines won't be easy even in the richest of countries, especially when it comes to those that require ultracold temperatures of around minus 70 degrees Celsius (minus 94 F). Investment in infrastructure and cooling technology lags behind the high-speed leap that vaccine development has taken this year due to the virus. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesWith the pandemic now in its eighth month, logistics experts warn that vast parts of the world lack the refrigeration to administer an effective vaccination program. This includes most of Central Asia, much of India and southeast Asia, Latin America except for the largest countries, and all but a tiny corner of Africa. The medical clinic outside Burkina Faso's capital, a dirt-streaked building that serves a population of 11,000, is a microcosm of the obstacles. After its refrigerator broke last fall, the clinic could no longer keep vaccines against tetanus, yellow fever, tuberculosis and other common diseases on site, nurse Julienne Zoungrana said. Staff instead used motorbikes to fetch vials in insulated carriers from a hospital in Ouagadougou, making a 40-minute round-trip drive on a narrow road that varies between dirt, gravel and pavement. A mother of two who visits the Gampela clinic says she thinks a coronavirus inoculation program will be challenging in her part of the world. Adama Tapsoba, 24, walks four hours under scorching sun to get her baby his routine immunizations and often waits hours more to see a doctor. A week earlier, her 5-month-old son had missed a scheduled shot because Tapsoba's daughter was sick and she could only bring one child on foot. "It will be hard to get a (COIVD-19) vaccine," Tapsoba said, bouncing her 5-month-old son on her lap outside the clinic. "People will have to wait at the hospital, and they might leave without getting it." To uphold the cold chain in developing nations, international organizations have overseen the installation of tens of thousands of solar-powered vaccine refrigerators. Keeping vaccines at stable temperatures from the time they are made until they are given to patients also requires mobile refrigeration, reliable electricity, sound roads and, above all, advance planning. For poor countries like Burkina Faso, the best chance of receiving a coronavirus vaccine is through the Covax initiative, led by the World Health Organization and the Gavi vaccine alliance. The goal of Covax is to place orders for multiple promising vaccine candidates and to allocate the successful ones equitably. The United Nations' children's agency, UNICEF, began laying the global distribution groundwork months ago, in Copenhagen. At the world's largest humanitarian aid warehouse, logistics staff are trying to foresee shortages by learning from the past, especially the spring chaos surrounding global shortages of masks and other protective gear that were commandeered off airport tarmacs or stolen and traded on the black market. Currently, 42 coronavirus vaccine candidates are in clinical trials and another 151 are in pre-clinical evaluation, according to WHO. The ones most likely to end up in the Covax mix must be stored at 2 to 8 degrees Celsius (25-46 F). A Pfizer candidate is among the ones in advanced testing requiring storage at ultracold temperatures. The company, which has designed a special carrying case for its vaccine, has expressed interest in Covax and signed contracts with the United States, Europe and Japan. Medical freezers that go down to minus 70 degrees Celsius are rare even in US and European hospitals. Many experts believe the West African countries that suffered through a 2014-16 Ebola outbreak may be the best positioned, because a vaccine against that virus also requires ultracold storage. For more than two-thirds of the world, however, the advanced technology is nowhere on the horizon, according to a study by German logistics company DHL. Meanwhile, billions of people are in countries that don't have the necessary infrastructure to maintain the cold chain for either existing vaccines or more conventional coronavirus candidates, the study said. Opportunities for vaccines to be lost expand the farther a vaccine travels. DHL estimated that 15,000 cargo flights would be required to vaccinate the entire planet against Covid-19, stretching global capacity for aircraft and potentially supplies of materials such as dry ice. "We need to find a bridge" for every gap in the cold chain, DHL chief commercial officer Katja Busch said. "We're talking about investments ... as a society, this is something we have to do." Gavi and UNICEF worked before the pandemic to supply much of Africa and Asia with refrigeration for vaccines, fitting out 40,000 facilities since 2017. UNICEF is now offering governments a checklist of what they will need to maintain a vaccine supply chain and asking them to develop a plan. "The governments are in charge of what needs to happen in the end," said Benjamin Schreiber, who is among the directors of UNICEF's vaccination program. Cracks in the global cold chain start once vaccines leave the factory. Container ships are not equipped to refrigerate pharmaceutical products with a limited shelf life. Shipping vaccines by air costs a lot more, and air cargo traffic is only now rebounding from pandemic-related border closures. Even when flights are cold and frequent enough, air freight carries other potential hazards. WHO estimates that as much as half of vaccines globally are lost to wastage, sometimes due to heat exposure or vials breaking while in transit. With coronavirus vaccines, which will be one of the world's most sought-after products, theft is also a danger. "They can't be left on a tarmac and fought over because they would actually be spoiled and they would have no value, or worse still, people would still be trying to distribute them," said Glyn Hughes, the global head of cargo for the International Air Transport Association. Tinglong Dai, a Johns Hopkins University researcher who specializes in health care logistics, said creativity will be needed to keep the cold chain intact while coronavirus vaccines are distributed on a global scale. Gavi and UNICEF have experimented with delivering vaccines by drone. Indian officials have floated the idea of setting aside part of the country's vast food storage network for the coronavirus vaccines. "If people can figure out how to transport ice cream, they can transport vaccines," Dai said. Temperature-sensitive labels that change color when a vaccine is exposed to heat too long and no longer safe to use, and live delivery tracking to ensure vaccines reach their destinations as intended also have allowed for progress in delivering safe shots. Yet chances for something to go wrong multiply on the ground as vaccines are prepped to leave national depots. Since the cold chain is so fragile, logistics planning is crucial; syringes and disposal boxes must be available as soon as vaccine shipments arrive. By the end of the year, UNICEF expects to have 520 million syringes pre-positioned for coronavirus vaccines in the developing world and maps of where the refrigeration needs are greatest "to ensure that these supplies arrive in countries by the time the vaccines do," Executive Director Henrietta Fore said. The last vaccine requiring cold storage that India's national program adopted was for rotavirus, a stomach bug that typically affects babies and young children. Dr Gagandeep Kang, who led the research for that vaccine, estimated that India has about 30% less storage capacity than it would need for a coronavirus vaccine. In countries such as India and Burkina Faso, a lack of public transportation presents another obstacle to getting citizens inoculated before vaccines go bad. Dr. Aquinas Edassery, who runs two clinics in one of India's poorest and least developed regions, said patients must walk for hours to receive health care. The trip on a single road that winds 86 kilometers (53 miles) over steep hills and washes out for months at a time will pose an insurmountable barrier for many residents of the eastern district of Rayagada, Edassery said. As with most logistics, the last kilometer (mile) is the hardest part of delivering a coronavirus vaccine to the people who need it. In Latin America, perhaps nowhere more than Venezuela provides a glimpse into how the vaccine cold chain could go dramatically off course. When a blackout last year left much of the nation in the dark for a week, doctors in several parts of Venezuela reported losing stocks of vaccines. The country's largest children's hospital had to discard thousands of doses of vaccines for illnesses like diphtheria, according to Dr. Huniades Urbina, head of the Venezuelan Society of Childcare and Pediatrics. "We won't be able to halt either the coronavirus or measles," Urbina said. Preserving the cold chain has only grown more difficult since then. Gas shortages limit the ability to move vaccines quickly from one part of Venezuela to another. Dry ice to keep vaccines cool during transport is harder to find. And after years of economic decline, there also are fewer doctors and other professionals trained to keep the chain intact. "I'm not optimistic on how the vaccine would be distributed in the inner states because there is no infrastructure of any kind to guarantee delivery — or if it gets delivered, guarantees the adequate preservation under cold conditions," Dr Alberto Paniz-Mondolfi, a Venezuelan pathologist, said. Venezuela presents an extreme example, but a coronavirus vaccine also is likely to test parts of Latin America with more robust health care systems. In Peru, private businesses that typically transport fish and beef have offered their trucks, though it remains unclear whether the Health Ministry will accept. Back in Burkina Faso, vaccination days became an ordeal at the Gampela clinic when the refrigerator went out, said Zoungrana, the nurse. Staff members on hospital courier runs must buy fuel they often can't afford and make a second trip to and from the capital to return any unused doses. "We're suffering," said Zoungrana, who was run off the road on her motorbike just a few weeks ago. Days after journalists from The Associated Press visited the clinic this month, a long-awaited solar refrigerator arrived. With technicians in short supply, the clinic was waiting to be sure the appliance would function properly before stocking it with vaccines. Nationwide, Burkina Faso is about 1,000 clinical refrigerators short, and less than 40% of the health facilities that conduct vaccinations have reliable fridges, national vaccination director Issa Ouedraogo said. Multi-dose vials — the equivalent of bulk storage for vaccines — can drastically reduce global transportation costs. But once a vial is opened, its shelf life counts down even faster; if too few people show up for their jabs in time, whatever remains in the larger vials must be discarded. "It's really upsetting to have wastage like that. It'll result in loss of lives and pain and suffering. It's a waste of resources, " said University of Massachusetts at Amherst professor Anna Nagurney, who studies supply chain logistics. For now, UNICEF is betting on 20-dose vials of coronavirus vaccine and hoping that the amount wasted will stay below 3% for closed vials and 15% for open multi-dose vials that do not get used up, according to Michelle Siedel, one of the UN agency's cold chain experts. If Burkina Faso were given 1 million doses of a coronavirus vaccine today, the country wouldn't be able to handle it, Jean-Claude Mubalama, UNICEF's head of health and nutrition for the African nation. "If we had to vaccinate against the coronavirus now, at this moment, it would be impossible," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-vaccine-storage-issues-could-leave-3-billion-people-without-access/articleshow/78859309.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||South Korea pharma Celltrion's Covid test gets US emergency use authorisation||SEOUL: South Korea's Celltrion Inc said on Monday it has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the USFood & Drug Administration (FDA) for its rapid Covid-19 testing kit Sampinute, which boosted shares of the company and its affiliates. Celltrion said Sampinute delivers coronavirus test results within 10 minutes, with a sensitivity of around 94%. The authorisation came three months after requesting approval in late July and the product has already been launched in the United States in August, according to the company statement. "(The company) is planning to supply Sampinute across the United States through local wholesalers as it believes the demand for rapid diagnosis kits will be high, mainly among large businesses and government agencies that are about to return to work after telecommuting," it said in a statement. Shares of Celltrion Inc surged as much as 4.6%, while Celltrion Pharm and Celltrion Healthcare jumped 4.6% and 1.6%, respectively. Broader KOSPI, however, was trading down 0.1% as of 0208 GMT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-korea-pharma-celltrions-covid-test-gets-us-emergency-use-authorisation/articleshow/78864732.cms||---
October 26, 2020||---||Bihar manifestos rain jobs, but reality is grim||MOKAMA: Tejashwi Yadav’s promise of 10 lakh jobs in Bihar was first mocked and later bettered by BJP, which promised 19 lakh jobs in the state. It might be raining jobs in Bihar’s poll promises but the ground reality is grim. The latest estimate of the Periodic Labour Force Survey conducted by the National Statistical Office, which is the primary source to gauge the job situation in the country, shows that between July 2018 and June 2019, Bihar saw one of the country’s highest youth unemployment rates. Among large states, only Kerala with 35.2% reported a higher unemployment rate among the youth (15-29 years of age) than Bihar’s 30.9%. About a third of youth in these two states couldn’t find jobs despite actively seeking employment. ‘Once a business hub, Mokama shadow of former self’Akhilesh Kumar, a 21-year-old youngster from Puraibagh village in Barh Vidhan Sabha constituency, says job prospects in the state are bleak. Kumar, who stays in Patna and is preparing for various competitive exams, asserts that hard work is the only key to success, and with perseverance he will soon land a government job. “What will Nitish do in this?” he asked. Kumar’s words are echoed by Pawan, a younger relative who too is a student in Patna. Both are satisfied with Nitish Kumar and say their families will vote for him this time too. “Our first duty is to stop ‘Jungle Raj’ from coming back,” says an assertive Gyan Ranjan Kumar, a 25-year-old Rajput youth who, like Akhilesh and Pawan, is sure that the BJP candidate will win easily in Barh constituency. Rajgir Yadav, who is approaching his 40s, works in Gujarat and has been stuck in his village for the past few months, agrees that BJP has an edge in this seat as the caste arithmetic is working in its favour. On the way from Barh to Mokama, this reporter met three more youngsters who were contractual employees of NTPC Barh and were on their way home. While they complained about the exploitative nature of contractual employment and the absence of public transport, they refused to be named in the story. “A few days ago, a 21-year-old drowned at this ghat,” says Amit Kumar from Mokama Ghat. A 25-year-old unemployed B.Com graduate, Kumar is a Paswan who usually lives in Benaras for his exam preparation but has been stuck in Mokama since the lockdown. “Every year, at least 20 people drown here and nobody seems to be concerned,” adds Jwala Kumar, a 20-year-old Chandravanshi Kahar, who was forced to discontinue his studies and supports his family by doing various odd jobs that also include manual labour. Asked why youths were seeking only government jobs, Amit points to the lack of decent private jobs in the state. “Today we have to migrate to other cities, but Mokama was once an industrial town that attracted migrant workers from elsewhere,” he says. Among large states, Bihar has the lowest labour force participation rate (LFPR) among its youth (15-29 yrs population). Economists blame the low LFPR to unwilling withdrawal of labour from the job market. Compared to the national average of 38.1%, only 27.6% of Bihar’s youth actively seek jobs. Incidentally, Jim Corbett started his career from Mokama, where he, as an 18-year-old teenager, was employed by the railways at Mokama Ghat. “Today, the city is a shadow of itself. Factories of Bata and United Spirits have shut down and there is no hope of them reopening,” says Amit. Tarun Kumar, a footwear engineer who was a contractor with Bata, says, “The Bata factory ceased operation in 2014 while the whiskey factory shut down in 2016.” Watch Bihar elections 2020: Why Nitish Kumar will remain CM if NDA comes to power||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-manifestos-rain-jobs-but-reality-is-grim/articleshow/78863794.cms||Atul Thakur
October 26, 2020||India||Think of troops at borders, light a ‘diya’ for them: PM Narendra Modi||NEW DELHI: At a time when India and China are facing off on the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday exhorted people to light a ‘diya’ in their homes in support of security forces guarding India’s borders. “We must also think of our braveheart soldiers who are firmly stationed on our borders in the line of duty, even during these festive times, all in the service and security of Mother India. We have to light a ‘diya’ (lamp) at home in honour of these brave sons and daughters of Mother India,” Modi said. In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’, Modi also made a strong pitch for unity. “Unity is power, unity is strength, unity is progress, unity is empowerment, united we will scale new heights,” he said. The PM also said India has repeatedly thwarted efforts of those who have sought to divide the country. Promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ while shopping during the festival season, the PM said people should make an effort to involve sanitation workers, security guards, domestic helps and other service staff in family celebrations to send out a message that their services are valued. He also sought people’s engagement in the government’s ‘Ek Bharat-Shrestha Bharat’ by contributing information about India’s rich tradition of local cuisines, spices and indigenous ingredients. In light of the coronavirus pandemic, the PM emphasised the need for care and caution during the festival season and asked people to remain patient and follow health guidelines. During his radio broadcast, Modi also lauded Pon Mariyappan from Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu for converting a small portion of his hair cutting salon into a library, and hailed similar mobile library initiatives in UP and Arunachal Pradesh. Watch PM Modi urges people to use local products||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/think-of-troops-at-borders-light-a-diya-for-them-pm-narendra-modi/articleshow/78863749.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh EC receives 650 complaints on poll code violation||BHOPAL: The intensity of the contest in the upcoming bypolls across 28 constituencies of Madhya Pradesh could be well understood by the fact that 20 complaints per assembly constituency have been received by the Election Commission (EC) so far. Overall, more than 600 complaints have been received from various stakeholders. Of these, more than 450 have been resolved, said sources. And in as many as 20 cases, either FIR or transfers, or other action has been taken. Of the total around 650 complaints that have been received by the office of the chief electoral officer so far, around 200 have been received from opposition Congress and 135 of these have been disposed of, 86 are under process and action has been taken against 20 complaints. BJP has so far made 21 complaints. The complaints include the one made by Congress leaders that transfers of 12 deputy collectors were done after the announcement of the bypolls. The EC had ordered thegovernment to cancel these orders. Similarly, BJP leaders had complained that former chief minister Kamal Nath had made derogatory remarks against BJP candidate from Dabra constituency, Imarti Devi. The EC had sent A notice to Nath and sought his reply. Likewise, Congress had made complaints against BJP candidate from Anuppur, Bisahulal Singh, for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the wife of the Congress candidate and also threatening a Congress worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-ec-receives-650-complaints-on-poll-code-violation/articleshow/78864790.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Vidyarambham from homes, virtually||KOCHI: As pandemic restrictions prevail, many people in the city have decided to perform ‘vidyarambham’ ritual on Vijayadashami day, which is the most important part of Navaratri celebrations, at their homes on Monday. Vijayadashami denotes a time for positive beginnings and ‘ezhuthiniruthu’ or ‘vidyarambham’, also known as ‘aksharabhyasam’ is an important ritual for preschoolers where they write alphabets on rice and sand setting a holy start to their education. Besides preschoolers, elders too perform ‘vidyarambham’ to get the blessings of Saraswathi, the Goddess of knowledge. Usually, these rituals are held with much grandeur but the pandemic has affected the seamless conduct this year. With almost everything going online, ‘thanks to Covid-19’, many organisations and communities that usually conduct special ‘vidyarambham’ ceremonies are relying on online platforms to perform the ritual. Though many temples have made arrangements to conduct the ceremony within the premises on a small scale, adhering to protocols, there are many limitations, temple officials say. In the online ‘vidyarambham’, gurus/acharyas will guide children through videoconferences to perform the ritual. The move follows the advisory from state health department to restrict ‘vidyarambham’ ritual at home for preventing crowding at temples and public places. Unnatha Vidyabhyasa Adhyapaka Sangham (UVAS), an association of teachers working in higher education sector, has decided to conduct ‘vidyarambham’ online. The organising secretary of UVAS, Mohana Kannan will lead the ‘Vidyarambham with Mohanji’ at 7.30am on Monday. “Members of UVAS from all over Kerala will perform ‘vidyarambham’ at their homes. They will have to make all arrangements like lighted oil lamp, rice/ sand prior to the commencement of meeting. They can perform the ritual for the children in their family or neighbourhood by adhering to Covid-19 protocol,” said K Sivaprasad, its president. Sajeevan Karimakkad, joint secretary of Kuzhikaatu Sree Bhagavathi temple in Thrikkakara said the administration committee has reduced the number of registrations this year. “Mask is mandatory and each devotee has to bring his/ her own piece of gold to write the letters on the tongue. Moreover, the priest or acharya will have to sanitize their hands before performing the ritual for each child,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-vidyarambham-from-homes-virtually/articleshow/78864803.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: At Nanma, it’s back to basics from today||KOCHI: On this Vijayadasami day, students who would be writing Class X and XII examinations with help from Nanma foundation, will be introduced to special learning at 10am in the Kakkanad centre. Coordinators and volunteer teachers have decided to start teaching these students basics. “Most of them do not know even to write a sentence because their lives have been totally disrupted. Many of these students are dropouts because of their disinterest towards studies,” said Shibi Hari, Kochi centre coordinator. On Monday, five students would symbolically start their learning from one of the volunteer teachers. “This time, we have called one of the seniors who passed the examination. We thought he would be able to inspire the students as he had also come from similar circumstances,” she said. These are children who come under police lens because of their parents, disturbed childhood or incidents that bring the families into clash with the law. However, they are being brought back to life by Hope (Nanma) foundation, an initiative of IG Vijayan who started the it along the lines of our responsibility to children (ORC) — a project of the Kerala police. Many students are given extra coaching and enrolled in government schools nearby for SSLC. Teachers say since many are victims of substance abuse, they need to be taught at primary class students’ level. “We do manage to ensure that the students score at least 20-25 marks. The rest can be made up with their class assignment and internal marking. However, this is only for them to get into some vocational careers. Making them clear Class XII is very difficult because many are unable to write even a sentence properly. We would be giving them training in reading and writing simple sentences,” said Shibi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-at-nanma-its-back-to-basics-from-today/articleshow/78864815.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
October 26, 2020||Thane||Thane: 60-year-old run over, one held||A Bhandup resident was arrested for allegedly running over a 60-year-old pavement dweller in Thane on Saturday evening. The Thane Nagar police said, the incident occurred around 7pm when the accused, Mushraf Mohammad Jamir Ansari, a resident of Tembhi pada, was speeding along Saibaba Garden road when his vehicle jumped the adjoining footpath and ran over the man who was sitting on the pavement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-60-year-old-run-over-one-held/articleshow/78864787.cms||Manoj Badgeri
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam cops invoke Kaapa against brothers||KOCHI: Ernakulam Rural police on Sunday imposed the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (Kaapa) on two brothers and took them into preventive custody for alleged goonda activities. The arrested persons have been identified as Densil (21) of Neeleeswaram and his brother Godson (21). Kaapa was imposed on them based on a report by Ernakulam Rural SP K Karthick. Police said that Densil has seven cases against him at Kalady police station alone and all of them were registered in a span of less than three years. Police said the man is accused of offences including attempt to murder, assault and possession of ganja. Godson on the other hand is accused in five cases for offences including breaking into houses to commit assault, attempt to murder and assault. The brothers were externed from the district for six months under Kaapa in June, 2019. Police said that the accused, who returned after the expiry of this period, broke into a house and attacked a man with a sword. They also threatened to kill his wife. Kalady police booked the duo in this case. Following this, police imposed Kaapa and moved them to Viyyur central prison as a preventive measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-cops-invoke-kaapa-against-brothers/articleshow/78864828.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||OTP-based LPG delivery from November 1||KOCHI: To ensure LPG cylinders are sold to genuine customers, oil companies will introduce code system for confirming receipt of cylinders by customers. On a pilot phase, it will be launched across 100 smart cities in the country, including Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, from November 1. A four-digit delivery authentication code will be sent by the company to the customer’s mobile number during booking and payment. When the cylinder is delivered, the customer will have to share the code with the delivery person to authenticate the delivery. Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation will introduce the system. A statement issued by the companies said since LPG is subsidized by Centre, it is important to account for each LPG cylinder which is sold to genuine registered customers of oil companies. The traditional method for confirming receipt of cylinders is to obtain a customer signature in the distributor’s copy of cash memo and delivery boy making an entry in the Domestic Gas Consumer Card (DGCC) or Blue Book issued to customers. This digital method of taking confirmation of receipt is also in keeping with social distancing and there is no need for contact with the delivery person. It is expected that this will be made mandatory for all LPG customers in all towns and markets shortly. Till such time customers have the option to confirm receipt of the cylinder by signing the cash memo or through DAC method. The companies have appealed to all customers to opt for the DAC method because it is much more safe and can be shared maintaining a distance of six feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/otp-based-lpg-delivery-from-november-1/articleshow/78864843.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Traders in Kochi feel the pinch of pandemic||KOCHI: Even though outbreak of Covid-19 has adversely affected ‘Navarathri’ sales, trading community in the city is of the view that online sales have picked up during the festive season. Though the number of people visiting shops has come down, orders are being placed online, particularly electronic goods. Rajesh Nair, secretary, youth forum, Kerala chamber of commerce said traditionally, textile showrooms in the city used to witness busy shopping activity during Navarathri and Diwali. “But this time, as most activities are happening online there is a high demand for laptops and mobile phones. And sales are mostly happening online,” he said adding that even textile and clothing sector find more customers online. Rajesh also said there is a decline in the trend where people used to buy electronic goods like televisions, washing machines and the like, which come with offers and discounts. Meanwhile, most merchants said sale of luxury products has come down. People are no longer in the mode for making bulk purchases. "The fact is spending power has come down. People do not have the kind of money required for bulk shopping. Even those who have money are keeping it in reserve. As large scale events are not happening, bulk shopping is not taking place. The situation will improve only if the government ensures that people get money and they spend it,” said a city-based businessman on condition of anonymity. It is pointed out that Covid-19 protocols, fear of disease spreading, increasing number of deaths and news related to poor care at hospitals are all discouraging factors. “Customers are reluctant to spend too much time at stores and showrooms. They come to make important and essential purchases. Number of vehicles parked in parking spaces of many large showrooms has reduced. However, there are many customers who place orders over phone or through websites. The product is delivered at their homes,” said Arjun B, manager of a shop in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/traders-in-kochi-feel-the-pinch-of-pandemic/articleshow/78864888.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: 2 held for attempt to murder||KOCHI: Udayamperoor police on Sunday arrested two persons for allegedly attempting to murder a youth by thrashing him and then pouring petrol over him. The arrested persons have been identified as Arun (27) of Udayamperoor and Prajith (34). The case pertains to the incident that happened on Friday night. The accused summoned the victim, a 27-year-old, to discuss an argument over constructing a house for the victim. The accused thrashed him and later poured petrol on him. However, police rushed to the spot and rescued the victim. The accused had gone into hiding. Police seized an iron rod used by the accused to thrash the victim. The accused were presented in court and were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-2-held-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/78864904.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thane||16-year-old girl raped in Palghar||A 16-year-old tribal girl was allegedly raped when she took her cattle to graze in a field at Manor in Palghar district on Sunday.  The man allegedly dragged her into the bushes and raped her, a police official said. A case has been registered against the accused under 376 (rape) of the IPC and under various sections of the Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/16-year-old-girl-raped-in-palghar/articleshow/78864852.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||US sees highest number of new Covid-19 cases in past two days||WASHINGTON: The United States has seen its highest ever number of new Covid-19 cases in the past two days, keeping the pandemic a top election issue as Vice President Mike Pence travels the country to campaign despite close aides testing positive. The United States reported 79,852 new infections on Saturday, close to the previous day's record of 84,244 new cases. Hospitalizations are also rising and have hit a two-month high and deaths are trending upwards, according to a Reuters tally. So far in October, 29 states have set records for increases in new cases, including five considered key in the Nov. 3 presidential election: Ohio, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Cases in the Midwest set a new record on Saturday and the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients in that region hit an all-time high for the ninth day in a row. Hospitals are strained in several states including North Dakota, which is the hardest hit based on recent new cases per capita, according to a Reuters analysis. The city of El Paso in Texas is asking residents to stay home for the next two weeks and the wider El Paso County closed its parks and recreational facilities for 14 days. In addition, an El Paso County judge ordered late Sunday a 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. curfew due to the Covid crisis. The curfew order went into effect immediately, but it does not apply to essential workers or people traveling. Over the last three weeks, the number of hospitalized Covid-19 patients in the El Paso area has tripled to a record 786, according to state data. "If we continue on this trend, we risk detrimental effects to our entire healthcare system," the city's public health director, Angela Mora, said in a statement. "For the sake of those hospitalized and the frontline healthcare workers working tirelessly each day to care for them, we ask you to please stay home for two weeks and eliminate your interactions with those outside your household until we can flatten the curve." On Saturday, Texas Governor Greg Abbott asked the federal government to allow the use of an army medical center at Fort Bliss by non-coronavirus patients to ease the burden on hospitals. On Sunday, Abbott said state emergency management officials will open an alternate care site this week, initially with 50 beds, at the El Paso Convention and Performing Arts Center. NEW WHITE HOUSE OUTBREAK Pence's chief of staff, Marc Short, tested positive on Saturday as well as multiple other senior aides. Despite the outbreak, the White House said the vice president would press ahead with campaigning, visiting North Carolina on Sunday and Minnesota on Monday. The new infections offered a reminder of the way Trump - who was hospitalized for three nights this month after contracting Covid-19 - and those around him have downplayed the advice of public health experts to wear masks and observe social distancing guidelines to stem Covid-19 transmission. Asked on CNN's "State of the Union" why Pence was not following U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines to quarantine for 14 days after such exposure, Meadows on Sunday cited the vice president's status as "essential personnel." The latest outbreak follows what health experts described as a super-spreader event at the White House on Sept. 26 where President Donald Trump announced his nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-sees-highest-number-of-new-covid-19-cases-in-past-two-days/articleshow/78864876.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Seaplane lands successfully in Venduruthy channel||KOCHI: A seaplane of M/s Spicejet Technic from Male in Maldives made a successful landing in the Venduruthy channel on Sunday for refuelling for its onward journey to Gujarat. The seaplane is scheduled to fly to Ahmedabad where it would commence flying as a part of regional connectivity scheme between Sabarmati river front and Statue of Unity after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates it on October 31 The seaplane crew members were greeted by senior officials of the Indian Navy and were provided a berthing facility at Naval jetty of Southern Naval Command (SNC) along with facilities for refuelling. A seaplane is an aircraft with floats or skis instead of wheels, designed to land on and take off from water. The Twin Otter 300 seaplane that landed in Kochi is owned by a Gurgaon-based company and is said to be the first to start tourism operations in India. It is a 19-seater, which will be able to accommodate 12 passengers. It will do another refuelling in Goa before reaching Gujarat. Representatives of Spicejet, Indian Navy, Cial and district administration were present to supervise the transit halt. The crew members of the seaplane were greeted by Vice Admiral A K Chawla, flag officer commanding-in-chief, SNC. Seaplanes are a natural choice of connectivity between mainland and Lakshadweep islands and inland water channels at Kochi and sheltered lagoons in the islands as they offer ideal space for the seaplanes to land and take-off. The occasion also refreshed fond memories of amphibious aircraft operations from Kochi naval base in the yesteryears. Incidentally, the birth of Indian Naval Aviation was also preceded by a similar landing of Sealand aircraft in the Venduruthy channel at Kochi on 4 February 1953,” said a statement from the Navy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/seaplane-lands-successfully-in-venduruthy-channel/articleshow/78864928.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pilot beaten up in parking row||A case has been registered against three persons for allegedly attacking a commercial pilot outside his building in Santacruz (E) over a petty issue recently.  The accused had parked their car near the victim’s gate. When the victim, Joseph Gonsalves, asked them to move ahead they beat him up. No arrests have been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-pilot-beaten-up-in-parking-row/articleshow/78864883.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Idukki: Girl attempts suicide, DYFI man ousted||IDUKKI: A 24-year-old member of DYFI has been ousted from the party after a 16-year-old dalit girl who was allegedly sexually abused attempted suicide at Nariyampara near Kattappana. The parents of the girl filed a complaint with Kattappana deputy SP on Thursday alleging that Manu Manoj, a resident of Nariyampara who was a member of DYFI unit in the area, sexually abused their daughter. But on Friday, the girl attempted to take her life by setting herself on fire at her house. The girl suffered over 40% burns and was admitted to Kottayam Medical College Hospital. “The girl was later shifted to Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital and her condition remains critical,” said subinspector with Kattappana police Santhosh Sajeev. The accused fled after the incident, but he was arrested on Saturday morning, police said. Manoj was charged under sections of Pocso act and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and was remanded in judicial custody, the SI said. DYFI district secretary Ramesh Krishnan said Manoj was ousted from the party. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/idukki-girl-attempts-suicide-dyfi-man-ousted/articleshow/78864964.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Five guards held for Rs 82 lakh burglary||Five Nepalese security guards working in New Panvel, Kalamboli and Kamothe societies were arrested for committing a burglary of Rs 82 lakh. The accused allegedly burgled a doctor’s apartment in a hospital building in New Panvel on October 3, when the family was away at their native place in Pune district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-five-guards-held-for-rs-82-lakh-burglary/articleshow/78864966.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Typhoon displaces thousands, floods villages in Philippines||MANILA: A fast-moving typhoon forced thousands of villagers to flee to safety in provinces south of the Philippine capital Monday, flooding rural villages and ripping off roofs, officials said. There were no immediate reports of casualties from Typhoon Molave, but authorities reported at least one person was missing and seven others were rescued after their yacht sank off Batangas province south of Manila. The typhoon has sustained winds of 125 kilometers per hour and gusts of up to 180 kph per hour and was blowing westward at 25 kph. Molave is expected to start blowing out of the country into the South China Sea on Monday, government forecasters said. At least 25,000 villagers were displaced with about 20,000 taking shelter in schools and government buildings which were turned into evacuation centers, according to the Office of Civil Defense. “Villagers are now asking to be rescued because of the sudden wind which blew away roofs,” Humerlito Dolor, governor of Oriental Mindoro province, told DZMM radio. Dolor said pounding rains overnight swamped farming villages in his province then fierce winds toppled trees and power posts early on Monday, knocking off power. Authorities were clearing roads of fallen trees and debris in some towns after the typhoon passed, he said. More than 1,800 cargo truck drivers, workers and passengers were stranded in ports after the coast guard barred ships and ferry boats from venturing into rough seas. About 20 typhoons and storms annually batter the Philippines, and the Southeast Asian archipelago is seismically active, with earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, making it one of the world's most disaster-prone countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/typhoon-displaces-thousands-floods-villages-in-philippines/articleshow/78864970.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thane||Taloja constable booked for graft||The Thane anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has registered an FIR against a Taloja constable, Vinodkumar Choudhary, for allegedly demanding Rs 21,000 from a resident for not registering an offence against his aunt. The aunt was caught selling liquor illegally during the Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/taloja-constable-booked-for-graft/articleshow/78864979.cms||George Mendonca
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: UP man held for Rs 97 lakh bank fraud||A resident of Uttar Pradesh has been recently arrested for fraudulently transferring Rs 97 lakh from an Andheri-based cooperative bank account into his account in 2018.  The police tracked down the accused by keeping tabs on his money trails. The accused has been identified as Vinit Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-up-man-held-for-rs-97-lakh-bank-fraud/articleshow/78865022.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Manish Sisodia laud NEET journey of govt schoolkids||NEW DELHI: “Shikshit Rashtra, Samarth Rashtra” is the dream of Delhi government, education minister Manish Sisodia said while interacting with government school students who have scored well in NEET-JEE and urged them to guide their juniors. Applauding students for their commendable performance despite the corona crisis, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that the students who had bagged a place in IITs and secured top ranks in NEET-JEE must become a role model for the government education system. “The education department is proud of their achievements and they must continue to contribute towards the betterment of the nation,” he said. Kejriwal earlier announced that around 569 Delhi government school students had qualified for the exam, of which 379 were girls. Around 443 students cleared JEE Mains and 53, including four girls, secured a seat in IITs through JEE Advanced. Five students from Rajkia Patibha Vikas Vidyalaya Paschim Vihar have qualified, the highest from any one Delhi government school. A student from a school in Surajmal Vihar, whose father is a street vendor, has got into IIT-Ropar in computer science & engineering course. Thanking the chief minister and the deputy CM “for revolutionising the education system of Delhi”, the student, who has scored 89.8% in Class XII Boards, said he wanted to study science and engineering to work towards the development of the country. Another student from a Molarband school, who has been brought up by her uncle and aunt after losing the parents at a young age, has secured 10,239th rank in NEET. “It was my uncle’s dream to see me in IIT. I want to thank him and all my teachers who have supported me in my journey,” she said. “I want to congratulate the students for making us feel proud, and officials, teachers for this achievement,” said Sisodia. “When the AAP government was formed five-six years ago, the government schools were in a pitiable condition. This time, Delhi government school students have attained 99% in CBSE, and now our students have attained top ranks in NEET-JEE.” He added, “Your contribution to the nation must not stop. This is a long journey and many people have worked hard to reach this stage. We will only be able to strengthen our nation through a strong education system, and not through big democratic institutions and buildings in Delhi.” Kejriwal, who himself is an IIT graduate, said “listening to the stories of children, parents and teachers have made us proud of all of you. I can understand how difficult the journey must have been for each of you”. Stating that there is a general perception that no one can clear NEET-JEE without coaching, the chief minister said “these students’ clearing the exams without coaching is commendable”. He added that the students must not stop thinking about how to excel and contribute towards the development of the country. “I also request the education department to provide coaching to aspirants so that more and more students qualify in these exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-and-manish-sisodia-laud-neet-journey-of-govt-schoolkids/articleshow/78865037.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||India’s reaction to aggression left China rattled: RSS chief||NAGPUR: India needed to increase its power to be able to respond to China, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. “In our military and economic preparations, in forging relations internationally and with our neighbours, we will need to be bigger than China,” he said. China was surprised by the vigorous Indian response to its aggression in east Ladakh this year, but Beijing’s reaction to the new situation it faces couldn’t be easily anticipated, he added during his annual Vijayadashami speech here. India’s resolve in standing up to China had led to more countries realising the need to confront the expansionist power that had been taking on several nations. “Unwavering caution, vigilance and preparedness are the only ways to respond,” he said. “This time China was surprised as India stood up resolutely... just how it will respond is not known,” Bhagwat said. “If we do this (increase our power and forge close ties with neighbour), we can stop China. Our neighbours like Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal are not just our neighbours. We have had ties with them for thousands of years and more or less they are countries with the same nature and temperament as us. We should quickly associate with them... there will be disputes when borders are shared. We should move faster to remove this issues," he said. In fairly explicit references to the border situation with China, the RSS chief said India's hand of friendship to all should not be mistaken for weakness. "The erroneous impression of those who felt that (India) can be bent this way and that should have been cleared up by now. The bravery of our Army and the self-esteem reflected in the policies of our leadership and the unity of our people should be recognised by China. There is an air of self-confidence in the nation," he said. “A haughty China locked horns with a number of countries at a single point of time. Of course, it has been an expansionist regime and has been encroaching upon other’s territories, be it Taiwan, Vietnam, Japan and even America. However, India’s reaction to its aggression has left it rattled. Rather, China was taken aback by India’s response,” he added. Bhagwat said there was a need to be vigilant against internal challenges as well. Political competition was a fact of democracy but there should be some wisdom in this and elections were not a war between enemies, he said, warning against bitterness within society. "This is not politics, there are forces that want to see a society at conflict with itself, these are in the world and in the country," he added. He said the anti-CAA agitation was used to create conflict by propagating the view that it was intended to reduce Muslim population. "These people speak of Bharat ke tukde but use certain situations to present themselves as secular and constitutionalists. They actually have no regard for the Constitution at all. They teach society the wrong things (ulti patti) and they speak the grammar of anarchy as Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar said. They have worked against the Sangh, only that they are not effective today,” he added. In a departure from tradition, the event was held at a hall inside the RSS’s Smruti Mandir premises and not on the grounds adjacent to it. A limited number of around 50 swayamsewaks, sporting saffron masks, attended. “The diversity among people of country is being used to fuel separatism. We need to be careful of such elements who are carrying out their activities in the name of saving the Constitution but they only intend to divide the country for their gains,” he said. On protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, Bhagwat said a misconception was spread that it was an attempt to reduce population of Muslims in the country. “It was only meant to facilitate immigration of minorities facing religious persecution in some of the neighbouring countries. Such people had nowhere else to seek refuge but in India. The existing law on getting Indian citizenship remains and the amendment only gives certain facilitations to such people,” he said. Watch India's defence forces, citizens stood firmly in front of China's attack: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-reaction-to-aggression-left-china-rattled-rss-chief/articleshow/78863604.cms||Shishir Arya
October 26, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man climbs OHE at Byculla station, suffers shock||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old fruit vendor suffered electric shocks after he climbed atop an overhead equipment (OHE) wire pole at Byculla railway station on Sunday. Shakir Qureshi suffered burn injuries and was hospitalised. Qureshi had climbed a foot-over bridge (FOB) to get on top of the OHE mast at the southern-end of the station's platform number 4 that handles CSMT-bound fast trains. "The incident took place around 5.40pm. Station staff were alerted by the control room about the presence of a man on top of the OHE. The power connection to the wire pole was switched off between Matunga and Byculla," said chief public relations officer, Central Railway.  Byculla railway station staff and the railway protection force (RPF) officers requested Qurishi to come down but he did not listen. He then fell off the pole after suffering burn injuries on his legs. He was lifted on a stretcher by station ground staff and sent to J J Hospital for treatment. The police said that Qureshi works at the Byculla market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-climbs-ohe-at-byculla-station-suffers-shock/articleshow/78865055.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Dasara: Here's how to watch today's Jamboo Savari live||MYSURU: Elaborate arrangements are made to live stream Mysuru Dasara on Monday afternoon with the famous Jamboo Savari as the people will not be allowed to witness the event as per the Covid-19 protocol. DC Rohini Sindhuri informed that this year due to Covid-19, Dasara is being celebrated in simple, traditional and virtual way. "Famous Jamboo Savari will be telecasted live on Doordarshan and social media," she informed. According to the authorities, Nandi Dwaja puja will be held between 2.59pm and 3.20pm in Makara lagna in Balarama Dwara of the palace. The Jamboo Savari will be held between 3.40pm and 4.15pm in Kumbha lagna inside the palace premises. Both the events will be beamed through social media. Here are the live streaming links: Facebook: mysorevartheYouTube Official website of the district administration - mysore.nic.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dasara-heres-how-to-watch-todays-jamboo-savari-live/articleshow/78864977.cms||Shrinivasa M
October 26, 2020||India||Four-day Army Commanders' Conference to begin today in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The four-day Army Commanders' Conference, an apex level biannual event, which formulates important policy decisions through collegiate deliberations in the Indian Army, will begin in New Delhi from today. The event will be attended by senior officers of the Army including the Vice Chief of the Army Staff, all Army Commanders, Principal Staff Officers (PSOs) of the Army HQ and other senior officers. "The first day will be spent deliberating on matters related to Human Resource Management. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will address the conference on October 27, 2020. Prior to the Defence Minister's address, the conference will be addressed by the CDS and all the three Service Chiefs (COAS, CNS & CAS)," Indian Army said in a release. The third day will be spent on in-depth discussions on the various agenda points projected by the various Army Commanders, including an update by CINCAN. This will be followed by brief updates on various issues by the various Principal Staff Officers. The last day of the conference will include an update by the Director-General of Border Roads (DGBR) on the various infrastructure development projects being undertaken by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) and allied formations. Automation initiatives to optimise utilisation of manpower at various levels of the Army will also be discussed. The conference will close with the presentation of the Sports Trophy and Flight Safety Trophy, followed by the closing address by the COAS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/four-day-army-commanders-conference-to-begin-today-in-delhi/articleshow/78865053.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government scared of CBI probe: KPCC president||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government is scared of CBI probe and that’s why the government is now trying to withdraw the general consent given to the agency, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said. He said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan were those who had welcomed the probe by the central agencies in the gold smuggling case that has international ramifications. But the skeletons in the closets of the chief minister’s and the party secretary’s close confidantes are now scaring them. He demanded that the CPM central leadership should clear their stand regarding the move to withdraw the consent given to the CBI. The CPM had demanded a probe by the CBI in cases like the Saradha scam in Bengal. The sudden change of mind of the CPM should be explained. Mullappally said that while the real Communist supporters are welcoming the CBI probe, why are people like the state chief minister and state party secretary opposing it. He added that the chief minister and party secretary are opposing the CBI probe in cases where the CPM cadres or supporters are the culprits. In Shuhaib murder, Periya double murder and T P Chandrasekharan murder cases, the government has spent public money to oppose the CBI probe because the culprits are CPM supporters. Meanwhile, the chief minister is turning a blind eye towards the double murder at Venjaramoodu, in which the Congress had demanded a CBI probe. He said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s words that the Centre was using the agencies to settle political scores should not be read with the situation in the state. The situation in the state is not like in many other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-government-scared-of-cbi-probe-kpcc-president/articleshow/78865026.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Defeat Ravana of pollution and corona, shun crackers, says Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia celebrated Dussehra with the symbolic destruction of a Ravana effigy and gave a call to defeat pollution and corona, the “real Ravanas of today”. He also urged Delhiites to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali this year. Dussehra is not just a festival but also symbolises a battleground against the evils of today, Sisodia emphasised in a statement issued by the deputy chief minister’s office on Sunday. Luv-Kush Ramlila Committee, famous for burning a Ravana effigy during the Dussehra celebrations every year at Red Fort, organised an eco-friendly symbolic event this year at Sisodia’s residence because of the on-going Covid pandemic and the winter pollution crisis, the statement added. Sisodia performed the symbolic destruction by shooting arrows at the effigy, but no cracker was burnt, which is the usual practice. The deputy chief minister congratulated Luv-Kush Ramlila Committee for setting an example of how to celebrate a pollution-free Dussehra. “We will also have to take a pledge to celebrate a cracker-free and pollutionfree Diwali this year,” Sisodia said. “In our daily lives, particularly in cities, we contribute to pollution through our use of vehicular transport and other unavoidable means. But now we have to take a pledge to pollute as little as possible by acting responsibly in areas where we have choices,” he said. The general secretary of Luv-Kush Ramlila Committee-Red Fort, Arjun Kumar, member Ankush Aggarwal and Chamber of Trade and Industry chairman Brijesh Goyal were also present during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-defeat-ravana-of-pollution-and-corona-shun-crackers-says-manish-sisodia/articleshow/78865126.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||China reports surge in symptomless Covid-19 infections||SHANGHAI: China reported the highest number of asymptomatic Covid-19 cases in nearly seven months, following a mass infection of an unknown origin in the northwestern Xinjiang region. Xinjiang health authorities found 137 asymptomatic cases on Sunday amid a testing drive for the 4.75 million people in the Kashgar area triggered by an asymptomatic infection in a 17-year-old female garment factory worker reported on Saturday. It was not clear how she was infected, though all of the new cases were linked to the garment factory. The woman's case was discovered during routine testing but it was not clear why she was subject to such testing, Chinese media reported quoting health officials. Contact tracing work to locate the origin of the outbreak is ongoing, the reports said. A total of 20 new confirmed and 161 new asymptomatic cases were reported in the mainland on Oct. 25, China's National Health Commission said in a statement. The number of new symptomless infections was the highest since China began publishing daily counts starting from those reported on March 31. More than 2.84 million people in the Kashgar area had already been tested for Covid-19 as of Sunday afternoon and the rest expect to be completed by Tuesday. The scale and speed of the testing is in line with those seen during other outbreaks including the most recent one in Qingdao earlier this month. Though the number of new Covid-19 cases are down sharply in mainland China from the peaks seen in February, Beijing is wary of another wave of infections and maintains mass and rapid testing capabilities. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China to date now stands at 85,810, while the death toll remained unchanged at 4,634.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-reports-surge-in-symptomless-covid-19-infections/articleshow/78865192.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||False info, conspiracy theories target Florida's Hispanic voters||MIAMI: Less than two weeks before the US presidential election, conspiracy theories, racist posts and disinformation are targeting Hispanic voters in Florida, a key constituency in the battleground state. A purported election fraud concocted by Democrats, an alleged plot among Jewish, Black and LGBTQ people to interfere in the election: these are some of the stories that have spread among voters in the United States, and among Florida Latinos in particular. Take influencer Liliana Rodriguez Morillo, a Donald Trump supporter who is the daughter of singer Jose Luis "El Puma" Rodriguez. The Miami-based Venezuelan shared an image to her 485,000 Instagram followers of fake driver's licenses confiscated in Chicago. "All registered to vote Democrat!" she wrote in Spanish. "Will there be fraud November 3? Are we playing dumb? Vote in person!" There is no evidence that the licenses were linked to the Democratic party or to voter fraud. And US Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) spokesman Steven Bansbach told AFP that CBP could only confirm that 19,888 driver's licenses -- mainly from China and Hong Kong -- were confiscated. Lizette Escobedo, director of civic engagement at the NALEO Educational Fund, a non-profit that promotes political participation of Latinos, said that mistrust in the electoral system is common among Florida Hispanics in both parties. The problem, she explained, is that "many Latinos don't actually trust the electoral process. They're afraid that their votes are not going to count." The organization seeks to counter this perception at the national level with voter education campaigns. "Florida is our largest digital ad buy budget that we have for this election," Escobedo said. She said that Latinos are particularly vulnerable to disinformation because they define their positions in the American political system "based on the political systems that they have in their home country." Latin America has a long history of authoritarian regimes from both the left and right, often sustained by elections flagged as fraudulent. Last month, US representatives Debbie Mucarsel-Powell and Joaquin Castro asked the FBI to investigate the spike in disinformation directed at Latinos in South Florida and to "consider efforts of foreign actors to spread disinformation" in this regard. Many of these conspiracy theories favor Trump, who is head-to-head with Democrat Joe Biden in Florida, a crucial state in the November 3 election. Hispanics in Florida make up 17 percent of a 14 million voter electorate. Biden, the Jewish community, and African Americans have been the subject of disinformation. Venezuelan radio host Carines Moncada of Actualidad Radio, a mainstream Spanish-language outlet in Miami, recently associated the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement with witchcraft. According to the public radio WLRN, Moncada told listeners that Black Lives Matter practices "'lo negro' -- witchcraft and devil worship -- and wants to burn down your property and kill police officers." She then added that a vote for Biden "supports that rape and anarchy." On her Facebook, Moncada reposted and translated an article from News Punch, an outlet known for disinformation, which claimed a co-founder of BLM practices witchcraft because activist Patrisse Cullors said in an interview that her movement was "spiritual." "These kinds of barbarisms are said constantly," Roberto R. Tejera, a journalist and host on the same station as Moncada, told the Sun Sentinel. "It's sort of the daily bread of Spanish radio." In another instance in September, local newspaper El Nuevo Herald -- the Spanish version of the Miami Herald -- had to remove the weekly Libre insert aimed at Cubans in Florida after a reader protested its anti-Semitic and racist content. A Cuban columnist had written in the insert that the police protests were "racial prostitution" and that Jewish Americans were "cowards" for supporting BLM. Another columnist, also Cuban, spoke of LGBTQ people in derogatory terms and denounced a supposed "gay lobby" backed by international communism. Miami's Radio Caracol 1260 also had to apologize in August after state senator Annette Taddeo called out a paid segment in which the announcer predicted "a dictatorship of Jews and Blacks" if Biden won the presidency. "This disgusting message, spread by Trump supporters, went out today on Miami @Carasol1260," Taddeo tweeted. She added: "Everyone -- regardless of party affiliation -- is obligated to repudiate and condemn this pro-Nazi and racist discourse."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/false-info-conspiracy-theories-target-floridas-hispanic-voters/articleshow/78865225.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||False info, conspiracy theories target Florida's Hispanic voters||MIAMI: Less than two weeks before the US presidential election, conspiracy theories, racist posts and disinformation are targeting Hispanic voters in Florida, a key constituency in the battleground state. A purported election fraud concocted by Democrats, an alleged plot among Jewish, Black and LGBTQ people to interfere in the election: these are some of the stories that have spread among voters in the United States, and among Florida Latinos in particular. Take influencer Liliana Rodriguez Morillo, a Donald Trump supporter who is the daughter of singer Jose Luis "El Puma" Rodriguez. The Miami-based Venezuelan shared an image to her 485,000 Instagram followers of fake driver's licenses confiscated in Chicago. "All registered to vote Democrat!" she wrote in Spanish. "Will there be fraud November 3? Are we playing dumb? Vote in person!" There is no evidence that the licenses were linked to the Democratic party or to voter fraud. And US Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) spokesman Steven Bansbach told AFP that CBP could only confirm that 19,888 driver's licenses -- mainly from China and Hong Kong -- were confiscated. Lizette Escobedo, director of civic engagement at the NALEO Educational Fund, a non-profit that promotes political participation of Latinos, said that mistrust in the electoral system is common among Florida Hispanics in both parties. The problem, she explained, is that "many Latinos don't actually trust the electoral process. They're afraid that their votes are not going to count." The organization seeks to counter this perception at the national level with voter education campaigns. "Florida is our largest digital ad buy budget that we have for this election," Escobedo said. She said that Latinos are particularly vulnerable to disinformation because they define their positions in the American political system "based on the political systems that they have in their home country." Latin America has a long history of authoritarian regimes from both the left and right, often sustained by elections flagged as fraudulent. Last month, US representatives Debbie Mucarsel-Powell and Joaquin Castro asked the FBI to investigate the spike in disinformation directed at Latinos in South Florida and to "consider efforts of foreign actors to spread disinformation" in this regard. Many of these conspiracy theories favor Trump, who is head-to-head with Democrat Joe Biden in Florida, a crucial state in the November 3 election. Hispanics in Florida make up 17 percent of a 14 million voter electorate. Biden, the Jewish community, and African Americans have been the subject of disinformation. Venezuelan radio host Carines Moncada of Actualidad Radio, a mainstream Spanish-language outlet in Miami, recently associated the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement with witchcraft. According to the public radio WLRN, Moncada told listeners that Black Lives Matter practices "'lo negro' -- witchcraft and devil worship -- and wants to burn down your property and kill police officers." She then added that a vote for Biden "supports that rape and anarchy." On her Facebook, Moncada reposted and translated an article from News Punch, an outlet known for disinformation, which claimed a co-founder of BLM practices witchcraft because activist Patrisse Cullors said in an interview that her movement was "spiritual." "These kinds of barbarisms are said constantly," Roberto R. Tejera, a journalist and host on the same station as Moncada, told the Sun Sentinel. "It's sort of the daily bread of Spanish radio." In another instance in September, local newspaper El Nuevo Herald -- the Spanish version of the Miami Herald -- had to remove the weekly Libre insert aimed at Cubans in Florida after a reader protested its anti-Semitic and racist content. A Cuban columnist had written in the insert that the police protests were "racial prostitution" and that Jewish Americans were "cowards" for supporting BLM. Another columnist, also Cuban, spoke of LGBTQ people in derogatory terms and denounced a supposed "gay lobby" backed by international communism. Miami's Radio Caracol 1260 also had to apologize in August after state senator Annette Taddeo called out a paid segment in which the announcer predicted "a dictatorship of Jews and Blacks" if Biden won the presidency. "This disgusting message, spread by Trump supporters, went out today on Miami @Carasol1260," Taddeo tweeted. She added: "Everyone -- regardless of party affiliation -- is obligated to repudiate and condemn this pro-Nazi and racist discourse."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/false-info-conspiracy-theories-target-floridas-hispanic-voters/articleshow/78865229.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: A muted sendoff awaits Durga today||NEW DELHI: The capital saw extremely muted Durga Puja celebrations this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the immersion of idols is also going to be a silent affair. A large number of Puja committees, including those in Chittaranjan Park, have opted for ghat (scared vessel) puja instead of idol worship. Even the committees that have gone for idols have four-five-foot-tall ones against the usual 15-20-foot ones. Last year, Delhi government made arrangements for artificial ponds to immerse idols. This year, the committees have been asked to arrange for immersion at the venue itself as not only in the Yamuna, immersion in any waterbody or even artificial tank is also not allowed. Some of the CR Park Puja committees have been the pioneer in creating artificial immersion ponds at the venue itself for the past few years and with fewer idols this year, immersion is not a problem as these aren’t big. CR Park Kali Mandir has worshipped an idol this year, too, and the temple already has an artificial tank, where the immersion will take place on Monday morning. “The Dashami Puja will be completed by 8am and, between 10 and 10.30am, the immersion will take place in the tank, as we do every year. Then the idol frame is completely recycled,” managing committee member Prodip Ganguly said. The temple’s online Durga Puja has been watched worldwide and many residents, particularly senior citizens, have requested that this live-streaming and online pushpanjali should be carried out every year from now, Ganguly added. Mrinal Kanti Biswas, general secretary of Purbanchal Bangiyo Samiti — an umbrella body of Puja committees in east Delhi, said idols of 14 committees would be immersed at two locations on Monday, at Mayur Vihar Kali Bari and Purbasha Kali Bari in IP Extension. “We have arranged for five-foot-high metal tanks at both places and each committee will get 45 minutes to immerse their idol,” Biswas said, adding that not more than seven people would be allowed at the venue at a time. In a first-of-its-kind initiative, the clay from the idols that will be left after immersion will be put in pots and given to committee members along with small tulsi plants. The straw, wooden frame and other material will be taken away by East Delhi Municipal Corporation, he said. Abhijit Bose of Arambagh Puja Samiti said they would immerse the idol in plastic containers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-a-muted-sendoff-awaits-durga-today/articleshow/78865218.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 26, 2020||India||Try and topple my govt if you have the courage, Uddhav Thackeray dares BJP||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday launched a blistering attack on the BJP, questioning the Hindutva of “clanging bells and utensils”, and daring the Modi regime to topple his government.  “Since the day I became the CM, I have been hearing different dates on the toppling of my government. So far it hasn’t happened… if you have the courage… then go ahead and do it,” said Thackeray who heads a Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance in the state. He will complete a year in office on November 28. Thackeray was addressing the party’s annual Dussehra rally from the Veer Savarkar auditorium in Shivaji Park with limited attendance. The rally was shifted indoors keeping the Covid safety protocol in mind. In a no-holds-barred attack on the BJP in his Dussehra rally speech, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said at a time when the country was in the grips of a pandemic, “a peculiar thing is happening”, the Centre’s focus is on toppling governments in non-BJP ruled states. The nation is on the verge of chaos because of the BJP’s unbridled greed for power, he said, “They (the BJP) have been deceiving their partners. The NDA is finished. They talk of friendship and later stab their friends in the back. They will treat Nitish Kumar in a similar fashion after the assembly polls in Bihar.” The chief minister, targeted by the BJP for not re-opening places of worship, said Sena’s Hindutva was not confined to the symbolism of cymbals and lamps. “Trouncing terrorists is the Sena’s idea of Hindutva,” he declared. Thackeray quoted from Mohan Bhagwat’s Dussehra speech in which the RSS Sar Sanghchalak said praying in temples or performing poojas should not be equated with Hindutva. “All those writing letters to me should pay heed to Bhagwat first,” he said in a not-so-oblique reference to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s recent letter in which he questioned the Sena’s commitment to Hindutva while demanding that places of worship be re-opened. Thackeray also slammed the BJP over its free vaccine promise to people of Bihar if it retained power. “You are talking about giving free vaccines in Bihar. Is the rest of the country a part of Pakistan or Bangladesh?” Thackeray asked. Referring to the Sushant Singh Rajput case, Thackeray said that those “crying for justice for Bihar’s son” are “indulging in character assassination of Maharashtra’s son, (Aaditya Thackeray) and the Mumbai police.” “A lot of mudslinging was on the government, on our family and even on Aaditya. However, since we were clean we didn’t have to worry, but those indulging in these tricks stink of the cow’s urine,” said Thackeray. The CM said the Modi government hasn’t helped the state financially despite several natural disasters since June, and has also not paid Rs 38,000 crore worth of GST dues to the state. He urged CMs of all states to sink party differences and exert pressure on the Centre to undertake a comprehensive review of GST. “When they were introducing GST we were opposed to it. It is a flawed system. I appeal to CMs of other states to come ahead for a discussion on the issue. GST should be scrapped if it is not working, and the earlier tax collection system regime should be revived,” he said. Thackeray said in the recent past many have tried to defame the state and city. “Someone said Mumbai is like PoK… they come to Mumbai for work and then defame the city. This amounts to namak harami,” said Thackeray without naming Kangana Ranaut. “A narrative has been painted to show that the entire city and the state is a drug haven. Everyone here is a drug addict. Any attempt to defame Mumbai and the state will be dealt with strictly,” said Thackeray. Watch Dussehra speech: War of words between Uddhav and BJP in Maharashtra||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/those-crying-for-bihars-son-maligning-mahas-son-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/78864122.cms||Ambarish Mishra
October 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala agencies join Nasa, IIT-Bombay to tackle disasters||IDUKKI: As repeated floods hit Kerala, Centre for Water Resources Development and Management (CWRDM) and Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) is collaborating with IIT-Bombay and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) to monitor water levels in lakes, reservoirs, rivers and seas and develop an early warning system for floods and other natural disasters. According to officials, the upcoming mission known as surface water ocean topography (SWOT) was jointly developed by Nasa and the Centre National D’Etudes Spatiales (CNES) with contributions from Canadian Space Agency (CSA) and the United Kingdom Space Agency to estimate water levels from space using microwave sensors on-board the satellite. “The SWOT satellite is a research mission to monitor water levels of rivers, lakes, reservoirs and even seas and can develop advance warning system for flood and other natural disasters. If water levels in various water sources are known, mitigation plans can be made,” Prof K P Sudheer, executive vice-president, KSCSTE, told TOI. “If the satellite research mission’s data is implemented in Kerala we can avoid a repeat of the August 2018-kind causalities in the state. Flood water had caused largescale damage in the state. If we know the water levels, we can rehabilitate people and goods to safer places,” said Sudheer. Early adapters are expected to apply their own resources to demonstrate the utility of SWOT data for their particular system, model or application. The SWOT satellite research mission is planned for launch in the year 2022. SWOT systems will have applications in hydrology, oceanography, climate and weather forecast. Presently, there are nearly 20 EA (early adapters) groups across the world, who are part of SWOT EA activities. The collaborative work from IITBombay and CWRDM has been recently selected to be an EA group from India for establishing the first citizen science based study to monitor lake storage changes in selected regions of Kerala, said the official. IIT-Bombay professor Dr Indu J, CWRDM scientists Vivek B, Jainet P J and KSCSTE’s Prof Sudheer are lead partners of the satellite monitoring programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-agencies-join-nasa-iit-bombay-to-tackle-disasters/articleshow/78865401.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 26, 2020||---||NDA to win Bihar with 147 seats, BJP to be single largest party: Opinion poll||NEW DELHI: The BJP-JD(U) alliance is projected to win a comfortable majority in Bihar with 147 seats in the 243-member assembly, according to an opinion poll released by Times Now-CVoter on Sunday. The survey predicted that the BJP is likely to emerge as the single-largest party in the state with 77 seats while its ally JD(U) is projected to bag 66 seats. The other NDA allies are projected to get 7 seats.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The RJD-Congress led Mahagathbandan, on the other hand, is predicted to win 87 seats with the Tejashwi Yadav-led RJD winning 60 seats and the Congress claiming 16 seats. The other UPA allies are projected to bag 11 seats in the polls. The Chirag-Paswan led LJP is predicted to get 3 seats while other parties are projected to get 6, according to the survey. According to the opinion poll, the RJD will get the highest vote share of 24.1% compared to 18.8% in 2015 while the BJP's 2020 vote share is projected to come down to 21.6% from 25% in 2015. The JD(U) will see a slight increase in its vote share and will claim 18.3% of the votes in 2020 compared to 17.3% in 2015, as per the opinion poll. A party or an alliance needs 122 seats in the 243-seat assembly to secure a majority. The Times Now-C-Voter opinion poll covered all of Bihar's assembly segments (243) and surveyed 30,678 people. The survey was conducted from October 1 to 23. The Bihar legislative assembly election will be held in three phases from October 28 to November 7. The results will be announced on November 10.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The elections will be conducted amid the Covid-19 pandemic with the necessary guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India. In the NDA, Janata Dal (United) will contest 115 seats, while the BJP has fielded candidates on 110 seats. Lok Janshakti Party, which is in alliance with BJP at the Centre but is contesting the state polls alone, has given tickets to 143 candidates. On the other hand, in the grand alliance, RJD will contest 144 seats and the Congress has fielded candidates on 70 seats. Watch Bihar elections 2020: Times Now-CVoter opinion poll predicts NDA win||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-to-win-bihar-with-147-seats-bjp-to-be-single-largest-party-opinion-poll/articleshow/78861840.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||In 2020, homegrown US disinformation surpasses Russian effort||WASHINGTON: Russia's coordinated effort to nudge Americans toward voting for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election caught social media companies flat-footed and remains a stain on the reputation of Facebook in particular. Four years later, the FBI and other American security officials -- aware of interference but silent last time -- are warning that Russia and Iran are meddling. But Russia's actions -- special counsel Robert Mueller's report detailed the Kremlin's bias for Trump and antipathy toward Hillary Clinton in 2016 -- and those of other countries are only part of the disinformation problem. Americans are now playing the leading role, posting the bulk of false or misleading comments, memes, photographs and videos that are spread with the ease and speed of online distribution. And there are signs that it is out of control. "What the Russians did in 2016 was show a toolkit, where you could use deceptive actors online working in coordination with each other as a political tool," Joshua Tucker, a professor of politics and expert on data science and social media at New York University, told AFP. "There's been a fixation on foreign interference, but the people who really have an incentive to influence the outcome of an election are people who live in that country -- Americans." Facebook's latest report about inauthentic behavior confirms the trend. In the first week of October alone it took down 200 Facebook accounts, 55 Pages and 77 Instagram accounts that originated in the US. Copying the Russian tactics of 2016, the operators used stock profile photos and posed as right-leaning individuals across the United States. Some of the removed accounts were older, and had pretended to be left-leaning individuals around the 2018 US congressional elections. The overall effect was to sow political discord and undermine faith in the democratic process, just as Mueller's report last year said was Russia's overarching and continuing aim. The most egregious example disclosed by Facebook involved a US marketing firm that used teenagers in Arizona to post comments that were either pro-Trump or sympathetic to conservative causes, while also criticizing 2020 Democratic candidate Joe Biden. Research undertaken by Tucker and his colleagues shows that political partisanship -- heightened by social media algorithms that drive users to one side of a story -- means neither liberals or conservatives are good at sorting fact from fiction when challenged. As part of a third-party fact-checking relationship with Facebook, AFP has flagged thousands of false or misleading posts in the US. Some had been shared hundreds of thousands of times. User feedback shows that even verified facts are not accepted when they go against partisan political belief. Twitter is also removing impostor content. One such account featuring the image of a Black police officer, Trump and the slogan "VOTE REPUBLICAN" gained 24,000 followers earlier this month despite tweeting only eight times. Its most popular tweet was liked 75,000 times before the account was removed for breaking the platform's rules against manipulation. But social media researchers say the detection of such accounts are the exception rather than the norm. Professor Russell Muirhead, co-author of "A Lot Of People Are Saying," a title that plays on words often used by Trump to promote unproven theories, said US disinformation has evolved rapidly since 2016. Referring to Pizzagate, the false claim that top Democrats ran a child sex trafficking ring from a Washington, DC pizza restaurant, Muirhead said political debate has been poisoned. "This story, with no basis whatsoever, purports to show Hillary Clinton as a concentration of pure evil," said Muirhead, who teaches politics and political science at Dartmouth College. "How do you make politics with such a person? You can't, so you have to make war. That story told Trump supporters that in a political context you are engaged in a war with someone who should be locked up." In this election cycle, Pizzagate has metastasized and been succeeded by the QAnon conspiracy theory, which claims that Trump is locked in a struggle with Democratic and Hollywood elites who practice child sex trafficking and cannibalism. Its adherents are taking aim at Biden. "QAnon is now painting Joe Biden not as a legitimate opponent but as part of this team of globalists who are intent on destroying America, not to be argued with but to be eliminated," said Muirhead. The most immediate disinformation risk to the 2020 vote, however, according to Tucker, is Trump's repeated claims that the use of mail-in ballots will lead to fraud and a "rigged" election. He made the same claims in 2016. Subsequent investigations showed no evidence of widespread fraud. "This is disinformation," said the NYU's Tucker. "There are problems with people not filling out their ballots correctly, there's problems with people getting their ballots late, but there is no evidence to suggest that there has been wide-scale fraud. "Who needs the Russians running around casting doubt on the integrity of the democratic process when the president of the United States is doing it?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-2020-homegrown-us-disinformation-surpasses-russian-effort/articleshow/78865471.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||In 2020, homegrown US disinformation surpasses Russian effort||WASHINGTON: Russia's coordinated effort to nudge Americans toward voting for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election caught social media companies flat-footed and remains a stain on the reputation of Facebook in particular. Four years later, the FBI and other American security officials -- aware of interference but silent last time -- are warning that Russia and Iran are meddling. But Russia's actions -- special counsel Robert Mueller's report detailed the Kremlin's bias for Trump and antipathy toward Hillary Clinton in 2016 -- and those of other countries are only part of the disinformation problem. Americans are now playing the leading role, posting the bulk of false or misleading comments, memes, photographs and videos that are spread with the ease and speed of online distribution. And there are signs that it is out of control. "What the Russians did in 2016 was show a toolkit, where you could use deceptive actors online working in coordination with each other as a political tool," Joshua Tucker, a professor of politics and expert on data science and social media at New York University, told AFP. "There's been a fixation on foreign interference, but the people who really have an incentive to influence the outcome of an election are people who live in that country -- Americans." Facebook's latest report about inauthentic behavior confirms the trend. In the first week of October alone it took down 200 Facebook accounts, 55 Pages and 77 Instagram accounts that originated in the US. Copying the Russian tactics of 2016, the operators used stock profile photos and posed as right-leaning individuals across the United States. Some of the removed accounts were older, and had pretended to be left-leaning individuals around the 2018 US congressional elections. The overall effect was to sow political discord and undermine faith in the democratic process, just as Mueller's report last year said was Russia's overarching and continuing aim. The most egregious example disclosed by Facebook involved a US marketing firm that used teenagers in Arizona to post comments that were either pro-Trump or sympathetic to conservative causes, while also criticizing 2020 Democratic candidate Joe Biden. Research undertaken by Tucker and his colleagues shows that political partisanship -- heightened by social media algorithms that drive users to one side of a story -- means neither liberals or conservatives are good at sorting fact from fiction when challenged. As part of a third-party fact-checking relationship with Facebook, AFP has flagged thousands of false or misleading posts in the US. Some had been shared hundreds of thousands of times. User feedback shows that even verified facts are not accepted when they go against partisan political belief. Twitter is also removing impostor content. One such account featuring the image of a Black police officer, Trump and the slogan "VOTE REPUBLICAN" gained 24,000 followers earlier this month despite tweeting only eight times. Its most popular tweet was liked 75,000 times before the account was removed for breaking the platform's rules against manipulation. But social media researchers say the detection of such accounts are the exception rather than the norm. Professor Russell Muirhead, co-author of "A Lot Of People Are Saying," a title that plays on words often used by Trump to promote unproven theories, said US disinformation has evolved rapidly since 2016. Referring to Pizzagate, the false claim that top Democrats ran a child sex trafficking ring from a Washington, DC pizza restaurant, Muirhead said political debate has been poisoned. "This story, with no basis whatsoever, purports to show Hillary Clinton as a concentration of pure evil," said Muirhead, who teaches politics and political science at Dartmouth College. "How do you make politics with such a person? You can't, so you have to make war. That story told Trump supporters that in a political context you are engaged in a war with someone who should be locked up." In this election cycle, Pizzagate has metastasized and been succeeded by the QAnon conspiracy theory, which claims that Trump is locked in a struggle with Democratic and Hollywood elites who practice child sex trafficking and cannibalism. Its adherents are taking aim at Biden. "QAnon is now painting Joe Biden not as a legitimate opponent but as part of this team of globalists who are intent on destroying America, not to be argued with but to be eliminated," said Muirhead. The most immediate disinformation risk to the 2020 vote, however, according to Tucker, is Trump's repeated claims that the use of mail-in ballots will lead to fraud and a "rigged" election. He made the same claims in 2016. Subsequent investigations showed no evidence of widespread fraud. "This is disinformation," said the NYU's Tucker. "There are problems with people not filling out their ballots correctly, there's problems with people getting their ballots late, but there is no evidence to suggest that there has been wide-scale fraud. "Who needs the Russians running around casting doubt on the integrity of the democratic process when the president of the United States is doing it?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/in-2020-homegrown-us-disinformation-surpasses-russian-effort/articleshow/78865470.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Despite setbacks, Russia still leans towards Trump: Analysts||MOSCOW: Despite failing to realise the Kremlin's hopes of spearheading a new era in US-Russia ties, President Donald Trump is still Moscow's preferred candidate in the US election over his rival Joe Biden, analysts say. Russia had high hopes for Trump when he was elected in 2016, at a time its relations with the West were swiftly deteriorating under the presidency of Barack Obama. According to US intelligence, Moscow went as far as boosting Trump's campaign, in particular by launching hacking attacks against the Democratic Party. And on Wednesday, the US director of national intelligence accused Russia and Iran of obtaining US voter information and taking actions to influence public opinion in next month's vote -- accusations the Kremlin dismissed as "completely groundless." At a summit meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki in 2018, Trump had raised eyebrows by denying outright Russian election interference, saying, "I don't see any reason why it would be" by Moscow. But Trump "was not the president to break the impasse in Russian-American relations", said Maria Lipman of the Ponars Eurasia research centre. Not only did the question of Russian interference always loom over Trump's presidency, the two countries also accumulated disagreements on several global issues. Washington has stepped up its military deployment in Syria after tensions with Russia, which is the main backer of the regime of President Bashar al-Assad. The United States also withdrew from two major international accords -- the Iran nuclear deal and the Open Skies treaty -- and pulled out from a centrepiece arms control agreement with Russia, the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty. Moreover, Washington imposed sanctions on companies involved in the construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, a joint venture between Russia and Germany, and stepped up sanctions targeting allies of Moscow, including Venezuela and the ex-Soviet republic of Belarus. The 2018 poisoning of former intelligence officer Sergei Skripal in Britain led to the biggest mutual expulsion of Russian and US diplomats since the Cold War. At the Helsinki summit, Putin famously admitted that he had "wanted" Trump to win the 2016 election. But in an interview with Russian TV in early October, Putin complained that since the start of the Trump administration, Russia has been targeted by sanctions 46 times. This includes the imposing of new sanctions or the expansion of already existing measures. "You have to look at things objectively," he said, "the intentions President Trump spoke of earlier have not come true". But analysts warn Moscow could face an even tougher ride under a Biden presidency. "After the usual rhetoric of the Democrats, which everybody heard in the past four years, it would be logical if they demanded tougher sanctions," said Alexander Baunov of the Carnegie Centre in Moscow. In a sign however that Moscow could be preparing for a possible Biden victory, Putin unexpectedly paid tribute to the Democratic Party, which he said shared the same left-wing values that he had grown up with as member of the Communist Party in the USSR. He even praised "candidate Biden", because he was in favour of extending a landmark nuclear treaty. Analyst Alexander Shumilin of the Russian Academy of Sciences described the comments as opportunistic. "He saw that he (Biden) had better polls," Shumilin said. For Shumilin, Trump remained the Kremlin's favoured candidate as the US president has shown that "he is not ready to strengthen sanctions and even tried to soften them". Trump is not the only factor. The US Congress -- where the Democrats have the majority -- has also been making life difficult for the Kremlin by imposing sanctions. In the end, "Trump or Biden -- I don't think there is a favourable prospect for Russia," said Lipman. This was echoed by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in an interview with Russian-language TV channel RTVI: "We realise that there will be no major changes in our current relations either with the Democrats or with the Republicans." Moscow could benefit from a political crisis in the US, for example in the event of Trump refusing to accept the result, something he has repeatedly evoked. This scenario was also mentioned by Lavrov. "We would not like to see such a leading global power, like the United States, fall into a deep crisis if new disturbances are added to the current manifestations of violence and racism," he said, quoted by TASS news agency. For Lipman, "post-election chaos" has great appeal for the Kremlin. "The United States will be focused on its own affairs and not on Russia. And (Moscow) will make use of this".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/despite-setbacks-russia-still-leans-towards-trump-analysts/articleshow/78865523.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Despite setbacks, Russia still leans towards Trump: Analysts||MOSCOW: Despite failing to realise the Kremlin's hopes of spearheading a new era in US-Russia ties, President Donald Trump is still Moscow's preferred candidate in the US election over his rival Joe Biden, analysts say. Russia had high hopes for Trump when he was elected in 2016, at a time its relations with the West were swiftly deteriorating under the presidency of Barack Obama. According to US intelligence, Moscow went as far as boosting Trump's campaign, in particular by launching hacking attacks against the Democratic Party. And on Wednesday, the US director of national intelligence accused Russia and Iran of obtaining US voter information and taking actions to influence public opinion in next month's vote -- accusations the Kremlin dismissed as "completely groundless." At a summit meeting with President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki in 2018, Trump had raised eyebrows by denying outright Russian election interference, saying, "I don't see any reason why it would be" by Moscow. But Trump "was not the president to break the impasse in Russian-American relations", said Maria Lipman of the Ponars Eurasia research centre. Not only did the question of Russian interference always loom over Trump's presidency, the two countries also accumulated disagreements on several global issues. Washington has stepped up its military deployment in Syria after tensions with Russia, which is the main backer of the regime of President Bashar al-Assad. The United States also withdrew from two major international accords -- the Iran nuclear deal and the Open Skies treaty -- and pulled out from a centrepiece arms control agreement with Russia, the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty. Moreover, Washington imposed sanctions on companies involved in the construction of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline, a joint venture between Russia and Germany, and stepped up sanctions targeting allies of Moscow, including Venezuela and the ex-Soviet republic of Belarus. The 2018 poisoning of former intelligence officer Sergei Skripal in Britain led to the biggest mutual expulsion of Russian and US diplomats since the Cold War. At the Helsinki summit, Putin famously admitted that he had "wanted" Trump to win the 2016 election. But in an interview with Russian TV in early October, Putin complained that since the start of the Trump administration, Russia has been targeted by sanctions 46 times. This includes the imposing of new sanctions or the expansion of already existing measures. "You have to look at things objectively," he said, "the intentions President Trump spoke of earlier have not come true". But analysts warn Moscow could face an even tougher ride under a Biden presidency. "After the usual rhetoric of the Democrats, which everybody heard in the past four years, it would be logical if they demanded tougher sanctions," said Alexander Baunov of the Carnegie Centre in Moscow. In a sign however that Moscow could be preparing for a possible Biden victory, Putin unexpectedly paid tribute to the Democratic Party, which he said shared the same left-wing values that he had grown up with as member of the Communist Party in the USSR. He even praised "candidate Biden", because he was in favour of extending a landmark nuclear treaty. Analyst Alexander Shumilin of the Russian Academy of Sciences described the comments as opportunistic. "He saw that he (Biden) had better polls," Shumilin said. For Shumilin, Trump remained the Kremlin's favoured candidate as the US president has shown that "he is not ready to strengthen sanctions and even tried to soften them". Trump is not the only factor. The US Congress -- where the Democrats have the majority -- has also been making life difficult for the Kremlin by imposing sanctions. In the end, "Trump or Biden -- I don't think there is a favourable prospect for Russia," said Lipman. This was echoed by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in an interview with Russian-language TV channel RTVI: "We realise that there will be no major changes in our current relations either with the Democrats or with the Republicans." Moscow could benefit from a political crisis in the US, for example in the event of Trump refusing to accept the result, something he has repeatedly evoked. This scenario was also mentioned by Lavrov. "We would not like to see such a leading global power, like the United States, fall into a deep crisis if new disturbances are added to the current manifestations of violence and racism," he said, quoted by TASS news agency. For Lipman, "post-election chaos" has great appeal for the Kremlin. "The United States will be focused on its own affairs and not on Russia. And (Moscow) will make use of this".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/despite-setbacks-russia-still-leans-towards-trump-analysts/articleshow/78865524.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Muslim leaders meet in Panakkad to chalk out protests||KOZHIKODE: Meeting of the leaders of various Muslim organizations held at Panakkad in Malappuram on Sunday decided to launch a joint agitation against the reservation for the forward castes with the cooperation of likeminded organizations. Talking to reporters after the meeting, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty, MP, said the reservation announced by the state government would have far-reaching consequences. The decision was taken without any proper study at any level, he said. The effect was visible in the lists of medical, engineering and higher secondary admission, Kunhalikutty said. The decision was taken even while cases regarding economic reservation are pending in court. It will adversely affect Muslims, Dalits and other backward classes, he said. A meeting of like-minded organizations will be held in Kochi on October 28 to decide the future course of action. The meeting also expressed concern over the government’s refusal to amend the Covid-19 protocol to enable cleaning of dead bodies of patients who died of the virus. Muslim organizations had submitted a joint memorandum to the government raising the demand. But the provision to clean the dead bodies is not in the renewed guidelines of the government. Kunhalikutty said the meeting also objected to the move of the central government to raise women’s legal age for marriage from the existing 18 years to 21years. IUML state president Panakkad Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal, MP E T Muhammad Basheer, IUML state general secretary K P A Majeed, Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema general secretary KAlikutty Musaliar, leader of the Kanthapuram faction of Sunnis Muhammad Ibrahim, representative of KNM, KNM-Markazudawa, Wisdom Islamic Organisation, MSS, MES and others attended the meeting. Meanwhile, a meeting of the Samastha held in Kozhikode on Sunday constituted a sub-committee to coordinate with like-minded organizations to launch a joint struggle against economic reservation. Musthafa Mundupara is the convener of the committee. The meeting also condemned the move to raise the legal age limit of marriage for girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/muslim-leaders-meet-at-panakkad-to-chalk-out-protests/articleshow/78865537.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur: Trolling for a green cause||KOZHIKODE: Hilarious troll memes are being put to good use by a Kannur-based environment organization to spread awareness about wildlife and conservation. The results of the ‘Troll competition-Wildlife Humour’ held as part of the Wildlife Week celebrations by Malabar Awareness and Rescue Centre for Wildlife (MARC) became a successful experiment in promoting conservation and changing attitudes of people to wildlife and nature. The award-winning entry uses the popular meme involving actor Thilakan’s movie character Ananthan Nambiar’s dialogue ‘Oh My God’ to introduce the peculiar behavior of common Kerala bird ‘Red-wattled Lapwing’ of raising screeching calls and mimicking injury to distract predators from its nest. Dr Muhammer Sayeer P K won the first prize in the troll competition. The second and third prizes were won by Hari Prasad for his meme on various actions to be taken when you encounter a snake in a dangerous situation using images from various movie situations. The third prize was shared by Yadu Prasad and Nihal Jabin. Prasad won the prize for presenting the brood parasitism by Pied Cuckoo on Yellow- billed Babbler. The Pied Cuckoos foist their eggs into the nests of Yellow- billed Babbler which incubate them and foster the young cuckoos. Jabin’s meme was on a how to distinguish between Roux’s forest lizard and Elliot’s forest lizardwho have a similar appearance. “We thought of conducting the competition with the aim to use the popularity of memes to spread scientific awareness about wildlife. Our first attempt has been a success going by the response,” said Roshnath Ramesh, wildlife biologist and researcher and secretary of MARC. Ornithologist C Shashikumar, who was a member of the judging panel, said that the troll entries were judged on scientific facts, sense of humour and presentation of the facts, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kannur-trolling-for-a-green-cause/articleshow/78865562.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Pakistani PM asks Facebook CEO to ban Islamophobic content||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's prime minister has appealed to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg to ban Islamophobic content on the site, warning of an increase in radicalisation amongst Muslims, the government said on Sunday. In a letter, which the Pakistani government posted on Twitter, Imran Khan said that "growing Islamophobia" was encouraging extremism and violence across the world, especially through social media platforms such as Facebook. "I would ask you to place a similar ban on Islamophobia and hate against Islam for Facebook that you have put in place for the Holocaust," Khan said. Facebook said this month it was updating its hate speech policy to ban any content that denied or distorted the Holocaust. "One cannot send a message that while hate messages against some are unacceptable, these are acceptable against others," Khan said, adding that this was "reflective of prejudice and bias that will encourage further radicalisation". In response to Khan's appeal, a Facebook spokeswoman told Reuters the company was against all forms of hate and that it did not allow attacks based on race, ethnicity, national origin or religion. "We'll remove this hate speech as soon as we become aware of it," the spokeswoman said in an emailed statement, adding that the company had "more work to do". Khan, in his letter, referred to the situation in France, where, he said, Islam was being associated with terrorism. Earlier on Sunday, Khan said that French President Emmanuel Macron had "attacked Islam" by encouraging the display of cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammad. Khan's comments came after Macron paid tribute to a French history teacher beheaded by an Islamist radical who wanted to avenge the use of cartoons depicting the Prophet Mohammad in a class on freedom of expression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistani-pm-asks-facebook-ceo-to-ban-islamophobic-content/articleshow/78865579.cms||---
October 26, 2020||---||Campaigning for first phase of Bihar elections to end today||PATNA: The campaigning for the first phase of the high-decibel Bihar assembly elections will end on Monday (today) evening.  The ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA), comprising, among others, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal(United), is up against the opposition 'Mahagathbandhan,' comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and Left parties.  Top leaders of both the alliances are making a last-ditch effort to woo the voters as only one day is left for campaigning for the first phase of elections. Political bigwigs Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also addressed rallies on Friday.  Chief Minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar is the NDA's chief ministerial face and is engaged in holding rallies one after the another.  Several big leaders including BJP national president JP Nadda, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan will hold election rallies today, in favour of their party and allies candidates.  A total of 71 assembly constituencies spread over 16 districts will go to polls in the first phase of elections on October 28 and 31,000 polling station have been established.  As per the Election Commission, in the first phase of elections, the fate of 1,066 candidates will be decided by 2,14,6,960 voters. Security has been tightened in Naxal-affected areas.  According to the commission, the State will vote in 3 phases--On October 28, November 3, November 7 and the results will be announced on November 10.  In the past week, the parties released their manifestos and sharpened their attacks on rival parties. While BJP and JD (U) leaders are attacking RJD for its "Jungle-Raaj" (Lawlessness) in their past tenure, RJD leaders constantly pitching their pre-poll promise of providing 10 lakh jobs to youths.  Chirag Paswan, chief of the LJP--a former ally of the NDA--has been vocal in his criticism of Kumar, who is the chief ministerial candidate of the NDA. He has, however, pledged support to the Prime Minister, calling himself as "Modi's Hanuman".  Tejashwi Yadav has been constantly attacking and ridiculing the Chief Minister for being "physically and mentally tired".  Prime Minister Narendra Modi made a strong attack on RJD and its allies in Bihar and promoted NDA government's achievements including abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the law against instant triple talaq.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the NDA led governments at the centre and the state over unemployment, transgressions by China in eastern Ladakh and said that people of the state were yearning for a change and also alleged that the government is working for the benefit of select industrialists.  BJP is in alliance with JDU in the state and hopes to return to power in Bihar under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. The NDA is in direct contest with coalition comprising of RJD, Congress and left parties.  In 2015 Assembly polls, Nitish Kumar was the Chief Ministerial face of the Mahagathbandhan as JDU had parted ways with the NDA. However, in 2017 Nitish had returned to the NDA fold.  In 2015, RJD and JDU fought the election together as part of the Mahagathbandhan and won 178 constituencies out of the total 243. However, differences emerged between the RJD and the JD(U) and the latter ended its association with the grand alliance after 20 months. It came back to the NDA fold in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/campaigning-for-first-phase-of-bihar-elections-to-end-today/articleshow/78865668.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Tanzania: Five years under 'Bulldozer' Magufuli||DAR ES SALAAM: Tanzanian President John Magufuli, 61, came to power in 2015 as a corruption-busting man of the people, cracking the whip as promised in his first term but raising alarm with a slide into authoritarianism. After his October election Magufuli quickly gets to work with wildly popular decisions, such as scrapping lavish independence day celebrations in favour of a street clean-up. He bans unnecessary foreign travel for government officials. Dozens implicated in corruption are suspended. A Twitter hashtag #WhatWouldMagufuliDo spreads across the continent, where many tired of corruption scandals, ineffective civil services and wasteful government spending became enamoured with Magufuli's style. Opposition leaders accuse Magufuli of squeezing democratic space after he bans political rallies and halts live coverage of parliament sessions. In mid-2016 authorities began what Human Rights Watch called an "unprecedented crackdown" on the rights of the LGBT community, with a rise in arrests, threats, and the shutting of clinics providing AIDS-related services. In November, the country passes the Media Services Act, with tough penalties for offences such as defamation, sedition and publishing false statements. In December Maxence Melo, co-founder of the Jamii Forums whistleblowing website is arrested after he refused to comply with the 2015 CyberCrimes Act requiring him to reveal the site's contributors. A government commission says fraud in the mining sector has cost Tanzania $84 billion (75 billion euros) over 19 years, blaming foreign companies for failing to declare revenues. Tanzania accuses gold mining company Acacia Mining, owned by Canada's Barrick Gold, of owing $190 billion in unpaid taxes and shuts down its right to export gold ore concentrate. Tanzania and Barrick later agree to a $300 million payment to resolve the tax claims. In July, Tanzania passes new mining laws giving the state 16 percent of equity in mining projects, allowing it to renegotiate contracts and increasing royalties on exports of gold, copper, silver, platinum and uranium. Magufuli orders the army to build a wall around the country's tanzanite mines to prevent smuggling and better control exports of the unique blue and violet gems. In September, after a total of six arrests in 2017, current presidential candidate for the opposition Chadema Tundu Lissu is shot 16 times in what his party says in an assassination attempt. The country's Catholic Church accuses Magufuli of violating democratic norms. The European Union and United States issue statements criticising attacks on civil liberties and human rights. Denmark announces the withdrawal of $10 million in aid owing to "unacceptable homophobic remarks". One local leader from opposition party Chadema is found beaten to death, while another is found hacked to death at his home. A female university student is shot dead as police disperse an opposition protest. In March, an online content law imposes a stiff fee on bloggers and imposes fines for content considered "indecent, obscene (or) hate speech", or even just for causing "annoyance". In July Magufuli vows his ruling party will be "in power forever, for eternity". In August, journalist Erick Kabendera is arrested. He is initially detained for questioning over his citizenship, then charged with publishing "false and seditious information". These charges are then replaced with tax evasion and money laundering. He is freed seven months later after pleading guilty. In November, Magufuli's ruling party wins local elections with 99 percent after an opposition boycott. Rights activist Tito Magoti is arrested and charged with money laundering. In March Tanzania confirms its first case of the coronavirus. In April, Magufuli calls for three days of prayer, urging citizens to "continue praying to God and not depending on facemasks." As cases shoot up at one of the fastest rates in East Africa, Magufuli accuses the health ministry of "creating panic" and April 29 becomes the last time the country gives official case numbers. Chadema chairman Freeman Mbowe slams a "state of denial" in government. On May 1, Chadema asks its MPs to stop attending parliament sessions and isolate themselves after three lawmakers die of unknown causes. Magufuli questions official Covid-19 data, saying he had secretly had animals, fruits and vehicle oil tested at the laboratory, some of which test positive. Senior laboratory officials are suspended. Tanzania objects to a US embassy health advisory warning that hospitals are overwhelmed. By July Magufuli is insisting there is no more Covid-19 in the country. In June, Mbowe is hospitalised after being beaten up, and his leg broken, in what his party claimed was a "politically-motivated" attack. The US accuses Tanzania of seeking to "stifle democratic norms" ahead of general elections, after the arrests of opposition members and the closure of a newspaper. In July, Magufuli is nominated to seek re-election. Lissu returns from three years in exile, having recovered, to run for president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/tanzania-five-years-under-bulldozer-magufuli/articleshow/78865681.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||12,983 departures per week finalised covering 95 airports for domestic winter schedule: DGCA||NEW DELHI: As many as 12,983 departures per week have been finalised covering 95 airports for the domestic winter schedule effective from 25 October 2020 to 27 March 2021, down by 44.3 per cent from 23,307 departures per week in winter 2019-20, said Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DCGA). The schedule is approved for Indian scheduled operators 60 per cent of the capacity as directed by MoCA. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the scheduled domestic operations were suspended from25th March till 25th May 2020. The scheduled operations were started in a phased manner since May 25, 2020. Initially,the airlines were allowed to operate 1/3rd (33 per cent) of their capacity on domestic sectors. At present, airlines have been allowed to operate up to 60 per cent of the available capacity during Summer Schedule 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/12983-departures-per-week-finalised-covering-95-airports-for-domestic-winter-schedule-dgca/articleshow/78865552.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Xi Jinping's carbon neutrality vow to reshape China's five-year plan||BEIJING/SHANGHAI: Chinese leaders will discuss ambitious new measures to tackle climate change on Monday at a government plenum to finalise a new five-year national development plan, after Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged to make the country "carbon neutral" by 2060. Policymakers are under pressure to include radical climate targets in the new 2021-2025 "five-year plan", with the COVID-hit economy weighing on their decisions. Government departments drawing up the document were scheduled to complete the first draft by April, but Xi's announcement to the United Nations that the country will offset all its emissions within 40 years meant they must integrate the new climate goals. Xie Zhenhua, formerly China's top climate official and now advisor to the environment ministry, told Reuters that while the new targets were "based on ample research and calculation", everyone would now have to make adjustments. Before September, few expected China to promise more ambitious curbs on climate-warming greenhouse gases over the next five years, with policy documents signalling Beijing's intent to make energy security and the economy its top priorities. It was also expected to go on a new coal-fired power construction spree, but government scholars have been forced to revise their old drafts. "Right now every level of government is busy working on the 14th Five-Year Plan," said Kevin Lo, Associate Director at the David C. Lam Institute for East-West Studies in Hong Kong, who studies China's environmental policies. "The understanding is that there is no time to waste if China is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060." Experts say China needs to bring the share of coal in its total energy mix from 58% last year to less than 50% by 2025, and provide enhanced support for technology like carbon capture. It could start by setting an absolute emissions cap for the first time, said Zou Ji, head of the Energy Foundation China, which has been involved in five-year plan research. "Our recommendation is to establish a target to control total carbon emissions (by 2025)," he said at a conference last week. NOT A "SIDE ISSUE"Since 2019, China made energy security a major priority, with the government supporting an increase in fossil fuel output and reviving coal-fired power projects. Beijing also bet on new infrastructure to drive its economic recovery, and official data showed a spike in demand for energy-intensive products like steel and cement. But China now has to rethink its plans, government researchers said. He Jiankun, vice director of the National Expert Committee on Climate Change, said Beijing must cap emissions and even achieve "negative growth" in coal consumption by 2025. China would need to stop building and financing all new coal-fired plants, Zou said, a move that would affect 300 GW now in the pipeline. In comments circulated on social media, Li Tianxiao of the Development Research Center, a cabinet think tank, predicted China would need to double wind and solar capacity to around 500 GW each by 2025. China has little time to spare. Consultancy Wood Mackenzie said solar, wind and storage capacities would have to rise 11 times by 2050, while coal-fired power must halve. "The most challenging part of the shift is not the investment or magnitude of renewable capacity additions but the social transition that comes with it," said Wood Mackenzie analyst Prakash Sharma. Zou said Xi's announcement put climate firmly at the heart of China's entire economic and political strategy, and China's entire economic structure now faced "systematic change". "Climate will never be a side issue," he said. "Its position is much, much higher than before." (Reporting by Muyu Xu and David Stanway; Editing by Michael Perry)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/xi-jinpings-carbon-neutrality-vow-to-reshape-chinas-five-year-plan/articleshow/78865723.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University to hold special exams for Covid-affected students||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University (GU) will hold another round of annual college exams from October 26 to November 5 in which about 825 candidates have been registered. Despite such a low number of candidates, 23 different faculties will have to prepare question papers in 350 subjects, said GU sources. The results of the examinations are expected to be declared by the end of November. After holding online and offline rounds of exams, the varsity is conducting the new round for candidates who could not take the exam as they or their near ones were infected with Covid-19 or they lived in containment zones and were not able to travel for the exams, said GU sources. Earlier, Gujarat University held online exams for 19 courses including BCA, BBA, MCom and LLB in which more than 3,000 students had registered. These exams were held from September 30 to October 8. After completion of the first phase of online exam, the second round of online exams was held from October 10. In both the online rounds, a total of 6,000 students had registered. The offline (pen and paper) mode exam was held earlier in two phases. As a result, a large number of students had participated in the annual college exams, leaving very few for the online mode test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-hold-special-exams-for-covid-affected-students/articleshow/78865745.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Malaysia's PM faces calls to quit after failed bid for emergency rule||KUALA LUMPUR: Malaysian Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin faced calls to resign on Monday as doubts swirled over the support that he commands, after the king rejected his request to declare a state of emergency to fight the coronavirus epidemic. Muhyiddin had requested emergency rule amid a fresh spike in infections in Malaysia and global pandemic that has battered the economy. But critics accused him of using seeking a pretext to suspend parliament and avoid a test of his razor-thin parliamentary majority. King Al-Sultan Abdullah's refusal is seen further eroding Muhyiddin's grip on power, a month after opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim said he has majority support in parliament, including from defectors from the ruling alliance, to form a new government. Turning down Muhyiddin's request on Sunday, the king also asked politicians to end any politicking that could destabilise a government that he said has handled the pandemic well. But leaders of other parties in Muhyiddin's coalition and the opposition criticised his move to seek emergency powers and called on him to step down after the bid failed. "Thankfully, His Majesty the King was not influenced by the political game that could drag the country into more critical territory," said Ahmad Puad Zarkashi, a senior leader in the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) - the largest party in the ruling coalition - said in a post on Facebook. "The people's wellbeing is more important. By right, Muhyiddin should step down," Ahmad Puad said. Opposition lawmaker Wong Chen said Muhyiddin's "malicious" proposal was rightfully rejected by the king, and that the premier should resign or fire ministers who proposed the emergency. Muhyiddin is holding a cabinet meeting on Monday that is scheduled to start at 11:30 a.m. (0330 GMT). In a statement on Sunday, the premier said the cabinet would discuss the king's rejection of his request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/malaysias-pm-faces-calls-to-quit-after-failed-bid-for-emergency-rule/articleshow/78865762.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Strike leaves Chandigarh stinking as garbage piles up in sectors||CHANDIGARH: The recent strike by the garbage collectors has come as a problem for residents. Residents allege that they are at the receiving end and suffer due to the tussle between the garbage collectors and the officials of the municipal corporation. Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (Crawfed) president Hitesh Puri said, “Residents are made to suffer every time and the municipal corporation is not dealing with the issue properly. The garbage collectors are not coming and people are dumping the waste on the roads as well as in the city parks. If this continues, Crawfed will boycott the municipal corporation.” The Safai Karamchari Union of the municipal corporation (MC) began an indefinite strike on Friday, protesting the tagging of sanitation workers with GPS-enabled watches. They have refused to clean streets. They were later joined by the door-to-door garbage collectors as they opposed the MC’s decision on collecting garbage in trucks. Supriya Goel, Resident Welfare Association of Sector 28, said, “Why is the common man made to suffer due to a tussle between the workers and the municipal corporation? I am segregating my house waste as well as recycling it from the past many years, but not everyone is aware of this. We are motivating the residents in our area to recycle the waste.” President of the Resident Welfare Association of Sector 38 (West) Pankaj Gupta said, “Garbage is piling up in the sectors and even the government garbage bins are full.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/strike-leaves-chandigarh-stinking-as-garbage-piles-up-in-sectors/articleshow/78865765.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||South Korea urges people to get flu vaccinations despite death tolls||SEOUL: South Korea urged citizens to get vaccinated against influenza and reduce the chances of an outbreak that coincides with the battle on the coronavirus, as it kicked off free inoculations for the last eligible group. Public anxiety over the safety of flu vaccines has surged after at least 48 people died this month following vaccinations, while, last month, about 5 million doses had to be disposed of after not being stored at recommended temperatures. Authorities have said they found no direct link between the deaths and the flu shots and have sought to reassure South Koreans about the safety of the vaccines against flu, a disease that kills at least 3,000 each year. "Vaccination offers far greater benefits compared to side effects, and both the WHO and domestic and overseas experts agree," Health Minister Park Neung-hoo told a briefing on Sunday, in a reference to the World Health Organization. Last year, more than 1,500 elderly people died within seven days of receiving flu vaccines, but those deaths were not linked to the vaccinations, the government said. As South Korea presses on with its inoculations, southeast Asia's tiny city state of Singapore became one of the first nations this week to call a temporary halt to the use of two influenza vaccines, as a precaution. Singapore has reported no deaths linked to flu vaccinations. South Korea ordered 20% more flu vaccines this year to ward off the prospect of what it calls a "twindemic" of concurrent major flu and coronavirus outbreaks in winter. At least 1,154 instances of adverse reactions have been reported from among more than 9.4 million people inoculated since the effort began in September. (Interactive graphic tracking global spread of coronavirus: https://graphics.reuters.com/world-coronavirus-tracker-and-maps/)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-korea-urges-people-to-get-flu-vaccinations-despite-death-tolls/articleshow/78865802.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Dehradun||18 cops face action over illegal mining in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: Udham Singh Nagar's senior superintendent of police Daleep Singh Kunwar suspended the whole staff of Bannakhera police outpost and sent 8 cops from Majhola police outpost to police lines on Sunday night after it was found that illegal mining of river sand was rampant in these areas. SSP Kunwar said the action was taken in the wake of the fact that these cops failed to curb the illegal mining. "This is a sheer dereliction of duty. The illegal mining was unnoticed by the police personnel. There were complaints that reached us and hence the situation was being monitored. After it was established that illegal mining was going on in these areas despite no issuance of mining lease, the cops were punished," SSP Kunwar said. The order which came on Sunday night says that the Bannakhera outpost incharge, Satyendra Butola, and 9 other constables posted here are suspended as it was found that they forewent legal action against the miners. Their roles were dubious and malign. On the similar lines, the Majhola outpost incharge, Devendra Rajput, along with 7 other cops was sent packing to police lines at the district headquarters, after accusations of neglecting illegal mining were levelled against them. Meanwhile, sub-inspectors Anil Joshi and Jagat Singh Shahi were appointed new incharges of Bannakhera and Majhola police outposts respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/18-cops-face-action-over-illegal-mining-in-us-nagar/articleshow/78865769.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 26, 2020||World||2/3rds of Chilean voters back rewriting their constitution||SANTIAGO: Amid a year of contagion and turmoil, Chileans turned out Sunday to vote strongly in favor of having a constitutional convention draft a new charter to replace guiding principles imposed four decades ago under a military dictatorship.  The country's conservative government had agreed with the center-left opposition to allow the plebiscite after the outbreak of vast street protests that erupted a year ago in frustration over inequality in pensions, education and health care in what has long been one of South America's most developed nations.  The Electoral Service said Sunday night that with 90% of polling stations reporting 6.8 million votes, 78% ballots favored drawing up a new constitution, while 21% were opposed. About 79% supported having the charter be drafted by a convention of 155 elected citizens rather than a convention with half its members elected citizens and half members of congress.  Recent opinion polls had indicated heavy backing for a new constitution despite opposition from conservative groups, and center-right President Sebastian Pinera had said after voting that he assumed the measure would be approved.  "I believe the immense majority of Chileans want to change, modify our constitution," he said.  The special convention would begin drafting a new constitution that would be submitted to voters in mid-2022.  Chile's current constitution was drafted by the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, and was sent to voters at a time where political parties had been banned and the country was subject to heavy censorship.  It was approved by a 66%-30% margin in a 1980 plebiscite, but critics say many voters were cowed into acceptance by a regime that had arrested, tortured and killed thousands of suspected leftist opponents following the overthrow of an elected socialist government.  "I think that many people went to vote out of fear," said political scientist Claudio Fuentes, who wrote a book about that plebiscite titled, "The Fraud."  "The current constitution has a flaw of origin, which is that it was created during the military dictatorship in an undemocratic process," said Monica Salinero, a 40-year-old sociologist who supports drafting a new charter.  The free-market principles embodied in that document led to a booming economy that continued after the return to democracy in 1990, but not all Chileans shared.  A minority was able to take advantage of good, privatized education, health and social security services, while others were forced to rely on sometimes meager public alternatives. Public pensions for the poorest are just over $200 a month, roughly half the minimum wage. Luisa Fuentes Rivera, a 59-year-old food vendor, said hopes that "with a new constitution we will have better work, health, pensions and a better quality of life for older people, and a better education."  But historian Felipe Navarrete warned, "It's important to say that the constitution won't resolve the concrete problems. It will determine which state we want to solve the problems." Claudia Heiss, head of the political science department at the University of Chile, said it would send a signal about people's desires for change, and for a sort of politics that would "allow greater inclusion of sectors that have been marginalized from politics."  Conservative groups fear the revamp could go too far, and endanger parts of the constitution that have helped the country prosper.  "The people have demonstrated saying they want better pensions, better health, better education. and the response of the political class" is a process that won't solve the problems and will open a period of uncertainty," said Felipe Lyon, 28-year-old lawyer and spokesman for the group "No, Thanks" that opposes the change.  The decision to allow the vote came after hundreds of thousands of Chileans repeatedly took to the streets in protests that often turned violent.  The vote was initially scheduled for April, but was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic which has killed some 13,800 Chileans, with more than 500,000 people infected by the new coronavirus.  Officials trying to ensure voters felt safe barred infected persons or those close to them from the polls, and long lines formed at voting places. Voters had to wear masks - dipping them only briefly for identification purposes - and brought their own pencils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/2/3rds-of-chilean-voters-back-rewriting-their-constitution/articleshow/78865875.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi air 'very poor': Areas around India Gate, Akshardham, ITO full of smog||NEW DELHI: Air pollution in the national capital worsened on Monday as the air quality remained very poor according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Track the pollution level in your cityAir Quality Index was at 307 in ITO, in 'very poor' category and at 405 in Anand Vihar, in the 'severe' category as per CPCB data. Video: Pollution continues to affect the air quality in #Delhi #AQI https://t.co/zrd9BiEuqG— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1603681372000 Areas around India Gate, Akshardham and ITO were full of smog and caused breathing problems to regular morning walkers and cyclists in the city.  "We're regular cyclists in Delhi and from last one week, we're feeling tightness in our lungs and breathing issues erupt as soon as we step out of our homes early morning," Mukul Dewan, a cyclist, told.  "Pollution is increasing every day and Delhiites are actually facing a severe problem. Usually, we come out to cycle in a group of 10-15 people but today we're just two friends because most people are uncomfortable stepping out early morning due to smog," Kabir, another cyclist, told.  "Stubble burning is the main cause of pollution in Delhi, hence no efforts to minimise internal pollution of the capital would help better the situation. Delhi government needs to find a solution to curb down pollutants travelling from across our neighbouring states," Tushar, another cyclist, said.  Delhi government has recently launched the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign as part of Delhi government's 'Yuddh Pradushan Ke Viruddh' (War Against Pollution) initiative to curb Delhi's growing pollution.  "Cars being switched off at red traffic lights can reduce vehicular pollution by 15-20 per cent. Our government will work to curb internal pollution sources but for external sources like increasing stubble burning, we're requesting Centre and neighbouring states to help," Gopal Rai, Environment Minister had said during the launch of this campaign.  Gopal Rai had also announced the launch of a huge campaign starting on Monday to include the citizens of the capital in raising awareness on air pollution.  "From October 26, we are starting a huge campaign in 70 constituencies of Delhi where awareness drives will be launched to raise awareness regarding air pollution and its solutions for the citizens of Delhi. We will put all our efforts to control internal pollution. I request everyone to collectively participate in our campaign to reduce air pollution and make the environment safe for everyone," the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-air-very-poor-areas-around-india-gate-akshardham-ito-full-of-smog/articleshow/78865936.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Vaccine in sight, Punjab starts compiling health workers’ data||CHANDIGARH: With the first Covid-19 vaccine expected to be available early next year, the Punjab government has initiated the process of compiling data of health workers — doctors, MBBS students, nurses, paramedic staff and ASHA workers — who have been identified as the priority group to get the first doses. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had earlier this week promised to first provide the vaccine to frontline health workers once it is available. The required information is being collected from the government and private hospitals, medical colleges, clinics, Ayush hospitals and clinics. As per the estimates of the Punjab chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), there are about five lakh health workers, including about 10,000 doctors practising allopathic medicine. In a communication sent by Punjab health secretary-cummission-director National Health Mission, Kumar Rahul, all the deputy commissioners and civil surgeons have been instructed to gather details of health workers of every facility in their respective jurisdiction. They have also been asked to authenticate the data collected, which include name, age, mobile number, employee ID and Aadhar number of the health workers. All the beneficiaries on the immunization list will be linked with their Aadhaar number. To expedite collection of data, the civil surgeons have been authorised to engage additional staff using the funds available under the emergency response Covid-19 package. The facility in charge, both private and government, have been asked to submit the data immediately. The data, which is expected to be ready by end of this month, will be shared with the central government which will supply free doses of the vaccine to the state government. Punjab IMA general secretary Dr Paramjit Mann urged the state government to ensure that correct information was collected, and no healthcare worker was left out. “The government has given a short deadline for submitting the details of health workers. Instead of rushing, it should focus on ensuring collection of correct and complete data,” said Dr Mann. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the data would be shared with the central government as soon as it is ready. The health workers would get shots in the first phase followed by aged people with co-morbidities, said Dr Bhaskar So far, the virus has infected about 1,500 health workers, including doctors, and has claimed the lives of seven medical staffers. The state’s overall Covid tally stands at 1,30,157 cases and 4,095 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccine-in-sight-punjab-starts-compiling-health-workers-data/articleshow/78865917.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 26, 2020||India||Farm laws: Rahul Gandhi urges PM Modi to 'reach out' to protesting farmers||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reach out to the farmers protesting against the three farm laws and give them a "healing touch". Sharing a news report about the protest of farmers in Punjab marking the festival of Dussehra by burning effigies of PM Modi and corporate companies against the Central government’s three farm laws, Rahul Gandhi said it is a "dangerous precendent" which is bad for the country. "This happened all over Punjab yesterday. It’s sad that Punjab is feeling such anger towards PM. This is a very dangerous precedent and is bad for our country. PM should reach out, listen and give a healing touch quickly," Rahul wrote on Twitter. Farmers across the country have been protesting against the three farm sector laws, alleging these are "anti-farmer measures" and will "destroy" the agriculture sector. The government, however, has been saying that the laws passed by Parliament recently amid a vociferous protest will raise their income, free them from the clutches of middlemen and usher in new technology in farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-laws-rahul-gandhi-urges-pm-modi-to-reach-out-to-protesting-farmers/articleshow/78865928.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Kotak Mahindra Bank Q2 results to be out today||NEW DELHI: Kotak Mahindra Bank is all set to announce the earnings report for the second quarter today i.e. Monday, October 26, 2020, on the official portal of the Bank - kotak.com. The Kotak Mahindra Bank is likely to report around 20 per cent year-on-year decline in its second quarter results for the FY21 profit due to a potential spike in provisions to cushion the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Some of the key things to watch out today would be management commentary on growth and overall stress, additional provisions towards Covid-19 pandemic/increase in PCR and performance of subsidiaries. It has been reported that Kotak Mahindra Bank is exploring a takeover of smaller Indian rival IndusInd Bank, however, the spokesman of the company declined to comment. Kotak Mahindra's 2.7 trillion rupee market capitalization makes it India's third-largest lender by value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-mahindra-bank-q2-results-to-be-out-today/articleshow/78865982.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Sensex sheds over 150 points; Nifty below 11,900||MUMBAI: Equity benchmark sensex dropped over 150 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Tata Steel amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 173.47 points or 0.43 per cent lower at 40,512.03, and the broader NSE Nifty slipped 47.20 points or 0.40 per cent to 11,883.15. Reliance Industries was the top laggard in the sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints, M&M, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finserv. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Nestle India, PowerGrid and L&T were among the gainers. In the previous session, sensex settled 127.01 points or 0.31 per cent higher at 40,685.50; and the Nifty rose 33.90 points or 0.28 per cent to end 11,930.35. Exchange data showed that foreign institutional investors bought equities worth Rs 906.93 crore on a net basis on Friday. "Indian equities are likely to witness some amount of volatility this week due expiry factor," said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Additionally, announcement of second quarter earnings by a large number of companies and key economic data especially infrastructure output (core sector) and fiscal deficit for September would be key things to watch out for, he stated. On the global front, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.64 per cent lower at $41.38 per barrel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-sheds-over-150-points-nifty-below-11900/articleshow/78866076.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Noida||UP: Mission Shakti culminates with promises for women empowerment||NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: Following the week-long ‘Mission Shakti’ program of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, which culminated on Sunday (October 17-25), Sharda University announced 50% concession in admission fees for girls till October 31 with the aim to have 50% seats reserved for women from current 44% from next academic year in 2021. While nodal officer Ritu Maheshwari CEO Noida Authority presided over the program, in another program CDO Anil Kumar Singh and DPO Atul Kumar presided over the DDRWA online zoom meeting which proposed 33% reservation of seats for women in various RWAs and AOAs of GB Nagar district. “Apart from announcing 50% concession in admission fees for girls as part of Mission Shakti initiative, on the culmination day of the program today, our chancellor YK Gupta has taken a decision to further empower women and has proposed 50% seat reservation for women from the next academic year. Efforts are being made to keep it in the next academic council meeting. Currently, out of the 11,000 students at our institute, 44% of them are girls. The thought behind the move is that by supporting education and providing job opportunities to women, we help improve the living conditions of an entire family as women are generally homemakers, powerful influencers and at the work place they are thorough professionals. The work culture improves with more women professionals,” said Ajit Kumar, joint registrar Sharda University and medical college, Greater Noida. The one-week program at Sharda University which was flagged off by Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, had all faculties participating in it. These include departments of medical, dental, basic science, engineering, pharmacy, management, nursing, education etc. “CEO Maheshwari called for a safe and just working environment for women and apprised them of their rights on the occasion,” said Singh. In another programme on Sunday, chief development officer (CDO) Anil Kumar Singh and district prevention officer (DPO) Atul Kumar participated in an online zoom meeting of District Development Resident Welfare Association (DDRWA) where Singh urged all RWAs present in the meeting “to honour and respect women and ensure no discrimination of daughters at home.” On the occasion, DDRWA chief advisor AN Dhawan proposed that there should be some seats reserved for women in RWAs and AOAs of the district. Following this, Vishnu Saini another member proposed 33% seat reservation for women in RWAs and AOAs for which an amendment in bylaws of RWAs was proposed to be taken up with deputy registrar Meerut. “We will seek an amendment in RWA bylaws with the deputy registrar Meerut to implement 33% reservation for women in RWAs and AOAs of the district,” said Saini. “In view of the safety of women and girl child, women's convenience and sensitivity in the Mahila Shakti Abhiyan program was discussed in Sunday's meeting while detailed discussion was done on the topic of propagation of laws related to women crime,” said Sanjeev Kumar, vice-president DDRWA. CM Yogi on launching Mission Shakti on October 17, had called for respect to all women with no place for people in society who harm their dignity. "Woman is a symbol of power. In our Sanatan tradition, the woman is revered. The ritual of Navratri signifies this. It is necessary that in the changing times, the new generation should carry the tradition of their eternal culture towards the woman. Spread the spirit of respect, security and self-reliance. 'Mission Shakti' is an effort in this direction," said the CM. While Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh has adopted 20 girls from the economically weaker sections of society under the Central government’s Sukanya Samridhi Yojna (girl child welfare scheme) under beti bachao, beti padhao program (educate a girl child to safeguard the girl child) on the occasion, he also opened their bank accounts for financial assistant every year under the program. Also, establishment of women help desks in all the police stations and tehsils of the state is another part of this campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/up-mission-shakti-culminates-with-promises-for-women-empowerment/articleshow/78866171.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop arrested for stalking three minor girls||NEW DELHI: A sub-inspector of Delhi Police has been arrested for allegedly harassing and stalking at least three girls in southwest Delhi’s Dwarka in a single day. The accused cop has been identified as Puneet Grewal, who was posted in the office of a DCP in the traffic unit and has been arrested by the Dwarka (south)PS. Grewal, earlier posted in Dwarka and with Special Cell, was allegedly not in uniform while committing the crimes and was driving a car without papers. Cops tracked him down using CCTV footage and technical surveillance. A proposal for his dismissal has been initiated, a source said. Police are probing if he had stalked and molested more girls. There are reports that he may be behind a few other incidents in which FIRs have been lodged against unknown persons in different police stations in the city. One of the three complainants, who is 17 years old, alleged that she had gone cycling near a Metro station on October 17 when the accused followed her and passed lewd comments. He made obscene gestures and flashed at her, she alleged. The girl filed a complaint and also posted the incident on social media following which the SI was tracked and arrested. He was reportedly drunk and had gone to meet a friend in the area, police said. Social media outrage led the cops to discover more complaints of similar nature where a man in the same Baleno car without registration had harassed the girls. Subsequently, FIRs were filed and he was nabbed. Watch Delhi: Cop arrested for stalking, molesting minor girls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cop-arrested-for-stalking-three-minor-girls/articleshow/78866248.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Delhi||Property details in L&DO areas in Delhi go online||NEW DELHI: Property owners and buyers in areas falling under Land and Development Office (L&DO) such as Connaught Place, Chanakyapuri, Jor Bagh, Golf Links, Vasant Vihar and rehabilitation colonies including Defence Colony, Lajpat Nagar, Patel Nagar and Geeta Colony can access details of land title, current owner and the status online. The L&DO has put details of nearly 60,000 properties in these localities on its edharti portal which people can use to verify the ownership and other details. This is perhaps the first such exercise by any government entity to put details of all properties under its jurisdiction online. “When decisions are taken in a transparent manner, the citizen is the biggest beneficiary. Opaqueness leads to doubts in the minds of people. Opaqueness also tends to encourage tendencies that are malafide and many other indiscretions,” housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said while highlighting how ownership of land, title issues, transfer of ownership have always been mired in controversies. L&DO is integrating GIS data with the portal to integrate legacy drawings such as maps and lease plans. “This facility will put an end to forgeries as people can get actual record of properties and clarity of ownership will minimise legal cases and disputes. People also have the option to give feedback and raise objections, which will help us to verify records,” land and development officer Amit Kataria told TOI. He said the online facility, developed after compiling details over the past year, will also help the government to use vacant land efficiently and also identify properties that have been encroached. Sources said the initiative will help improve India’s ranking in the Ease of Doing Business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/property-details-in-ldo-areas-in-delhi-go-online/articleshow/78866337.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||India's Covid-19 tally reaches 79,09,960 with 45,149 new cases||NEW DELHI: With 45,149 new Covid-19 cases, India's total cases surged to 79,09,960 on Monday, according to the ministry of health and family welfare. With 480 new deaths, the Covid-19 toll mounted to 1,19,014, as per the Union health ministry. The number of total active Covid-19 cases stood at 6,53,717 after a decrease of 14,437 in the last 24 hours. Total cured cases stand at 71,37,229 with 59,105 new discharges in the last 24 hours. With 1,41,001 total active cases, Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state by Covid-19 in the country. While 14,60,755 patients have recovered from the disease in the state, 43,264 have died so far. Among other severely affected states, Karnataka has 81,069 active cases, while 7,10,843 people have recovered and 10,905 have succumbed to the coronavirus. Kerala has 96,688 active cases, while 2,94,910 patients have been cured so far in the state along with 1,332 deaths reported due to the disease. West Bengal has 37,017 active cases, while Tamil Nadu and the national capital Delhi have 30,606 and 26,744 active cases respectively. Meanwhile, a total of 10,34,62,778 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 25th October. Of these 9,39,309 samples were tested yesterday, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-19-tally-reaches-7909960-with-45149-new-cases/articleshow/78866349.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||'Please resign,' Thai opposition tells PM at protest debate||BANGKOK: Thailand's biggest opposition party called on Monday for Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha to resign, as parliament opened a special session called by the former junta leader to discuss months of protests. Student-led demonstrations which initially demanded the departure of Prayuth and a new constitution have increasingly turned their attention to the monarchy, calling for reforms to curb the powers of King Maha Vajiralongkorn. "The prime minister is a major obstacle and burden to the country. Please resign and everything will end well," said Sompong Amornvivat, leader of the opposition Pheu Thai party, the largest single party in parliament. Prayuth called the parliament session this week after the imposition of Oct. 15 emergency measures to end the demonstrations - including a ban on protests - only inflamed anger and brought tens of thousands onto Bangkok streets. "I’m confident that today, regardless of our different political views, everyone still loves the country," Prayuth said in his opening address. But his opponents and protest leaders are sceptical the parliamentary session will resolve the crisis. His supporters have a majority in parliament, whose entire upper house was picked by his former junta. Prayuth seized power in 2014, overthrowing elected Pheu Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, sister of populist former premier Thaksin Shinawatra, whose struggles with the establishment unleashed more than a decade of turbulence. Protesters accuse Prayuth of engineering last year's election to keep the army's grip on power. He says the election was fair. Breaking a long-standing taboo, protesters have also called for the king's powers to be reduced, saying the monarchy has helped enable decades of military domination. The Palace has made no comment since the start of the protests. Protesters are due to march to the German embassy at 5 p.m. (1000 GMT) and have said they will petition Berlin to investigate the king's use of his powers while in the European nation, where he spends much of his time. They have not said exactly they believe the king has done. The German government has said it would be unacceptable to conduct politics from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/please-resign-thai-opposition-tells-pm-at-protest-debate/articleshow/78865751.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Mike Pompeo leaves for India to take part in India-US 2+2 dialogue||WASHINGTON: US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo has left for India for the third edition of the 2+2 ministerial dialogue to be held in New Delhi on Tuesday during which the two sides are expected to explore ways to further bolster bilateral defence ties and security cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, amidst China flexing its muscles in the strategic region. The visit comes a week before the US presidential election on November 3. "Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with our partners to promote a shared vision for a free and open #IndoPacific composed of independent, strong, and prosperous nations," Pompeo tweeted on Sunday. Wheels up for my trip to India, Sri Lanka, Maldives, and Indonesia. Grateful for the opportunity to connect with ou… https://t.co/DtIxmxpQUK— Secretary Pompeo (@SecPompeo) 1603642892000Pompeo will be accompanied by Secretary of Defense Mark Esper. The Indian side at the talks will be represented by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The high-level talks are taking place in the midst of India's festering border row with China in eastern Ladakh as well as the renewed global focus on the growing Chinese military assertiveness in the Indo-Pacific region. Both issues are expected to figure in the talks. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open, and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military maneuvering in the region. In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. In the midst of growing global concern over China's expansionist behaviour, the foreign ministers of the Quad member nations met in Tokyo on October 6 and reaffirmed their collective vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle-flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness. Ahead of the meeting, the US State Department said America welcomes India's emergence as a leading regional and global power. It also said the US was looking forward to working closely with India during the latter's upcoming UN Security Council term, starting January 1, 2021. "The United States welcomes India's emergence as a leading regional and global power. The United States looks forward to collaborating closely with India during its upcoming term on the UN Security Council,” the State Department said. In a fact sheet, the State Department said the two countries have a strong and growing bilateral relationship built on shared values and a commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. As the world's oldest and largest democracies, the US and India enjoy deeply rooted democratic traditions, it added. "The growth in the partnership reflects a deepening strategic convergence on a range of issues. Our cooperation is expanding in important areas including health, infrastructure development, energy, aviation, science, and space,” it said, adding that holding the third US-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue in just over two years demonstrates a high-level commitment to their shared diplomatic and security objectives. Pompeo's visit marks the fourth visit to India by a Secretary of State during the Trump administration. According to the State Department, the recent Quadrilateral Ministerial meeting in Tokyo convened by Pompeo and his counterparts demonstrated the strong cooperative ties among Indo-Pacific democracies interested in strengthening a rules-based order in which all nations are sovereign, strong, and prosperous. “The Quad has proven to be an effective multilateral mechanism, helping to create resilient supply chains, promote transparency, counter disinformation and increase maritime security,” it said. India, with its large economy, strong support for entrepreneurship and innovation, and its growing international trade, is one of the world's leading economic powers and is well-positioned to promote our shared vision for a free and rules-based Indo-Pacific where all nations can prosper, it said. Observing that India and the US are expanding cooperation between the two militaries, the fact sheet said this includes the navies, which play a critical role in ensuring freedom of navigation in the Indo-Pacific. Noting that defence trade has increased significantly over the past two decades, the State Department said India maintains the largest fleets of C-17 and P-8 aircraft outside the United States and as of 2020, the United States has authorised more than USD 20 billion in defence sales to India. “The United States and India enjoy robust defence industrial cooperation. Through the US- India Defense Technology and Trade Initiative, the United States and India work together on co-production and co-development of defence equipment,” it said. The first edition of the 2+2 dialogue was held in Delhi in September 2018 after the mechanism was approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump. The second edition of the dialogue took place in Washington in December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mike-pompeo-leaves-for-india-to-take-part-in-india-us-22-dialogue/articleshow/78866417.cms||---
October 26, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Mayawati seeks votes for BSP, alliance partners||LUCKNOW: As campaigning for the first phase of the high-decibel Bihar Assembly elections ends today evening, former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) President Mayawati has appealed to people of Bihar to vote for BSP and its alliance partners. "Preparations for the first phase of the Bihar Assembly elections began today with the end of the election campaign. Therefore, there is an appeal to everyone that they should make the BSP and RLSP, etc. coalition successful by giving their vote, while staying away from all kinds of tactics and conspiracies of the opponents," Mayawati tweeted. The Bihar Assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The counting of votes will be held on November 10. While BJP is fighting the elections along with Janata Dal (United), and two other parties, Congress is fighting the elections under the banner of Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) led by RJD, along with the Left parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-polls-mayawati-seeks-votes-for-bsp-alliance-partners/articleshow/78866542.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Bihar polls: Mayawati seeks votes for BSP, alliance partners||LUCKNOW: As campaigning for the first phase of the high-decibel Bihar Assembly elections ends today evening, former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) President Mayawati has appealed to people of Bihar to vote for BSP and its alliance partners. "Preparations for the first phase of the Bihar Assembly elections began today with the end of the election campaign. Therefore, there is an appeal to everyone that they should make the BSP and RLSP, etc. coalition successful by giving their vote, while staying away from all kinds of tactics and conspiracies of the opponents," Mayawati tweeted. The Bihar Assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The counting of votes will be held on November 10. While BJP is fighting the elections along with Janata Dal (United), and two other parties, Congress is fighting the elections under the banner of Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) led by RJD, along with the Left parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-polls-mayawati-seeks-votes-for-bsp-alliance-partners/articleshow/78866552.cms||---
October 26, 2020||---||'Corrupt' Nitish Kumar involved in 'Saat Nischay' scam, will be sent to jail if found guilty: Chirag Paswan||PATNA: A day after claiming that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar would be put behind bars if his party is voted to power, Chirag Paswan, Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief on Monday called Kumar a "corrupt" leader and accused him of being involved in the corruption in 'Saat Nischay' (Seven Resolves).  "I said that if they are guilty, they will be sent to jail after probe. How can it be possible that chief minister Nitish Kumar doesn't know about large-scale scams and corruption? He is involved too. If not, it will be clear in a probe. But people and I believe that he is involved, he is corrupt," Paswan told on being asked about his allegations against Nitish Kumar over 'Saat Nischay'.  On Sunday, addressing a rally in Dumraon, Buxar in the run-up to polling in Bihar, Paswan said, " I am making a promise to you today - the corruption in '7 Nischay' (scheme) will be probed when LJP comes to power and those at fault, whether it is CM or any official, will be sent to jail."  The Rs 2.7-lakh-crore 'Saat Nishchay' (Seven Resolves) scheme was announced by Nitish Kumar before the 2015 assembly elections which he had fought against the BJP as part of the Mahagathbandhan with RJD and Congress. Electricity, sewage connection, toilets, piped drinking water and metallic roads, water to farmer's field were some of the components of the scheme, which was launched to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Rs 1.25 lakh crore special package for Bihar.  On October 10 chief minister Nitish Kumar announced Janata Dal United's (JDU's) "7 Nischay part-2" plan for the development of the State and making it self-reliant in the coming years.  Targetting Nitish Kumar government's ban on liquor sale in Bihar, Paswan said that everyone is getting liquor in the state.  "Why is the liquor ban not being reviewed? Is liquor smuggling not going on? Everyone is getting it. The government and administration are colluding. There is not one minister in the Bihar government who doesn't know about it. If you don't want to review it, it means you yourself are involved," he said.  "Everyone knows where the money is going, the chief minister has to contest the election and do a lot of things. All of this is a matter of investigation. It will be investigated by our government - that where is all the money of liquor smuggling, '7 Nischay' scheme and funds by centre going," he added.  On being asked about the prospects of LJP in Bihar elections, Paswan said, "There is no doubt that the current Chief Minister will no longer be the Chief Minister of Bihar after November 10. We are contesting on more seats than Chief Minister's party and we will win."  Paswan, chief of the LJP--a former ally of the NDA--has been vocal in his criticism of Kumar, who is the chief ministerial candidate of the NDA. He has, however, pledged support to the Prime Minister, calling himself as "Modi's Hanuman" Bihar Assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3, and November 7. The result will be declared on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/corrupt-nitish-kumar-involved-in-saat-nischay-scam-will-be-sent-to-jail-if-found-guilty-chirag-paswan/articleshow/78866605.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Trump, Biden in final full week of campaigning as virus looms large||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden on Monday are down to the final full week of campaigning before the Nov. 3 election, as surging coronavirus cases and a COVID-19 outbreak within Vice President Mike Pence's staff keep the focus of the race on the pandemic. Trump claimed progress in combating the disease even as the United States set records in recent days for daily infections, while Pence forged ahead with campaigning on Sunday despite close aides testing positive. Biden accused the president of surrendering to the pandemic that has killed about 225,000 people in the United States. With eight days to go before Election Day, more than 59.1 million Americans have already voted in person or by mail, a pace of early voting that could lead to the highest turnout rate in more than a century, according to data from the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida. On Monday, Trump will head to Pennsylvania, a critical swing state being heavily courted with frequent visits by both candidates, and speak at rallies in Allentown, Lititz and Martinsburg. He is set for multiple trips to Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin this week, as well as visits to Nebraska, Arizona and Nevada. Biden was expected to remain in his home state of Delaware on Monday. He is scheduled to travel to Georgia on Tuesday, with stops in Atlanta and Warm Springs, a town of about 400 people where Democratic President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who took office during the Great Depression and rolled out his New Deal recovery program, died in 1945. That push in the Southern state, which went for Trump in 2016 by about 5 percentage points and has not backed a Democratic presidential candidate since 1992, shows Biden's effort to expand his party's reach as polls show a competitive race in the state. Despite Biden's solid lead in national opinion polls, the contest in the most critical battleground states such as Florida and Pennsylvania that could decide the outcome appears closer. Biden will be aided with an appearance in Orlando, Florida, on Tuesday by former President Barack Obama, under whom he served as vice president. SURGE IN VIRUS CASESThe United States has seen its highest number of new COVID-19 cases in the past two days, offering Biden's campaign a chance to remind voters of how Trump and his allies have downplayed the advice of public health experts to wear masks and observe social-distancing guidelines to combat COVID-19 transmission. "There's no nation in the world that's recovered like we've recovered," Trump told cheering supporters in New Hampshire on Sunday, many not wearing protective masks. White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said on Sunday that the administration was "not going to control the pandemic," and was instead focused on vaccines and therapeutics. Biden, who has hammered Trump's response to the virus throughout the campaign, called Meadows' remarks an admission that "they've given up on their basic duty to protect the American people." Pence's chief of staff, Marc Short, tested positive on Saturday as well as multiple other senior aides. Despite the outbreak, the White House said the vice president would press ahead with campaigning. Pence, who tested negative, according to a spokesman late on Saturday, visited North Carolina on Sunday and will be in Minnesota on Monday. The outbreak among the vice president's staff marked the latest White House Covid-19 cases, which have included Trump, first lady Melania Trump, their son, Barron, and numerous aides and associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-biden-in-final-full-week-of-campaigning-as-virus-looms-large/articleshow/78866736.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Trump, Biden in final full week of campaigning as virus looms large||President Donald Trump and Democratic challenger Joe Biden on Monday are down to the final full week of campaigning before the Nov. 3 election, as surging coronavirus cases and a COVID-19 outbreak within Vice President Mike Pence's staff keep the focus of the race on the pandemic. Trump claimed progress in combating the disease even as the United States set records in recent days for daily infections, while Pence forged ahead with campaigning on Sunday despite close aides testing positive. Biden accused the president of surrendering to the pandemic that has killed about 225,000 people in the United States. With eight days to go before Election Day, more than 59.1 million Americans have already voted in person or by mail, a pace of early voting that could lead to the highest turnout rate in more than a century, according to data from the U.S. Elections Project at the University of Florida. On Monday, Trump will head to Pennsylvania, a critical swing state being heavily courted with frequent visits by both candidates, and speak at rallies in Allentown, Lititz and Martinsburg. He is set for multiple trips to Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin this week, as well as visits to Nebraska, Arizona and Nevada. Biden was expected to remain in his home state of Delaware on Monday. He is scheduled to travel to Georgia on Tuesday, with stops in Atlanta and Warm Springs, a town of about 400 people where Democratic President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who took office during the Great Depression and rolled out his New Deal recovery program, died in 1945. That push in the Southern state, which went for Trump in 2016 by about 5 percentage points and has not backed a Democratic presidential candidate since 1992, shows Biden's effort to expand his party's reach as polls show a competitive race in the state. Despite Biden's solid lead in national opinion polls, the contest in the most critical battleground states such as Florida and Pennsylvania that could decide the outcome appears closer. Biden will be aided with an appearance in Orlando, Florida, on Tuesday by former President Barack Obama, under whom he served as vice president. SURGE IN VIRUS CASESThe United States has seen its highest number of new COVID-19 cases in the past two days, offering Biden's campaign a chance to remind voters of how Trump and his allies have downplayed the advice of public health experts to wear masks and observe social-distancing guidelines to combat COVID-19 transmission. "There's no nation in the world that's recovered like we've recovered," Trump told cheering supporters in New Hampshire on Sunday, many not wearing protective masks. White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said on Sunday that the administration was "not going to control the pandemic," and was instead focused on vaccines and therapeutics. Biden, who has hammered Trump's response to the virus throughout the campaign, called Meadows' remarks an admission that "they've given up on their basic duty to protect the American people." Pence's chief of staff, Marc Short, tested positive on Saturday as well as multiple other senior aides. Despite the outbreak, the White House said the vice president would press ahead with campaigning. Pence, who tested negative, according to a spokesman late on Saturday, visited North Carolina on Sunday and will be in Minnesota on Monday. The outbreak among the vice president's staff marked the latest White House Covid-19 cases, which have included Trump, first lady Melania Trump, their son, Barron, and numerous aides and associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-biden-in-final-full-week-of-campaigning-as-virus-looms-large/articleshow/78866679.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Seven 'sadhus' injured in accident in Kannauj, CM directs officials to help||KANNAUJ: Seven 'sadhus' were injured when their car overturned upon colliding with a road divider after its tire burst in Amolar village of Kannauj district in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. According to police, all the injured were admitted to the hospital. "They were coming from Rajasthan for taking a holy dip in the river Ganga," police said. Uttar Pradesh chief minister's office (CMO) in a statement said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has taken cognisance of the incident and directed senior officials to reach the spot and provide all the necessary assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-seven-sadhus-injured-in-accident-in-kannauj-cm-directs-officials-to-help/articleshow/78866655.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Qanon, Proud Boys, Antifa: The 'extreme' ends of US political spectrum||NEW DELHI: If you have been following the US elections closely, you must have heard of certain extremist groups such as QAnon, Proud Boys, Antifa and the Boogaloo Bois. Far-right and far-left "fringe" groups that were once relegated to the sidelines have burst into the political mainstream in the US over the last months, becoming a serious talking point in the current presidential elections. Some of these groups have gained such popularity, especially on the internet, that President Donald Trump himself had to face several questions about their existence. Read AlsoHow this Indian in Oz got sucked into a virtual cult called QAnonIt took Jitarth Jadeja two years to wake up to the truth about Trump. Now, he hopes that his confessions will jolt others out of it too Here's a look at some of these extremist groups and the reasons behind their "notoriety": 1 QAnon  QAnon is the umbrella term for a sprawling set of internet conspiracy theories that allege that the world is run by a cabal of Satan-worshipping pedophiles who are plotting against US President Donald Trump while operating a global child sex-trafficking ring.    Many QAnon followers believe thousands of deep state operatives and top Democrats, including Hillary Clinton, will be rounded up and sent to Guantanamo Bay during an event called "The Storm."     The group's intertwined series of beliefs are based on anonymous Web postings from "Q," who claims to have insider knowledge of the Trump administration.  Q's identity is still unknown, although there have been hints and speculation about it for years. Some speculate that a single internet troll has been posting as Q the entire time; others say that multiple people are involved in posting as Q, or that Q's identity has changed over time. However, digital signatures confirm that the posts were written by the same person or group.  "Drops" are what QAnon followers call Q's posts. There have been nearly 5,000 of them so far, and most take the form of a cryptic coded message.     QAnon supporters have been fixtures at Trump rallies for years. Asked about QAnon in 2018, then-White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said Trump "condemns and denounces any group that would incite violence against another individual."  However, Trump praised QAnon supporters during a White House press briefing in August. "I heard that these are people that love our country," he said in his first public comments on the subject. Trump insisted that he hadn't heard much about the movement, "other than I understand they like me very much" and "it is gaining in popularity."  In a recent town hall, Trump's praise was more specific. "I do know they are very much against pedophilia. They fight it very hard. But I know nothing about it."  Academicians believe that Trump's refusal to denounce QAnon and frequent retweeting of QAnon-promoting accounts emboldens the supporters and sends a signal that he is "on their side" and they are "onto something."     The group has been responsible for propagating various fake claims online.  A popular QAnon theory claims the Covid-19 pandemic was invented to divert from child trafficking incidents. A Facebook post shared over a million times claimed 39 missing children had been found in a trailer in the US state of Georgia. In reality, they were discovered in separate locations as part of a police operation and a majority were not trafficking victims.  Another hoax falsely accused US furniture retailer Wayfair of trafficking children inside storage cabinets.     Platforms like Twitter, Facebook and YouTube have stepped up actions against QAnon, from blocking pages/groups associated with them to banning content promoting their theories. 2 Proud Boys  Proud Boys is another right-wing group that was established during the 2016 US election by Vice Media co-founder and Canadian-British right-wing activist Gavin McInnes, who has since distanced himself from the outfit.    They describe themselves as a male-only club of "Western chauvinists" who "refuse to apologize for creating the modern world." The group, whose membership is multiracial, has been called out for misogynistic, anti-Muslim and anti-immigration rhetoric by advocates who monitor extremism.  The group likely has several hundred members with chapters in most states and some other countries, according to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), an anti-hate organization.  The group grew media attention in late 2018 after a violent confrontation with left-wing protesters in New York City, and returned to the spotlight during protests in recent months.  Group members tend to adhere to an ideology that rejects overt white supremacy but embraces chauvinism, according to the ADL.     During the first presidential debate, moderator Chris Wallace asked Trump if he was willing to condemn white supremacists and militia groups and tell them to "stand down" and not add to violence during recent protests in US cities. Trump agreed to do that, asking, "Who would you like me to condemn?" Joe Biden interjected: "The Proud Boys."  Trump then urged the Proud Boys to "stand back and stand by," but quickly turned the conversation to antifa, a left-wing anti-fascist ideology, whose adherents he has blamed for violence at protests in recent months.  In a Proud Boys channel on the messaging app Telegram, members shared a version of their logo that included the words "stand back, stand by" following Trump's remarks.  Joe Biggs, a Proud Boys member, celebrated the group's mention on the social media platform Parler, saying: "President Trump told the proud boys to stand by because someone needs to deal with ANTIFA...well sir! we're ready!!"  On Wednesday, Trump walked back his remarks at the White House, telling reporters he was not familiar with the Proud Boys, but that the group should let law enforcement do its work     The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), an anti-hate advocacy organization, labeled the Proud Boys as a hate group in 2018. McInnes sued the organization over the hate designation in February 2019, saying it was "purposefully deceitful" and meant to hurt his reputation. The case is still ongoing. 3 Antifa  Short for "anti-fascists," Antifa is not a single organization but rather an umbrella term for far left-leaning militant groups that confront or resist neo-Nazis and white supremacists at demonstrations.    Antifa members campaign against actions they view as authoritarian, homophobic, racist or xenophobic.  There is no hierarchical structure to antifa or universal set of tactics that makes its presence immediately recognizable, though members tend to espouse revolutionary and anti-authoritarian views, said Mark Bray, a historian at Rutgers University and author of "Antifa: The Anti-Fascist Handbook."  Antifa aims to "intimidate and dissuade racists," but its aggressive tactics including physical confrontations can create "a vicious, self-defeating cycle of attacks, counter-attacks and blame," the ADL said.  The FBI has been increasingly concerned about violence perpetrated by Antifa at public events, according to a 2018 report by the Congressional Research Service, a public policy research arm of the US Congress.     Antifa grew in notoriety following a 2017 rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, organized by white supremacists and white nationalists who clashed violently with counter-protesters. Trump drew criticism afterward when he said there were "very fine people on both sides" and blamed "many sides" for the violence. Trump specifically mentioned Antifa.  "You know, they show up in the helmets and the black masks, and they've got clubs and they've got everything," Trump said of Antifa days after the rally.  Trump and members of his administration have even singled out Antifa as being responsible for the violence at protests triggered by the killing of George Floyd, a black man who died after a white Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee into his neck for several minutes even after Floyd stopped moving and pleading for air.  Attorney General William Barr had described "Antifa-like tactics" by out-of-state agitators and said Antifa was instigating violence and engaging in "domestic terrorism" and would be dealt with accordingly.  But it's unclear how big its involvement really is.     Bray said Antifa groups often use tactics similar to anarchist groups, such as dressing in all black and wearing masks. The groups also have overlapping ideologies, as both often criticize capitalism and seek to dismantle structures of authority, including police forces.     It is impossible to know how many people count themselves as members. Its followers acknowledge that the movement is secretive, has no official leaders and is organized into autonomous local cells. It is also only one in a constellation of activist movements that have come together in the past few years to oppose the far right.  Although Antifa is not affiliated with other movements on the left - and is sometimes viewed as a distraction by other organizers - its members sometimes work with other local activist networks that are rallying around the same issues, such as the Occupy movement or Black Lives Matter.     Donald Trump has said that Washington will designate Antifa as a "terrorist organization." However, the president hasn't specified how or when he intends to do that.  It's not the first time he's endorsed that approach. Trump expressed a similar sentiment last summer, joining some Republican lawmakers in calling for Antifa to be designated as a terror organization after the skirmishes in Portland.     Antifa is not a discrete or centralized group, so it's unclear how the government could give it a designation.  Beyond that, though, Antifa is a domestic entity and, as such, not a candidate for inclusion on the State Department's list of foreign terror organizations. Those groups, which include Islamic extremist organizations and the Real Irish Republican Army, are based overseas rather than in the US. 4 The Boogaloo bois  Boogaloo is an organization-less, leader-less, loosely-shaped ideology formed around gun culture and the belief of a looming war or insurrection, fought with the left, with a dictatorial government, or over race.    The anti-government boogaloo movement, whose adherents are often referred to as boogaloo boys or boogaloo bois, embodies a militant ideology whose members believe the United States will enter into a second civil war, according to the Southern Poverty Law Center, which tracks hate groups. Boogaloo followers anticipate the government will attempt to confiscate people's guns.  The boogaloo movement’s name is inspired by the 1984 breakdancing film “Breakin’ 2: Electric Boogaloo.” Followers suggest that, just as the movie was a sequel, any coming conflict would be the sequel to the American Civil War.  The boogaloo ideology itself is not white supremacist, but some white supremacist groups have embraced it, the ADL found.  The Boogaloo's goals differ depending on which Facebook or Telegram group you’re hanging out in. Some of these men claim to be antiracist, while others hold white-supremacist beliefs and warn of an impending white genocide. While some Boogaloo pages on Facebook feature periodic talk of racial justice and urgent needs to address climate change, many others are filled with memes featuring neo-Nazi black suns. If there is one thing that binds the Boogaloo together besides guns and Hawaiian shirts, it is a firm anti-authority, anti-law-enforcement stance — and a willingness, if not an outright desire, to bring about the collapse of American society.  Boogaloo groups have grown in popularity online in the past year. The Tech Transparency Project, a Washington-based tech watchdog group, found tens of thousands of people joined boogaloo-related Facebook groups over a 30-day period in March and April as stay-at-home orders took effect across the United States.  The arrest of 13 men in a plot to kidnap the governor of Michigan and "instigate a civil war" placed a fresh spotlight on the growth of armed, right-wing extremist "militias" under the administration of Trump.  The FBI says such groups constitute the greatest domestic terror threat to the country, but Trump has appeared to encourage some, leading to worries of political violence around the November 3 presidential election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/qanon-proud-boys-antifa-the-extreme-ends-of-us-political-spectrum/articleshow/78866290.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Japan PM Suga sets 2050 deadline for carbon neutrality||TOKYO: Japan's Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Monday set a 2050 deadline for the country to be carbon neutral. The deadline significantly firms up Japan's climate change commitments -- previously Tokyo had said only that it hoped to achieve carbon neutrality by some time in the latter half of the century.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/japan-pm-suga-sets-2050-deadline-for-carbon-neutrality/articleshow/78866920.cms||---
October 26, 2020||India||Former Union minister Dilip Ray gets 3-yrs imprisonment in coal scam case||NEW DELHI: A special CBI court sentenced former Union minister Dilip Ray to 3-yr imprisonment in a coal scam case pertaining to alleged irregularities in allocation of a Jharkhand coal block in 1999. Ray was then a minister of State in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 1999. The court also awarded 3-year jail term to two former officials of the Ministry of Coal. The case pertains to the alleged irregularities in allocation of Brahmadiha coal block in Giridh in Jharkhand to Castron Technologies Limited in 1999. A founder member of BJD, 64-year-old Ray became a Union minister when BJD was an NDA ally. He was a Rajya Sabha member then. The BJD expelled him from the party in 2002 after he defied party’s dictate and re-contested for a second term in the upper house as independent. He had managed to win. The hotelier-politician was elected to the state assembly thrice, as Janata Dal candidate in 1985 and 1990 and as BJP nominee in 2014. Ray had joined BJP in 2009 but resigned from the party in 2018, speculated as a reaction to charges being framed against him the central probe agency. A close aide of Biju Patnaik, he was a minister in Biju’s cabinet in Odisha from 1990-1995. Currently, he is not active in any party politics. Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL) had applied to the coal ministry for allotment of Brahmadiha coal block in May 1998 for extracting coal and use for washery and power generation. The Coal India Limited (CIL) gave an adverse opinion against the allocation in August 1998. The CIL told the coal ministry that mining in the abandoned Brahmadiha area filled with water would pose a threat to nearby other coal mining areas of Central Coal Fields where underground mining were being done. The file was then sent to Ray’s office on April 23, 1999. The CTL made a representation to Ray for speedy consideration of their application on May 12, 1999. A day later on May 13, Ray sent the file to then coal ministry officials with an endorsement to re-examine it. The officials gave their nod to the file after which the 14th screening committee recommended the allocation. After that Ray gave his final approval. The government allotted the block to CTL on September 1, 1999. Following Supreme Court direction on alleged irregularities in coal block allocations, CBI registered an FIR against Ray in September 2012. Charges were framed against Ray in April 2017. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-union-minister-dilip-ray-gets-3-yr-imprisonment-in-coal-scam-case/articleshow/78866998.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chandigarh||5 least-hit districtss account for just 8% of Punjab cases||CHANDIGARH: The smaller districts of Punjab have been least impacted by the Covid-19 outbreak, which wreaked havoc in densely populated, urban districts of the state. The number of fresh cases in Punjab is on the decline after hitting the peak in September. The number of cases in the state has crossed 1.3-lakh mark, of which over 54 % cases are from Mohali, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana and Amritsar, while the contribution of the least-hit five districts — Nawanshahr, Mansa, Tarn Taran, Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib — is just 8% of total number of cases. Punjab’s first hotspot, Nawanshahr, has the lowest number of cases in the state. The district, one of the smallest in the state and having an area of 1,267 square km, reported the state’s first Covid-19 death and has a tally of 1,862 cases. As per Census 2011, the district has a population of 6,12,310 and a population density of 478 people per square kilometre. In Mansa district, which has a population density of 350, 1,864 people have been infected by the virus. It is followed by Tarn Taran, where 1,971 people have tested positive, 2,441 in Moga, and 2,127 in Fatehgarh Sahib. In these five districts, only 10 cases were reported in the last one week. No fresh case was reported in Moga, while only one case surfaced in Fatehgarh Sahib, two in Mansa, three in Nawanshahr and four in Tarn Taran. With 2,441 people testing positive out of 57,851 who were tested, Moga has the highest positivity rate of 4.4% among the least affected districts, followed by Fatehgarh Sahib, where the positivity rate stands at 4.36%. Positivity rate refers to the percentage of people, who are Covid-19 positive of the total tested. Nawanshahr has the lowest rate of 3.11%, Tarn Taran 3.17% and Mansa 3.98% Explaining the reasons for low number of cases in these districts, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, spokesperson of Punjab health department for Covid-19, said social distancing was key to restricting the spread of the virus. “In smaller and lesser populated districts, it is easy to maintain social distancing as compared to bigger overcrowded districts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-least-hit-districtss-account-for-just-8-of-punjab-cases/articleshow/78867006.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Third phase human trial of Covid-19 vaccine to commence in Bhubaneswar soon||BHUBANESWAR: The third phase of the human trial of the indigenous vaccine against Covid-19, Covaxin, will commence at a private hospital here soon, an official said. The search for a suitable vaccine for Covid-19 has almost come to the final stage, Dr E Venkata Rao, principal investigator in the Covaxin human trial and professor in the department of Community Medicine at the Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital here said on Sunday. IMS and SUM Hospital is among the 21 medical institutes selected across the country by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) where the third phase trial would be conducted. The indigenous vaccine, being developed by ICMR and Bharat Biotech has received the approval of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) for initiating the third phase trial. After completion of the first and second phase of the trial with demonstrable safety profile and immunogenicity, the large-scale efficacy trial involving thousands of volunteers has been planned now, Dr Rao said. Dr Rao, who is the head of the Preventive and Therapeutic Clinical Trial Unit (PTCTU), said during this phase the age limit and eligibility/ screening criteria would be relaxed and several volunteers who are otherwise apparently healthy would be recruited for the trial. Like the previous phases, half of the volunteers would receive placebo and the remaining half would be administered Covaxin in this phase. Even health care workers would be recruited for the trial. The volunteers would be followed up over a considerable period of time to look at the efficacy of the vaccine in preventing the development of the Corona disease, he said. Rao said there had been a huge response and enthusiasm among people who had offered themselves to be volunteers for the trial. He said persons above 18 years will be taken for the human trial. The interested volunteers for the project could enrol themselves for the trial by registering online at www.ptctu.soa.ac under the section register for clinical trials, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/third-phase-human-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine-to-commence-in-bhubaneswar-soon/articleshow/78867125.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rises to 99,686||RANCHI: At least 258 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, pushing the state's coronavirus caseload to 99,686 on Monday, a health official said. The Covid-19 death toll in the state rose 866 with two more fatalities reported from Ranchi and East Singhbhum district, he said. Bokaro district reported the highest number of new cases at 49, followed by Dhanbad (39) and Ranchi (35), the official said. The state now has 5,844 active coronavirus cases, while 92,976 people have been cured of the disease so far, he said. Jharkhand has tested 13,232 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhands-covid-19-tally-rises-to-99686/articleshow/78867143.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Pak's 1st ever metro train service begins commercial operation||LAHORE: Pakistan's first ever metro train service, the Orange Line, has started its commercial operation in Lahore. As an early project under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), the Orange Line was constructed by China State Railway Group Co., Ltd. and China North Industries Corporation and was operated by Guangzhou Metro Group, Norinco International and Daewoo Pakistan Express Bus Service, reports Xinhua news agency. During the five years of construction, the Orange Line created over 7,000 jobs for locals and in the operation and maintenance period, it will create 2,000 employment for locals. At the launch event on Sunday, Punjab Chief Minister Sardar Usman Buzdar said that the Orange Line is the first eco-friendly mass transit project and will provide world-class travel facilities to the people of Lahore. It will lead to green GDP growth, further promote urban development and modernity of the Pakistani eastern megacity and increase economic activities, he added. Addressing the ceremony, Long Dingbin, Chinese consul general in Lahore, said that the Orange Line is another fruitful achievement of the CPEC and it will greatly improve the traffic conditions in Lahore and become a new landmark of the city. He added that the launching of the Orange Line will greatly improve the traffic conditions in Lahore. The Orange Line covers a total of 27 km distance and has 26 stations including 24 elevated stops and two underground stations. Some 27 sets of energy-saving electric trains, each comprising five fully air-conditioned wagons, with the operating speed of 80 km per hour, will provide a comfortable, secure and economical traveling facility to 250,000 passengers daily. Watch Pakistan's first ever metro train service begins operation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/paks-1st-ever-metro-train-service-begins-commercial-operation/articleshow/78867156.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Guwahati||Mizoram reports 46 new Covid-19 cases||AIZAWL: As many as 46 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the past 24 hours in Mizoram, according to the Information and public relations (I&PR) department on Monday. The total number of positive cases stands at 2,493, active cases at 290 while 2,203 people have been discharged so far in the state. No fatalities due to the disease were reported in Mizoram till Sunday. With 45,149 new Covid-19 cases, India's total cases surged to 79,09,960 on Monday, according to the ministry of health and family welfare. With 480 new deaths, the Covid-19 toll mounted to 1,19,014, as per the Union health ministry. The number of total active Covid-19 cases stood at 6,53,717 after a decrease of 14,437 in the last 24 hours. Total cured cases stand at 71,37,229 with 59,105 new discharges in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/mizoram-reports-46-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78867192.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Kanpur||Two killed as tractor hits motorcycle in UP's Chitrakoot||CHITRAKOOT: Two men were killed and another seriously injured when their motorcycle was hit by a tractor on the Jhansi-Mirzapur highway here, police said on Monday. The accident occurred in Bharatkoop police station area on Sunday evening, they said. While Amit (29) and Suresh (22) died on the spot, Vikram (25) was seriously injured and admitted to a hospital, SHO of Bharatkoop police station Sanjay Upadhyay said. According to Upadhyay, the three were not wearing a helmet. A manhunt has been launched to nab the driver of tractor who fled from the spot, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-killed-as-tractor-hits-motorcycle-in-ups-chitrakoot/articleshow/78867257.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||FBI probes fire set in Boston ballot drop box||The FBI is investigating a fire set on Sunday in a Boston ballot drop box holding over 120 ballots, with Massachusetts election officials describing the incident as a "deliberate attack". The fire was set early Sunday outside the Boston Public Library downtown, according to the office of William Galvin, Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. There were 122 ballots inside the box when it was emptied Sunday morning, and 35 were damaged, Galvin's office said. Galvin and Boston Mayor Marty Walsh called the incident a "disgrace to democracy, a disrespect to the voters fulfilling their civic duty, and a crime." Local police said an arson inquiry was under way and released images of a person near the ballot box around the time of the fire. The police urged the public to identify the individual. Crews put out the fire by filling the ballot box with water, the Boston Police Department said in a statement. "It is a top priority of our offices to help maintain the integrity of the election process in Massachusetts by aggressively enforcing federal election laws", the FBI said in an announcement of the investigation. Voters whose ballots were affected can vote in person or via a replacement ballot that will be mailed to them, officials said. Early voting began last Saturday in Massachusetts, and more than 2 million residents have already cast their ballots in person or by mail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/fbi-probes-fire-set-in-boston-ballot-drop-box/articleshow/78867321.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||FBI probes fire set in Boston ballot drop box||The FBI is investigating a fire set on Sunday in a Boston ballot drop box holding over 120 ballots, with Massachusetts election officials describing the incident as a "deliberate attack". The fire was set early Sunday outside the Boston Public Library downtown, according to the office of William Galvin, Massachusetts Secretary of the Commonwealth. There were 122 ballots inside the box when it was emptied Sunday morning, and 35 were damaged, Galvin's office said. Galvin and Boston Mayor Marty Walsh called the incident a "disgrace to democracy, a disrespect to the voters fulfilling their civic duty, and a crime." Local police said an arson inquiry was under way and released images of a person near the ballot box around the time of the fire. The police urged the public to identify the individual. Crews put out the fire by filling the ballot box with water, the Boston Police Department said in a statement. "It is a top priority of our offices to help maintain the integrity of the election process in Massachusetts by aggressively enforcing federal election laws", the FBI said in an announcement of the investigation. Voters whose ballots were affected can vote in person or via a replacement ballot that will be mailed to them, officials said. Early voting began last Saturday in Massachusetts, and more than 2 million residents have already cast their ballots in person or by mail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/fbi-probes-fire-set-in-boston-ballot-drop-box/articleshow/78867323.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Itanagar||Arunachal Pradesh reports more recoveries than fresh Covid-19 cases||ITANAGAR: Arunachal Pradesh has reported more Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases in a single day, as 170 people were cured of the disease while 33 fresh infections, pushed the state's coronavirus tally to 14,244, a senior health department official said on Monday. Of the 33 new Covid-19 cases, The Capital Complex region reported the highest number at 14, followed by three each in Tawang, Changlang, West Kameng and Upper Siang, two each in West Siang and East Siang and one each in Papumpare, Longding and Lower Dibang Valley districts respectively, state surveillance officer (SSO) Dr Lobsang Jampa said. Barring 13, all are asymptomatic and shifted to Covid care centres, the official said. Arunachal Pradesh now has 2,260 active coronavirus cases, while 11,951 people have been cured of the disease so far, Dr Jampa said, adding the recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state now is 83.90 per cent. Thirty three people have succumbed to the infection in the state so far, the official said. The Capital Complex region -- comprising Itanagar, Naharlagun, Nirjuli and Banderdewa areas -- has the highest number of active cases at 1,149, followed by West Siang (200), East Siang (136) and West Kameng (101), Dr Jampa said. The state has so far tested 3,06,694 samples for Covid-19, including 1,000 on Sunday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/arunachal-pradesh-reports-more-recoveries-than-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78867304.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Chennai||Portion of road in front of Chennai Central caves in||CHENNAI: A portion of the Poonamallee High Road in front of Puratchi Thalaivar Dr MGR Central Railway Station in Chennai caved in when a loaded truck was passing over an under construction pedestrian subway on Sunday night. No casualty was reported. The pedestrian subway to link the Central Railway station with Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital is being constructed by Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL). The truck was proceeding towards Vepery from Chennai Port around 11.20pm when the trailer portion of the vehicle suddenly sank into the road. The truck was carrying four iron sheet rolls, totally weighing more than 90 tonne. A large portion of the road caved in exposing about 20 feet of pit excavated for the construction of the pedestrian subway. CMRL had put up steel decking over the excavated site to cover the pit and for smooth flow of traffic above. The driver and the cleaner managed to come out of the cabin. The driver, who suffered injuries, was sent to GH. Traffic was diverted to close the sunken area of the road. CMRL officials said work would be completed by Monday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/portion-of-road-in-front-of-chennai-central-caves-in/articleshow/78867573.cms||U Tejonmayam
October 26, 2020||India||SC stays Madhya Pradesh HC order on political gatherings||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday stayed the Madhya Pradesh high court order which put various conditions in holding physical gatherings by political parties for campaigning in assembly by-polls in the state. The Election Commission (EC) had moved the SC challenging the order, saying conducting elections was in the sole jurisdiction of the poll agency and that the high court had no power to interfere. The SC, however, asked the EC to take appropriate steps in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The poll panel, which is empowered under the Constitution to take decisions to hold elections, has issued the guidelines to allow limited political assemblies during the campaigning. The Gwalior bench of the high court had put stringent restrictions on physical campaigning by candidates for the assembly bye-elections in Madhya Pradesh in view of the pandemic situation. The high court had said the political parties will have to get permission from the District Collector to hold physical gatherings and a certificate from the poll panel that virtual campaigning was not possible. The by-elections to 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh will decide the fate of the seven-month-old Shivraj Singh Chouhan government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-stays-madhya-pradesh-hc-order-on-political-gatherings/articleshow/78867549.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Business||Govt banks on seamless, faster movement of freight to spur growth in next 10 years||NEW DELHI: Faster and seamless freight movement is the new focus of the government to accelerate economic growth in the next 10 years. While the shipping ministry has finalised the target to increase capacity of ports to handle 1.7 to two times more cargo than the current figure by 2030, the railways has set the target to construct four more dedicated freight corridors (DFCS) taking the total length to nearly 6,800 km. The road transport and highways has also set the target to build nearly two dozen expressways and greenfield highways with combined length of 7,800 km to provide signal free connectivity from production hubs to major consumption centres. This will also pave the way for operation of heavier and bulky-cargo carrying vehicles including road-rails, which are combinations of more than one lorry. Railway board CEO and chairman V K Yadav told reporters that they have set the target to increase the freight loading in rail to 3,200 million tonnes (MTs) by 2030. In 2019-20, the national transporter handled about 1,200 MTs. Similarly, the shipping ministry has prepared a maritime plan 2030 setting a high target to augment the capacity of existing ports and develop a few ports so that at least 2,200 MTs of cargo can be handled by 2030. In 2019-20, all ports handled about 1,320 MTs. As per the plan, the capacity of three big ports would be increased to handle more than 300 MTs per annum in the next 10 years. Currently Deendayal port (Kandla) handles a maximum of 261 MTs in a year followed by Paradip (233 MTs) and Mundhra (225 MTs). The plan also includes increasing the drafts of three more ports to 18 metres to take the total numbers to five. Another major thrust area is to reduce the vessel turnaround time in the case of containers from the current 32 hours to 20 hours by 2030. The shipping ministry has also proposed to set up a Maritime Development Fund of Rs 25,000 crore to make finance available for the sector for low-cost, long-term financing support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-banks-on-seamless-faster-movement-of-freight-to-spur-growth-in-next-10-years/articleshow/78867587.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Now Left MLA Karat Razak's name surfaces in gold smuggling case||KOCHI: A report of the customs department that includes the statement of Soumya BS, wife of Kerala gold smuggling case accused Sandeep Nair has been made public. She gave a statement against Karat Razak, an LDF-backed independent MLA from Koduvally, Kozhikode district and Karat Faisal, an LDF-backed independent Councillor of Koduvally Municipality. In that report, customs stated, "She also knew that Sandeep and Ramees were smuggling gold for Karat Faisal and Karat Rasak." "Sandeep used to physically assault her since she objected Sandeep getting involved in smuggling. Sandeep had told her that he used to get the help of Swapna Suresh and Sarith in clearing the baggage as diplomatic cargo. She also knew that Sandeep and Ramees (another accused) were smuggling gold for Karat Faisal and Karat Rasak; that she knew that they were smuggling gangs from Koduvally, Kozhikode," the report read. "Another statement of Soumya BS was recorded on 31.07.2029, one day I came to house when Sandeep was also at home, that after that she heard the sound of the drilling machine from one of the rooms, Sandeep came out and showed her a cylindrical solid object and Sandeep told her that it was gold and said that he is the only mediator and the gold is brought with the knowledge of Swapna and Sarith," the report further read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-sandeep-nair-ramees-smuggled-gold-for-mla-karat-rasak/articleshow/78867503.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Nawaz Sharif attacks Pak Army, ISI chief as Opposition says ‘sun about to set' on Imran govt||KARACHI: Pakistan's deposed prime minister Nawaz Sharif has blamed Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hameed for the current political situation in the country, as the Opposition parties held their third massive joint rally against Prime Minister Imran Khan-led government. The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), a coalition of 11 Opposition parties, was formed to oust Khan from power on September 20. The alliance held two massive back-to-back gatherings in Gujranwala and Karachi this month. The third rally was held in Quetta, capital of the restive Baluchistan province, on Sunday. Addressing the gathering via video link from London, the three-time prime minister and chief of the Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) again blamed Army chief Bajwa and ISI Director General Hameed for Pakistan's current situation. “Gen Bajwa, you will have to answer for record rigging in the 2018 elections, for horse-trading in Parliament, for making Imran Niazi prime minister against people's wishes and [by] tearing apart the Constitution and laws, for pushing people towards poverty and hunger," 70-year-old Sharif said. Sharif, who is entangled in a number of corruption cases, has been in London since November last year after the Lahore High Court granted him permission to go abroad for four weeks for treating the heart disease and an immune system disorder. He also accused the ISI chief of "interfering in politics for several years with impunity" in violation of his oath. Sharif said that he names individuals "because I don't want my Army to be defamed". Pakistan's powerful Army has denied meddling in politics. Prime Minister Khan also denies that the Army helped him win the election in 2018. "Looking at this enthusiasm, I am sure that no one will be able to violate the voters' mandate now. I saw this enthusiasm in Gujranwala and Karachi, and now I'm seeing it in Quetta," Sharif said, addressing the huge crowd at the stadium. "I am aware of Baloch people's problems, Nawaz Sharif knows [...] the missing persons issue is still there. I feel pain when I see the victims," he said, in an apparent reference to the forced disappearance of hundreds of Baloch people. He said that the PDM has risen against "unconstitutional powers that have made Pakistan hollow from inside and out". This is not the first time Sharif has made such allegations against top Army brass; he made similar ones in the Gujranwala rally after which a furious Prime Minister Khan had declared that he would get “tougher” with the Opposition. Sharif's daughter and PML-N vice president Maryam Nawaz in her speech said that time has come to change the fate of Pakistan - and Balochistan. "No longer will husbands and brothers go missing, people of Balochistan," she said, addressing the attendees. "The reason you are deprived of food and shelter is that your vote is not respected. Those who rule you are not answerable to you but to someone else, someone else pulls their strings," she said. Maryam said that the "sun is about to set" on the current "dictatorial regime" and “the puppet show will soon come to an end”. Addressing the rally via video link, Pakistan People's Party chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari asked, “What sort of a democracy is this where the media isn't free and neither is the judiciary." In his speech, Balochistan National Party President Sardar Akhtar Mengal lashed out at the Khan government and establishment over the missing persons' issue. He also alleged that since 1947, governments had never kept their agreements with the Baloch people and they were not treated as equal citizens of the country. Meanwhile, Mohsin Dawar, a big critic of the government, was taken into custody by security officials at the Quetta airport on Saturday when he arrived for the rally. Home Minister Ziaullah Langove said that there was a ban on Dawar's entry in the province. The ban is set to expire on October 29. Dawar, a lawmaker and leader of Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (PTM), tweeted that he had been told he was not allowed to enter because of security risks and said he refused to be silenced like this. and will not be intimidated. As the public meeting began at the Ayub Stadium in Quetta on Sunday, the city witnessed a blast that killed three people and injured seven others in Hazarganji area, 35 to 40 minutes away from the rally site. According to police, an improvised explosive device (IED) was planted in a motorcycle. Undeterred by the blast, the PDM leaders went ahead with the rally, which was attended by PDM president Maulana Fazlur Rehman and other top leaders of the coalition. The National Counter Terrorism Authority had earlier issued a security alert saying it received “credible information” that opposition rallies in Quetta and Peshawar could be targeted by militants. The provincial government had asked the PDM not to hold the rally given the threats. However, PDM leaders rejected the call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/nawaz-sharif-attacks-pak-army-isi-chief-as-opposition-says-sun-about-to-set-on-imran-govt/articleshow/78867717.cms||---
October 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana adds 582 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths push toll to 1,311||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 582 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally of infections to 2,31,834, while the death toll rose to 1,311 with four more fatalities, the state government said on Monday. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for 174 of the 582 fresh cases, followed by Nalgonda (87), Rangareddy (55), Medchal Malkajgiri (38) and other districts, it said in a bulletin, providing data as of 8pm on October 25. The bulletin said 14,729 samples were tested on October 25. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 40,94,417. The samples tested per million population was 1,10,005, it said. The cumulative recovered cases stood at 2,11,912, while 18,611 were under treatment. The recovery rate in the state rose further to 91.40 per cent, while it was 90.2 per cent in the country, it said. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.56 per cent, while it was 1.5 per cent at the national level, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-adds-582-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-push-toll-to-1311/articleshow/78867816.cms||---
October 26, 2020||World||Over 58.7 million Americans have already voted, but wait for poll result could be long: Report||NEW YORK: More than 58.7 million Americans have voted in the 2020 presidential election so far, surpassing all early ballots cast in the 2016 polls, but an unprecedented number of mail-in ballots has given rise to the possibility that the result could be delayed as counting of votes may stretch beyond November 3, according to a media report. The report in the CNN said that according to a survey of election officials in all 50 states and Washington DC conducted by the US-based network, Edison Research and Catalist, more than 58.7 million Americans have voted so far in the election, with still 9 days left for November 3. The report said in 2016, around 58.3 million pre-election ballots were cast, including ballots in the three vote-by-mail states that year. That early vote accounted for about 42 per cent of all ballots cast in the 2016 presidential election. "Pre-election voting for the November election has surpassed all 2016 early ballots cast with 9 days left until Election Day," the report said. "Pre-Election Day voting is skyrocketing nationwide amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, and states are reporting record-breaking turnout as voters are energised to vote by mail or early in person before November,' it said. There are more than 257 million people in the US who are 18 or older, and nearly 240 million citizens are eligible to vote this year, according to the American daily USA Today. Another CNN report, however, noted that despite the unprecedented mail-in voting, there is a possibility that full results of who between President Donald Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden will win the Presidential election may not be known on election night. "Election night can be synonymous with unpredictability - just look at 2016 - but this year might be even murkier than usual. The pandemic has changed the way millions of Americans vote for president," the report said. While voters have already cast an unprecedented number of mail-in ballots, in many locations, including potential battleground states, the mail-in ballots will not be counted until after the election, "potentially leading to long delays in the news media's ability to call the election on election night," it said. CNN cited media experts to say that the counting could go longer than election night and "could last until the next morning or until the next afternoon or even later. It said that 54 per cent of those 58.7 million votes already cast this cycle comes from 16 most competitively ranked states, which will play a crucial role in determining who wins the presidency this year. Among those states, Minnesota has currently seen the largest percentage increase in early voting turnout compared to last cycle, according to Catalist data from both years in 14 key states. The report added that younger voters (aged 18-29) are also casting significantly more ballots and make up a greater share of the pre-Election Day vote than they did around the same time four years ago in all of the key states with information available. Across all 14 of these key states, voters below the age of 30 have seen upticks in their share of the early vote compared to this point in 2016, it said. The report analyses the turnout in several key states that Trump had won by the narrowest of margins in 2016. Trump had won Florida by a little over one percentage point in 2016 and capturing the state again this year is critical to his reelection prospects, it said. The report added that 35 per cent of likely voters in Florida say they have already cast a ballot. Of that group, 71 per cent said they support Biden and 27 per cent back Trump. In North Carolina, Democrats are also outpacing Republicans in their percentage of the pre-election votes, but that margin is narrowing amid a surge in early voting. The report said that about 40 per cent of the early votes that Catalist has analysed comes from Democrats compared to 30 per cent from Republicans so far. In Pennsylvania, a crucial state that Trump won by less than one percentage point in 2016, Democrats continue to hold a significant advantage over Republicans in their share of ballots already cast, according to Catalist party data. About 70 per cent of pre-election votes have come from Democrats so far, compared to about 20 per cent from Republicans, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/over-58-7-million-americans-have-already-voted-but-wait-for-poll-result-could-be-long-report/articleshow/78867859.cms||---
