October 27, 2020||India||New consumer protection body puts firms on notice for claiming their products neutralise coronavirus||NEW DELHI: The recently set up Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA) has sent notices to two big companies - one selling healthcare products and another a paint manufacturer - for making claims that their products neutralise the coronavirus. The companies have been asked to substantiate their claims. This move is being seen as a signal to all manufacturers, advertisers and sellers that their claims are under the scanner and they need to back them with scientific evidence. The central authority set up as per the Consumer Protection (CP) Act has the responsibility to ensure consumers are not shortchanged by misleading advertisements or due to inferior quality of goods and services. TOI has learnt that the notices were sent to these two companies after prima facie it was found that their claims were misleading. "We want that the manufacturers, advertisers and sellers do due diligence while making claims and these should be based on evidence. This is good for both the companies and for consumers. The authority is watching things closely," said a source. The CCPA has the power to inquire or investigate issues relating to violation of consumer rights or unfair trade practices suo motu or on receiving a complaint or on a direction from the Central government. The rules have been notified by the consumer affairs ministry. It has also come out with a draft "code for advertisement" to ensure that the manufacturers and marketing entities follow norms. The final code is likely to be notified soon. According to the CP Act, the CCPA can crack down on false or misleading advertisements, if it’s satisfied after investigation that any advertisement is false or misleading. It can issue directions to the trader, manufacturer, endorser, advertiser or publisher to discontinue such advertisements or modify it within a given time. The CCPA also has power to refer such cases to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), if such acts have impacted a class of consumers. It has the power to impose penalty if the charges are established.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-consumer-protection-body-puts-firms-on-notice-for-claiming-their-products-neutralise-coronavirus/articleshow/78879977.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 27, 2020||India||South Kashmir on path of normalcy: GoC 15 Corps||SRINAGAR: Lieutenant General BS Raju, GOC 15 Corps, based in Srinagar, said on Monday that whosoever is holding a gun will face tough action from the Army. “However, those willing to return to the mainstream by shunning the path of violence, are welcome. We will facilitate their return," he promised. “There is a beautiful environment prevailing in the Valley at present and Kashmir is on the right track,” General Raju told reporters at a function in Yusmarg in Budgam in central Kashmir on Monday. “I appeal to the youth ready to quit militancy to return as environment is feasible to start a new and peaceful life. Militancy has given nothing to Kashmir. The situation in south Kashmir is normal. Economic activities are picking up there. Apple trade is also picking pace. If Covid-19 subsides, I am sure schools will also re-open there,” General Raju remarked. About the situation on the LoC, the general said the Army has been able to plug the infiltration to a large extent this year. “Ahead of snowfall and winter, the attempts may increase, but our men are maintaining a tight vigil to foil all bids,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/south-kashmir-on-path-of-normalcy-goc-15-corps/articleshow/78880013.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 27, 2020||India||PDP trio flags Mehbooba’s ‘undesirable’ remarks||SRINAGAR: In the first sign of a rift within PDP over party chief Mehbooba Mufti's refusal to hoist the tricolour till J&K's erstwhile flag was restored, three senior Jammu-based functionaries on Monday shot off a letter in which they spoke about "feeling quite uncomfortable over some of her actions and undesirable utterances that have hurt patriotic sentiments". As the backlash against Mehbooba hit home, a BJP trio from north Kashmir's Kupwara was detained by Srinagar police for "violating Covid-prevention norms" while proceeding to hoist the national flag atop the clock tower at Lal Chowk to mark Accession Day. In Jammu, PDP functionaries TS Bajwa, Ved Mahajan and Hussain A Waffa made no secret of their embarrassment at their party chief's remarks last Friday during her first presser since being released from 14 months in detention. "We have disagreements on several issues that have been taken up in the letter sent to Mehbooba ji. We want to set things right in the PDP family," Bajwa, a former Rajya Sabha member, said. On reports that he and his two colleagues had quit PDP already, Bajwa said, "We have not resigned yet. If any decision regarding this is taken, it will be communicated to the media through a press conference." Without directly referring to the tricolour, Mehbooba had vowed "not to raise the other flag till Kashmir's flag is restored". The former CM also said she wasn't interested in contesting elections until J&K's status was restored to what it was before August 5 last year, when the Centre moved to nullify Articles 370 and 35A. Protesting against Mehbooba's remarks, including calling the Centre a band of "robbers", various BJP units on Monday held rallies across Jammu and in parts of the Valley with the tricolour as the centrepiece. The three BJP members detained in Srinagar while trying to hoist the flag at Lal Chowk – Mir Basharat, Mir Ishfaq and Akhtar Khan – said their mission was to "send a message to members of the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration that only the national flag will remain in Kashmir". "Today we came to celebrate the day when Maharaja Hari Singh signed the instrument of accession with the Centre. Our message is for Mehbooba Mufti, Omar Abdullah and all other members of the (seven-party) alliance," Basharat said. Srinagar SSP Haseeb Mughal clarified that it was the right of every citizen to hoist the tricolour and that the three BJP functionaries were detained only because their movement towards Residency Road might disrupt traffic and lead to an assembly larger than Covid norms stipulate. A BJP car rally from Tagore Hall, Srinagar, headed towards Mehbooba's official bungalow on Gupkar Road. BJP youth activists and members of the women's wing hoisted the tricolour at the PDP office in Jammu's Gandhi Nagar. Addressing a "tiranga rally" in Jammu, J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina said, "The Gupkar gang is left with no other option than to repent for the sins they have committed so far." (With inputs from Sanjay Khajuria in Jammu)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pdp-trio-flags-mehboobas-undesirable-remarks/articleshow/78880124.cms||M Saleem Pandit
October 27, 2020||India||Livid at delay in completion of NHAI building, Nitin Gadkari puts ‘non performers’ on notice||NEW DELHI: Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday slammed the "non-performing" officials in the national highways authority of India (NHAI) who have been either delaying projects or posing obstacles in works. He said such "non performing assets" should be shown the exit door. Gadkari was speaking at the inauguration of the new NHAI building, which was built in nine years. He said this was an example of how officials have developed the habit of delaying works and even warned that he would have no other option than reviewing the performance of the chief general managers (CGM) and general managers (GMs). "Non-performing assets (NPAs) not worth doing even vermiculture are preserved here and are being promoted. I feel ashamed at the attitude of such officials who are carrying such legacies of negativity and delaying things. They are delaying decisions and creating complications and at the helm, these are CGMs and GMs sitting for 12-13 years," Gadkari said. He said he was feeling "ashamed" at the inordinate delay by senior NHAI officials who were responsible for such a small work taking more than nine years while the same agency is building Delhi-Mumbai expressway with investment of Rs 1 lakh crore in three years. Gadkari said the very process of recruitment in NHAI was faulty and the agency had been getting “bad raw material”. He also flagged how senior level officials often don’t have details of projects. “I will have no option else than assessing the performance of officials. I need to fix the issue and get rid of non-performing persons,” he said. The minister wondered as to why the authority was not able to retain engineers from IITs and other institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/livid-at-delay-in-completion-of-nhai-building-nitin-gadkari-puts-non-performers-on-notice/articleshow/78880298.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 27, 2020||Business||Government keen to bring BIs under commerce ministry in next two weeks||NEW DELHI: The government has revived the proposal to bring the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) under the commerce ministry from the consumer affairs department. Former minister late Ram Vilas Paswan had opposed the proposal by the commerce ministry highlighting that the BIS has regulatory powers and takes care of consumers interest after the Parliament passed the BIS Amendment Act in 2016 with powers to protect consumers. Sources said a two-week deadline has been set to complete the task of bringing the agency under commerce ministry. A couple of meetings have been held since Union minister railways and commerce minister Piyush Goyal got additional charge of the food and consumer affairs ministry after Paswan passed away. The earlier avataar of BIS, Indian Standards institute (ISI) was set up in September 1946 as per a resolution of the department of industrial and supplies. The BIS came into existence as an Act of Parliament in 1986 and it was put under the consumer affairs department. The opinions are divided over the need to shift the standards making body to the commerce ministry. Some of the former BIS officials told TOI that the proposal was long overdue as the agency is primarily responsible for making standards for industrial goods. "Across the globe agencies making standards for industrial goods are under the trade and commerce departments. Only in recent years we started setting standards for services. Bringing BIS under commerce will help us go a long way to make India Atma Nirbhar, which is the government's focus," said one of these former senior BIS officials. Another official said this should not be seen as a turf issue. However, others have a different take on this considering that the BIS not just sets standards but also enforces them and takes action against violations to protect the consumers interest. A former consumer affairs ministry official said, "What we need to remember is that both the amendments in BIS Act and the Consumer Protection Act were in sync with each other and primarily aimed at protecting consumers. The current mechanism is enough to set high standards and make them mandatory under the Quality Control Order (QCO) regime that will help protect our domestic industries. But the government can take any decision on such matters," he said. The former bureaucrat also said taking BIS back to the commerce ministry may require the need to set up a new regulator to protect consumers interests. "Unfortunately, the consumer affairs ministry in our system has little authority unlike other countries despite our claims that the consumer is the king. In India, there are sector specific regulators. Only a new beginning has been made by setting up the Central Consumer Protection Authority with very limited power," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-keen-to-bring-bis-under-commerce-ministry-in-next-two-weeks/articleshow/78880412.cms||Dipak K Dash
October 27, 2020||India||India wants Pakistan to prosecute David Headley for 26/11||NEW DELHI: India wants Pakistan to prosecute Pakistan-American David Coleman Headley, and seek his testimony as a witness, in the 2008 Mumbai attacks case, TOI has learnt. The government conveyed this to Islamabad last week, while reiterating that India is open to hosting a Pakistan judicial commission for examining witnesses in Mumbai or to questioning them through a teleconference. The 26/11 plotter who pleaded guilty is serving a 35-year sentence in the US for planning terror attacks in Denmark and India. India believes though his deposition before Pakistan authorities, exposing Pakistan's ISI links with the perpetrators, will set to rest any doubt whatsoever about the role of Pakistan state actors in the attacks that left 166, including 6 Americans, dead. Headley has confessed before both US and Indian agencies that he acted at the behest of ISI and that the terror group responsible for the attack, LeT, was acting under the same spy agency's umbrella. That he turned approver and pleaded guilty, while leading to his conviction by a US court, also meant that under the US laws he can no longer be extradited to India, or to Pakistan in the unlikely event of Islamabad acting on India's advice and seeking his prosecution. Not being extradited to India, Pakistan or Denmark was one of the conditions on which the rogue US intelligence agent had turned approver. In his plea bargain, Headley had agreed though that, when directed by the US attorney’s office, he would "fully and truthfully" testify in any foreign judicial proceedings held in the United States by way of deposition, videoconferencing or letters rogatory. This opens the door for Pakistan to implead Headley. At a time it remains worried about the fate of the inordinately delayed trial in Pakistan of the other 26/11 accused, including LeT commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, India is keen that the links of ISI and other military officers with the attacks are foregrounded again in he form of a virtual Headley testimony. The need for Pakistan to bring the Mumbai attacks accused to justice is again likely to figure in the 2+2 ministerial dialogue with the US Tuesday. India has also continued to emphasise that Pakistan hasn't yet stopped promoting cross-border terrorism. After he was made an accused in the Mumbai attacks, Headley testified virtually before a Mumbai special court and named one Major Ali and another Major Iqbal, both from ISI, as his handlers in Pakistan. Headley had revealed that his reconnaissance missions to India were ordered by Major Iqbal and that, before his September 2006 visit to India, he had received $ 25,000 from Iqbal. He had also said that he got 40,000 in Pakistani currency from LeT operative Sajid Mir between April and June 2008. Admitting that he worked for ISI and LeT, Headley had identified ISI official Brigadier Riyaz as Lakhvi, the Mumbai attacks mastermind. He also named 3 other ISI officials - Colonel Shah, Lt Colonel Hamza and Major Samir Ali - who, he said, were working with LeT and Al Qaeda. India had in August this year again offered to host a judicial commission from Pakistan after Islamabad sent a list of 27 witnesses the anti-terror court hearing the case wants to examine. The government though has rejected the demand that the witnesses visit Pakistan, saying that Pakistan could also consider examining them through a video conference. The Mumbai trial was initiated after Pakistan in 2009 arrested seven men directly involved in the terror attack. Apart from Lakhvi, Abdul Wajid, Mazhar Iqbal, Hamad Amin Sadiq, Shahid Jameel Riaz, Jamil Ahmed and Younis Anjum are facing charges of abetment to murder, attempted murder, planning and executing the 2008 attacks. India has remained sceptical about the outcome though, not least because of Pakistan's refusal to act against JuD chief Hafiz Saeed, who is also accused of masterminding the Mumbai attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-wants-pakistan-to-prosecute-david-headley-for-26/11/articleshow/78881214.cms||Sachin Parashar
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Festive shopping in COVID times: Delhi Police teams patrol markets, urge shoppers to wear masks||In the festive season, the Delhi Police usually has its hands full maintaining law and order across the city. However this year, due to the pandemic, they have to also ensure that shoppers and sellers are wearing masks, markets are not overcrowded and people are maintaining social distancing. The Delhi Police had collaborated with market associations weeks in advance to ensure all protocols are being followed. But as shoppers will admit, in most popular markets like in Janpath, Karol Bagh and others, rules are being flouted. We recently visited some markets across the city to take a stock of the situation. Before the festive season began, Delhi Police collaborated with market associations to ensure all protocols are being followedPatrolling to maintain social distancing, boards to remind people to limit exposure while shoppingIf you’ve recently visited any market, it’s likely that you have seen people without their mouths and noses covered and have had to resort to mask shaming them. Considering the increase in shoppers and the number of people violating COVID norms, in the recent weeks, the police has intensified checks across city markets. Delhi Police’s stats reflect that in June-October, around five lakh people have been challaned for not wearing masks. Delhi Police personnel in Karol Bagh are making sure that shoppers follow COVID-19 guidelinesSanjay Bhatia, DCP, Central Delhi, says, “Keeping in mind that shoppers will visit markets in the festive season, the Delhi Police had formed special teams to keep an eye on those violating rules. Our foot patrolling teams are ensuring that both shoppers and vendors are following the protocols of social distancing. We’ve put up boards to spread awareness about the disease in order to remind shoppers that they are shopping in the pandemic, and hence they should limit their exposure.” Police officials add that they’ll be making announcements in markets also to ask people to follow rules. ‘People argue with us if they are pulled up for not using masks’When we visited markets, we saw that as soon as shopkeepers noticed police personnel approaching, they started requesting shoppers to maintain social distancing. On seeing the police, some shoppers as well as shopkeepers also pulled up their masks, which were otherwise pulled down or dangling from their ears. A policeman tells us, “Some people will argue for 20 minutes when you pull them up for not wearing a mask! We first warn them and if they wear the mask and comply with what we say, we don’t penalise them.” Delhi Police personnel in JanpathIn Janpath, on seeing the team of patrolling cops, a vendor discouraged a shopper from trying out clothes. “If you keep trying every jacket, it won’t be safe for other customers and I will have to stop showing you more items,” we heard him telling the shopper. A staff member of an apparel store in Sarojini Nagar also had a similar complaint. “The police teams visit to explain protocols and tell us to follow rules, but what about the customers? We have had customers who don’t hesitate trying on clothes despite COVID.” We also saw policemen giving tips to shoppers: “If you have to go shopping, don’t plan it during the peak hours.” Chandrakant Dixit, a shopper in CP, said, “People are not just challaned for not wearing masks, they are also challaned for spitting. But visit any market and you will find that even during the pandemic, people flout hygiene norms.” Watch Delhi Police teams patrol markets, urge shoppers to wear mask||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/festive-shopping-in-covid-times-delhi-police-teams-patrol-markets-urge-shoppers-to-wear-masks/articleshow/78872622.cms||Niharika Lal
October 27, 2020||India||Will set up statutory body to curb farm fires: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: In what will be the first instance of an anti-pollution law for a specific region in the country, the Centre on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it was drafting a comprehensive legislation to set up a statutory body empowered to take steps to prevent stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh as also implement measures to reduce air pollution in the National Capital Territory (NCR) and adjoining areas. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, “The legislative step will create a permanent body with adequate powers. In the past, certain ad hoc steps were taken. Now, a statutory body will be created. We will come out with a draft legislation in four days.” The intent of the proposed law seems to be to address a multiplicity of authorities that hampers coordinated action, though it will also have to address state jurisdictions involved in implementing measures. With Parliament not in session, the Union government is likely to take the ordinance route to set up the permanent body, which is expected to have representations from Punjab, Haryana, UP and Delhi. The CJI-led bench said, "You do that. We welcome it. This is a problem which the government should have addressed. People are choking in the city." Read AlsoDelhi: Amid rising pollution, CM Arvind Kejriwal launches scheme to convert stubble into compostIn a possible relief from stubble burning and rising pollution, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and environment minister Gopal Rai kick-started the sprinkling of the bio-decomposer solution, prepared by Pusa Research Institute in a field at Hiranki Village in Narela area of the national capitalWith the court welcoming the Centre's decision to set up a statutory body, the SG said it would be in the fitness of things to put in abeyance implementation of the court's October 16 order setting up a one-man commission headed by retired SC judge Madan B Lokur for monitoring steps being taken by state authorities to prevent stubble burning. Appearing for petitioner Aditya Dubey, senior advocate Vikas Singh objected to the SG's request. He said it was not clear when the legislation would be finalised to give shape to the permanent body against air pollution. It would be better if Justice Lokur continued with the task given by the SC. But the SG remained firm in his request to the court and the CJI-led bench agreed with him in putting in abeyance its October 16 order tasking Justice Lokur Commission with monitoring preventive steps against stubble burning. The SC posted the PIL for further hearing on October 29. Read Also240% rise in Punjab farm fires: CentrePunjab accounted for 82% of stubble burning cases among three states, along with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, between October 1 and 23, which contributed heavily to foul air choking the NCR, the Centre said.According to the Centre, the Lokur commission has not yet started field surveillance. It has sought preliminary data on paddy area, areas of stubble burning, paddy varieties, data on stubble burning for the last three years, monitoring mechanism in the form of questionnaires which have been supplied by the states, it said. According to data compiled by the agriculture ministry, Punjab accounted for 82% of stubble burning cases among three states including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh between October 1 and 23, which contributed heavily to the foul air choking the NCR. On October 23, satellites detected 1,471 stubble burning incidents in the three states and Punjab accounted for 86%, or 1,267 cases. Haryana saw 133 crops residue burning cases while UP saw 71. "A total 14,326 burning events were detected in the three states between October 1 and 23, which are distributed as 11,796, 1,944 and 586 in Punjab, Haryana and UP, respectively," it said. During the same period last year, there were 4,889 stubble burning cases in Punjab. This year, the burning events reported are 11,796 which are 2.4 times higher than last year, the Centre said. Both Haryana and UP registered lower numbers of stubble burning incidents this year as compared to last year during the same period. In Haryana, it decreased by 30% from 2,806 last year to 1,944 this year. In UP, it decreased by 33% from 879 to 586. "Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Ferozepur districts in Punjab recorded the highest number of events, while in Haryana, Kaithal, Karnal and Kurukshetra districts recorded more number of burning events," it said. Farmers agitation against the agri bills were identified as one of the major reasons for crop burning in Punjab. "Farmers in districts where more burning events are reported grow vegetable crops in between the season of paddy harvesting and wheat sowing. In order to prepare fields for vegetable plantation in a short window, they prefer to burn the paddy stubbles," it said giving reasons for stubble burning. Watch Will set up statutory body to curb farm fires, Centre tells SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-set-up-statutory-body-to-curb-farm-fires-centre-to-sc/articleshow/78881653.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 27, 2020||Business||Centre will challenge Voda arbitral award||NEW DELHI: Armed with an opinion from solicitor general Tushar Mehta that an arbitral tribunal cannot render a law passed by a sovereign Parliament ineffective, the Centre will soon challenge the Permanent Court of Arbitration award, which quashed the income tax department's demand of Rs 22,000 crore as tax, penalty and interest on Vodafone on the ground that India violated the bilateral investment treaty with the Netherlands by retrospectively amending the law. "The question of law — the power of an arbitral tribunal to virtually and substantially declare a parliamentary legislation of a competent Parliament of a sovereign nation to be non est and unenforceable — itself is an issue which needs to be challenged. I therefore, opine that the Union of India must challenge the said award and must file all available proceedings to challenge the award and/or to protect the interest of Union of India," Mehta said in his opinion. Mehta said India should explore a competent forum in Singapore and advised against approaching the Delhi high court or the Supreme Court. "From the award, it appears that the seat of arbitration is Singapore and prime facie the challenge may lie in the said arbitration before the municipal courts of Singapore," the SG suggested. Two months after Vodafone won the taxation dispute in the SC in January 2012, the Centre had amended the tax laws retrospectively and, in 2013, it slapped the telecom giant with a tax demand of Rs 13,000 crore. Sources said India has to move fast to challenge the award in an appropriate forum keeping in mind the period of limitation that would be attached to the award. The SG suggested that the future course of action be charted in consultation with attorney general K K Venugopal. When the law ministry referred the SG's opinion to the AG and sought his view, Venugopal recused from the process saying he was "prohibited from advising the government in this case by the rules of conflict of interest". The AG, in his letter to the law ministry, said, "I was consulted by Vodafone International Holdings BV in regard to the same dispute much before I was appointed to the office of attorney general for India. My office records reveal that I had received a special retainer from the said company in April 2012 in relation to the very dispute." He said he had also advised the company through three more conferences for which he was paid additionally. "In the circumstances, therefore, I must express my inability to be involved in the case in any manner," the AG said. Watch Centre will challenge Voda arbitral award||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-will-challenge-voda-arbitral-award/articleshow/78881825.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 27, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Fresh cases across country hit 101-day low||NEW DELHI: India on Monday recorded 36,604 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in more than three months. The previous low before this was 101 days ago on July 17, when 35,065 fresh cases were recorded. The daily caseload was low as many states recorded their lowest tally in several months as the spread of infections has shown clear signs of slowing down since September 17, the peak of the pandemic.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Daily cases on Mondays have remained low compared to other days of the week primarily because of low testing figures on Sundays. According to covid19india.org, 9,39,309 tests were conducted on October 25 (a Sunday) — which was the lowest among other days of the week, with testing going beyond the 1.4-million mark on two days and remaining above one million for the rest of the days.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); However, infections have remained higher on all other Mondays despite tests falling below October 25 figures on several earlier Sundays. For instance, in the last four preceding weeks, there were at least two occasions when fresh cases the next day were higher than October 26 figures despite tests falling below the nine-lakh mark on Sundays. On Monday, Maharashtra, which has topped the state-wise chart of daily cases on most days during the pandemic, was number three with 3645 fresh cases, behind Kerala (4,287 new infections) and Bengal (4,121). Maharashtra’s 3,645 fresh cases were the lowest in 124 days while the 84 deaths that it recorded were the lowest in 146 days. This Sunday, August 25, saw one of the lowest testing averages. A total of merely 36,267 tests were carried out which is less than half of the daily average of 72,000 tests. Other states also recorded their lowest infections in several months. Watch Covid-19: Fresh cases across India hit 101-day low||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-fresh-cases-across-country-hit-101-day-low/articleshow/78881905.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Business||Consumer goods makers get festive booster shot||NEW DELHI: The festive season has provided some much-needed cheer to the corona-hit consumer goods industry, with retail sales in the 10-day Navratri to Dussehra period not only topping last year’s numbers but registering strong double-digit growth -- signs that seem to indicate the beginning of a revival in the economy and consumer confidence. Companies such as Maruti, Hyundai, Samsung, LG, Sony and even luxury retailers like Mercedes-Benz and Dyson hold out hope that the positive start to “one of the most critical sales periods” would strengthen further as the country now moves towards Diwali. There have been festive offers and new launches galore from companies that are now left with low inventory in many cases. Pent-up demand with weak sales in the preceding months has also added to the rush. “In TVs, we were actually stocked out for large screen-sized panels,” Ravinder Zutshi, senior director at LG India, told TOI. The demand was most palpable in the automobile industry, which had contracted 18% last fiscal. Maruti, which controls nearly half of the market, is understood to have retailed a massive 95,000 units in the 10-day period, not only creating a record during such troubled times but even registering over 20% growth over last year. The company’s strong line-up of hatchbacks and entry-level cars contributed most of the volumes, with personal mobility getting a leg-up owing to wariness -- and restrictions -- about public transport. Maruti’s rivals such as Hyundai and Kia – the Korean duo who are part of the same business group – also saw equally strong demand. While numbers for Kia Motors were exceptionally high (over 200% at retail of over 11,000 units) as it added a new model to its line-up recently (the Sonet mini SUV), Hyundai too retailed over 28,000 units on strong demand for its set of Creta and Venue off-roaders. But if entry-level cars provided the volumes, there were equally enthusiastic buyers when it came to the luxury segment. Mercedes-Benz, which tops the luxury car market in India, retailed over 550 cars across the country, again posting double-digit growth over the same Navratri-Dussehra period of last year. “Strong customer demand is witnessed across key markets like Delhi-NCR, Mumbai and Gujarat which saw a resurgence in customer demand, owing to the return of normalcy and stabilization of businesses and the wish to unlock aspirations… The festive season has begun on a very strong note… and this (consumer) trust becomes even more pronounced in the context of today’s market conditions, which faces multiple challenges,” Martin Schwenk, MD & CEO of Mercedes-Benz India, said. Two-wheeler companies such as Hero Moto and Honda Motorcycles and Scooter India also saw strong demand, though the companies are still to share actual volumes and growth rates. On the consumer electronics side, smartphones – generally the strongest category in the segment – continued to witness strong numbers with new launches and heavy competition between players such as Samsung, Apple, One Plus, Xiaomi and Oppo. Enabled by online channels, Samsung’s smartphone volumes were 50% more than what it sold in the Navratri-Dussehra period last year. On the TV side, it was not just LG that saw a strong traction in demand. Samsung, Sony and Philips all had double-digit growth in demand, especially for the large screen sizes. “The auspicious period of Navratri-Dussehra has turned out to be very favourable for TVs and soundbar sales with an exceptional growth in the 55-inch and above segment… we are hoping this momentum will continue until the Diwali festival,” Sunil Nayyar, MD of Sony India, said. “We expect at least 20% more sales this festive season over last year… This is largely because of pent-up demand and higher screen time as people spend more time at home,” an official for Philips TVs said. Panasonic said that sales of end-of-season ACs were up 33%, while growth in refrigerators was 71%. Even hitherto weak segments such as dishwashers, vacuum cleaners, and high-end cameras were in strong demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumer-goods-makers-get-festive-booster-shot/articleshow/78881962.cms||Pankaj Doval
October 27, 2020||India||NDA ex-minister Dilip Ray gets 3-years jail term for coal scam||NEW DELHI: A special CBI court in Delhi on Monday sentenced former Union minister Dilip Ray to three years in jail and fined him Rs 10 lakh for his role in the illegal allocation of Jharkhand’s Brahmadiha coal block to a Bokaro-based company in 1999. The ex-junior coal minister in the Vajpayee government had been convicted of criminal conspiracy, cheating, corruption and breach of trust on October 6 along with two former coal ministry officials — Pradip Kumar Banerjee and Nitya Nand Gautam. The beneficiary firm Castron Technologies Ltd (CTL), its director Mahendra Kumar Agarwalla and another company called Castron Mining Ltd were also guilty of multiple offences, including theft. The court fined CTL Rs 60 lakh and CML Rs 10 lakh. Dilip Ray sought leniency but CBI opposed his pleaMahendra Kumar Agarwalla, director of Castron Technologies Ltd, was given a three-year jail term and fined Rs 60 lakh. Banerjee and Gautam were sentenced to three years in jail and fined Rs 2 lakh each. “The average loss from ordinary crimes like burglaries and robberies may run into a few thousand rupees only, but white-collar crimes may cause losses not only in lakhs but in crores of rupees” special CBI judge Bharat Parashar said. The CBI, through public prosecutor AP Singh and advocate Tarannum Cheema, had sought “no leniency” as the accused had been convicted for economic offences. The order mentions the challenges of find criminality in illegal acts by white-collar criminals since these were the handiwork of “well-trained” minds backed by high status in society. “Issues relating to M/s CTL were dealt with by Ray while being part of a caretaker government, which led to allocation of the coal block in question in favour of the company, unerringly point towards his mala fide intentions in taking various such decisions directly benefiting M/s CTL,” it states. While pleading for leniency, Ray said he had suffered extreme mental agony and irreparable damage to his political career. Banerjee, 80, submitted that he had had a successful career spanning 40 years as a public servant, for which he had been conferred the Padma Shri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nda-ex-minister-dilip-ray-gets-3-years-jail-term-for-coal-scam/articleshow/78882239.cms||Aamir Khan
October 27, 2020||India||SC orders winding up of UBHL to recover Rs 11,000 crore Kingfisher dues||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday allowed winding up of United Breweries Holding Ltd (UBHL) for recovery of dues payable by Kingfisher Airlines to creditors, including banks, and dismissed the company’s plea against its liquidation. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat upheld the Karnataka high court verdict on winding up the company and dismissed an appeal filed by UBHL against the judgment. UBHL has been fighting a legal battle for the last three years after a single bench of the HC had in 2017 ordered winding up which was then challenged before a division bench. The division bench rejected the firm’s plea in March. Senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan, appearing for the company, told the SC bench that assets of around Rs 14,000 crore belonging to UBHL, Vijay Mallya and other entities had been attached by the Enforcement Directorate when the total debt was only around Rs 6,000 crore. He said attachment orders had been challenged which were pending before a tribunal and no purpose would be solved by winding up the firm. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the SBI-led consortium of lender banks, opposed the UBHL's plea and contended that only Rs 3,595 crore had so far been recovered and the firm still owed over Rs 11,000 crore. Observing that winding up the firm should be the last resort, the SC granted extensive hearing to all parties but finally dismissed UBHL’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-orders-winding-up-of-ubhl-to-recover-rs-11000-crore-kingfisher-dues/articleshow/78882310.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||‘TRP scam accused who paid people may turn approver’||MUMBAI: An accused in the TRP manipulation scam, Umesh Mishra, who was involved in making payments to households for keeping certain television channels on, has agreed to turn approver for the police, said a source. Mishra’s decision to turn approver is expected to further bolster the prosecution’s case on rigging of TV viewership figures. It comes in the wake of four other suspects making confessional statements before a magistrate under CrPC 164. An approver is a person who is usually involved in a crime and seeks pardon after expressing ‘repentance’; he volunteers, without threat or coercion, to provide details of illegalities committed, which he has knowledge of. A trial judge can allow such an accused to turn approver if satisfied that he has voluntarily provided details. An approver does not have to face trial. He has to depose as prosecution witness and can be cross-examined by the defence. If he resiles from his earlier statement his pardon can be forfeited. Mishra was arrested on October 16 on charges of distributing cash to households to influence TRPs. He was the fifth in a line of suspects to be nabbed, including the owners of two TV channels. In all, five channels including Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema are under probe for trying to boost TRPs, which are a key parameter used by media-buying houses to determine placement of advertisements. Mishra was released on bail on Monday. The court rejected the bail applications of Bomepalli Mistry, Vinay Tripathi, Shirish Shetty and Narayan Sharma and sent them to judicial custody. Meanwhile, police have summoned some investors in Republic TV on October 30 to record their statements. Police declined to identify them. Police in a remand application seeking custody of Abhishek Kolwade, the owner of a marketing company called Max Media, had stated that some of the accused in the scam have accepted money from “owners and directors” of three channels — Maha Movie, Republic TV and New Nation. The court said it appears that Shetty and Sharma paid the money to Mistry to distribute to households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-accused-who-paid-people-may-turn-approver/articleshow/78882329.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 27, 2020||Surat||Showroom opposite police station burgled in Gujarat||SURAT: As many as 205 mobile phones, 23 tablets and one bluetooth speaker were burgled from Reliance Digital showroom located exactly opposite Varachha police station early on Monday. Four burglars, who came in a Toyota Innova, opened the showroom’s shutter using an iron road and entered inside. The stolen goods are valued at nearly Rs 41 lakh. The front of the showroom is easily visible from the police station on the other side of the road. The complaint was lodged by Ashok Singh, manager of the showroom. Burglars took just about 25 minutes to lay their hands on so many valuables as the CCTV footage of the showroom revealed that they were inside from 5:18am to 5:42am. The burglars took barely two minutes to lift a portion of the shutter and enter. They dumped all the stolen valuables in the SUV’s boot and escaped. Police investigation revealed that the burglars escaped on national highway 48 towards Navsari up to which their vehicle was tracked through CCTVs installed at various places on the road. The number plate of the SUV was found to be that of Ahmedabad and during checking, it was confirmed that it was stolen. The burglars had replaced the SUV’s original number plate. The burglars entered the city from Kamrej-Varachha Road and executed thefts on the same road. Watch Surat: Burglars break into electronics showroom opposite police station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/electronics-showroom-right-opposite-police-station-burgled/articleshow/78881062.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Business||After a record in Sept, Covid claims easing: ICICI Lombard||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: ICICI Lombard General Insurance has said that Covid-19 claims have tapered off from September peaks and costs should be under control, unless there is a second wave. The company said that it has managed to keep health insurance premium costs under check by tying up with hospitals and preventing frauds. It will offer a new comprehensive health policy with fewer exclusions and contain the rate hike to below 10% at the portfolio level. On the impact of Covid-19 on health insurance premium, ICICI Lombard MD & CEO Bhargav Dasgupta said that the company would have to wait to see whether there was any need for repricing. “We have not increased health insurance prices since 2013-14. We look at a longer time frame before we increase prices and it will not be driven by Covid, but by overall frequency of claims, general health inflation,” he said. The regulator has asked all companies to revise their health insurance contracts and standardise and reduce exclusions. All insurers have accordingly revised the products with higher pricing. ICICI Lombard has received the regulator’s nod for its complete health insurance product. This will be in November 2020 for new customers, and from January 2021 onwards for renewals. “It is difficult to predict the pattern of the pandemic. September was a cause for concern as health claims during the month were 50% of all claims since the start of the pandemic. Thankfully, the numbers seem to be in control and tapering off. The concern is if there is a second spike, which would turn it into an overall negative for the whole year,” said Dasgupta. The private insurer has seen 17,000 Covid-19 claims for Rs 115 crore. “First quarter saw the benefit of lower auto and health claims. Now the auto claims have gone to pre-Covid levels, while Covid claims went through the roof in September,” said Dasgupta. As a result, the combined ratio (of claim and management costs to premium), which was 99.7% in the first quarter, worsened to 102.6% in the second quarter. Dasgupta said that the company is responding to the pandemic by going in for a higher level of automation. “We have reoriented ourselves to the new normal by continuing with the digital drive. For the first time, we introduced home healthcare cover. Second, our AI-enabled claim settlement now authorises 60% of claims — up from 30% in March,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-a-record-in-sept-covid-claims-easing-icici-lombard/articleshow/78880838.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 27, 2020||Business||Kotak Q2 net up 27%, mum on IndusInd||TNN Mumbai: Kotak Mahindra Bank has reported a net profit of Rs 2,184 crore for the quarter ended September 2020, an increase of 27% from the net profit of Rs 1,724 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Shares of the bank closed with a gain of 2.4% at Rs 1,416 on the BSE amid a weak market on Monday. Responding to a question on news reports that Kotak Bank was exploring an acquisition of IndusInd Bank, the former’s chief financial officer Jaimin Bhatt said, “We, as a matter of policy, will not comment on specific examples and do not comment on speculation.” He added that Kotak Bank had at the time of raising capital said that it would look at acquisition of entities and portfolios if opportunities arose. The bank has regularly been speculated to be a potential acquirer because of its high level of capital. It had a capital adequacy ratio of 11% as of September 2020 with tier-1 capital at 21.4%. Despite the high level of capital, Kotak Bank continued to shrink its loan book. It also refused to give a credit growth target for the year. “It is very difficult to give a target now. As soon as a vaccine is in place, we will give you our target,” said Kotak Bank joint MD Dipak Gupta.The bank’s advances, at Rs 2,04,844 crore, were down 4% from end September 2019 levels, while deposits were up 12% at Rs 3,73,765 crore. “Just because we have the capital, we will not step up our credit growth. We will use it judiciously and step up credit growth when we start seeing green shoots,” said Bhatt. “We have seen growth come in home loans and secured consumer lending. We have gone slow on unsecured retail,” he added. Despite the shrinking of its loan book, the bank improved its net interest income by 17% to Rs 3,913 crore on the back of a reduction in the cost of savings deposits. The bank also increased the share of its low-cost current and savings account deposits to 57.1% from 53.6%. As on September 30, 2020, the bank’s gross non-performing assets was 2.6% and net NPAs was 0.6%. Kotak Bank has not recognised any NPAs since August 31, in line with the interim order of the Supreme Court. If the order was not there, the GNPA would have been 2.7% and NNPA at 0.7%. The bank has, however, made provision for such advances in its profit and loss statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-q2-net-up-27-mum-on-indusind/articleshow/78881006.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Business||Future, Amazon may battle stay on RIL deal in Delhi HC||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Echoing Reliance Industries, Future Group on Monday said the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) order granting an interim stay on the merger is “not enforceable” in India and needs to be tried in an “appropriate forum under the provisions of Indian Arbitration Act”. Kishore Biyani’s Future Retail (FRL) said that it is not a party to the agreement under which Amazon has invoked arbitration proceedings, as the battle for India’s retail market between Mukesh Ambani and Jeff Bezos heats up. According to sources close to Amazon, Future’s statement is being seen as “antagonistic” by Amazon India, and counter to the contractually agreed-upon method to resolve the dispute. “There are enough provisions for the international arbitration ruling to be enforced in India without approaching the Indian courts. International arbitration was part of the deal between the two companies,” this person added, who is aware of Amazon’s thinking on the matter. However, multiple sources added the latest situation is an indication of Future Group’s plans of approaching Indian courts to challenge the matter. These sources said, at this point, both the parties could end up at Indian courts to enforce or challenge the interim ruling. “The jurisdiction will be Delhi high court, if the matter reaches there. This is definitely an option on the table (for Future),” one of the people mentioned earlier added. A Future Group spokesperson declined to comment beyond its media statement on Monday. “In any enforcement proceedings, FRL would take appropriate steps to ensure that the proposed transaction will proceed unhindered without any delay,” it said. Reliance, which said in August it is buying Future Group assets for Rs 24,713 crore, had issued a similar comment on Sunday, indicating it wants to go ahead with the formal process of closing the deal, currently pending with regulators like the Competition Commission of India (CCI). As of Monday evening, regulators were yet to be informed officially about the SIAC order on the Reliance-Future deal. The SIAC interim order is valid for 90 days. A final order is expected to come before this deadline expires. “As per the advice received by FRL, all relevant agreements are governed by Indian law and provisions of Indian Arbitration Act for all intents and purposes and this matter raises several fundamental jurisdictional issues which go to the root of the matter. Accordingly, this order will have to be tested under the provisions of Indian Arbitration Act in an appropriate forum,” the company added. Earlier in October, Amazon had approached SIAC over its dispute with Future Coupons, one of the holding companies of Biyani’s Future Group where Amazon had invested Rs 1,431 crore, citing breach of terms due to its sale of retail assets to Reliance Industries. This was preceded with a legal notice from Amazon to Future Group citing breach of terms by the latter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/future-amazon-may-battle-stay-on-ril-deal-in-delhi-hc/articleshow/78881264.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gondal, Rajkot markets flush with record groundnut arrival||Rajkot: Heavy export demand and higher prices have resulted in record-breaking arrival of groundnut in two of the biggest market yards of Gondal and Rajkot over the past few days. So much so that the market yard authorities on Monday closed the market for new arrivals for next 4-5 days has it has ran out of space to accommodate the commodity. However, auction for groundnut will continue, as usual, said market yard authorities.According to market yard officials in the last 3-4 days 1.75 lakh bags (each of 35kg) arrived in Gondal market yard for auction, while in Rajkot market yard the figure was 1.25 lakh bags. Mahesh Vadodariya secretary of Gondal APMC said “This is the highest ever arrival is the market yard since its inception. Last we saw record arrival was of 1.3lakh bags some years back.” “Since there is no space in the market yard to store the groundnut bags, we have asked farmers not to bring their produce for few days. The next arrival will be allowed now most next Sunday. Till that time the existing tock will be auctioned,” added Vadodariya.He attributed record arrival to higher prices in the open market, about Rs 200-300 more than the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,055 per 20kg declared by the government.Long queue of trucks, tractors, mini-trucks was seen outside the Gondal and Rajkot market yards on Monday, with farmers eagerly waiting for their turn to enter the market.Farmers and traders from Rajkot, Junagadh, Porbandar and Jamnagar come to Gondal to sell and buy groundnut.Gondal market yard auctions 40,000 bags every day while in Rajkot 20,000 bags are auctioned daily. B R Tejani, secretary of Rajkot APMC said, “Farmers need the cash in hands ahead of the Diwali festival, plus there is higher demand from the traders, oil millers and exporters. They are purchasing groundnut at a good price even though the production is higher this year.” However, traders claimed that this year the quality of groundnut was inferior because of unseasonal rains. Head: Advantage FarmersOn Monday, the groundnut price ranged from Rs 900 to Rs 1,100 per 20kg in Gondal marketIn Rajkot farmers got around Rs 1,300 per 20 kg for good quality nuts. The government also began procurement of groundnut at MSP of Rs 1,055 per 20kg from Monday.Traders feel that not many farmers will sell to the government at MSP as they are getting a higher price for the commodity at the market yardAlso, farmers are getting cash and while payment from the government will take at least 30 days.This year groundnut crop is estimated at 35 lakh tonne against last years 32 lakh tonneThe area under groundnut cultivation this year has increased by 33 % to 21 lakh hectare||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gondal-rajkot-markets-flush-with-record-groundnut-arrival/articleshow/78881290.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Allahabad||Cow slaughter Act being misused: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: Expressing concern over misuse of Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act against innocent persons, the Allahabad high court has said that whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat (beef) without being examined in a forensic laboratory. While directing one Rahmu @ Rahmuddin, who was allegedly involved in cow slaughter, to be released on bail, Justice Siddharth said, “The Act is being misused against innocent persons. Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat (beef) without getting it examined or analyzed by the Forensic Laboratory. In most of the cases, meat is not sent for analysis. Accused persons continue in jail for an offence that may not have been committed at all and which is triable by magistrate Ist class, having maximum sentence up to 7 years.” TimesViewThe high court has made an important observation. One of the fundamental principles of law is to ensure that innocents are not victimised. Due diligence is imperative in every such case. No law should be used as a short-cut or as a tool for harassment.“Whenever cows are shown to be recovered, no proper recovery memo is prepared and one does not know where cows go after recovery,” the court added. Suggesting that there is a need to take care of old or non-milking cows that are abandoned by owners if the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act is to be implemented in letter and spirit, the court added: “Goshalas do not accept non-milking cows or old cows and they are left to wander on roads. Similarly, owner of the cows after milking, leaves the cows to roam on roads, to drink drainage/sewer water and eat garbage, polythene, etc. Moreover, cows and cattle on the road are menace to the traffic and number of deaths have been reported due to them.” The court added, “In rural areas cattle owners who are unable to feed their livestock, abandon them. They cannot be transported outside the state for fear of locals and police. There are no pastures now. Thus, these animals wander here and there destroying the crops.” “Earlier, farmers were afraid of ‘neelgai’ (vanroj an antelope), now they have to save their crops from stray cows. Whether cows are on roads or on fields their abandonment adversely affects the society in a big way. Some way out has to be found to keep them either in the cow shelters or with the owners, if U.P. Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act is to be implemented in letter and spirit,” the court observed. The present bail application was filed on behalf of the applicant with a request to release him on bail in the case under Section 3/5/8 of the U.P. Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955, registered at Thana Bhawan police station in Shamli district. According to the counsel for the petitioner, there is no specific allegation against the applicant in the FIR. The counsel further submitted before the court that the applicant was not arrested from the spot. The offence is triable by a magistrate. The applicant has criminal history of one case in his name and is in jail since August 5, 2020. The court passed these order on October 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cow-slaughter-act-being-misused-hc/articleshow/78880962.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 27, 2020||Surat||Surat: Doctor who tried to give Covid man life gets lifeline||SURAT: Dr Sanket Mehta, the Surat-based anaesthetist who won a million hearts by risking his life to intubate a Covid-19 patient, will finally walk out of the Chennai-based MGM Hospital. Dr Mehta’s hospitalization lasted nearly 96 days, one of the longest for any coronavirus patient from Gujarat. The 37-year-old was flown to Chennai’s MGM Hospital on September 13 after his condition in city-based BAPS Hospital deteriorated. He was hospitalized after testing positive on July 28 His wife Pinal told TOI that Dr Mehta has developed speech problems and talks in sign language. “But he is able to breathe without any external support now. In the sign language, he told us that he was happy to have helped the elderly person despite he being on oxygen,” she said. It was on August 11 that Dr Mehta had risked his own life by removing his oxygen support to intubate a 71-year-old patient who required ventilator support in the same ICU at BAPS Hospital. Later, his condition deteriorated because he was off oxygen support for nearly 15-20 minutes to help the other patient. On September 13, he was airlifted from Surat to MGM Hospital as he became critical and was dependent upon extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment. Dr KR Balakrishnan, chairman and director of cardiac sciences at MGM Hospital, told TOI, said in a month of so, Dr Mehta will be able to start practising again. “He has fully recovered fully and only requires speech and physiotherapy now.” Dr Jayesh Thakkral, president of Surat Anaesthetics Association(SAA) told TOI, “We are very happy that Dr Mehta has recovered fully. We will ensure that he gets proper treatment in Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doctor-who-tried-to-give-ncov-man-life-gets-lifeline/articleshow/78880928.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Murder convict’s son shoots himself||RAJKOT: Meet Solanki, the son of Shiva Solanki, one of the convicts in RTI activist Amit Jethwa’s murder allegedly shot himself dead at the family’s bungalow in Devdi village adjoining the coastal town of Kodinar town in Gir-Somnath district on Monday. S N Chudasama, in-charge police inspector, Kodinar, confirmed to TOI that Meet, 22, had committed suicide. “Meet was studying at Oxford University in London. He had returned to the native sometime during the lockdown. The bullet pierced the right temple and burst out of the left,” said Chudasama, adding that the reason of the suicide was still being probed. “At around 3pm, Meet’s uncle heard a shot that was fired in the upper room of the family’s bungalow in Devdi village. He ran upstairs and saw Meet lying in a pool of blood on his bed,” said Chudasama. The Solankis live in joint family. While Shiva, the former president of Kodinar municipality, is lodged in Junagadh jail, his uncle and former BJP MP Dinu Bogha Solanki is in Sabarmati Jail after being convicted in the murder of Jethwa. Jethwa was shot dead outside Gujarat High Court on July 10, 2010 by two motorcycle-borne assailants. In 2019, a CBI court had sentenced Solanki and six others to life imprisonment in the case. Jethava was gunned down by two bike-borne assassins on July 20, 2010. The CBI had arrested Solanki and Shiva in November 2013 and on July 11, 2019 respectively for their role in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/murder-convicts-son-shoots-himself/articleshow/78881483.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Robbers break open ATM in Sayla, loot Rs 10 lakh cash||RAJKOT: Three unidentified robbers looted Rs 10.31 lakh cash from an ATM kiosk in Sudamada village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar district. Though the crime was committed on Saturday night, the complaint in this connection was lodged on Monday. Police said the accused had sprayed black colour on the CCTV camera of the ATM kiosk. “The accused first broke open the shutter of the ATM kiosk. Then they cut open the ATM with a gas cutter and committed the theft,” said R J Gohel, sub-inspector with Sayla police station. The accused were booked on the complaint of Sushant Khan, the manager of Sudamada branch of Bank of Baroda. “We have registered the case and started the investigation by searching the footage of the CCTVs installed along the route of the crime spot,” added Gohel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/robbers-break-open-atm-in-sayla-loot-rs-10l-cash/articleshow/78881425.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Labourer attacks three fellow workers||RAJKOT: A labourer attacked his three fellow workers over a trivial issue at a factory in Dared GIDC on the outskirts of Jamnagar on Sunday night. While the throat of one of the victims was slit, the other two victims were hit on the heads with a hammer. Police said the accused, Sudama Kushvaha, attacked Shishupal (20), Ashish Jatav (26) and Vicky Parshuram (25) with a knife and a hammer. “While the throat of Shishupal was slit, Jatav and Parshuram were hit on their heads with a hammer. Kushvaha attacked the victims while they were asleep,” said an official from the Jamnagar Panchkoshi B division. According to police, the victims made fun of Kushvaha when he came to their room to tell them not to speak loudly as he was getting disturbed. Kushvaha threatened them with dire consequences and then committed the crime when the victims were sleeping. The condition of the victims is said to be serious.Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Kushvaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourer-attacks-three-fellow-workers/articleshow/78881459.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Woman kills mother-in-law with help of husband||PALANPUR: A 31-year-old woman allegedly killed her mother-in-law with help of her husband in Bhempoda village of Malpur taluka in Aravalli district on Saturday night. The accused couple, Minakshi Khant and her husband Soma Khant (32) were arrested on Monday. According to F L Rathod police inspector of Malpur police station, the woman killed her mother-in-law Jankuben (57) as she used to harass her for not having a male child even after 10 years of marriage. On Saturday, following an argument, the accused hit Janakben with a sharp-edged weapon and latter dumped her body in the village well. The body was found floating on the surface on Sunday. Postmortem of the body revealed that the victim was killed with a sharp weapon and later thrown into the well. During questioning, the couple confessed to their crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-kills-mother-in-law-with-help-of-husband/articleshow/78881394.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Business||Premji, Mirae eye Chinese cos’ stake in fintech lender||BENGALURU: Billionaire philanthropist Azim Premji’s PremjiInvest and South Korea’s Mirae Asset Venture Investment, along with other investors, are in talks to pick up a significant stake in digital lender Finnov. The e-lender owns platforms like KrazyBee and KreditBee. The deal includes the firms infusing $30-40 million at a valuation of close to $200 million, said two sources briefed on the development. In addition, the new investors are also in talks to pick up a significant amount of shares held by Chinese backers like Shunwei Capital and Kunlun, who together own 35-40% stake in the company. Other investors include smartphone maker Xiaomi and Chinese lending company Lexin. The deal comes after increasing restrictions on Chinese investments in India and will be one of the first few transactions involving a potential exit of Chinese shareholders. “The due-diligence process has started. The idea is to clean the investors from China and make it an Indian-owned company,” said one of the sources mentioned earlier. A spokesperson for Finnov declined to comment. PremjiInvest’s head T K Kurien and Mirae Asset’s CEO Ashish Dave also declined to comment on speculation. PremjiInvest has backed lending companies like Shubham Housing and Aditya Birla Capital, while Mirae has invested in major startups like grocery e-tailer BigBasket and ride-hailing major Ola. The deal is likely to be the largest funding round till now in a fintech lender in 2020, as many players saw operations come to a standstill due to Covid lockdowns and now face potential non-performing assets (NPAs). Finnov has till now raised about $50 million and its backers include US- and Canada-based funds as well, like Alpine Investors and Quark Ventures. Founded in 2015, the fintech lender first started with loans to students, but now focuses on lending to young professionals for a period of 1-15 months. Its non-banking finance unit, KrazyBee, saw its total income jump close to five times in FY20 to Rs 797 crore with profits of Rs 130 crore, according to filings with rating agency ICRA., making it one of the fastest-growing lenders. But the firm has suffered in the first quarter ending June 2020, with a total income of Rs 41 crore and losses of Rs 63 crore. But investors are betting on the fact that the company can revive its growth now like last year, when its total managed assets grew nearly 3 times to about Rs 1,606 crore, according to ICRA. “The gross portfolio reduced to Rs 473 crore as on June 30, 2020, from Rs 957 crore as on March 31, 2020 (Rs 245 crore as on March 31, 2019) due to the significantly lower incremental disbursements in Q1 FY2021….The group expects to achieve assets under management (AUM) of about Rs 1,300-1,500 crore by March 2021,” said the filing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/premji-mirae-eye-chinese-cos-stake-in-fintech-lender/articleshow/78881090.cms||Madhav Chanchani
October 27, 2020||Business||Yes Bank plans to take over Anil Ambani’s HQ||MUMBAI: Yes Bank has started the process for obtaining physical possession of Reliance Centre, the headquarters of Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group in Mumbai. The bank is seeking to either sell the property to realise its dues, or may move its headquarters there. In July, the private lender had taken symbolic possession of the sprawling complex situated off the Western Express Highway and overlooking the Mumbai airport. The action was taken under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act to recover dues of Rs 2,892 crore from Reliance Infrastructure. In terms of the act, the bank has to give a two-month notice before taking possession, which the bank had done in May. Speaking to TOI, Yes Bank MD & CEO Prashant Kumar said, “This is a security for our loan. We had already taken symbolic possession, now we are moving to take physical possession. We would like to monetise it, but we may also move our offices there.” A Reliance Infrastructure spokesperson said, “The matter is sub judice, and as legally advised, the company will take all effective steps to protect its interest.” Sources close to the group said that it is premature for Yes Bank to make plans for the property as the legal process could go on for some time. Even during the peak of the pandemic, the premises on the 21,432-sqmtr plot was valued at Rs 1,000-1,100 crore. Currently, the commercial real estate market is subdued as there is uncertainty over demand for office space in the aftermath of the pandemic as many believe that work-from-home may become a norm. However, there are private equity investors who are bullish on real estate. In June, Canadian investment firm Brookfield acquired two floors of office space earlier owned by Jet Airways for Rs 490 crore. The Jet Airways headquarters is located in the business district of Bandra Kurla Complex, which is 5km from the Reliance Centre. Yes Bank currently operates out of the Indiabulls Finance Centre in Lower Parel where it leased the top six floors. According to news reports in 2011, the deal was struck at Rs 125 per sqft per month for 1.6 lakh sqft. However, since the reconstruction of the bank after its revival by investors led by SBI, the lender has been cutting costs. It has asked all offices to renegotiate rentals and has been rationalising branches and ATMs. Reliance Group had shifted to the new headquarters in 2018. After its debt crisis, the group has shrunk its operations. Most of the offices were consolidated in the north wing and part of the property was listed for lease. The lockdown due to the pandemic resulted in further consolidation of office space as staff were asked to work from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-plans-to-take-over-anil-ambanis-hq/articleshow/78881176.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 27, 2020||Surat||Snow leopard’s ‘art of camouflage’ to chill Surat soon||SURAT: After creating a sensation across wildlife enthusiasts and photographers across the globe, the pictures of the elusive snow leopard captured in Ladakh by Surat-based art and wildlife photographer Saurabh Desai will soon be in exhibition in the city. The special exhibition titled ‘art of camouflage’ which shows the mountain cat in its habitat and how it melts in its pristine surroundings has earned the photographer worldwide recognition and accolades. A mechanical engineer by profession, Desai, left his cushy job in L&T to pursue his childhood dream of nature photography a few years ago and has never looked back. “Since my childhood, my heart was always set in the wilderness. I finally fulfilled my cherished dream of wildlife photography and in the last 5 years have visited Himalayas for more than 18 times. Ladakh and Spiti range attracted me a lot due to its immense scale and critical equilibrium of nature and wildlife,” Desai told TOI. “I started my journey in 2017 in Ladakh to capture snow leopards and was successful only in February and March 2019, when the record-breaking snowfall hit the valley. I searched for it deep in the remote villages and valleys near Kibbar, Chicham and Langza village during my 30 days expedition,” Desai recalled. He captured its images above tree-lines at a bone-chilling altitude of 15,000 ft to 18,000ft at -30°C temperatures, where oxygen levels were almost 50% less than at sea level. Despite all challenges, Desai proved his fitness and above all his single-minded dedication to fulfil his dream of freezing the wild cat in his lenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/snow-leopards-art-of-camouflage-to-chill-city-soon/articleshow/78881179.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Surat||Lockdown blues trigger bitter dispute between couple||SURAT: High drama was witnessed in Umra police station on Monday after a 28-year-old woman, who is involved in a dispute with her husband, was booked for allegedly misbehaving with the women cops. The fight between the couple - Sunil and Tina (both names changed) - was a fall-out out of severe financial crisis due to the lockdown and the woman’s abortion of second child which he suspected was out of an illicit affair. Tina was adamant on lodging a complaint against Sunil for mental torture alleging that he was unwilling to pay more money for her monthly expenses. Sunil, who ran an embroidery unit, had left the city to stay in his native village in Bhavnagar district, due to financial crunch and less business. He was unable to pay more than Rs 5,000 per month Tina who demanded more money. On Monday, when Tina was called to Mahila Police station, she allegedly started shouting at a woman police sub inspector who was trying to counsel her. As her misbehaviour continued, she was booked in Umra police station for allegedly obstructing a police officer from performing her duty. She also levelled baseless allegations against the cops who have started couple's counselling before registering an FIR based on the woman's written complaint. The dispute started around a year ago between the couple who are parents to a three-year-old daughter and lived in Yogi Chowk area of Kapodra. The woman became pregnant in December 2019 and while trying to abort the child, she developed a serious infection in body. Sunil came to know about this later and he spent Rs 80,000 for her treatment. Meanwhile, lockdown rendered a double whammy for Sunil who fractured his hand in a road accident. He sank into depression and decided to go and stay in his native village. Tina, however, did not agree to this and demanded Rs 5,000 per month as expenses to live in Surat. In fact, police sources said that Sunil had to sell his two embroidery machines and an apartment to repay a debt of Rs 15 lakh. He also started giving Rs 5,000 to Tina. But she later started demanding more money that Sunil refused to pay. Tina approached police in Sarthana police station and Mahila police station and filed an application for complaint. During counselling, Sunil informed police about the woman's abortion attempt and possible illicit relationship with another man. When police called Tina to discuss the issue in presence of Sunil, she started shouting at cops on Monday. Tina told police that she wants to stay with Sunil but not in the village, said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lockdown-blues-trigger-bitter-dispute-between-couple/articleshow/78881133.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 27, 2020||Hubballi||Elevator at Haveri district hospital defunct for over a month, patients suffer||HAVERI: The District Hospital here caters to hundreds of patients daily, but its defunct elevator is causing much inconvenience to both patients and their attendants. Many patients are struggling to walk from the gate to their wards in the three-storeyed building. Kidney patients are finding it hard to climb to the third floor to get dialysis done. Sharanagouda Agnigoudra, an attendant of a patient, alleged that the elevator in the district hospital has not been working since a month. “Many patients are struggling to reach doctors on the first, second, and third floor. My father is a dialysis patient and every step he needs to climb is like an experience of death for him. I complained about the elevator on ‘Janasnehi Karnataka’ on October 6, but it is yet to be resolved,” he added. He added that he had complained orally several times to the hospital authorities. “I wonder how the authorities can be so irresponsible about such a serious issue. Whenever I complained, I got the same answer that the elevator will be repaired within a week. But officials don’t have concern about the issue,” he alleged. “The real difficulty is for emergency patients and their attendants who rely on lifts to reach the departments concerned. The elevator is necessary for critical patients to reach units on the upper floors of the hospital,” said Shabbir Ahmed Makhandar, another attendant. Savitri Patil, a pregnant woman, said the lift was not working for the past six weeks. “I am eight months pregnant and am forced to climb two floors to see a doctor. We request the hospital authorities get the elevator fixed as soon as possible,” she added. When contacted, district surgeon Dr PR Havanur admitted to the problem and said, “We are facing a fund crunch to repair the elevator. We will give orders to the elevator company to repair it and will solve this problem within a week without fail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/elevator-at-haveri-district-hospital-defunct-for-over-a-month-patients-suffer/articleshow/78879473.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||22-year-old man held for firing on brother-in-law||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Monday for allegedly injuring his brother-in-law after shooting at him in Keshod of Junagadh district. Police said the accused, Pradeep Kanagad (22), had fired one round at Bharat Kuvadia (24) on Friday night while the latter was asleep in the SUV which he used to drive as a driver. “Kanagad was angry with Kuvadia as the latter had married his sister after eloping with her against the wishes of his family. In his complaint, Kuvadia gave the name of Kanagad as a suspect. He alleged that Kanagad and his father Naran used to threaten him over phone ever since he married Kanagad’s sister Kajal,” said R K Gohel, sub-inspector with Junagadh local crime branch. “We picked up Kanagad from his residence on Kotharia Road in Rajkot. We recovered a pistol, a cartridge and a knife from his possession,” added Gohel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/22-year-old-man-held-for-firing-on-brother-in-law/articleshow/78881323.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Business||Penetration of car financing inches up as loans gets cheaper||Chennai: Five year low interest rates on auto loans has pushed India further on the vehicle financing penetration map to 77% from 74% in 2016. US leads with more than 80% penetration. A combination of the slowdown and the pandemic alongside cheaper credit has helped increase financing penetration as more people prefer to keep cash in hand and get their vehicles financed. In the last 18-24 months, financing penetration has gone up by 2%-3%. US passenger vehicle financing penetration has remained unchanged for nearly 4 years- 86% in 2016 to 85.5% in Q2 of 2020, data from Statista showed. “The penetration of vehicle financing has been at elevated level over the past one-and-a-half years,” said Ravi Narayanan head: secured assets, ICICI Bank. Added Ashish Modani, VP ICRA, “Financing has seen a 2%-3% increase in passenger vehicles in the last 2 years or so.” Vehicle financiers say the current interest rates, which are down at least 125 bps (100 bps =1%) year-on-year, are the lowest in a long time which has made financing attractive. "In India finance has always played a very important role in the car industry and finance penetration has always been around 75% . Finance penetration moves up and down in the range of 2 to 3% . Interest rates are one of the important factors that influences finance penetration. The current interest rates are the lowest in at least five years,” said Vyomesh Kapasi, MD, Kotak Mahindra Prime:. Car dealers say that a combination of the slowdown and cheaper finance for first time buyers actually boosted finance penetration. “India has a higher proportion of first time buyers in contrast to other countries. And the organised used car market is still developing in India which lures customers to opt for new cars. And long-term operating lease options are preferred in international markets but in India customers prefer to own the vehicle,” said ICICI's Narayanan:.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/penetration-of-car-financing-inches-up-as-loans-gets-cheaper/articleshow/78879936.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 27, 2020||Business||K’taka HC to hear plea on CCI’s e-tailer probe: SC||TNN Bengaluru: The Supreme Court on Monday declined to hear a plea by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) seeking removal of a Karnataka high court interim order that paused its probe against Amazon India and Flipkart. The apex court has now directed the Karnataka HC to decide on the plea in the next six weeks. The Supreme Court will only review the CCI plea again if the matter is not addressed at the HC within this timeframe. CCI had ordered a probe in January against Flipkart and Amazon India following complaints from trade bodies Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) and Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh (DVM). These included allegations of the two largest e-tailers in India practising deep discounts, and having favourable terms for select sellers. The probe was ordered just days before Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos landed in India on a business trip. The regulator had said it had “prima facie” evidence to begin a probe under Section 26 (1). Amazon India first challenged the matter where its rival Flipkart was a party to it and both of them submitted in the Karnataka HC that CCI did not have adequate prima facie evidence to start such a probe. The HC then granted the interim stay on the probe in February. The apex court reportedly questioned the delay on CCI’s side to file the plea only in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ktaka-hc-to-hear-plea-on-ccis-e-tailer-probe-sc/articleshow/78881131.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||City-based bakery chain to expand in tier-2 cities with Rs 200cr investment||Lucknow: An investment of Rs 200 crore over the next three years in the food and beverage industry has been promised by a city-based bakery chain.During the Investors’ Summit in 2018, Mr Brown Bakery and Food Products Ltd had signed an MoU with the state government for an investment of Rs 400 crore to set up 100 stores across the state.However, plans took a hit due to Covid and the company has now decided to initially expand with 50 stores with Rs 200 crore, said company founders Tanushree Gupta and Ramu Gupta.“Apart from Delhi-NCR, Lucknow and Kanpur, our plans include tier-2 cities such as Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gonda,” said Ramu.Through this expansion, the company aims to create around 5,000 direct and indirect jobs.As part of the expansion, the company launched Danbro on Saturday, an outlet in partnership with an Italy-based bakery brand of the same name.The Guptas had registered the Danbro brand in Europe and outlets in Italy and India had to open simultaneously. However, due to Covid, the Italian plan was hit and Danbro outlets were inaugurated in India first.“After the first outlet in Delhi, we are launching three outlets of Danbro in Lucknow, one in Chandigarh and five in Delhi/NCR by March 31, 2021,” added Tanushree.“Through Danbro, we want to change the culture of unhealthy bakery items. Our ultimate goal is to make maida-free bread, cookies and cakes. We will include wheat flour, seeds and healthier grains in these products,” said Ramu.“People want to constantly upgrade what they consume. The trend is to include healthy eating in every cuisine. So why not in bakery?” said Tanushree. A live bakery, where items will be baked in front of the customer, will be the USP of Danbro.“My dream is to generate employment for as many as possible and put Uttar Pradesh and Lucknow on the map for international bakery items,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-based-bakery-chain-to-expand-in-tier-2-cities-with-rs-200cr-investment/articleshow/78881910.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Business||SBI Life sees 152% jump in Q2 profit||TNN Mumbai: SBI Life Insurance has reported a net profit of Rs 300 crore for the quarter ended September 2020, up 152% from Rs 119 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Shares of the company closed with a gain of 1% at Rs 779 on the BSE amid a weak market. The company said that in the first half, it has achieved market leadership among private players with a total new business premium of Rs 9,000 crore. This helped it corner a 25% market share among the private insurers. The net profit for the first six months was Rs 690 crore, up 38% from Rs 500 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. The private life insurer now has Rs 1,86,360 crore of assets under management — 20% higher than Rs 1,54,780 crore as of September 2019. The assets have a debt-equity mix of 76:24 with 90% of the debt invested in triple-A rated and sovereign bonds. The scaling up of business without any corresponding increase in costs enabled the company to bring down its operating expense ratio from 6.4% to 5.4%. It also reduced commission ratio to 3.2% from 4% last year. However, the 13th month persistency ratio (the percentage of policies renewed after the first year) was almost unchanged at nearly 85.9% as against 85.8% last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-life-sees-152-jump-in-q2-profit/articleshow/78880888.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Government pushing for development even in times of crisis: Mauvin Godinho||BICHOLIM: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Monday said that “the state government has been pushing for development even in times of crisis”. “While giving a big boost to rural development, the Centre has sanctioned Rs 75 crore and made special provision for approval of all development schemes in Goa,” he added. Godinho was speaking after inaugurating the new traffic signals, costing Rs 6.5 lakh, installed at four different points at the four-road junction near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk at Bicholim on Monday. Speaker and Bicholim MLA Rajesh Patnekar appealed to the citizens to adhere to the traffic signals, while also stating that “strict action will be taken against the offenders”. While referring to road safety, Godinho said, “The government is taking all necessary measures to prevent road accidents. If everyone adheres to the rules and is disciplined while riding or driving, everything will be smooth.” The transport minister also said that “the government will try to undertake the construction of the Kadamba bus stand at Bicholim by March 2021”. Bicholim deputy collector Deepak Vaingankar, municipal chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar, deputy chairperson Kundan Falari, PI (Traffic) Sudesh Velip, officials from the Bicholim traffic cell, and councillors Ajit Birje, Vijaykumar Natekar, Chaitanya Teli, Dada Pal, Rama Naik and Kamlesh Teli were present during the inauguration of the traffic signals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-pushing-for-development-even-in-times-of-crisis-godinho/articleshow/78881391.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||MSCL pushes for green solar energy on sarkari rooftops||MANGALURU: Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL) is giving a big push for green energy by promoting roof top solar energy. This SPV set up to execute smart cities mission of ministry of housing and urban affairs plans to generate 1250-kW of power through roof tops of several government buildings. It has inked an agreement with Delhi based S G Renewables Energy Pvt Ltd for the project that is being executed at a cost of Rs 7.08 crore. The concessionaire will take care of the operation and maintenance of the solar panels for a 10-year period in this project that is being executed on a PPP mode. While the concessionaire gives the building owner 35% rebate in power bill, MSCL will earn 5% of revenue generated and the rest goes to the company, said MSCL managing director Mohammad Nazeer. The company is taking care of the net metering and other aspects of the project. The company has already commissioned the 58.5-kW roof top solar project at ESI Hospital. Work on installing rooftop solar units is under progress at KFDC Building, Bolara (37.05-kW), Town Hall (44.525-kW); MCC office at Mallikatte (63.05-kW); MCC main office at Lalabagh (123.60-kW); adjacent commercial complex (48-kW). The company will shortly take up this task at Pilikula Nisargadhama (101-kW) and Zilla Panchayat (100-kW). Noting that the agreement for the last of the two works has been signed, Nazeer told TOI that the buildings will use power generated. Any excess power will be sent to the grid for which Mescom will pay Rs 3.56/unit, he said. The revenue generated will be kept in an escrow account and shared as per above agreement. The move towards green energy will help pare dependency on conventional fossil fuel based power, Nazeer noted. MSCL has also completed the switch over to LED bulbs in government buildings at a cost of Rs 1.91 crore. This will result in energy savings of about 50-55% in each building, he said, adding the building owner can recover this cost in two-years. The work of replacing 66000 street lights in MCC limits at a cost of Rs 68 crore is on. The work order has been issued and the city’s street lights will switch over to energy efficient LED, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mscl-pushes-for-green-solar-energy-on-sarkari-rooftops/articleshow/78879063.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 27, 2020||Mysuru||UoM’s food science and nutrition course completes 50 years||MYSURU: The food Science and nutrition department of University of Mysore, which has completed 50 years of its existence, continues to offer a popular post-graduate course, given its health value quotient and high employability. At a time when the world is reeling under the pandemic, its alumni are actively involved in helping patients and the public by educating them about the importance of nutrition. Asna Urooj, professor and chairperson of the department, said an alumna had recently produced and circulated a video message on improving immunity and how to stay fit during the Covid crisis. “Our students are working at hospitals as dietitians, helping patients, including those infected by Covid, improve their immune system through food and beverages,” the professor said. Prof Asna said there is a growing demand for the course because of bright job prospects it offers. “About 70% of graduating students get into the food industry, research institutions and medical establishments even before results are out. They land jobs even in the government sector,” the professor explained. UoM had been the pioneer in offering the course in 1970, and remained the only higher education institute in Karnataka to offer this till the late ‘90s. “Research has been our main strength, especially in community and clinical nutrition. Our faculty members have been part of many prestigious national committees and research works. The department is offering consultation to food industries, hotels and canteens besides giving nutrition counselling to patients,” prof Asna said. The department has published 600 research papers in reputed journals, made 700 presentations at international and national conferences and published works for public and target groups in English and Kannada. Over 1,000 students have graduated and about 80 PhDs have been awarded. It has also completed 33 research projects, including those prescribed by UGC, MHRD, ICMR and CSIR, the professor explained. MSc in food science and nutrition (Home Science till 1994) was started in 1970 at a palatial mansion on Manasagangotri campus to offer post-graduate and doctoral degree programmes in food science and nutrition and human development. Specialisation in clinical nutrition and dietetics was introduced in 2013 to meet the growing demand for dietitians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uoms-food-science-and-nutrition-course-completes-50-years/articleshow/78879123.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||15 booked for burning Ravana effigy in Mandvi village||RAJKOT: As many as 15 persons were booked on Sunday night for allegedly burning an effigy of Ravana and thereby flouting the government norms against Covid-19 in Devpar village of Mandvi taluka in Kutch district. The government has banned the burning of Ravana effigies in the state as part of Covid-19 guidelines. “Despite the embargo, the accused had burnt the effigy of Ravana near Devpar bus stand. The accused were identified on the basis of their photographs they had uploaded on the WhatsApp and social media,” said an official from Gadhsheesha police station. The accused were allegedly led by Naresh Bhoicha, Shankar Danicha and Premji Matang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/15-booked-for-burning-ravana-effigy-in-mandvi-village/articleshow/78881382.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Surat||Courier service owner hangs self in office||SURAT: A 26-year-old businessman allegedly committed suicide at his office in Mota Varachha on Sunday, reportedly due to financial crisis.Body of Tarun Gundraniya, a resident of Pedder Road in Mota Varachha, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his office on the third floor of Opera Business Hub. He used a bedsheet to hang himself. Police did not find and suicide note from the spot. Gundraniya had started a business of parcel delivery of online purchased goods about two months ago in a partnership. Before lockdown, he was into a small-time construction business, but suffered heavy losses then. Hence, he started the new venture since there was reasonably good earning in the online business. Gundraniya’s father is a diamond broker and the family’s overall financial condition is good. “It is suspected that Gundraniya was worried over some financial issues. He was unmarried, and in the past too, his businesses was not successful,” said a police officer in Amroli. Police did not get enough time to question the family and friends to find out the exact reason. They will be questioned after the final rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/courier-service-owner-hangs-self-in-office/articleshow/78881098.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Surat||Major fire breaks out at textile shop, no casualties||SURAT: A major fire broke out at a textile shop located at Ring Road on Monday morning. Textile and other material in huge quantity were gutted. About 17 fire tenders of the fire and emergency department of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) rushed to the spot to extinguish the fire, which had spread to the next building. There were no casualties. Sources said that the incident occurred at the three-storey Dwarka House at Ring Road. The fire erupted due to short-circuit and that sari and other dress materials were gutted. The fire spread to the neighbouring Kabra House building as well. “It was a major fire, but there was no casualty as the fire broke out on early morning. Textile goods stored in the market was gutted. We are yet to ascertain how the fire erupted, but it was an incident of short circuit,’’ said Basant Pareek, chief fire officer (CFO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/major-fire-breaks-out-at-textile-shop-no-casualties/articleshow/78880967.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Driver held in Rs 3.82 lakh theft case from parked SUV||RAJKOT: In the Rs 3.82 lakh cash theft case from a parked SUV on Khijadia bypass near Jamnagar, the driver was arrested on the basis of the CCTV footage. The driver had taken away the cash and had broken the glass window. The incident occurred at a highway hotel on Friday night. The cash belonged to Devram Dabhi, who had gone to Rajkot market yard to sell cumin seeds from his native Juvanpur village of Kalyanpur taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district. “Dabhi after reaching Khijadia wanted to have dinner while returning from Rajkot and selected a roadside eatery. He also asked the accused, Hemant Nakum (34), to join him for the dinner. But Nakum asked for his excuse from entering into the hotel. Nakum first took the cash and then broke the window glass of the SUV to make it appear that thieves had broken it to commit the burglary,” said D P Chudasma, sub-inspector with Jamnagar Panchkoshi A division. “We suspected Nakum, as he had not attended the dinner along with other passengers of the SUV. As no one was seen going near the SUV in the CCTV footage, it strengthened our suspicion. We rounded up Nakum and interrogated him, during which he broke down and confessed to the theft,” added Chudasma. Nakum told the police that as he was passing through a financial crisis he was forced to commit the crime. The police recovered the stolen amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/driver-held-in-rs-3-82l-theft-case-from-parked-suv/articleshow/78881406.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Rajkot||Body of jobless man who killed wife, 3 daughters found||RAJKOT: The jobless labourer, who had allegedly stabbed his three young daughters and the wife to death in Jakhania village of Mandvi taluka in Kutch district on October 21, was found hanging by a tree on the outskirts of Asambia village of Mandvi taluka on Sunday evening. Police said Jakhu Sanghar had hanged himself from the branch of a tree in the jungle near Vanothi Dam. “While we were hunting for Sanghar, we believe he had already decided to end his life. On Sunday, the people of Asambia village informed us saying that a terrible stench was emanating from the jungle. When we went to the spot, we found Sanghar’s body hanging,” said J N Panchal, Bhuj deputy superintendent of police. The police had formed five teams which combed through seven villages to hunt for Sanghar. It had even flown drones to trace him in the jungle. However, Sanghar remained untraceable. “As his body was found in a decomposed condition, it is believed that he had hanged himself just after committing murdering his family members,” said Panchal. Sanghar had stabbed his wife Bhavna (33) and daughters — Trupti (10), Kinjal (5) and Dharmishta (2) — to death before fleeing from his house. The police suspect that the financial crisis might have been the reason that must have driven Sanghar to commit such a heinous crime. In their statements, Sanghar’s family members and community members indicated the same reason. They said that Sanghar had been reeling under penury ever since the lockdown began from March last week this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/body-of-jobless-man-who-killed-wife-3-daughters-found/articleshow/78881355.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Saturday’s tally of 176 lowest in Nashik city since July 28||Nashik: The city on Saturday recorded 176 cases of Covid-19 — the lowest daily tally since July 28. The average number of new cases per day already reduced from 867 in the month of September to 387 cases in the month of October. Also, with drop in number of new cases, the number of tests being carried out by the civic body has also been reduced. The testing of Covid suspects has reduced from 3,000 tests per day in September to around 1,200 test per day in October. In the beginning, the city on an average reported around 65 new Covid-19 cases in the month of June. But the cases spiked to around 234 (daily average) in the month of July. From there, the daily case count went further up in the months of August and September. The city on an average registered 516 new cases per day in August, and the figures went up to around 867 in the following month. However, there has been a drop in the number of new cases in the month of October up to 387 cases per day — daily average. The city has recorded an average of 275 new cases per day on an average during the last four days. A civic official said they are conducting health survey of city residents under the state government programme: My Family, My Responsibility. “We have reached almost every household under the phase one of the programme and detected around 600 Covid patients,” he said. “Moreover, the second phase of the health survey is in progress. Apart from this, the NMC has been focusing on increasing the tracing and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients for early detection and providing timely treatment. These measures have overall led to a drop in new cases in the city,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/saturdays-tally-of-176-lowest-in-nashik-city-since-july-28/articleshow/78861585.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||BJP blasts Uddhav Thackeray on Dussehra speech, urges him to step out||MUMBAI: BJP on Monday attacked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on his annual Dussehra rally speech. Opposition also raised the issue of Thackeray “not stepping out and preferring to stay indoors” on account of Covid, saying he would never be able to understand or resolve issues. The rally was described as an ‘OTT flop show’ by BJP. While former Sena chief minister and now BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane threatened to expose all that goes on inside and outside Matoshree (Thackeray’s residence), Bandra (W) MLA Ashish Shelar said Thackeray, instead of challenging others on toppling the government, should first show he can run the government. At a press conference at BJP headquarters, Rane said Thackeray, for the sake of power, had betrayed the Hindutva cause. “Thackeray has been handling affairs of the state as chief minister for a year but does not know what he should speak about. Instead of speaking on farmers, education, healthcare and economy, he was talking about inane things, which is very unfortunate,” he said. Rane said though Maharashtra has most deaths (42,000) due to Covid-19, there was no mention of it in the CM’s speech, he said. “A CM who cannot handle his state has no right to tell the Prime Minister how to run the country and what policies to adopt,” he said. Thackeray can never grant reservations to Marathas or Dhangars. “Thackeray has no understanding of law and Constitution. He needs to meet experts to understand issues but it cannot be done sitting at home, one needs to step out,” he said, claiming there was discontent among Shiv sainiks and Sena MLAs as work was not being done in their constituencies. Shelar said the rally’s objective was intimidation, using RSS to attack BJP. The speech was an indication of Sena chief’s fear of BJP’s strength, he said. Thackeray, he said, was ignorant that Goods and Services Tax itself is a tax, and yet he was asking other state governments to unite against it. Thackeray had urged the PM to revert to the previous system of tax collection as the Centre was unable to reimburse states due to low GST collections. Thackeray had pointed out that the Centre owed Rs 38,000 crore to Maharashtra. Shelar said Modi’s call to light ‘diyas’ and bang plates had nothing to do with Hindutva, but it was to encourage health workers. Thackeray he said, was wrongly linking the two. “Should one sit at home and boil eggs instead of encouraging people?” he asked. He questioned Thackeray on his “absence” during the cyclone and floods that affected Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/step-out-resolve-issues-bjp-tells-maha-cm/articleshow/78879960.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 67-yr-old woman dies, 24 test Covid positive||LUDHIANA: A 67-year-old woman of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 24 patients tested positive on Monday. As per the local media bulletin, the woman, a resident of Harpal Nagar, had hypothyroidism and depression. She died at a city hospital. The health department officials said after more than 100 days, the daily case count has dropped to this value. The day also saw the virus claiming the lives of two outsiders and leaving six infected. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana’s fatality figure has increased to 829 and that of outsiders to 308. To date, 3,77,386 persons have been tested. Of the 24 positive cases, 12 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), two positive cases’ contacts, four from OPD, three from tracing process, two pre-operative cases and one under-trial. The district case count now stood at 20,046 and that of outsiders at 2,697. So far, 19,008 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.82% of the total cases. There are 207 active cases. As many as 1,096 persons are home quarantined. On Monday, 75 persons were quarantined and 2,189 samples were collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Fourteen patients, including two Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/67-yr-old-woman-dies-24-test-covid-positive/articleshow/78878656.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||Seaplane: Ahmedabad to Statue of Unity service for tourists from early November with 4 daily flights||VADODARA: Tourists would soon be able to get an aerial view of the world’s tallest statue in Kevadia colony of Narmada district. The seaplane service between Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad to the Statue of Unity (SoU) will begin in early November. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the service on October 31 during his visit to the SoU for celebrating the birth anniversary of India’s first home minister Sardar Patel. Read AlsoSeaplane lands successfully in Venduruthy channelA seaplane of M/s Spicejet Technic from Male in Maldives made a successful landing in the Venduruthy channel on Sunday for refuelling for its onward journey to Gujarat.“The seaplane will become operational for tourists in early November. The first test flight of the plane was successfully completed on Monday,” said Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL). Read AlsoSeaplane taken into ‘custody’ in KochiFollowing an unpaid debt of nearly Rs 6 crore to the Federal Bank, a 10-seater seaplane belonging to Kochi-based Seabird Seaplane Pvt Ltd was taken into custody by a liquidator appointed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), under the SARFAESI Act on Wednesday. The plane was left on the apronThe plane took off from Maldives on Sunday and reached Goa before landing at Kevadia in Narmada district. The plane will carry 14 passengers and fly four times between Ahmedabad and Kevadia every day taking 45 minutes for a single journey. “Tourists will get an aerial view of SoU during the flight,” Gupta told TOI. He also tweeted a video of SoU’s aerial view that was taken from the seaplane on Monday. All arrangements have been made at Sabarmati Riverfront and the Lake 3 in Kevadia where the plane will land. Terminals built for the seaplane will have all the amenities including ticketing and other services. The plane will be operated by a private airline and once operational, tourists will be able to visit SoU and return to Ahmedabad within a day. It is expected to further boost the footfall at the SoU that has already become one of the most popular tourist spots in the country. Landing area* The location near Ambedkar Bridge on the western bank of Sabarmati Riverfront has been chosen for the seaplane landing. A jetty has been prepared. * The project is being executed as a tripartite agreement between the state government, Union ministry of civil aviation and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) * The service will be operated by low-cost carrier, SpiceJet, with four flights a day including four arrivals and departures each. The ticket price would be around Rs 4,800 per person * The other two spots for aerodrome development are at Shetrunjay dam in Palitana and Dharoi dam in Mehsana. * The release will benefit farmers in the downstream as they would have regular water flow. Water level monitoringA minimum water level of 7 feet is a prerequisite for the waterdrome. Till date, the water level at the Sabarmati Riverfront was being monitored by the state irrigation department and AMC. Once the waterdromes are operational, AAI will be monitoring these water levels. In fact, sources confirmed that the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) has agreed that supply of Narmada water will be ensured to maintain the required water depth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seaplane-to-have-4-to-fro-daily-flights-to-sou/articleshow/78877519.cms||Tushar Tere
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Saturday tales fire up imagination of Gadchiroli schoolkids||NAGPUR: As zilla parishad school teacher Vinit Padmawar vividly describes adventures of a girl who finds a treasure chest, about a dozen students around him listen with rapt attention. For these tribal children of the remote Koyunguda village in Naxal-infested Gadchiroli district, Goshtincha Shanivaar (Saturday story sessions) is an escape to an alternate reality filled with fairies, adventure and fun. Started in the first week of October, this story telling session is an initiative of the state’s District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), and its impact is best seen in Gadchiroli. With no access to smartphones or satellite TVs at home, for a majority of these tribal children the Saturday sessions at school are a welcome relief. Though formal physical schooling has still not started in Maharashtra, the premises are used as a gathering place for children. Since enrolment at ZP schools is extremely low— an average of 25 students in entire school— things are managed easily. Padmawar said the stories are sometimes from Panchatantra or related contemporary ones. “Purpose of these sessions is to stimulate the child’s creative side. As we narrate the story, they start conjuring up images of the character or landscape thus sharpening the brain,” he said. Kids are then encouraged to draw their versions of the story. “This puts their visual imagery on paper and the characters become relatable to kids,” said Padmawar. Apart from creative side, students are also nudged to do critical thinking. “We ask them questions related to the story and make them analyze if actions of the characters were right or wrong,” said Padmawar. Ashwini Sonawane, block education officer of Bhamragarh taluka, said students were loving these sessions. “Unlike their urban counterparts, our children cannot listen to these stories on TV or smartphones. They are already looking forward to the next Saturday and everyone reaches well before time,” said Sonawane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saturday-tales-fire-up-imagination-of-gadchiroli-schoolkids/articleshow/78881389.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gyms get tepid response on first day as many play safe||PUNE: Gymnasia in the city opened their doors for the first time since March to a lukewarm reception on Monday. Gym operators said enquiries for new memberships were few and far between, while even old members appeared hesitant to return. Sangram Chougule, who owns a gym, said people do not feel safe yet. He got about 10 enquiries through the day, none of which converted into bookings or memberships. “The only enquiries we got so far were from old customers, who had already paid before the lockdown,” Chougule said, hoping that things would settle by the end of November. Nilesh Kale, president of Pune Fitness Club Association, said his gym got a few new members. “We got eight enquiries between 11am and 7pm on Monday, of which five translated into memberships for personal training or weight loss/gain programmes,” he said. At other gyms, old members returned for a workout in the morning. “People saw the lights on in the gym and walked in. It will take time for people to feel confident about returning to gyms. We hope the footfall improves soon,” he said. It was a strange new experience for those who worked out at gyms. “The gym more deserted than what I have seen in the past. I had to carry two towels — one for myself and one to sanitize and clean the equipment. I had to wear mask while working out and it was very uncomfortable,” Nirant Shah, a resident, said. Shah said ther was confusion about existing memberships. “The gym is offering a fresh membership at a 50% discount for existing members. This caused many arguments as they were not willing to pay after already having paid for the past seven months.,” Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gyms-get-tepid-response-on-first-day-as-many-play-safe/articleshow/78879919.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality improved since 2016, but it won’t be breathable even by 2024||NEW DELHI: Despite US President Donald Trump’s jibe about India’s “filthy air”, Delhi did record a 25% reduction in PM10 levels and 19% reduction in PM2.5 in 2019 when compared with 2016. But neither the pace of decline of these two key air pollutants nor the existing target under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) will be enough to make the city’s air breathable by 2024. Track the pollution level in your cityThe NCAP has set a target of reducing levels of particulate matter — PM2.5 and PM10 — by 20-30% by 2024 from the prevailing levels in 2017 as the base year. This would mean even if Delhi meets its target, levels of these hazardous pollutants will still be quite high compared to national ambient air quality standards. Among all pollutants, including PM, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, PM2.5 is the most hazardous as it can penetrate deeply into the lungs, and consequently impair respiratory function. According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the annual average PM 2.5 in 2019 was more than double the national ambient air quality standard of 40 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) whereas level of PM10 was over three times more than the accepted standard of 60 µg/m3 despite the decline in their respective levels. “To be able to meet the national ambient air quality standards nationwide, we need a strong compliance and deterrence framework for NCAP and implementation of clean air action plans in cities,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). In the context of having a new law, she said, “It is more important to focus on time-bound reforms in the power and industry sector, transport sector, clean fuel pricing and municipal reforms for waste management. Otherwise only a new law without these reforms will get reduced to regulatory overkill.” Though levels of key pollutants in Delhi have come down substantially during the lockdown period, the gain won’t last long with much needed resumption of economic activities. but the levels during the lockdown period could provide a benchmark for the policy-makers to take a call on different sources of pollution —- be it construction and demolition dust, biomass burning and industrial and vehicular emissions. Though the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana is limited to around 40 days during the harvest season in October-November, the existing plan to assist farmers through subsidising machinery to deal with stubble could, so far, not bring the desired results in the most critical months when adverse meteorological conditions made things worse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-improved-since-2016-but-it-wont-be-breathable-even-by-2024/articleshow/78881386.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Unruly youngsters attack man in bid to snatch phone||LUDHIANA: A group of youngsters created a ruckus at MJK Nagar, Daba, on Sunday night. Two accused first attacked a man on his head with a sharp-edged weapon in an attempt to snatch a cellphone from him. However, when the victim fought back and the public intervened, the accused escaped, leaving their bike at the spot. Minutes later, they returned with accomplices, leading to a melee. When the people again tried to nab them, the accused escaped leaving behind a scooter. A complaint was lodged with Daba police on Monday and both the vehicles of the accused were seized. The injured, Anil Kumar, 32, is a factory worker. He alleged that on Sunday around 9:30pm, he was talking on phone and walking outside his house after having dinner. Two youngsters on a Royal Enfield bike stopped near him and tried to snatch his cellphone. He said when he resisted, they attacked him. “On hearing my screams, shopkeepers and people from nearby areas came to my rescue. The accused fled, leaving their bike behind. Someone from the public took me to a doctor as I had sustained a head injury. Minutes later, the accused returned with more accomplices to get their bike, but residents tried to nab them and they ran away, leaving their scooter at the spot,” he added. Shop vandalisedIn another case in Daba, some unidentified miscreants vandalised a stationery shop on Sunday night. Gulshan Kumar, the shop owner, said around 8.30pm a man rushed inside his shop, saying some youngsters were beating him up. He gave him shelter and after a few minutes the man left. Gulshan said, “The youngsters, who were beating him up, came to my shop and started abusing me. They pelted my shop with stones and broke the glasses and counter with swords and sticks.” Daba SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said a complaint has been lodged and an FIR will be registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unruly-youngsters-attack-man-in-bid-to-snatch-phone/articleshow/78878668.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid monitors in Ludhiana markets to ensure shoppers follow rules||LUDHIANA: This festival season, Covid monitors will ensure that people visiting markets follow the pandemic guidelines. The monitors will be shop workers who will ask visitors to comply with the norms of wearing masks, maintaining distance and sanitising hands. The Ludhiana police on Monday started conducting meetings with market associations to inform them about the concept. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “With festival season here, people are thronging markets. This is a challenging time for the police. For, if people do not take precautions, there will again be a surge of cases. Therefore, we have come up with the concept of Covid monitors in the markets. At each shop, one of its employees will be appointed as the monitor. (S)He will ensure that people are keeping distance and wearing masks.” Besides, cops will randomly visit markets and issue challans. “But before that, police will again start an awareness drive,” he added. The ACP (traffic) will conduct meetings with the market associations. “After that, meetings will be held with the representatives of religious places. In festivals, people visit religious places and so it is important to make arrangements there too. Besides ensuring compliance of norms, the Covid monitors there will also keep an eye on gatherings inside the premises,” he said. On how police would ensure that people don’t indulge in arguments when told to comply with the guidelines, as earlier there were complaints against volunteers, Agarwal said, “We are appointing the employees of shops as Covid monitors who will politely ask customers to follow the rules. There will be no arguments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-monitors-in-markets-to-ensure-shoppers-follow-rules/articleshow/78878664.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Monday blues for Nagpur University’s online exam||NAGPUR: Festive season has done nothing to cheer up Nagpur University students as technical problems continued on Monday as well. Right from students being unable to login, to missing options, to screen freezing up, students alleged that multiple things kept going wrong throughout. Mahendra Nimbarte, an education activist and former management council member, said, “Since noon today, I have been receiving complaints from architecture, social work to BEd students. A group of 20 students contacted me saying they appeared for the paper, and received a message that it has been submitted successfully. Later, they all got a message the same exam will be held later in the day. One student told me that she did not complete the paper yet got a message saying exam has been submitted successfully.” Hindi medium student Zareen Khan (name changed) was shocked to see her questions popping up in English. “When I started the test there was no language option. The circle tabs were there, but nothing was written next to it hence I had no idea which one to click on. Soon the questions started coming in English,” said Khan. She spoke to her teacher who said that appearing for a different language medium will create problems hence it’s best to drop the test. “I started pressing back to exit from the test but suddenly got the message that my test has been submitted successfully. I called NU helpline number but nobody answers there,” said a worried Khan. Businessman Gurinder Singh’s daughter had her law paper today and faced anxious moments. “The paper just did not submit for almost an hour. My daughter was worried and said similar situation was faced by many of her classmates. Fortunately, later the submission was completed,” said Renu. Trupti Chatterjee (name changed) also appeared for her law paper today and said there were a series of issues. “First, there were problems with logging in. Then there were issues with submission. At that point you do not want to click back because whatever MCQs you have marked may not be saved. Also, one cannot dial the NU helpline from the phone because if you minimize the window then the app assumes your are cheating,” said Chatterjee. NU board of examination and evaluation director Prafulla Sable said the problems faced today were because of two reasons. “First was because of incorrect input of elective subjects from college’s end. That’s the reason the exam software could not map the elective subjects. And today we had over 160 elective subjects, which is very high,” said Sable. He added that the second problem was a technical one caused due to switching of shifts. “Answer submissions took a long time because of switching of shifts and the load that comes with it. So basically one set of students are submitting their answers while another is in the process of logging in for next exam shift. It’s this switching over period, which is roughly about 15-20 minutes that these issues are seen,” said Sable. He clarified that all complaints will be looked into. “No student will suffer because of the technical issues,” said Sable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/monday-blues-for-nus-online-exam/articleshow/78881927.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 27, 2020||Agra||Member of notorious Bawariya gang killed in encounter with police in Mathura||AGRA: A member of the notorious Bawaria gang, facing at least nine criminal cases, was on Monday night shot dead by police during an encounter in Matura’s Naujheel area. UP Police had announced a reward of Rs 2lakh on any information leading to the arrest of Anil Juthra (30). An active member of the gang, Juthra had allegedly sodomised a boy, 14, on the KMP expressway in Haryana in January this year. He was killed in an encounter with the Noida unit of the Special Task Force and personnel of Mathura Police. STF Noida’s additional SP RK Misra told TOI that Juthra, a resident of Farrukhabad, and his gang were active in Western UP and Haryana and used to target vehicles on the highways. “He was wanted in at least nine cases of loot, robbery and rape in Mathura, Aligarh and Palwal,” said Misra. “We got information about his presence in the Naujheel area. We passed on the information to Mathura police. And, in a joint operation, we nabbed Juthra. However, his three aides escaped from the spot,” he said. Juthra was critically injured during the encounter. “He was rushed to a hospital but doctors declared him brought dead,” Misra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/member-of-notorious-bawariya-gang-killed-in-encounter-with-police-in-mathura/articleshow/78878658.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Prepare database of healthcare workers by October 28: Om Prakash directs officials||DEHRADUN: Chief secretary Om Prakash, who heads the state’s task force for Covid-19 vaccine, told the state officials to prepare a complete database of all health workers, including government and non-government staff, by October 28. He directed the district magistrates and officers on Monday to hold the district-level meetings as soon as possible and complete the task within the given time frame. Prakash added that the maximum possible staff should be used for compiling the database. Earlier on October 20, the state government had formed a three-layer special task force for distribution and storage of Covid-19 vaccine. The state-level task force would be headed by the chief secretary himself and would have the secretaries of important departments like finance, health, home, women empowerment and child development, AYUSH, panchayati raj, rural development, and college education as members. It will also consist of senior officials of the health department, Uttarakhand Red Cross Society, WHO, United Nations Development Programme, and Indian Medical Association, as members. The district-level task force headed by district magistrate would comprise senior superintendent of police, chief medical officer, city development officers, NGO representatives, and others associated with the health sector as members. Further, the block-level task force would be headed by sub-divisional magistrate and include superintendent of police, block development officer, health, and education officers as members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prepare-database-of-healthcare-workers-by-oct-28-cs-directs-officials/articleshow/78878672.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur: Kanya Pujan a way of showing respect to women, says Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is also the head of Gorakshpeeth, performed Kanya Pujan at the Gorakhnath temple here on Mahanavami day on Sunday. As part of the rituals, the CM washed the feet of nine girls, offered ‘dakshina’ and served them lunch. Girls in the age group of 1 to 5 years were invited for the ritual. Since Navami was ending at 11.45am on Sunday, Yogi performed the ritual of Kanya Pujan at 9am. Yogi started the day with darshan of Akhand Jyoti and puja of Mata Siddhidatri and hawan. Every year, the CM fasts for nine days of Navaratra and performs puja. After Kanya Pujan, Yogi, clad in ‘silasil’ (special robe), performed Nathji puja and paid obeisance before the statue of his late guru, Mahant Avaidyanath. Next he visited the gaushala (cowshed) in Gorakhnath temple and fed the cattle. Wishing the people on the occasion of Mahanavami and Dussehra, which fell on the same day on Sunday, Yogi said, “Kanya Pujan is a tradition of Sanatan Dharma to show respect towards women. It shows the belief of Sanatan Dharma in daughters and girls. Festivals motivate us to follow the path of righteousness. Lord Ram established Ram Rajya in Tretayug. Ram Rajya means no discrimination on the lines of caste, religion, creed, and language,” he added. Urging people to stay cautious, the CM said, “Festivals bring enthusiasm and happiness but we need to be careful and must follow the Covid protocols. We have controlled the coronavirus to a large extent but we need to be careful. Josh mein hosh na khoyen (don’t be callous amid enthusiasm),” he said. “The central government under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi is trying to realise the dream of Ram Rajya with the motto “Sabka saath sabka vikas,” he added. Later in the evening, Yogi led the traditional Shobha Yatra from Gorakhnath Temple to Ramlila ground like every year on Dussehra. On its way, the yatra was accorded welcome by people, including the Muslim community. Owing to the Covid pandemic, the CM was seated in a car instead of a Rath and accepted people’s greetings with folded hands. The Shobha Yatra was taken out amid tight security, with police keeping vigil with the help of drones. After the yatra reached the Ramlila ground, Yogi performed Dev Vigrah puja at the Mansarovar temple and did Rajtilak of Lord Ram. Addressing the public at the Ramlila ground, Yogi praised PM Modi for timely imposition of the lockdown in March as it helped contain Covid spread. “Lockdown gave us time to plan for rescue and recovery work. At present, 80 crore people are getting free ration, 12 crore farmers have benefited under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Nidhi scheme and 87 lakh differently abled people and women are getting pension,” he said. During Shobha Yatra , security arrangements were very tight and from Gorakhnath temple to Mansarovar, a police constable was deployed at each terrace and police officials divided the security of Shobha Yatra in three zones and since 2 pm heavy vehicles were not allowed at Shobha Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanya-pujan-a-way-of-showing-respect-to-women-says-cm-yogi/articleshow/78881051.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Gaadi-off campaign gets mixed response in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On the sixth day of the “Red light on, gaadi off” campaign launched by Delhi government to reduce vehicular pollution, TOI visited two major traffic signals at ITO and Ring Road near Moti Bagh and found commuters giving it a mixed response. Though a few people turned off their vehicle’s ignition on their own, many were asked to do so by environmental marshals. The campaign was launched on October 21 with an aim to reduce vehicular pollution by 15-20%. According to a research carried out by IIT-Delhi and Desert Research Institute in 2014, of the total travel time of vehicles, idling was 24% for four-wheelers, 18% for three-wheelers, 37% for buses and 20% for two-wheelers. The study stated that thousands of tonnes of fuel was wasted every day due to idling. After the traffic light turned red at Moti Bagh, two youths holding placards stood in front of vehicles and signaled the motorists to switch off their vehicle’s engine. Two environmental marshals went around requesting people to take part in the campaign by turning off the ignition. While most people complied, some refused to do so. Vehicles in the front row mostly switched off their engines, while the ones in the middle and back avoided it. A few people claimed that restarting their vehicles at short traffic signals would cause excess emission and contribute to pollution. Experts said that waiting time had an important role in this endeavour. Amit Bhatt, executive director, transport, World Resources Institute-India, said, “If the waiting time is more than a minute, then there will be net savings in emission. Commuters should not turn off vehicles when the waiting time is just a few seconds. A detailed study needs to be conducted on the exact amount of waiting time, net savings and other parameters. Vehicles should be well-maintained so that they immediately restart at signals.” Sewa Ram, professor and head, department of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture, said, “If a car stops at a traffic signal for 10-20 seconds, the vehicle will pollute more if it is turned off and then restarted. It is important for all traffic signals to display the timer so that commuters are aware about the waiting period.” Amita Singh, a commuter at ITO, said, “After the campaign was launched, I started switching off my car’s engine at traffic signals with a longer waiting period. I hope this will help in reducing the pollution level.” A commuter, who didn’t turn off the ignition after being requested by environmental marshal Harendra Kumar, said, “If I switch off my vehicle’s engine, it will take time to restart as the battery is down. It will cause a traffic jam and inconvenience people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gaadi-off-campaign-gets-mixed-response/articleshow/78881396.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Focus on enforcing two existing Acts for clean air’||NEW DELHI: The Centre’s new law to deal with the issue of air pollution in Delhi-NCR could draw on examples like the US Clean Air Act which empowers the country’s federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take effective action to ensure clean air, said officials privy to the development while pointing out that the issue sought to be addressed is the “multiplicity of authorities” under the existing system. Track the pollution level in your city“The success of this model of creating a powerful permanent body for one airshed (Delhi-NCR) may be replicated for other regions (airsheds) in due course,” said an official, even as clean air experts and environmentalists questioned the move when the country already has two laws and multiple rules to deal with the problem. “Both the State and Centre have enough powers under existing laws, the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, to take preventive and remedial measures to deal with air pollution,” said Ritwick Dutta, environmental lawyer. Dutta, founder of Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE), believes that the new law would create confusion when the country has adequate backing from existing laws to deal with the problem. It remains to be seen how the central government will tackle the issue of state jurisdiction as several mitigation actions lie in their domain. “The multiplicity of laws and institutions will create more confusion on the one hand and friction on the other. There will be a tendency to pass on the blame — that is exactly what we see today. Between the Supreme Court, EPCA, NGT, CPCB and SPCB no one is clear as to what needs to be done,” he said. Other experts too do not appear to be keen on new law at this juncture unless the Centre goes for reforms in various sectors including power, transport and industry to deal with the sources of pollution. “A new law is long-term (measure). It’s more urgent to leverage powers and authority conferred under current legislations, build institutional capacity, and address infrastructure deficit to scale up implementation across all sectors and regions,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Another clean air expert Sunil Dahiya flagged a number of regulatory issues which, according to him, could not be enforced despite backed by existing laws. “The coal-based power plants are still operating illegally in non-compliance of emission standard notification of 2015. The national urban transport policy, 2006 clearly mentions prioritisation of road space utilisation. Similarly, waste management rules exist, but it’s still a big issue. These are just a few examples of non-implementation of existing legislations. So, how do we think that having a new legislation without any actual implementation will serve the purpose?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/focus-on-enforcing-two-existing-acts-for-clean-air/articleshow/78881392.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana saw 362 persons going missing in 2019: NCRB||LUDHIANA: As many as 362 persons in Ludhiana commissionerate of police (CP) had gone missing in 2019, which included 201 females and 161 males, as per the latest data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Most of the missing persons were aged between 18 and 30 years, followed by those in 14 to 18 years and then those 30 to 45 years of age. As per the NCRB report, as many as 3,759 persons went missing in Punjab in 2019, including 2,079 females and 1,680 males, with maximum 425 persons missing in Jalandhar CP that included 227 females and 198 males. Jalandhar Rural was at number two with 368 missing persons — 232 females and 136 males. Ludhiana CP with 362 missing persons was at number three, followed by Hoshiarpur, where 333 persons were reported missing, including 220 females and 113 males. In Amritsar CP, the count was 281, including 159 females and 112 males, and in Patiala, 265 went missing — 202 females and 63 males. Age-wise, in Ludhiana city, maximum 141 were between 18 and 30 years, followed by 70 in the age group of 14-18, 66 in 30-40 age bracket, 50 persons between 5 and 14 years, 12 in 45-60 age group, 12 were above 60 years and 11 below the age of 5. Of the 425 missing persons under Jalandhar CP, 255 belonged to the 18-30 age group, 106 were between 30 and 40 years, 47 in the 45-60 age bracket and 17 were above the age of 60 years. Similarly, in Jalandhar Rural, maximum 191 persons between 18 and 30 years went missing, 81 were 30 to 45 years, 33 in the 45-60 age bracket, 21 between 14 and 18 years, 15 below 5, 14 were 5 to 14 years and 13 persons were above the age of 60 years. Further, under male category in Ludhiana CP, maximum 43 men going missing were between the age of 30 and 40 years, while in the female category, maximum 101 missing females were in the 18-30 age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-saw-362-persons-going-missing-in-2019-ncrb/articleshow/78878669.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 27, 2020||Pune||Housing societies keep fitness facilities shut||Pune: Many housing societies continue to keep gymnasia on their premises shut despite the government nod to reopen them from October 25. Bhavesh Karekar, a resident of Sangria Megapolis, said, “We have chosen to keep (the gym) closed indefinitely due to safety reasons.” Kalyanaraman Venkatesan, a resident of Laxmi Shantivan in Shivane, said there was no demand for their open-air gym to reopen at the moment. “Not many people are touching the equipment for fear for catching the virus and prefer to cycle or walk instead,” Venkatesan said. In Yashwin Society, Pankaj Damle said “people are more inclined to exercise outdoors.” Suyog Nisarg Society at Wagholi, meanwhile, is planning to reopen its gyms after drafting strict guidelines. “We will maintain gap between equipment and restrict the number of people,” Nitin Kumar Jain, a resident, said. Castle Royale in Range Hills is among the few societies to reopen its gym. “Stringent SOPs are in place,” Anand Tapadia, a resident, said. Residents of other housing societies too agreed there was no hurry to reopen gyms. “. Most people have adapted to exercising in the open. If residents really want to work out, they can go to a gym outside,” a member of a housing society said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-keep-fitness-facilities-shut/articleshow/78879928.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 27, 2020||Meerut||Dismembered body of woman found near Meerut graveyard||MEERUT: A headless and dismembered body of a woman, who was mostly likely in her 30s, was found dumped inside a sack near a graveyard in Meerut’s Lisari Gate area on Monday evening. Passersby alerted local police after they saw stray dogs feeding on the body parts, most of them charred. Police said that the woman was killed somewhere else and the body was dumped in the night. “CCTVs installed in the area are being scanned. Informers have been alerted. Efforts are being made to solve the case,” said Akhilesh Narayan Singh, Meerut’s superintendent of police (city). Police said that the body was cut into six pieces and its head was missing. “The body was recovered behind a burial ground in Fatehullapur police outpost. Prima facie, it seems that she was murdered by some acquaintances,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dismembered-body-of-woman-found-near-meerut-graveyard/articleshow/78878692.cms||Piyush Rai
October 27, 2020||Goa||Dinesh Gundu Rao warned against entering Goa over Mhadei issue||PANAJI: Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) has threatened protests against Congress Goa desk incharge Dinesh Gundu Rao if he enters the state again, as it condemned his statement on Mhadei, in which he said each state will fight for its rights. “If Rao supports Mhadei diversion, then how dare he enter Goa. It is clear that the BJP government in Goa has already sold Mhadei to Karnataka and Congress has proven to be the same,” PFG’s Hrudaynath Shirodkar said. He said that appointment of Rao as AICC incharge for Goa is suspicious. “Did Congress find no other person from its party from so many other states to be appointed as Goa incharge? Why only Gundu Rao? Is he also being sent here to crack some deal? The Congress in Goa needs to make its stand clear on the Mhadei issue. They are protesting in the state holding ‘Mhadei Zagor’, while rubbing shoulders with a Bengaluru politico who supports Karnataka’s diversion of Mhadei,” said Shirodkar. He threatened that Gundu Rao “will be treated worse than Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar” if he enters Goa again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dinesh-gundu-rao-warned-against-entering-goa-over-mhadei-issue/articleshow/78881493.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No Durga immersion for second year, hope floats for better oxygen levels in Yamuna||NEW DELHI: For a second successive year, no idols of goddess Durga reached the Yamuna, being instead consigned to specially created ponds and in buckets on Monday. In 2018, the last time idol immersion was allowed in the river, seven of the nine ghats had showed a post-immersion dissolved oxygen (DO) level of 0mg/l, much below the 4mg/l and above needed to sustain aquatic life. The biological oxygen demand (BOD), healthy reading of which is a maximum of 3mg/l, was similarly recorded in high levels, including 40mg/l at Qudsia Ghat and 35mg/l at Kalindi Kunj. Last year, these pollution measurements changed dramatically for the better, with even the total dissolved solids count, caused by heavy metals and toxic dyes introduced in the river through the idols, coming down significantly. Experts believe a similar improvement in the Yamuna’s water can be expected this year. Delhi Pollution Control Committee and Central Pollution Control Board tend to test the quality of the river water a few days before idol immersion, on the day of the immersion and a few days after the rite. A DPCC official said this year’s report, to be released in a few weeks, will contain annual comparisons to track improved parameters. When TOI visited the city ghats on Monday, no foam or idols could be seen in the river or on the ghats. However, items associated with the festive rituals were seen on both banks and on the bridges and flyovers overlooking the Yamuna. When asked about this, DPCC officials said it was the primary responsibility of the municipal corporations to clear the banks of such debris. “The corporations are empowered to take action against those throwing puja discards and remnants on the banks. Such people can be fined on the spot,” said the DPCC official. Last year, the state pollution panel had gathered data from 10 ghats and compared it with the previous year’s data and determined improved water quality at all locations. The water quality is established by analysing parameters such as acidity, suspended and dissolved solids, dissolved oxygen and the presence of copper, nickel, iron, cadmium, lead, zinc and other metals. At Shyam Ghat last year, the total soluble solids (TSS) had decreased from 1,008mg/l in 2018 to just 24mg/l, while the total metals came down from 3.3mg/l to 0.7 mg/l. At Sur Ghat, TSS levels went down substantially from 878mg/l in 2018 to 22mg/l and the total metals came down to 4.6mg/l from 12mg/l. Similarly at Qudsia Ghat, TSS last year was 24mg/l against 180mg/l in 2018. As for the biological oxygen demand, after many years there was remarkable improvement last year and the readings were closer to the life-sustaining level of 3mg/l. At Ram Ghat, BOD fell from 6mg/l to 4.8 mg/l, at Sur Ghat from 12mg/l to 4.6, at Kali Ghat from 20mg/l to 6.2, and at Qudsia Ghat from 18mg/l to 8. The drop was highest at Kalindi Kunj — from 35mg/l to 15.5mgl/l.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-durga-immersion-for-2nd-year-hope-floats-for-better-oxygen-levels-in-yamuna/articleshow/78881401.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Illegal soil mining attempt in Maavadikulam tank foiled||TRICHY: A team of PWD officials and police personnel foiled an attempt on Sunday to illegally mine soil at Maavadikulam at Ponamalipatti in Trichy city and booked one person. Acting on a tip off, the team from the public works department (PWD) and the Golden Rock police station visited Maavadikulam on Sunday afternoon. They found a truck loaded with the soil and an earthmover in the tank. On seeing the team, M Thirunavukkarasu, who was taking the soil from the tank without permission, fled the scene. Police seized the truck and the earthmover, which were owned by him. Police booked him under sections of the IPC and Mines and Minerals (development and regulation) Act, but are yet to arrest him. Inspector R Sahaya Anbarasu of Golden Rock police station said on Monday that the soil may have been stolen for some road laying work or to raise the base of housing plots. The 140-acre Maavadikulam tank situated in Ponamalipatti got a new lease of life after public and social workers exposed the encroachments there by the locals in 2012-2013. Action by the then collector Jayashree Muralidharan led to the eviction of the encroachments. Later, several teams of social workers, students, PWD and Trichy Corporation restored the tank. Secretary of Thanneer organisation and professor K Sathish Kumar of Kalai Kaviri Fine Arts College in Trichy, who played a major role in the restoration of the tank, said that it still required the attention of people in Ponamalaipatti and surrounding areas. “The tank is still supplying water to irrigation and is a source of ground water for several kilometres around the tank. The sad thing is people are dumping broiler waste and letting out sewage water into the tank. The corporation and PWD must provide illumination to the tank,” said Kumar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/illegal-soil-mining-attempt-in-maavadikulam-tank-foiled/articleshow/78879943.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: AIMIM, Bhim Army members booked a day after ‘brawl’||MEERUT: A day after an alleged “skirmish” between some supporters of AIMIM and Bhim Army in poll-bound Bulandshahr, police on Monday booked people from both the sides. Police booked scores of people under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder). The candidates of both the sides, Azad Samaj Party’s Hazi Yameen and AIMIM’s Mohammed Dilshad, have meanwhile disassociated themselves from any aggression. But, taking quick note of the complaints, police registered the two FIRs. On Sunday evening, Azad Samaj Party chief Chandrashekhar alleged attack on his convoy soon after a rally in Bulandshahr Sadat. But police had denied it, saying that there was a confrontation between the two groups. The local police maintained that there was no shooting as alleged by Chandrashekhar in a tweet on Sunday evening. “On Sunday evening, AIMIM party members were campaigning in the area where supporters of Azad Samaj Party were also present. There was a confrontation and subsequent brawl between the supporters of both the parties. Witnesses at the spot refuted claims of firing at the spot. Both sides were summoned at the local police station. And based on their complaints, FIRs under section 307 were registered,” Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP), said. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-day-after-brawl-members-of-aimim-bhim-army-booked-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/78878690.cms||Piyush Rai
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||2 months to deadline, only 256 pet dogs registered with Ludhiana civic body||LUDHIANA: Even as the civic body has announced to slap fines on the owners if they do not get their pets registered by December, in the last four months, only 256 registrations have taken place. The officials blame lack of adequate publicity and nonchalant attitude of the residents for fewer registrations. Since June 24, when the drive was launched, only 256 pet dogs have been registered, while not a single cat has been registered so far. Even out of that, the owners of only 188 pet dogs have collected the tokens compulsory for the registered pets to wear in their neck collar. While launching the pet registration programme, the civic body officials had made it clear that people would get time until December, and after that if MC teams find pets roaming on the roads, action would be taken against the owners. Senior veterinary officer of MC Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “Very less people have come forward as of now, which is a cause of concern, because it is difficult to believe that there are only 256 pets in a city like Ludhiana.” He said people should understand that pet registration is compulsory and only two months are left to the deadline. Meanwhile, sources revealed that people have been avoiding going anywhere due to the coronavirus threat, and the tokens are available at Zone A office of MC, which is a crowded place. So now, the officials are planning to start home delivery of the tokens, but it is getting delayed due to the official procedure. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, however, said if people can keep dogs, they should also get their pets registered, as it would help in maintaining the records. He said the registration is a very simple process, as the form can be filled and submitted on the MC’s website only. He requested people to come forward for the process. No data on pets in city Even as the civic body has threatened to slap fines after the expiry of December deadline for pets’ registration, officials said it is not going to be an easy task for the MC, as it has no data on the number of pets in the city. Since no drives were conducted in the past to ascertain the number of pets and identify the owners, tracking them post-December is going to be a tough task, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-months-to-deadline-only-256-pet-dogs-registered-with-mc/articleshow/78878676.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Ariyalur, Perambalur districts script success stories in Covid-19 control||TRICHY: From bearing the maximum brunt due to the Koyambedu cluster few months ago, to a remarkable turnaround, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts have shown the way by containing Covid-19 with focused screening. With only 116 and 78 active cases in Ariyalur and Perambalur respectively, the two districts have the lowest active cases in the state, while Perambalur continues as the only district with less than 100 active cases for about a week now. Focussed screening by targeting the vulnerable population, conduct of fever camps, strict enforcement of mask and social distancing rules, were cited as the top reasons for the recovery. Low population density and absence of large-scale concentrated residential settlements have also helped the two small districts control the infection. Last month, during the corresponding period, 15 to 30 fresh cases were recorded, but, now Ariyalur and Perambalur record less than 10 cases. Fresh infections have decreased by -82% and -65% while active cases have also come down by -18% and -31% respectively in a month. “We focussed industries to prevent clusters from emerging. Industries were told to establish their own quarantine facilities to accommodate the infected employee, in order to prevent them from returning home and spreading the infection,” R Geetharani, deputy director of health services, Perambalur said. A mobile medical unit collects swabs in fever camps covering four villages every day in Perambalur. Similarly, all the 33 private and four government hospitals send the details of outpatients with fever and ILI symptoms to the health department for follow up, helping the authorities screen the vicinities. The positivity rate of Perambalur is down below 1%. “We are not allowing any social gatherings to avoid crowding. On an average, we conduct 40 fever camps per day that served as early intervention,” D Rathna, Ariyalur district collector said. The district administration has appointed 10 doctors, including seven siddha practitioners to oversee Covid-19 treatment in Ariyalur government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ariyalur-perambalur-dists-script-success-stories-in-covid-control/articleshow/78879956.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Shoppers suffer due to delay in formation of vending panel||TRICHY: The delay in forming street vending committee to regulate vendors occupying the commercial streets of Trichy, is making them encroach the arterial roads like NSB Road, WB Road and Big Bazaar Street haphazardly leaving no space for Diwali shoppers and pedestrians. Although various local bodies across the state had formed the committee soon after the amendment of the Tamil Nadu street vendors (protection of livelihood and regulation of street vending) scheme, 2015, the civic body’s attempts since 2016 has been failing. The committee shall comprise representatives (elected) of street vendors, corporation, city police, traders’ association and NGOs. Apart from issuing certificates for vendors and taking measures for their livelihood development, the committee shall earmark vending and no-vending zones.  “Measures are underway to host the election to form the vending committee. After Diwali, the election shall be conducted at Srirangam zonal office,” a senior corporation official said. Once the committee is formed, the corporation can collect an annual vending fee from the vendors occupying the vending zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shoppers-suffer-due-to-delay-in-formation-of-vending-panel/articleshow/78879961.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Day after puja, 200T waste accumulates in Trichy city||TRICHY: The impact of Sunday’s Ayudha Puja festivities was felt a day later as the Trichy Corporation collected and disposed of more than 200 tonne of waste, mostly banana stems, smashed pumpkins and coconuts, which were discarded on the roadsides. Besides these, many unsold banana stems were also abandoned on the roads. Palakkarai, Gandhi Market, Thanjavur road and industrial estate in Ariyamangalam saw the maximum waste dumped on roads. This invited stray cattle which were let off by their owners. More number of stray cattle could be noticed on Mondays than other days. “The waste collection trucks completed more than 20 trips at Gandhi market in the morning. We only managed to completely send biodegradable waste to micro compost centres by afternoon. Such was the quantity of piled up waste,” a sanitary official with the corporation said. NSB road, Big Bazaar street and Chinthamani bazaar in Srirangam zone saw similar pile ups. The collected waste shall be shredded and dumped in a compost pit for the next 45 days to produce manure, officials said. As the commercial streets will witness the movement of people for their Diwali shopping during the evenings, sanitary officials said that the cleaning work has been expedited. “We are expecting the same amount of waste to surface for the next few days,” another sanitary official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/day-after-puja-200t-waste-accumulates-in-trichy-city/articleshow/78879972.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Four thieves in cop net, 49 bags of onions recovered||PUNE: Four persons, including one from Pimpri Chinchwad, were arrested on Friday for stealing onion bags from a storage facility at a farm in Junnar taluka. The Pune rural police recovered 49 bags of stolen onions, a pickup van and two motorcycles, collectively worth Rs7 lakh, from them. “The suspects — Ketan Hande (21), Askshay Sadakal (23) and Saurabh Maskare (19) from Junnar taluka, and Vikam Gode (21) of Pimpri Chinchwad — stole 58 bags of onion worth Rs2.4 lakh from a farm at Dindore village in Junnar taluka on October 22. We arrested them before they could sell off the produce in an onion market in Otur, taking advantage of high price of the kitchen staple at present,” assistant inspector Parashuram Kamble of the Otur police said. Varad Desai (37), a farmer from Dindore village had lodged a first information report on October 22 with the Otur police about the theft of 58 bags of onions worth Rs2.4 lakh from the storage facility at his farm. Kamble said the police had collected CCTV cameras’ footage from different spots in Dindore. A police team on Friday noticed two men captured in different footage of October 22. “We took the duo — Hande and Sadakal — into custody for questioning,” he said. The duo admitted to their involvement in the theft at Dindore and revealed the names of their two accomplices, Maskare and Gode. Kamble said two of the suspects conducted recce of onion storage facilities in the district in the daytime. “Later in the night, they used to go to the targeted units in a pickup van and steal onion bags. The suspects have been sent to police custody till October 27,” he said. On the night of October 22, about 10 bags of onion worth Rs55,000 were stolen from Devachi Jali near Manjarwadi in Junnar taluka. The farmers had nabbed one of the two suspects right at the spot. Asked if the suspects in the Dindore case had any links with the theft in Devachi Jali, Kamble said, “This is a new gang. The gang members have business of transportation. They started operating recently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-thieves-in-cop-net-49-bags-of-onions-recovered/articleshow/78879955.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 27, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: RTI activist gets ‘death threat’ letter & a bullet||MEERUT: An RTI activist, who had been vocal against cow slaughter for several years now, said on Monday that he has received "death threat" in a letter and a live bullet. Sandeep Pahel, 46, has filed several cases against illegal slaughter houses and pollution. An excerpt from the letter read, “You continue to pick up issues of cow slaughter houses despite being warned against it. I am warning you again to check your actions or else you will be killed soon. Your body will be found on the crossing and your kids will be found begging.” The letter and the bullet came through a speed post at Pahal's home. Pahal approached Meerut SSP, who ordered a probe into it. Cyber cell department has been roped in to solve the case. “I have complained about the matter, and I hope action will be taken soon,” said Pahal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-rti-activist-gets-death-threat-letter-and-a-bullet-in-an-envelope/articleshow/78878694.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 27, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Ravan worshipped at ‘deeksha’ ceremony||KANPUR: Around 200 people attended the ‘deeksha’ ceremony and performed ‘puja’ of mythological demon king Ravan in an event called ‘Baudh Dhamm’ on the occasion of Dussehra in Pukhrayan village in Bhognipur area of Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday. Senior office-bearers of the social organisation, Bhartiya Dalit Panther, who organised the event, said the ceremony along with puja of Ravan was performed as a part of an annual event they hold at Krishi Mandi Samiti ground in Pukhrayan in Bhognipur. Senior member of Bhartiya Dalit Panther, Dhani Rao Baudh Panther, said, “Bhadant Baudh Mani, a senior Buddhist monk from Auraiya, prescribed 22 vows to a gathering of 200 people, who attended the ceremony in the presence of several retired administrative officials including ex-bureaucrat Dr Chandrapal amid Covid-19 guidelines.” “We have been conducting ‘deeksha’ ceremony in the spirit of Ravan, Lord Gautam Buddha, Samrat Ashoka and Baba Saheb Ambedkar, who fought against caste discrimination in society, since the past 27 years,” said Shriom Katheria, district president (Kanpur Dehat) of Bhartiya Dalit Panther. He claimed that like previous years, nearly 200 people, mostly from Dalit and backward classes, assembled at the Krishi Mandi Samiti ground and took 22 oaths of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar by raising their hands in the presence of the Buddhist monk. Before taking oath, the crowd also performed ‘puja’ of Ravan. Katheria added that as Ravan was a Buddhist scholar, he should be worshipped. “We hold the ceremony so that the future generations would remember the sacrifices of Ravan, besides Lord Gautam Buddha, Samrat Ashoka and Baba Saheb Ambedkar. We will continue with the tradition,” he said. Contacted, SDM Bhognipur Deepali Kaushik claimed that in view of the Covid pandemic, permission for gathering of 200 people at Krishi Mandi Samiti ground was granted for holding a seminar. “I am not aware of any ‘deeksha’ ceremony or ‘puja’ held at the venue,” she added. Similarly, hordes of people gathered outside the Ravana temple in Shivala area of the city, like previous years, to offer prayers and perform ‘puja’ of Ravan on Sunday. Later in the evening, when the effigies of Ravan were burnt at various places of the city, the doors of the temple were closed till the next Dussehra. On being asked about the religious relevance of the Dashanan temple and Ravan ‘puja’, curator of the temple KK Tewari claimed: “Ravan was extremely courageous, a scholar and an ardent devotee of Lord Shiva. Given the fact that he did ‘Sita haran’ cannot be a reason for not worshipping him. He was well-versed with ‘ancient Hindu epics (Vedas) and follower of truth, thus he is worshipped every year for his good qualities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ravan-worshipped-at-deeksha-ceremony/articleshow/78881159.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 27, 2020||Nashik||Mild tremors felt in parts of Nanded||Aurangabad: Parts of Nanded city experienced mild tremors on Sunday morning, sparking panic among the citizens. The first tremor — of 0.6 intensity on the Richter scale — was felt at 11.08 am, followed by another such seismic activity of 0.8 intensity at 11.32 am. “The epicentre of these tremors was located nine kilometre south-east of Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University,” an official release said. No loss of live or property was reported due to these tremors, which were felt in Shrinagar, Raj Corner, Vivek Nagar, among other areas of Nanded where residents came out of their homes. Citing “very low intensity” of the tremors, the district administration has appealed to the citizens to remain calm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mild-tremors-felt-in-parts-of-nanded/articleshow/78861624.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Meerut||Haryana cops attacked, criminal ‘freed’||MEERUT: A group of locals in UP’s Saharanpur district allegedly overpowered a team of Haryana Police and took away a criminal from their custody. Mohammad Zubair, who was on the run for the last four years after being booked in an attempt to murder case in Panipat district, was arrested on Saturday evening from Saharanpur’s Kotda village. But the success was fleeting for the Panipat police team. A crowd, which also included women, swelled around the escort vehicle and a confrontation followed. “As the policemen tried to deal with the protesters, Zubair slipped away,” said YD Sharma, station house officer of Gangoh area of Saharanpur. Later, the mob also roughed up another local, Khurshid, who they believed informed police about the presence of Zubair. On Monday morning, a large police contingent raided the village and arrested Zubair. He was presented in a court and sent to jail. District police also registered two FIRs on the basis of complaints filed by Khurshid and the Gangoh SHO. Scores of residents of Kotda village were booked for the attack on the Haryana Police team, and for the assault on Khurshid. This was the second such incident in the region in a fortnight. Earlier this month, a team of Haryana Police from Kurukshetra district came under attack in UP’s Kairana town. The mob freed a criminal, Sonu, from their custody. He was wanted in a theft case. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/haryana-police-team-comes-under-attack-in-ups-saharanpur-criminal-freed/articleshow/78878693.cms||Piyush Rai
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Police stations launch special drive to ensure safety of senior citizens||DEHRADUN: In the wake of recent crimes against senior citizens, police have started an initiative for the protection and welfare of elderly people living in the state capital. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi directed all police stations to start holding regular meetings with senior citizens living in their jurisdictional limits. On Monday, several police stations, including Kotwali, Nehru Colony, and Clement town police stations, reached out to senior citizens and organised special meetings with them. “We focused on elderly persons living alone and called them. During the meeting, we heard their concerns and provided them the mobile numbers of beat constables, whom they can contact whenever in need.” Senior citizens, who attended the meetings held at different police stations and police chowkis, were urged to provide details about their domestic help, if any, for the police verification process. Additionally, cops also asked them to install CCTVs in their houses, which acts as a deterrent against crimes and also helps in keeping a tab on unidentified and suspicious persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-stations-launch-special-drive-to-ensure-safety-of-senior-citizens/articleshow/78878696.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 27, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi weaver’s ‘Murri Bandh’ enters 11th day||VARANASI: Weaving in the Banarasi sari and textile industry remained suspended for the eleventh consecutive day on Monday as weavers remained rigid to continue their Murri-band strike despite assurance of state government for power tariff on flat rates after stopping billing on meter reading basis. The district administration has warned protesters to avoid staging demonstrations with mass gatherings or taking out processions in view of Covid-19 scare and raise their demands through talks. Bunkar Biradarana Tanzeem Chaudaho’s Sardar Maqbool Hassan said, “Since the beginning of our Murri-Bandh strike in September, we have only three demands. First one is to restore flat rate power tariff system for weavers, second to realise the tariff for months between January and July on flat rate like till 2019-end and third to withdraw all FIRs and recovery challans, restore power connections of weavers whose supply was disconnected.” The government had agreed to fulfil all the demands in 15 days, but an order was issued on just one demand of stopping the billing on meter reading basis while other demands were not attended, Hassan added. “We do not want any confrontation with the government and our demands are not politically motivated. We are struggling for the survival of this industry,” he said. The strike will continue till our demands are met or talks are held to find amicable solutions to our problems, he added. In view of the restrictions on protests amid Covid-19 outbreak, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had asked weavers to send their delegation for discussing their issues with handloom, power and other departments concerned. The DM said many restrictions of Covid guidelines have been violated during weavers’ protest and though the administration did not initiate any action but their activities are being monitored. He said chief engineer of Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited, additional director (handlooms) and ADM City have been nominated to hold discussions with weavers for resolving their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/weavers-strike-enters-11th-day-brings-banarasi-textile-industry-to-a-standstill/articleshow/78881100.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 27, 2020||Trichy||H Raja seeks Thol Thirumavalavan’s arrest; silent on OBC quota for medical seats||TRICHY: BJP’s former national secretary H Raja has urged the state government to arrest VCK leader and Chidambaram Lok Sabha MP Thol Thirumavalavan for his alleged derogatory remarks on women. Speaking to reporters after attending a wedding in Pudukottai district on Monday, Raja said that Thirumavalavan’s comments have come when the entire country is worshipping goddess Durga, Lakhsmi and Saraswathi as part of Vijayadashami. However, Raja refused to comment on Tamil Nadu governor delaying the nod for 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students in medical admission. He said he would not comment on other issues unless Thirumavalavan is arrested. Thirumavalavan was booked on Friday by Chennai city police for his statement that the Manusmriti denigrated women. He had clarified that he was only reading out the verses from Manusmriti and it was not his own words. Saying that there is no Manu shastra in this country, Raja said India is governed by the Constitution and there are no religious laws in the country. Citing another old video of Thirumavalavan, Raja said that he has been speaking ill about women on numerous occasions in the past and he should be arrested for degrading Hindu women. Saying that protests will be organized across the state until Thirumavalavan is arrested, he said the issue needs to be made an electoral issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/raja-seeks-thirumavalavans-arrest-silent-on-obc-quota-for-medical-seats/articleshow/78879982.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Brain-dead senior citizen’s liver gives life to Mumbai man||Pune: Relatives of a 79-year-old brain-dead man donated his liver giving a new lease of life to a Mumbai resident suffering from end-stage liver condition on October 23. The usual acceptable age for a cadaver organ transplant is 65 years in India. People beyond this age are considered as marginal donors. They become eligible only after the evaluation of organ health. “The donor was a resident of Pimple Nilakh. He was a known patient of hypertension,” said Jupiter hospital’s transplant coordinator Sagar Kakad.He had developed intracranial bleeding and was rushed to Jupiter hospital on October 20. “Despite all efforts, he could not be revived and was declared brain-dead on October 23. His relatives consented to donate his liver, which was medically fit and healthy,” Kakad said.“The donated organ was successfully transplanted into a 44-year-old Mumbai man, a patient of end-stage liver cirrhosis enrolled with Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital in Chinchwad for a liver transplant,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), an apex body overseeing the allocation of donated organs.With this, the number of brain-dead donors during the Covid-ensued lockdown in Pune has gone up to 15. Since January, a total of 29 brain-dead donors have benefited 58 needy patients in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-dead-senior-citizens-liver-gives-life-to-mumbai-man/articleshow/78879979.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Duo rob truck driver of Rs 5k on eway||Pune: Two youths intercepted a truck near Urse toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai expressway and robbed its driver of Rs5,000 around 1.45am on Sunday . Kamalesh Patel (40) of Uttar Pradesh, was driving towards Pune when a car forced Patel to stop. The suspects umped out of the car, argued with Patel he was not driving the vehicle properly, snatched Rs5,000 and drove away. One of the robbers was a minor, police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-rob-truck-driver-of-rs-5k-on-eway/articleshow/78879962.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur signs MoU with two Italy institutes for protection of monuments||KANPUR: Two institutions from India including IIT-Kanpur and two from Italy signed an agreement on Monday seeking restoration and protection of historical monuments. The activities under this MoU will be coordinated by Prof Mukesh Sharma, department of Civil Engineering, IIT-Kanpur. The MoU was signed among IIT-K, Ca’ Foscari University of Venice, Archaeological Survey of India, Soprintendenza Archeologia, Belle Arti E Paesaggio, Venice on creating a network and sharing skills for restoration and protection of historical monuments, said Prof Sharma. Prof Sharma said all institutes agree to develop collaborative scientific study activities and sharing skills to restore and protect monuments based on equality and reciprocity. “All institutes shall seek to promote collaboration and activities in areas such as collaboration in scientific studies and skill sharing, the exchange of knowledge, experience, academic materials and publications, conducting workshops, undertaking joint field studies and technology development”, Prof Sharma added. He also added a specific plan will be worked out for each activity, depending upon the availability of resources and monuments requiring protection and restoration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-signs-mou-with-two-italy-institutes-for-protection-of-monuments/articleshow/78881124.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Seven seers hurt in accident on expressway||KANPUR: Seven seers were injured after an SUV in which they were travelling overturned near Amolar village in Taalgram police area of Kannauj district on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on early Monday morning. The incident occurred after the vehicle’s rear tyre punctured. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, taking congnizance of the incident, instructed the district and police officials to make necessary arrangements for the rescue and medical support. The seers have been identified as Maharaj Nandgiri, Chaman Das, Ramu Das, Shyam Das and their three counterparts. They were on way back from Rajasthan and heading towards Mahadevi Ghat in Kannauj via Agra-Lucknow Expressway to take a dip in the river Ganga. “At around 7 am, when their SUV reached close to Amolar village, one of it’s rear tyre burst and the driver lost control on the vehicle. It crashed into a safety barricading and turned turtle. Passersby apprised the Expressway and police authorities following which a team of UPIEDA and local police personnel rushed to the accident site and launched a rescue operation. The injured seers have been admitted to Tirwa Medical College,” said SP Kannauj Amrendra Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/seven-seers-hurt-in-accident-on-e-way/articleshow/78881180.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Sena neta shot dead in Lonavla days after SOS||PUNE: An unidentified man attacked the Shiv Sena’s former Lonavla city chief Rahul Shetty (38) with an axe and then shot him dead in full public view at a tea stall near his house at Jaichand chowk in the hill station town, about 60km from here, around 9.30am on Monday. Shetty was murdered days after he had told the Lonavla police about a threat to his life. Citing initial investigations, Pune rural police superintendent Abhinav Deshmukh said, “The murder seems to be a fallout of old enmity. Shetty’s wife (a former member of the Lonavla municipal council) has mentioned a few names as suspects in her FIR. We are verifying the details and will question these suspects, who have criminal records. We will take stringent action under special enactments like MCOCA and MPDA.” Incidentally, Shetty’s father Umesh, who was one of the founding members of the Sena in Maval taluka, was also shot dead along with his associate, Shankar More, in July 1986. Deshmukh said, “We have deployed six police teams to nab the assailant and the alleged conspirators. After assaulting Shetty with an axe on the neck, the assailant fired three rounds at him from close range, killing him on the spot.” Sub-divisional police officer (Lonavla division) Navneet Kanwat told TOI, “On October 22, Shetty had submitted an application to the Lonavla city police stating that there was a threat to his life after the police had arrested a 44-year-old man the same day and recovered two country-made pistols and sharp weapons from him. The arrested man was later released on bail by a local court. We are checking if this man has any links with Shetty’s murder.” Shetty’s murder created a major sensation across the hill station as it came within 12 hours of another murder. One Ganesh Naidu (44) was murdered by his two associates around 10.30pm on Sunday at Hanuman Tekdi following a brawl after they consumed liquor together. “It was a coincidence that the two murders took place within 12 hours, but they have no connection with each other,” said Kanwat. Rural police chief Deshmukh said, “Shetty was having tea at a tea joint at Jaichand chowk near his house. A CCTV footage of the crime spot shows one suspect, with an axe hidden in his jacket, approaching him. On getting closer to the victim, he pulls out the axe and attacks Shetty before firing three rounds at him from a firearm. The suspect then walks away from the spot. We are checking more CCTV footage to ascertain whether he had parked any vehicle near the spot to get away.” Shetty was immediately taken to a nearby hospital, where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. Later, his body was sent to the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune for a post-mortem, said an officer from the Lonavla city police. Deshmukh said, “Shetty had seven different cases registered against him. In 2013, he was severely assaulted. Thereafter, there was an attempt to attack him.” Shetty is survived by wife, two children and mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senas-former-lonavla-city-chief-attacked-shot-dead/articleshow/78881455.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 27, 2020||Kanpur||Alleging rape by lawyer, woman climbs tree in Auraiya||KANPUR: A woman allegedly climbed a tree and threatened to end her life after accusing her lawyer of raping her under the pretext of marriage in Auraiya district on Monday. “The woman, hailing from Ajitmal Kotwali police station limits of the district, reached the lawyer’s village close to Dibiyapur, climbed a tree and threatened to jump off if her demands were not met,” police said. The police added that the woman is the lawyer’s client and had been knowing each other since she approached him to fight a domestic violence case against her husband and in-laws. CO Surendra Nath added, “As per the woman, the lawyer, who is handling her case of domestic violence against her husband and in-laws, had developed physical relations with her and promised her that he will marry her. But recently, he refused to do so. Following which, the woman on Monday afternoon reached the lawyer’s village and climbed a tree and threatened to commit suicide.” “We have received a complaint in this regard from the woman and are investigating the matter further,” CO added. As she scaled up the tree, villagers gathered and urged her to come down. Later, they informed the local police. She came down after police persuaded her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/alleging-rape-by-lawyer-woman-climbs-tree-in-auraiya/articleshow/78881136.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 27, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Commissioner finds staff absent, orders to stop salary||KANPUR: Taking strong note of absence of employees in the office of additional director basic education department, divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar on Monday ordered to stop disbursement of salary of the office staff. The commissioner took action when during random inspection of the office he noticed that except one, all employees of the office were absent from duty. He asked the senior officials to issue show cause notice to them, seek their explanation within three days and take a decision on the basis of merit. He also sought explanation from the additional director who was also found absent. He directed him to send a report in this regard to his office by October 29. The commissioner visited the office of the additional director, basic education at 10.10 am and found 6 out of 7 employees including the additional director absent from duty without seeking permission from the prescribed authority. He expressed displeasure when he found office rooms dirty and poorly maintained. He asked the additional director to ensure proper maintenance and cleaning of the office and submit a report along with a video to his office by November 10. The commissioner later directed the senior officials of all divisional offices to ensure that the staff came to the office in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/commissioner-finds-staff-absent-orders-to-stop-salary/articleshow/78881278.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No homework for students of govt schools for first three weeks from November 2||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand education department has decided to not give homework to the students of the state government-run schools for a period of three weeks, starting from November 2. The education department has worked on a format according to which, students will go through the revision of the lessons taught to them during the lockdown period for 2-3 weeks. Meanwhile, the medium of online education will be encouraged among the students and their parents. The education department is also going to run a “Back to the School” campaign in order to reconnect the students who got drifted away from studies due to coronavirus-induced lockdown. It is also worth mentioning that the state education department has asked all the district magistrates to form a committee in their respective districts to observe the process of reopening of the schools from November 2. The committee will be headed by the DMs with members from health, education, and police departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-homework-for-students-of-govt-schools-for-first-three-weeks-from-nov-2/articleshow/78878724.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||AI-based system installed on Naini Lake to track biodiversity||NAINITAL: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday inaugurated an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based lake monitoring system for the Naini Lake. The system will provide real-time data on the quality of the water in the lake. Also, it will provide information regarding the biological functioning of the lake in real-time on a LED screen which has been installed near the lake. An individual can also track the lake's biological functioning through an app. While addressing a gathering during the launch of the project, funded by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and estimated to cost around Rs 1 crore, CM Rawat said, “Naini lake has become the first lake in the country to have this monitoring system. It is an attempt to monitor the changes happening in the lake. This will help in taking the necessary steps to protect and preserve the lake.” According to officials, sensors have been installed at two different locations in the lake and the LED screen has been put up in Tallital where people can check the status of the lake. The system will provide information about biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) – an important measure that determines the purity of the water – as well as dissolved oxygen (DO), concentration of chlorides, and the pH value, among other important indicators. The chief minister further announced that a sewage treatment plant (STP) will also be developed in the area to check the flow of wastewater into the lake. The Naini lake is not only a major tourist attraction in Nainital but also the sole source of drinking water for the hill town. Rawat also announced that the first survey of the Kotabagh-Nainital ropeway project has been completed and the work on ropeway projects in both Mussoorie and Yamunotri is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/naini-lake-first-in-country-to-get-ai-based-lake-monitoring-system/articleshow/78876785.cms||Prashant Jha
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: New state in-charge of Congress to meet party members during three-day visit||DEHRADUN: Devender Yadav, who was made the Congress state in-charge in September this year, would be on his first three-day visit to the state after taking charge. During the three-day visit, which is scheduled to commence from Tuesday, Yadav would interact with the party units in all 13 districts. He was scheduled to visit the state in the third week of September but following the death of party’s Rishikesh unit chief Shiv Mohan Mishra due to Covid-19, the state Congress had postponed all its programmes for a week starting September 19. Yadav, a former MLA in Delhi, was scheduled to visit Uttarakhand on September 23 earlier. Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “After his arrival in Dehradun on Tuesday, he will first hold a meeting with former CM Harish Rawat, state chief Pritam Singh, and leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh to take stock of the situation in the state. It would be followed by a meeting with the former state chief, former leader of the House, former MPs, AICC members, and 2019 Lok Sabha candidates.” He added that for the next three days commencing Tuesday, Yadav would interact with office bearers and party members from all 13 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-state-in-charge-of-cong-to-meet-party-members-during-three-day-visit/articleshow/78878746.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 27, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation to reopen gardens from November 1||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will reopen all public gardens from November 1, mayor Murlidhar Mohol announced on Monday. “The spread of Covid-19 in areas under the PMC is largely under control and we have decided to open the gardens. Citizens should, however, adopt precautions while visiting the gardens,” Mohol said, adding that the municipal commissioner would issue the formal orders. The 204 gardens in the PMC limits have been shut since the last week of March following the Covid-19 outbreak. As many as 33 gardens in non-containment zones were reopened in the first week of June but were shut in the third week of the month following complaints of people flouting Covid-19 guidelines, the rise in cases and the heavy rains. Officials said the closure of gardens had led to much crowding on the hills. A PMC official said the standard operating procedures for the reopening of gardens would soon be finalized. “The guidelines will be discussed and shared among citizens within a couple of days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-reopen-gardens-from-nov-1/articleshow/78881457.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Slipper hurled towards deputy CM||VADODARA: A slipper was hurled allegedly at deputy chief minister Nitin Patel when he was addressing media persons at Kurali village in Karjan taluka of Vadodara district. Patel was in the village to address a BJP public meeting for the ensuing byelections for the Karjan assembly seat. The incident took place late in the evening after the rally had ended. Patel stopped after he was approached by media persons for comment. At this time a slipper was lobbed towards Patel and fell on the microphones of television news channels. According to sources in the BJP, the slipper was hurled by someone from behind and could not be spotted. A functionary said that the person could not be located. He added that the slipper was not thrown with force, but was tossed in the direction of the media persons and Patel. BJP Vadodara district unit president Dilubha Chudasama said that he was present at the rally, but was away from the place where the incident took place. “The slipper did not fall on the deputy chief minister,” he said. He added that the person responsible for the act could not be located. The Karjan byelections have emerged as a keen contest. Akshay Patel of the BJP resigned as an MLA after being elected from the Congress in 2017. He joined the BJP and is now contesting on a BJP ticket. The Congress has pitted Kiritsinh Jadeja against Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/slipper-hurled-towards-dycm/articleshow/78877631.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Innovation facility centre opened at NIT Trichy||TRICHY: IIT-Madras faculty member Krishnan Balasubramanian on Monday inaugurated an innovation facility centre of the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) and the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy. This facility centre has been set up at NIT Trichy to promote innovations towards commercialisation, drive technology transfer and mentor student and faculty startups. Besides this, the centre will sensitise the academia about technologies that need to be developed and commercialised. Krishnan said research and innovation activities should make an impact in the society. He was hopeful that this is just the beginning for many startups to evolve from NIT Trichy. K Muthu Kumar, coordinator of NRDC-NIT Trichy, stressed on promoting activities of MSME sector like mentoring the technical expertise of Trichy fabrication clusters and boost fabrication of indigenous defence-related products in line with the requirements of Tamil Nadu defence corridor. S Muthukumaran, dean (Research and Consultancy) NIT Trichy, said the centre would primarily start with a focus on solid waste management and green crackers. Webinars have also been planned. NIT Trichy director Mini Shaji Thomas emphasised on the need for such an innovation facility centre. She said the shift has to be towards transferring knowledge in terms of product and technology. Satish Vasu Kailas of Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru explained the strategy to convert pandemic blocking stone into stepping stone in research progress by giving useful tips and strategies to complete tasks and make progress on time in terms of framing a hypothesis, executing experiments, writing manuscripts and work-life balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/innovation-facility-centre-opened-at-nit-trichy/articleshow/78879991.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Central team assesses DPCs in delta districts, to submit report||THANJAVUR: A central team which assessed the moisture content and quality of kuruvai paddy procured at direct procurement centres (DPCs) in delta districts, will be submitting its report to the Union government on October 27. Speaking to reporters after inspecting various DPCs in Thanjavur district on Sunday, one of the members, Yatendra Jain said the committee collected paddy samples from all three delta districts during their inspection. “Paddy samples collected from Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur would be handed over to the authorities of Regional Food Corporation in Chennai. After completing the due inspection, the report would be handed over to the central government,” the official said. Based on the farmers’ demand to procure paddy with the maximum moisture content of 22%, the central team landed here. The expert team from the department of food and quality control government of India comprising Yatendra Jain, Yunus, Jaishankar and Pashanth have been visiting the DPCs in delta districts for the past two days. On their second day of the tour, the team inspected the centres including Kuruvadipatti and Kulichappattu. The team interacted with the farmers who had come there to sell their produce and heard their grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-team-assesses-dpcs-in-delta-districts-to-submit-report/articleshow/78879998.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||SC stays contempt proceedings in Uttarakhand HC against Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank||NAINITAL: In a relief to Union education minister and former chief minister of Uttarakhand, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, the Supreme Court (SC) on Monday stayed the contempt proceedings against him in the Uttarakhand high court (HC). Nishank had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court which was heard on Monday by the bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha and Hrishikesh Roy. The bench issued notices to the respondents which was accepted by advocate Vanshaja Shukla. As reported by TOI earlier, the Uttarakhand HC has been hearing the contempt petition against Nishank for not complying with the May 2019 order of the HC which had directed the former chief ministers to pay the dues for facilities like bungalow, cars and subsidised electricity. The former CMs are alleged to have availed of these facilities even after demitting office. A Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the matter by a Doon-based NGO after which the court directed the ex-CMs to pay the market rates for these facilities. In August, the HC had issued show-cause notices to three former chief ministers – Nishank, Vijay Bahuguna and BC Khanduri. While Bahuguna and Khanduri approached the apex court which granted a stay on proceedings against them, the case against Nishank continued and on October 15, the court had issued notice to additional secretary Deependra Chaudhary who was accused of recalculating the amount that Nishank owed to the state government. Nishank had thereafter approached the apex court for a stay in the contempt proceedings against him. He also challenged the HC order of May 2019. The SC has now clubbed Nishank’s petition with the SLPs filed both by the state government and the one filed by Khanduri and Bahuguna. The court will now hear the three petitions together and the matter is likely to be listed on November 6. Kartikey Hari Gupta, the lawyer appearing for the NGO which had filed the PIL and the contempt petition, told TOI, “We will respond in the apex court and convince them that the former chief ministers should pay the market rates for the facilities they have used.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-stays-contempt-proceedings-in-ukhand-hc-against-union-education-minister/articleshow/78876795.cms||Prashant Jha
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Dispute over cremating body, people stage protest||THANJAVUR: Tension prevailed at a village near Peravurani in Thanjavur district as a section of people staged a road roko on Monday carrying a dead body alleging that they were denied permission to use a crematorium meant for all communities. According to police, N Chelladurai, 69, a native of Sengamalam village near Peravurani, passed away on Monday as he was ailing for some time. When the relatives arrived at a crematorium on the banks of the Valayankulam lake on the outskirts of the village, a section of people belonging to various castes from the village prevented them from entering the facility. According to police, both groups belong to various communities from other castes. However, the relatives of Chelladurai claimed that they have been using the crematorium for years along with those opposing now. On information, panchayat president Selvam, revenue and police officials rushed to the spot and held talks with people. However, those who opposed to cremating the body stood firm on their stand. Irate by the incident, the kin and relatives of Chellathurai left the crematorium and blocked the Pudukottai-Peravurani Main Road demanding to allow them to perform the funeral. After talks conducted by the Pattukottai deputy superintendent of police (in-charge) Subramanian and revenue officials with the opposition group, the body was cremated there, police sources said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dispute-over-cremating-body-people-stage-protest/articleshow/78880007.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Sastra Deemed University launches online degree programmes||TRICHY: Sastra Deemed University, Thanjavur, has launched 12 undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes in online mode on Monday pursuant to the recent UGC online regulations. The B Com programme in collaboration with K S Academy, a reputed CA coaching academy, provides a dual-mode engagement for students to pursue B Com as well as undergo foundation-inter-final coaching by the academy. Similarly, BBA in logistics management is offered in collaboration with the logistics skill council of the union ministry of skill and entrepreneurship. Master of Fine Arts (MFA) focuses on a variety of Indian arts and culture with courses in music, yoga, temple architecture, Harikata, Vaishnavism and Saivism. Other programmes are BCA, BA, M Sc, MBA, M Com, MA Sanskrit and Divyaprabhandam. “The online registration for the programmes have started at www.sastra.edu and will continue up to December 31,” said S Gopalakrishnan, director, online and distance education department of Sastra. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sastra-launches-online-degree-programmes/articleshow/78880014.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Raja Raja Chola’s 1035th Sathaya Vizha held||THANJAVUR: The 1035th Sathaya Vizha, the birth anniversary of emperor Raja Raja Cholan, was held in Thanjavur on Monday. Unlike previous years, the celebrations were toned down this time around. The usual two-day event was cut down to a single day and no cultural events were organised at the temple, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of the celebrations, the Big Temple and the statue of Raja Raja Cholan were decorated with flowers and illuminated. The celebrations began with the rendering of the ‘Mangala Isai’ in the morning. District collector M Govinda Rao garlanded the statue of Raja Raja Cholan on the premises of the Big Temple. A group of odhuvars recited Thirgnanasambandhar’s Thirumurai at the temple. Special pujas were performed both in Tamil and Sanskrit at the temple on the occasion. Earlier, the Big Temple Rights Retrieval Committee had demanded that Tamil alone should be recited at the temple while performing puja. Speaking to reporters, president of the committee, Enapuram Murugesan said, “Our efforts to bring Tamil to the forefront during the event has succeeded. Based on our appeal to the chief minister of Tamil Nadu, the commissioner of Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department allowed the recital of Thirumanthiram. Our demand is that all the temples, whether owned by HR&CE or private parties, should make Tamil the main language for reciting hymns.” Superintendent of police of Thanjavur, Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay, president of the Sathaya Vizha, Durai Thirugnanam, assistant commissioner of HR&CE, Krishnan, district tourism officer, Jayakumar and revenue officials participated in the event. Later in the day, leaders of political parties and Tamil outfits paid their tributes to the statue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/raja-raja-cholas-1035th-sathaya-vizha-held/articleshow/78880002.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Ahead of 2+2, S Jaishankar and Mike Pompeo discuss stability and security in Asia||NEW DELHI: “Stability and security in Asia” dominated the discussions when foreign minister S Jaishankar and his US counterpart Mike Pompeo met this evening for bilateral talks, ahead of the 2+2 meeting scheduled for Tuesday morning. Sources said after the meeting, both sides, shared views on the “current global situation and its contemporary challenges; discussed our shared concerns and interests including stability and security in Asia, and how best that can be ensured.” The conversation, the last before the US goes to election next week, indicated “progress in bilateral ties over last four years; satisfied that they have grown in virtually every domain including trade, energy, defence and education; practice of consultations on foreign policy issues has also expanded, including regional and multilateral; working more closely in multilateral and plurilateral formats.” Pompeo and US defence secretary Mark Esper arrived this afternoon. Apart from the formal talks, the US functionaries will hold meetings with national security adviser Ajit Doval and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Setting the atmosphere, Pompeo tweeted, “We see each other for what we are: great democracies, global powers, and really good friends.” Regional and international issues are likely to dominate the discussions, particularly the tense India-China standoff in Ladakh. Key to this would be the development of the Quad. On the bilateral front, the two sides will concentrate on energy, health, space, innovation and technology cooperation. Both sides are exploring greater exchanges among parliamentarians with US Congressmen and Senators. A briefing from the US state department said the recent Quad foreign ministers “demonstrated the strong cooperative ties among Indo-Pacific democracies interested in strengthening a rules-based order in which all nations are sovereign, strong, and prosperous. The Quad has proven to be an effective multilateral mechanism, helping to create resilient supply chains, promote transparency, counter disinformation, and increase maritime security.” It gives a sense of the direction the US wants to take the grouping. Of course, these are the last weeks of the Trump administration and it’s not yet clear what the new US administration would prioritise. In a recent briefing, US official Dean Thompson laid out the agenda for the 2+2 meeting. He said. “The 2+2 discussions will focus on global cooperation, on pandemic response, and challenges in the Indo-Pacific: economic space and energy collaboration, people-to-people ties, and defence and security cooperation. In all of his meetings, the secretary will look for opportunities to expand the US-India partnership in support of our mutual interests during these challenging times.” The focus of the discussions, though, would be on defence and security. India’s signing the last foundational agreement, BECA, would seal the interoperability between the two forces. That would have been closely watched in many countries. The state department also said, “The United States welcomes Australia joining the Malabar naval exercise alongside India and Japan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-22-s-jaishankar-and-mike-pompeo-discuss-stability-and-security-in-asia/articleshow/78882360.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||BJP fields Naresh Bansal for Uttarakhand Rajya Sabha seat||DEHRADUN: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday announced the candidature of senior state leader Naresh Bansal for the Rajya Sabha seat from Uttarakhand. Bansal currently holds a cabinet rank as the vice-chairman of the state-level 20-point programme implementation committee. The election of Bansal, who has held important party positions like state president (interim) and state general secretary, to the Rajya Sabha is almost certain as the saffron party holds 57 out of 70 assembly seats in the state. Speaking on Naresh Bansal’s journey in the party, BJP spokesperson Devendra Bhasin told TOI that he had quit a bank job just so he could actively participate in the party activities. “He is not just a part of the BJP but was also associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) during his early years. He left a bank job at a young age just to actively contribute to the growth of the party. He has held positions like state organisational general secretary, state general secretary, and he was also made interim state president when former president of BJP and current MP from Haldwani, Ajay Bhatt, was busy campaigning for Lok Sabha polls in 2019,” added Bhasin. Notably, the last date for filing nominations for the Rajya Sabha is October 27 (Tuesday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-fields-naresh-bansal-for-ukhand-rajya-sabha-seat/articleshow/78878775.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Junior doctors at Haldwani Medical College on indefinite strike for full salary||DEHRADUN: As many as 60 junior resident (JR) doctors at Haldwani Medical College have gone on an indefinite strike to push their demand for payment of “full salaries”. The JRs — already the employees of Uttarakhand government — are pursuing a postgraduate degree on an education leave. These doctors are getting half the salary amount they were getting while serving in the government hospitals. Most of the doctors on strike are sole earners of their families. Some among them have taken education and home loans and are paying hefty EMIs for the same. Manish Kumar, who is doing MD Pathology in Haldwani Medical College, told TOI that he completed his MBBS in 2015 and immediately joined service at the government hospital in Tehri. He also served for over a year in the tough terrain of Kedarnath. “I have three years of work experience with the state government. Subsequently, I took three years’ leave to pursue post graduation. Earlier, I was drawing a salary of Rs 85,000. So, I took a home loan at an EMI of Rs 39,000 per month. During the pandemic, I have even worked 24 hours a day in this medical college at just half the salary. I am the only earning member of my family,” said Kumar. He added that he is hardly left with a couple of thousand rupees to manage the expenses of his home and studies. “I have been in Haldwani since May, 2019, and since then, I have been borrowing money from my relatives so as to send some amount to my home every month. My family is hopeful that I will pay off these loans when I complete my studies,” added Kumar. Mohit Singh, a provincial medical service (PMS) doctor currently pursuing MS in surgery in Haldwani Medical College, is also going through the same ordeal. “I have served in a state government hospital in Almora from 2014 to 2018 and then started pursuing MS here in Haldwani. Even after having an experience of four years, I am drawing a salary of just Rs 35,000-40,000 per month. The worst part is that our counterparts, who are not PMS doctors and pursuing direct post graduation from here, get almost double of what we get,” he said. The agitating doctors have claimed that the chief minister, in January this year, had made a public announcement that even PMS doctors will get full salary but nothing happened after the announcement. “The declaration remained confined to papers,” said Dr Asha Rawat, who is pursuing MS ophthalmology. She added that the JRs have also worked like other doctors in the hospital during the pandemic. The strike call was put off thrice in the last one year only after assurance from the principal. “Around 58 doctors are on a strike currently. We are trying to speak to them and will also pass on their message to the government,” said Dr CP Bhaisoda, principal of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/junior-docs-at-haldwani-medical-college-on-indefinite-strike-for-full-salary/articleshow/78878803.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Amar, Akbar, Anthony lose their ‘father’||MANGALURU: Pilikula Biological Park lost its star attraction – Vikram – a 21-year-old Royal Bengal tiger to age related illness on Vijayadasami day. Vikram was among the first lot of big cats to arrive at this park managed by Dr Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama from the Tyavarekoppa Lion and Tiger Safari in Shivamogga in 2003 as a four-year-old cub then. In its death, it had outlived the average life expectancy for tigers in captivity. H Jayaprakash Bhandary, director of the Park, told TOI that while tigers on an average live for 16 to 18-years, Vikram, the third tiger to die at the park lived for 21-years. Raja. 20 and Sharavathi, 22, other two big cats to pre-decease Vikram also lived for two-decades and more. All three tigers succumbed to age-related illness. The loss of Vikram is painful in that it was among the most visible and spotted Tiger in the enclosure, Bhandary said. Vikram ‘fathered’ Kadamba, Krishna, Vinaya, Oliver, Akshaya, Manju, Amar, Akar, Anthony and Nisha in its life-span. These cubs, all as sturdy and big as Vikram have found new homes in biological parks across India - in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and even nearby Mysuru zoo. “It was sad to see this big cat struggle with age related illness including poor eyesight, loss of appetite and even failed kidney,” the director said. Confined to the treatment room for the past two months, Vikram was under treatment with drips and supplements given. “It stopped eating food in the past seven days, and this is when the park staff sensed its end,” the director said. Post mortem revealed failure of the kidney for which it was being treated. The tiger was cremated and tissue samples sent to Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals, Bengaluru as per Central Zoo Authority norms. The mortality of tigers at the Pilikula Biological Park is the least across various other biological parks in India, he said. In the wild and in their natural enviroment, tigers usually live up to 15 years, Bhandary noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/amar-akbar-anthony-lose-their-father/articleshow/78879331.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit jail superintendent, 36, dies of cardiac arrest||PILIBHIT: Anoop Manav Shastri, superintendent of Pilibhit district jail, died of a cardiac arrest hours after he was taken ill at a friend's party here on Sunday night. He was rushed to a local private hospital, where he was referred to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. But before he could reach there, he collapsed. Shastri was 36. He is survived by his wife and a daughter. A science post-graduate hailing from Etawah district, Shastri joined as a trainee jail superintendent at Lucknow-based Sampurnanad jail training institute on September 15, 2012. He served as jail superintendent in Lalitpur and Etah districts before joining Pilibhit district jail in June, 2016. A self-proclaimed environmentalist, Shastri penned a song, “Chidiyon Ki Duayein” (prayers of birds)' that was released on YouTube in May this year. “Shastri was a source of inspiration for the prisoners, prompting them to project their hidden skills in the form of painting, poetry writing, stitching and manufacturing of artistic articles which were sold,” said Vikarm Singh Yadav, deputy jailor at Pilibhit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-jail-superintendent-36-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/78875797.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||In Dehradun, encroachers return days after they are removed in drives||DEHRANDUN: The ongoing anti-encroachment drive in the city has put the spotlight on a perennial problem. Ever since Uttarakhand was formed in 2000, the state capital has grappled with rampant encroachment of public spaces. Although anti-encroachment drives have been conducted sporadically by the administration, it is only after the intervention of courts that comprehensive action has begun to evict squatters. In 2014, the HC had asked for a comprehensive report to be prepared on the state of encroachments in the city, followed by the June 2018 division bench order to remove all encroachments. That order is still being implemented till this day, through drives like the current one. However, there is a history of encroachments returning to various parts of the city soon after a drive is over. There are some spots in the city where encroachment is rampant, including the stretch between Clock tower and Prabhat cinema, Chakrata road to Delhi highway, Saharanpur road, Prem Nagar and markets like Paltan Bazaar and Karanpur road. In the 2018 order, the high court had listed over a thousand unauthorised khokas (temporary shops) that have, over the years, mushroomed around Darshanlal Chowk, Dispensary Road, Hanuman Chowk and near Prabhat cinema, which encroach upon footpaths, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road. Following the high court’s direction, agencies like Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) and Dehradun Municipal Corporation had identified unauthorised khokas and removed them twice, but they returned after a few days. During the current drive, shops operating under temporary sheds have been removed once again. Roads cutting through busy market areas like Karanpur and Paltan Bazaar, which were originally 30ft-wide but had been reduced to barely 10ft of open space, have once again been cleared. The relocation of Arhat Bazaar to Transport Nagar to facilitate the work to widen the road, has been pending for long. One of the city’s major bottlenecks, it increases travel time between Clock Tower and Saharanpur Chowk. In 2013, city-based journalist Manmohan Lakhera had filed a PIL in Uttarakhand high court that led to three anti-encroachment drives. Talking to TOI, he said “Initially, my PIL was about encroachment of footpaths by street vendors and shop owners. However, the high court has now also taken action on encroachment along rivers and on residential areas that have been converted to commercial complexes.” During the investment summit held in Dehradun in 2018, investors had also raised their concern over encroached roads that prevent smooth traffic movement. “About two decades ago, the city had a number of roads on which horse carts were used. Since then, the population has grown rapidly, increasing load on city roads,” added Lakhera. Officials said the current anti-encroachment drive, which has already removed over 1,300 encroachments, is in its final phase. The remaining ones, which have obtained stay orders, will also be removed as per further guidelines. When asked how they plan to continue, a spokesperson of the anti-encroachment task force said they will levy stringent penalties on those found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-doon-encroachers-return-days-after-they-are-removed-in-drives/articleshow/78878808.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Frame rules for Clinical Establishments Act: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday asked the state government to see that rules are formulated soon for the Clinical Establishment (Registration and regulation) Act, 2010 (CEA) so that fire tragedies like the one that occurred in the Shrey Hospital can be averted. During the hearing of the PIL demanding action in the Shrey Hospital fire incident, Justice J B Pardiwala told the advocate general, “The Clinical Establishment Act was enacted ten years ago. Please ensure that the proper implementation of the law takes place by framing appropriate rules at the earliest.” The government’s top law officer ensured the HC that the government will ensure all that is needed. Gujarat and Goa were the only two states that were yet to implement the central act for nearly a decade. What health authorities point out is that even while CEA was enacted by the central government across all states in 2012, that same year , Gujarat, adopted the Gujarat Regularization of Unauthorized Development Rules 2012 (GRUDA) and kept regularising illegal and unsafe hospital structures and constructions till early 2018, according to sources in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation estate department. “GRUDA should have been avoided for hospitals and many existing hospital structures would have been safe under CEA,” said a senior health official. The issue arose after a relative of one of the victims of the fire tragedy joined the proceeding and his advocate Yogesh Ravani submitted that the relatives wants to assist the court so that specific rules are framed for proper functioning of the hospital buildings. On demands made by petitioner advocate Amit Panchal about proper implementation of the fire safety laws by ensuring adequate human resources for firefighting, the advocate general told the high court, “The government is ready to walk the extra mile and it will face the hard reality. It will not run away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frame-rules-for-clinical-establishments-act-hc/articleshow/78880203.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||Toddler becomes victim of father’s affair, both murdered||VADODARA: A two-year-old child from Shehra taluka in Panchmahal district became a victim of an extra-marital affair of his father. The man and the child were killed by the family members of the father’s paramour. Chirag Machhi (28), a resident of Vallavpur in Shehra taluka of Panchmahal district, was missing since October 20 along with his two-year-old son Prince. The family approached the Shehra police and registered a missing persons’ report. While searching for Chirag and his son, their relatives found Chirag’s motorcycle in the Morva village. A shopkeeper informed the family that Fulchand Pagi and some other persons had taken Chirag and his son away in a van. The information was relayed to the police that began investigating the lead. Fulchand and his son Shailesh were also missing. It came to light during the investigations that Chirag, who was already married and had two children including Prince, was having an affair with Fulchand’s daughter. Chirag used to work in Ahmedabad and the Fulchand’s daughter had gone to him. The probe also revealed that Fulchand, Shailesh, Jagdish Parmar and Dharmendra Talar had beaten up Chirag and threw him in a Narmada canal. The body was found on Friday and an autopsy was conducted on it. On being questioned, the accused revealed that after beating up Chirag mercilessly and throwing him in the canal, they took Prince with them. They have claimed that they threw the child in the Mahi River located near the canal. Despite concerted efforts, the body of the boy could not be located. The police has now sought the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to locate the body. The child’s body could not be located till Monday late evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/toddler-becomes-victim-of-fathers-affair-both-murdered/articleshow/78877766.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Trivendra Singh Rawat to review performance of ministers, departments from October 29||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will review the performance of all eight cabinet ministers and their departments starting from October 29. In a letter dated October 26 that was addressed to all state bureaucrats — including additional chief secretaries (ACS), principal secretaries, and secretaries — Radha Raturi, the ACS to chief minister, mentioned that all the officers concerned have to be present in the meeting hall at the CM residence at the stipulated time on the given date. All the state officers have been directed by Raturi to forward their representations and reports on the outcome and performance in Central-aided schemes, state projects, and proposed future plans, at least three days before the set date for the respective departments. The first review on October 29 would be of the portfolios held by Madan Kaushik. The most prominent portfolio held by Kaushik include the urban development ministry. The departments held by minister Subodh Uniyal would undergo a review on November 2 and the review of portfolios under Arvind Pandey would be done on November 3. This would be followed by the review of portfolios held by Harak Singh Rawat on November 4, held by Satpal Maharaj on November 5, held by Rekha Arya on November 11, held by Dhan Singh Rawat on November 12, and held by Yashpal Arya on November 18. Meanwhile, the cabinet meet, which was earlier scheduled for October 28, has now been postponed to November 4. Some important decisions related to farmers, pregnant women, and new-born children were to be taken in the cabinet meeting, which has now been scheduled on coming Wednesday. For farmers, the state government aims to clear the Kisan Yojana to provide interest free loan to six lakh farmers across Uttarakhand. The state is also to give nod to Saubhagyawati Yojana for expectant women and new-born children under which nutritious food and clothes are to be given to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-review-performance-of-ministers-depts-from-oct-29/articleshow/78878829.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Action taken against 18 cops over illegal mining in Udham Singh Nagar||RUDRAPUR: Udham Singh Nagar’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) suspended the whole staff of Bannakhera police outpost and also sent eight cops of Majhola police outpost to police lines after it was found that illegal mining of river sand was rampant in their jurisdictions. The cops who faced action include in-charges of both the police outposts. The order was issued on Sunday night by SSP Daleep Singh Kunwar. SSP Kunwar said that the action was taken as these cops failed to curb illegal mining. "This is sheer dereliction of duty. The illegal mining went unnoticed by the police personnel. There were complaints and the situation was not monitored. After it was established that illegal mining was ongoing in these areas despite no issuance of mining lease, the cops were punished," SSP said. The order says that the Bannakhera outpost incharge, Satyendra Butola, and nine other constables posted there are being suspended as it was found that they took no legal action against illegal miners. Their roles were dubious and malign. On similar lines, the Majhola outpost incharge, Devendra Rajput, along with seven other cops, was sent packing to police lines at the district headquarters after accusations of neglecting illegal mining were levelled against them. Meanwhile, sub-inspectors Anil Joshi and Jagat Singh Shahi were appointed as the new incharges of Bannakhera and Majhola police outposts, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/action-taken-against-18-cops-over-illegal-mining-in-us-nagar/articleshow/78878832.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire NOC checking drive soon, govt tells Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: A major checking drive for fire safety equipment is expected in the city's highrises in near future as the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Monday told the Gujarat high court it would ensure that nearly 70% of city buildings get fire NOCs soon. The issue of vacant posts, and buildings without fire NOCs, was raised by the petitioner during the hearing of a PIL filed by petitioner advocate Amit Panchal. From the government’s action taken report, he pointed out that as many as 18,912 buildings out of total 27,322 buildings in Ahmedabad do not have valid fire NOC. He also submitted that the situation has become worse with the festival of Diwali falling a few days later. After hearing this, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala told the government that this is really a disturbing feature. To this, advocate general Kamal Trivedi submitted that the government has decided to act in this direction and the court may keep the PIL pending for a few more days so that the authorities get time to act and report it to the court. Justice Pardiwala pointed out to the advocate general that all the municipalities come to the government with begging hands because finance is a problem. The HC told the government to give a push to the issue which has been coming up before the high court time and again for more than two decades. The high court adjourned the hearing for over a month and sought another action taken report from the government authorities to improve material infrastructure and human resource to deal with the fire safety issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-noc-checking-drive-soon-govt-tells-high-court/articleshow/78880201.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 death toll crosses 1,000-mark in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The toll of Covid-19 infection crossed the 1,000-mark in Uttarakhand with eight new fatalities reported in the state on Monday. The toll now stands at 1,001. With this, the death rate in the state has increased to 1.6%, higher than the national average of 1.5%. Among the eight deaths reported on the day, six were recorded in Dehradun, and one each in Haldwani and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, told TOI that 368 fresh infections of Covid-19 reported on Monday took the state’s total case tally to 60,744. A total of 700 people recovered on Monday, taking total recoveries to 55,188. “The maximum of 97 Covid-19 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 47 from Tehri, 45 from Nainital, 42 from Haridwar, 22 from Udham Singh Nagar, 20 from Chamoli, 19 each from Pauri and Pithoragarh, 18 from Rudraprayag, 13 from Bageshwar, 10 from Uttarkashi, nine from Champawat, and seven from Almora,” added Tripathi. Meanwhile, the Kotdwar administration sealed the building of Shakumbari Automobiles Private Limited after three employees of the firm tested positive for Covid-19. The establishment will now open on October 29 after sanitisation. Also, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh started OPD services of all the departments on Monday. The OPDs of institutions were closed after it was declared as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in March, this year. “OPDs of some departments were started earlier. Now, the institution will run all the OPDs,” said Harish Thapliyal, PRO, AIIMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-toll-crosses-1000-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/78878852.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar to get six new veterinary hospitals||ROORKEE: The animal husbandry department is likely to open six veterinary hospitals in different blocks of Haridwar district. All these hospitals would be of Grade-II category. The veterinary health officials have said that they have already prepared a proposal in this connection. According to the proposal, out of the six new veterinary hospitals, two will be built in the Roorkee block, and one each in Bhagwanpur, Laksar, and Narsan blocks. Besides, a livestock service centre of Daulatpur village in Roorkee block would be upgraded to a Class-D dispensary. “We have sent a proposal to our directorate for opening up of the new veterinary hospitals after surveying different pockets of the district,” said Dr Yogesh Bhardwaj, chief veterinary officer, Haridwar. At present, there are 17 vet hospitals, including nine of Grade-I category, across the district. These facilities cater to more than four lakh bovines in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-to-get-six-new-vet-hosps/articleshow/78878844.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: No clearance for road through tiger reserves||DEHRADUN: The National Board for Wildlife has rejected Uttarakhand government’s request to modify conditions imposed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to allow construction of a motorable road that passes through the buffer zone of Rajaji Tiger Reserve as well as the only wildlife corridor it shares with Corbett Tiger Reserve. The fresh proposal by the state had suggested tweaks to the NTCA recommendations, seeking permission to reduce the suggested height and length of the underpass meant for smooth movement of wild animals. The NTCA had approved the 11.5km Laldhang-Chillarkhal road in April with three riders — the state should get forest clearance from the environment ministry, the length of the underpass should be 705m, and the height of the underpass should be 8m. In May, the state forest department suggested modifications to the project, including reducing the length of the underpass to 470m and its height to 5m. The department also argued that it did not require forest clearance as per the Forest Conservation Act guidelines since a kuccha road existed prior to 1980 and it was only being turned into a motorable road. Last week, the wildlife board rejected the modifications citing “high density of wildlife” in the area. It also said it would seek views of the forest conservation division on the applicability of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Chief wildlife warden J S Suhag told TOI that the state would move the proposal again for reconsideration. “Our argument is that if construction of national highways and roads through national parks and tiger reserves is being permitted in other states, why should riders be imposed only on Uttarakhand?” The road will minimise travel time between Garhwal and Kumaon divisions and is therefore being pushed by the state government as “a critical road for the people of the area.” But the stretch where the road is proposed includes the 4.5km-long Chamaria bend, which is the only wildlife corridor that connects Rajaji with Corbett. The Supreme Court had also intervened in the matter and road construction was put on hold in June 2019. The state government was asked to get clearance from NTCA and the wildlife board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-fresh-proposal-for-road-that-cuts-through-lone-rajaji-corbett-wildlife-corridor-fails-to-get-wildlife-board-nod/articleshow/78877773.cms||Shivani Azad
October 27, 2020||Mysuru||Pond built by Krishnadevaraya being rejuvenated in Mandya||MANDYA: A historical monument — believed to be a kalyani (holy pond) built during Krishnadeveraya’s period — is being rejuvenated under Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) at Kirangur village, on the outskirts of fort town Srirangapatna. The Kirangur gram panchayat has taken up rejuvenation works of the holy pond under preservation of natural water resources scheme. According to local officers, the kalyani, which was in dilapidated condition, is being rebuilt with the help of archaeological experts at a cost of Rs 3 lakh. According to officers of state archaeological experts, the kalyani is said to have been built by Krishnadevaraya of Vijayanagar dynasty more than 400 years ago. “When we decided to rejuvenate this ‘kalyani’ little did we know about its history. When we consulted the state archaeological officers, they told us that it was an archaeological site and they offered their help to rejuvenate it,” said Prasanth Babu, PDO of gram panchayat. The silt has been removed from 20-ft deep pond and its wall has been restored without harming its original structure with the help of archaeological experts, said Babu. District in-charge minister K C Narayanagowda, who became curious about rejuvenation of the holy pond of Vijayanagar dynasty, visited the site a week ago and instructed the district administration to develop the place as a tourist spot by constructing a park and providing other amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pond-built-by-krishnadevaraya-being-rejuvenated-in-mandya/articleshow/78879014.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||230kg corals for illegal sale seized in Vadodara||VADODARA: In a first, the forest department has arrested a man for selling coral illegally in the state. Ashutosh Gaekwad, a resident of Waghodia Road, was caught red-handed by the forest officials when he tried to sell the coral. He is now in judicial custody. According to forest officials, they had received information about the illegal coral business from a wildlife organisation some days ago. “We then sent in a decoy customer who contacted Gaekwad. The customer demanded Rs 1,000 kg of coral but Gaekwad said that he only had 200 kg, so a deal was struck and Gaekwad met our decoy customer on October 22 in Harni area,” said Vinod Kumar Damor, assistant conservator of forest (ACF), Vadodara. The forest officials nabbed Gaekwad and seized 200 kg of coral from him. They later raided his house and seized another 30 kilograms of coral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/230kg-corals-for-illegal-sale-seized-in-city/articleshow/78877921.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada to have 100 Jan Aushadi Kendras by end of this fiscal: MP Nalin Kumar Kateel||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district is gradually inching towards its avowed objective of opening 100 new Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Kendra (PMBJK). Licensed out by the Bureau of Pharma Public Sector Undertakings of India (BPPI), these Jan Aushadhi Kendras will provide generic drugs to people at near nominal cost thereby paring the household healthcare bill by nearly 70-80%, including for a few critical lifesaving drugs. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel who inaugurated one such kendra opposite Urwa market, also his ward under Mangaluru City Corporation limits here on Sunday, told TOI that but for the pandemic, the district would have reached the above target. As on date, there are 67 such Kendra’s functioning in the district, including 20-odd in the city corporation limits and the rest will be made functional soon. Providing health care facilities including lifesaving medicines at a price that the common man can afford is integral to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision. This is one of the reasons that the government has capped the price of stents, cost of knee replacement surgery and introduced Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. The kendras will form an integral part of this vision by providing lifesaving drugs at affordable rates, the MP said. Each such kendra opened is a tribute to H N Ananth Kumar, Nalin said recalling the former minister’s contribution to conceptualising their roll out pan India. “It is our fortune that his successor D V Sadananda Gowda has taken forward this task across the country under which there will be one such kendra in each of the 630-odd districts,” he said, adding DK will reach its target of 100 Kendras by end of this fiscal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-to-have-100-jan-aushadi-kendras-by-end-of-this-fiscal-mp/articleshow/78879220.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 27, 2020||Hubballi||Guest lecturers demand Rs 50,000 salary per month||DHARWAD: Guest lecturers serving in various colleges affiliated to the Karnatak University, met deputy chief minister C Ashwath Narayan, who also holds higher education portfolio, on Saturday and submitted a charter of demands. The guest lecturers stated that there are more than 300 teaching posts vacant in the Karnatak University and while recruiting permanent faculty, guest lecturers should be given priority. Guest lecturers are serving since the past 10 to 12 years but they are being paid meagre salary. It has become impossible to manage the families and hence, considering their service, the guest faculty should be given Rs 50,000 salary per month for all the 12 months of the year, the memorandum said. Some of the guest lecturers are of assistant professors on adhoc or temporary basis and they are eligible for associate professor’s post. Hence, they should be appointed as associate professors. PF facility should be extended to the guest faculty too, the memorandum stated. Responding to this, Ashwath Narayan said that he would consider the legitimate demands of the guest faculty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/guest-lecturers-demand-rs-50k-salary-per-month/articleshow/78879425.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun Municipal Corporation banking on house tax to meet revenue target||DEHRADUN: Struggling with low revenue collection due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the current financial year, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation has decided to accelerate the pace of collecting house tax. The municipal corporation would hold camps in different wards to issue house tax bills and also facilitate collection. To improve collection, the municipal body has decided to issue bills to every eligible commercial establishment and residential household. Officials believe that the ‘camp’ approach is in the interest of both the people and also the municipal body. “Camps will save the people from unnecessary movement to the municipal office while speeding up tax collection for us,” said a DMC official. It must be noted that house tax collection is an important source of the earning for any municipal body. However, while the collection of the DMC declined during the Covid-19 pandemic, the overall expenditure on sanitisation activities have gone up. “Tax inspectors are on the job. A ward-wise list of recipients is being prepared and the bills will be dispatched very soon,” said municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey. He added, “If not for the pandemic, we would have collected at least 50% of the house tax amount targeted for this year by now.” According to DMC officials, the target for collection of house tax for 2020-21 was Rs 50 crore. Of this, only about Rs 9-10 crore has been realised so far. Meanwhile, Pandey has assured that adequate arrangements to ensure Covid-19 prevention will be followed at the camps. The corporation has also appealed to the people of the city to come forward and fulfill their duty as a citizen in public interest. Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama hopes that with economic activity resuming in wake of the festive season, people will come forward to fulfill their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-focus-on-house-tax-collection-to-meet-revenue-target-set-for-fy-2020-21/articleshow/78878868.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 30L farmers in M’wada affected by excess rainfall||Aurangabad: As many as 30,09,766 farmers from across the eight districts of Marathwada have been affected due to the recent bouts of heavy rainfall, said an official on Monday. As per official data, crops on over 23 lakh hectare were at the receiving end of the heavy rainfall — accounting for close to half of the total area under Kharif sowing. Authorities said over 70% panchanamas of affected farms have been completed and necessary help would be doled out to farmers before Diwali. “Farmers from all the eight districts of Marathwada have claimed damage to their crops due to incessant showers. The process of assessing crop damage is in progress and expected to complete soon. The compensation towards crop damage will be given to farmers once Panchnamams are over as per laid down norms of the Centre and the state,” a senior divisional commissionerate official said. At 7.19 lakh, Nanded district has the highest number of affected farmers followed by Jalna (5.49 lakh), Aurangabad (4.09 lakh), Beed (3.42 lakh), Hingoli (3.04 lakh), Latur (2.76 lakh), Parbhani (2.23 lakh) and Osmanabad (1.85 lakh). Notably, the timely arrival and good initiation of monsoon-related rainfall during the rainy season this year had caused sowing under Kharif season in Marathwada. The region, which is known as one of the prominent belts in the state for cultivation of oilseeds and other Kharif crops, has estimated to have an average 48 lakh hectare area under cultivation from Aurangabad and Latur agricultural division. Farmer leader Jayaji Suryawanshi said the government should offer immediate compensation to the farmers affected due to heavy rainfall. “Even if the state government has announced Rs 10,000 crore relief package to compensate the damage caused by rain and floods in Maharashtra, we doubt how much help would reach to the farmers from Marathwada. Going by the large number of affected farmers from the region, the help announced by the government sounds inadequate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-30l-farmers-in-mwada-affected-by-excess-rainfall/articleshow/78877802.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Congress ZP candidate to withdraw if BJP scraps Bainguinim plant||PANAJI: Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s opposition to the Bainguinim solid waste treatment plant is yet another ploy to confuse voters ahead of the coming elections, said Congress on Monday. The party said their Corlim ZP candidate Vishal Volvoikar will withdraw from the elections if the state government scraps the Bainguinim plant before the Zilla Panchayat elections. Congress also said that the plant will be another avenue for corruption for BJP and the plant would be inefficient in processing waste generated in Goa. “I challenge Shripad Naik to walk the talk and compel chief minister Pramod Sawant to scrap the project before the ZP elections,” Volvoikar said. Several residents of Bainguinim, Kadamba Plateau, Old Goa, Santa Cruz, Merces and Chimbel have opposed the garbage treatment plant. “If Shripad Naik gets the project scrapped, my commitment to my voters will get fulfilled. I will immediately withdraw my candidature from the ZP elections,” Volvoikar said in the presence of state Congres general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, Santa Cruz strongman Rudolf Fernandes and St Andre block president Tony Fernandes. Fernandes said the solid waste treatment plant at Saligao has failed and is giving locals problems due to the stench and dumped garbage accumulating in the compound, a trend that will be repeated at Bainguinim. The Union minister recently said that Bainguinim is not the right location for the garbage treatment plant and has appealed to the state government to shift the location. Calling Naik’s appeal “jhumla”, Congress said that Naik did not participate in any agitation against the Baiguinim plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-zp-candidate-to-withdraw-if-bjp-scraps-bainguinim-plant/articleshow/78881537.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid norms flouted, Nanded gurdwara trustees booked||Aurangabad: The Nanded police have booked around 250 to 300 people, including the president and trustees of the gurdwara, for allegedly flouting the norms related to Covid-19 and the high court directives related to organising celebrations on the occasion of Dasara. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court had on October 23 allowed the Takht Sachkhand Shri Hazur Apchalnagar Sahib Board, Nanded, to celebrate or conduct religious programmes on the occasion of Dasara, albeit in a restricted manner. The court had directed the gurdwara to observe the Covid-19 norms and ensure that all the participants get themselves tested for the contagion. Inspector Sandeep Shiwale of Wazirabad police station in Nanded said on Monday that the Dasara celebrations carried out by the gurdwara had a range of non-compliances. “The high court had given conditional permission to trustees of the gurdwara for arranging Dasara celebrations but all those restrictions were flouted. The court had permitted procession only through trucks but the rallies were taken out on the road,” he told TOI. Shiwale added that the celebrations were allowed only between 4 pm and 5.30 pm, but the stipulated time limit was also not followed. “There was a huge gathering of around 250 to 300 people, which was also against the norm laid down by the judiciary and the district administration,” he said. Shiwale said an offence has been registered against around 250 to 300 individuals, including the president and other trustees of gurudwara board, under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. When contacted, Gurmeet Singh Mahajan, one of the members of the gurdwara board, said the Dasara procession concluded with utmost safety and without causing any harm to the law and order situation in Nanded. “Certain traditional rituals and customs associated with Dasara celebrations could not take place involving trucks. A section of devotees insisted that those be observed in the traditional manner on the streets. The celebrations, otherwise, were by and large in compliance with the norms and directives of the court,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-norms-flouted-nanded-gurdwara-trustees-booked/articleshow/78877822.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Week after floods, new encroachments surface in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Despite rain playing havoc due to illegal structures in water bodies and resulting in urban flooding, encroachments continue unabated in the city. Two new nala encroachments have come to light on Road Number 56, Jubilee Hills. Similarly, a temporary structure and a house was built on the edge of Ashok Nagar nala. Residents rued about a commercial property being built on sluice gate of Peerancheruvu Lake inundating parts of PBEL City. Approach to reduce water exits (nalas) was different in each case. In Jubliee Hills, owners of a commercial property demolished their compound wall and appended a piece of government land. However, width of the drain was not reduced unlike regular encroachments. A commercial establishment was dumping mud on the nala land to convert it into a private green space, while another commercial establishment was using nala land for parking. “With great difficulty and persistent follow up with authorities, we ensured the nalas in our locality are capped. We request the authorities to protect these public properties,” Sangeeta Varma , a resident of Road Number 56, Banjara Hills, said. GHMC officials said they did not receive any complaint. “We did not receive any complaints about encroachments, but the nala will be inspected. Random inspections will also be taken up to check irregularities obstructing free flow of water. Based on the inspection, appropriate action will be taken,” GHMC deputy commissioner, Jubliee Hills circle, Seva Eslavath said. In Manikonda, an eight-feet wide drain has been occupied by squatters. The drain was running along OU Colony, Shaikpet, towards Manikonda. Recently, the width of the drain was reduced. “I request authorities to ensure proper exit channels to drain out water coming from upstream localities and ensure parts of Manikonda are not inundated,” Tanasha Nagar Colony president Sitaramdas told TOI. According to GHMC officials, action against squatters was being taken and an exclusive cell has been launched.“Dozens of encroachments have been razed since assets protection cell was launched in July. People can report encroachments between 10am and 6pm on all working days by calling 1800-599-0099,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director of GHMC enforcement vigilance and disaster management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/week-after-floods-new-encroachments-surface/articleshow/78880209.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Girl gets ‘copy case’ remark on SSC result||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad division of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has finally handed over the SSC result to a girl from Parbhani with a remark of ‘copy case’ on her mark sheet. The board had kept her result pending as the graph paper with her Mathematics answer sheet was torn. The girl, Rabi Uss Sehar Shaikh, has scored an average of 90 marks in five other subjects and has been promoted through ‘allowed to keep term’. Her father, Maroof Shaikh, on Monday accused the education board of causing gross injustice towards his daughter. “The subject of Mathematics consisted of independent paper for Algebra and Geometry of 40 mark each and 20 marks for practical. Even if my daughter was given zero mark due to torn graph paper for Algebra, she was confident of passing in Geometry alone. The State board, however, cancelled her performance in the whole subject and referred it as the copy case,” he said. The girl’s family has claimed that the graph paper was torn due to excess travel of mark-sheets this year due to Covid-19 and not due his daughter’s fault. Shaikh said that the invigilator and exam centre chief had made statements in favour of his daughter “It highlighted that the answer sheet and graph paper was intact when my daughter handed over after examination. Despite this, the state board termed it as a copy case. We are left with no option but to knock the doors of the judiciary to get justice for my daughter, who is highly traumatised due to whole chain of events,” he said. Acting president of MSBSHE, Aurangabad division, Sugata Punne said any incident of tearing of an answer sheet or part of it amounts to exam malpractice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/girl-gets-copy-case-remark-on-ssc-result/articleshow/78877849.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Breathlessness and blood clotting are major post-recovery worries||BENGALURU: With cases ebbing, doctors are now confronted with complications like breathlessness and clotting among recovered patients. Several experts TOI spoke with said patients, especially above 45 years and who have recovered from moderate to severe infection, face these complications. Dr CN Manjunath, director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and member of the state’s Covid task force, says 5-6% patients develop clots in arteries, brain and legs. People also complain of fatigue, stress and diabetes, he said. Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, senior pulmonologist from Manipal Hospitals and member of state Covid task force, says lung fibrosis is another complication. “The lungs take a long time to recover from the damage. People who recover could suffer breathlessness,” he said. Dr Sujay Prasad, medical director, Neuberg Diagnostics, says they too have seen patients with clotting issues. “In some cases, we found clotting in the brain, but these complications don’t immediately manifest which makes it a challenge to identify or prevent.” Dr Ravindra M Mehta, senior consultant and HOD, pulmonology, Apollo Specialty Hospitals, says he has also seen a return of familiar symptoms such as fever, fatigue and breathlessness, as well as more severe sequelae including impairment of renal and cardiovascular function, ongoing hypercoagulability, myalgia, depression, and other persistent physical and psychological effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/breathlessness-and-blood-clotting-are-major-post-recovery-worries/articleshow/78878893.cms||Kiran Parashar
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||NGO introduces a handbook||Aurangabad: Udaan, a city-based NGO for children with Type 1 diabetes, has introduced a handbook for the target beneficiaries listing out simple do’s and don’ts for self-care among other information. Titled as ‘D se diabetes’, the handbook carries simple graphics for children . It was launched by state health minister Rajesh Tope. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ngo-introduces-a-handbook/articleshow/78877866.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||...but four-decade-old infra may create hurdles||HYDERABAD: If the government decides to go ahead with daily water supply plan, a tough challenge awaits the HMWS&SB. The reason: The Water Board does not have the resources like service reservoirs and water supply lines to meet the daily water supply to consumers. As per the Water Board’s projection, 602 MGD was supposed to be supplied, but only 480 MGD was supplied till this summer. With reservoirs brimming with water, the authorities are supplying 513 MGD in the last two weeks. All the existing 160 service reservoirs, which cater to the water needs of the city, were built four decades ago. The Water Board is yet to enhance its capacity by constructing new service reservoirs or rebuilding the existing reservoirs. Some service reservoirs are on the verge of collapse. The board build new reservoirs after jurisdiction of areas beyond ORR and GHMC periphery was expanded. “A proposal on extending Rs 1,200 crore assistance to develop the infrastructure has been pending with the government,” HMWS&SB sources said. “Replacing the 1,200-km water supply network at a cost of Rs 3,000 crore is another solution,” said a HMWS&SB technical official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/-but-four-decade-old-infra-may-create-hurdles/articleshow/78880215.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||PSI Shweta Jadeja gets conditional bail||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday granted conditional bail to PSI Shweta Jadeja in connection with bribery charges invoked against her and her brother-in-law. Jadeja was behind bars after her arrest in the first week of July. She moved the high court after crime branch SOG filed a chargesheet against her and her brother-in-law Devendra Odedara, for accepting Rs 35 lakh as a bribe from two brothers in return for sparing one of them from action under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA). On September 11, additional sessions judge S H Patel rejected her plea for regular bail and said the accused was working in the police for the last four years and the way she allegedly committed the offence with the help of her brother-in-law reflects her criminal mentality. After filing of the chargesheet, Justice A P Thaker ordered the release of Jadeja on regular bail on executing a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and furnishing two sureties of an equal amount. She has been asked to surrender her passport, her advocate Virat Popat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-shweta-jadeja-gets-conditional-bail/articleshow/78880224.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Board looks at feasibility of 24/7 water supply...||HYDERABAD: Will the dream of 24x7 water supply to the city, be a reality or just a mirage? Water levels in all drinking water sources of the city have reached full tank levels (FTL) and it is a boon to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), which has, over the years, been struggling to meet the needs of the city. Though officials are not openly speaking on the decision to switch over to daily water supply, they have started assessing the feasibility of it. If all calculations are fulfilled, the state government may likely announce a daily water supply as a sop for the ensuing GHMC elections. “It all depends on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. As he is also the chairman of HMWS&SB, he will have to take a final decision,” sources in HMWS&SB told TOI. All drinking sources like Godavari, Krishna, Manjira/Singur, Osmansagar and Himayathsagar are brimming to full capacity and can easily meet the needs of the city for a couple of summer seasons, said sources. The water board is supposed to supply 602 million gallons per day (MGD) of potable water from all sources but has restricted itself to 513 MGD only and supplies water on alternate days. According to records, nearly 10 lakh consumers are getting potable water and the water board is earning Rs 80 to 100 crore. However, the board is losing nearly Rs 30 crore due to illegal water connections. “We are sure that the fund-starved water board will increase its revenue after we switch over to daily supply,” a senior HMWS&SB revenue wing official admitted. If the state wants to provide daily water supply to the city and Greater Hyderabad periphery, the board is ready to make the arrangements, said the water board source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/board-looks-at-feasibility-of-24/7-water-supply-/articleshow/78880214.cms||Sunil Mungara
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Ten new govt colleges have no faculty||CHENNAI: Ten new government arts and science colleges that have around 2,000 students enrolled for Year 1 have just one faculty member each. Students of the colleges, which includes two colleges for women, are yet to have online classes while other government colleges began online classes more than a month ago. With universities planning to hold semester exams in December, students fear they may be underprepared. Some universities are also asking the colleges to upload internal assessment marks of first year students. “Without conducting any classes, how can we conduct an assessment and upload marks? Each department needs at least two faculty members to conduct online classes,” a faculty member from one of the colleges said. The new government arts and science colleges were established in Rishivandiyam in Kallakurichi district, Alangulam and Sankarankovil in Tenkasi district, Jayankondam in Ariyalur district, Pulikulam in Coimbatore district, Tharagampadi in Karur district, Vanur in Villupuram district, Srivlliputhur in Virudhunagar district, Kuthalam in Nagapattinam district and Sholingur in Ranipet district. While seven of the colleges were proposed in the assembly in March, the other three were announced last year. After creating 170 faculty members posts, the state government enlisted the colleges for online admissions for 2020-2021 and appointed a faculty in-charge to oversee the admission process. Each college started admissions with five degree programmes. “There was a very good response from students as we were able to fill 75% to 95% seats. But they haven’t been able to attend classes. One or two colleges are trying to tie-up with the government colleges nearby to accommodate students in their online classes,” another faculty member said. A representative of the college teacher association said new appointments would delay things futther. “But the higher education department can transfer faculty members or send them on deputation to these colleges. One faculty in-charge alone cannot run new colleges,” the representative said. Sources in the higher education department said they are taking steps to transfer teaching staff from nearby government colleges to the new colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-new-govt-colleges-have-no-faculty/articleshow/78881545.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Urbanisation, poor vegetation making Hyderabad prone to floods||HYDERABAD: The city is witnessing a downward trend in three important indices revolving around land use, land cover changes and vegetation, all of which are markers for increased urban flooding. Normalized differential vegetation index (NDVI), modified normalized differential water index (MNDWI) and normalized differential built up area index (NDBI) of the city were calculated based on satellite imagery. NDVI measures the amount and vigour of vegetation. The values higher for green spaces. NDVI for sparsely built up area varies between 0.05 to 0.07; and as for the compact built up area, between -0.01 to -0.04 . The city’s values are low owing to excessive concreting and removal of vegetation, due to which drainage flow is affected. MNDWI is a measure for the presence of water bodies, which play a major role in flood water storage and act as flood cushions. There is a considerable reduction of water bodies within a span of four years. Some tanks in the city have disappeared and the contours of many have altered beyond recognition. The spatial extent of urban area is measured using NDBI. The built area is a combination of various urban land uses including residential, commercial and industrial needs. “Higher NDBI values signify greater and higher degree of imperviousness, whereas, lower NDBI values show a relatively less degree of imperviousness. Urban flooding is characterised by higher degree of run off which is due to imperviousness of urban surface,” Dr S Venkateswarlu, who has done detailed research on floods said. It is seen from the MNDWI values of 2009 and 2013 that water spread area has considerably decreased in the city, reducing water holding capacity of wet lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/urbanisation-poor-vegetation-making-hyd-prone-to-floods/articleshow/78880227.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt can’t invoke PASA based on religious sentiments: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has rapped the state government for making religious sentiments the basis for invoking PASA, in a case involving alleged beef transportation and cow slaughter. The court said sentiments of the people do not have legal force. Quashing an order for detention under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) against a person booked twice on allegations of transporting beef, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala observed, “We have noticed something very unusual in the grounds of detention. At various places in the grounds of detention, it has been stated that the activities of the detenue are of such a nature that the religious sentiments of the people at large would get hurt. We may only observe that an order of preventive detention cannot be passed on the basis of the religious sentiments of the people. The sentiments of the people have no legal force.” The case involved one Amjad Rajput, who was booked twice in April 2019 after police intercepted a few people transporting beef, first in the Rakhial police station jurisdiction and then in Amraiwadi. Rajput was booked under the Gujarat Animal Prevention (Amendment) Act, 2011 for allegedly slaughtering cows on basis of statements given by the co-accused. He was granted anticipatory bail in May. The PASA order was passed against him in August 2019 by dubbing him a “cruel person”. The HC said, “This delay, which has not been explained in any manner, could be said to have vitiated the subjective satisfaction arrived at by the detaining authority.” A single judge in the high court rejected Rajput’s petition challenging the detention order. But the division bench was critical of the invocation of PASA against him. The judges observed that the definition of cruel person in law requires him being a habitual one, but there were only two cases registered against Rajput and the allegations do not make him habitual and hence he cannot be called a cruel person. The court further said, “The appellant may be punished for the alleged offences committed by him but, surely, the acts constituting the offences cannot be said to have affected the even tempo of the life of the community much less public order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-cant-invoke-pasa-based-on-religious-sentiments-hc/articleshow/78880218.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto sales pick up pace this Dussehra despite dampeners||HYDERABAD: After having remained in idling mode for a major part of 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the automobile sector finally saw sales shift into a higher gear on Dussehra. “We are seeing fairly good traction and demand for two-wheelers and passenger cars and delivered around 2,500 two-wheelers and 1,000 cars on Dussehra day in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” said Prabhu Kishore, MD, Varun Motors. Pointing out that cars in the Rs 8-15 lakh price bracket clocked better sales, Kishore said overall sales grew 5% in October 2020 as compared to October 2019 and about 20% as compared to the June-September 2020 period. “Overall, we had a fantastic month, in fact one of the best months we have seen after Covid as Dussehra is the biggest festival for south India. We sold around 650 cars in Hyderabad this festive season so far as compared to 550 cars last year,” said Vinay Saboo, chairman & managing director, RKS Motors. However, the floods, supply constraints and finance-related issues punctured expectations of auto sales vrooming this Dussehra. “Luxury car sales dropped in Telangana with nearly 125 vehicles sold this festive season as compared to nearly 175-180 units last year. Small car sales too were muted with rains dampening spirits at the beginning of the festive season,” said Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations of India’s Telangana chairman Yashwant Jhabakh. “Certainly, there is traction but reluctance of private and public sector banks to extend car loans in a majority of cases is leading to people lowering their budgets,” he said. We are seeing fairly good traction and demand for two-wheelers and passenger cars and delivered around 2,500 two-wheelers and 1,000 cars on Dussehra day in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-sales-pick-up-pace-this-dussehra-despite-dampeners/articleshow/78880219.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR warns against rules violation||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has warned that any violation of Covid-19 prevention protocol by passengers during travel would attract action under the Railway Act, 1989. In a travel advisory, the SCR authorities have stated that all festival special trains are going to be reserved trains and no passenger would be allowed entry without a confirmed ticket. Besides the usual norms of compulsory wearing of face mask and maintaining social distance, the railway authorities have clarified that boarding a train after the health check-up team at the railway station has denied it will be an offence. The SCR has stressed that Covid positive people are not allowed to enter railway area or boarding a train and spitting or willful ejection of body fluid/waste in public area is also a punishable offence. Chief public relations officer of SCR, Ch Rakesh, said anyone found not adhering to the Covid-19 prevention protocol is liable to face action under the relevant sections of the Railway Act, 1989. “SCR is operating 1,310 festival special trains. 456 festival special trains are also passing through the zone during the festival season. Due to the increased frequency of the train services, additional safety measures are being implemented at all the railway stations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-warns-against-rules-violation/articleshow/78877874.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC starts live-streaming proceedings on trial basis||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday started live-streaming court proceedings of one bench, on experimental basis, and made proceedings available to the common public on its YouTube channel. The HC asked its administrative side to explore the possibility of achieving the concept of an open courtroom, particularly as courts have been functioning through video conferencing since March, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This has been done in response to a PIL filed by a law student, who asked that court proceedings be made accessible to common people. On experimental basis, the HC has started live streaming of proceedings of the chief justice’s court. The HC has said, “Aspect of continuing with or adapting the modality of live court proceedings will be decided based on the outcome of this trial starting today and any other trial of any other modality that may be taken up in due course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-starts-live-streaming-proceedings-on-trial-basis/articleshow/78880220.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist reports 55 nCov cases, 3 deaths||Kolhapu: The district has reported 55 fresh Covid-19 patients and three deaths due to the infraction on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 47,832. The death toll has risen to 1,633. As many as 105 patients were discharged. With this, the total number of patients recovered rose to 45,092. Kolhapur city reported 14 cases of the fresh cases. This is the lowest cases reported so far in a single day in the past few months. The total number of cases in the city has reached to 14,512. Meanwhile, Kolhapur civic chief Kadambari Balkawade on Monday formed 18 teams, with six civic staff in each team. The teams have been allocated in 18 spots and routes to manage crowd during Diwali. Sangli district reported 223 Covid cases and five deaths. The total number of cases in the district has reached to 44,416, which 2,026 are undergoing treatment and 1,622 have succumbed to infection.  Satara district reported 113 fresh Covid-19 patients and six deaths due to the infection since Sunday late night, taking the total number of cases to 45,373. The death toll has now risen to 1,503. Solapur city reported six fresh Covid-19 cases, which is the lowest number of cases reported in a single day. As many as 10 patients were discharged and not a single death was reported. The city has 9,425 Covid cases, of which,8,466 patients have recovered. Solapur rural reported 107 fresh Covid cases on Monday and 184 patients were discharged. A total of seven patients succumbed to Covid-19. Solapur rural has 29,851 Covid cases, of which 885 patients have died and 26,009 have recovered.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-55-ncov-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/78877893.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Monsoon set to withdraw in a day||HYDERABAD: Southwest monsoon is all set to withdraw from the state by Wednesday, paving way for the onset of northeast monsoon. According to the India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad, southwest monsoon withdrew from most parts of the state on Monday and is likely to withdraw from remaining parts by October 28. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society figures from June 1 till date, the state received 54 per cent excess rainfall by recording 1249 mm of cumulative rainfall as against the normal of 809.9 mm. Of the 31 districts, 25 have received large to large excess rainfall during this monsoon season. Meteorologists forecast that condition are becoming favourable for the onset of northeast monsoon. “The northeast monsoon rains are likely to commence over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining areas of Karnataka and Kerala on October 28,” stated IMD, Hyderabad. The weather systems forming in the Bay of Bengal will no longer track along with the central parts. “The southwest monsoon is likely to end its journey in the next 48 hours and simultaneously hand over the baton to the northeast monsoon,” stated weather report by Skymet, an independent weather forecasting agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/monsoon-set-to-withdraw-in-a-day/articleshow/78880221.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Civic polls: BJP promises UD tax relief for schools that waived fees||JAIPUR: The BJP, which released its manifesto for the municipal elections in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota on Monday, promised that schools which waived fees during the lockdown period would get relief in urban development tax. School fee waiver is an ongoing issue and the BJP is using this opportunity to woo the voters. Other issues that the party highlighted are to open Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) offices in every zonal area, development of community halls and parks on different themes, reduction of fares of buses and online birth and death certificates. Ashok Parnami, former state president of BJP, said the party was focusing on ease of providing services. “Day-to-day services like bill payments and providing birth and death certificates without hassles are important for the public and our party is focused on these. Moreover, there is no drainage plan in the city, the result of which we saw on this August 14 when many parts of the city were under water. We will form a ‘master drainage plan’ to transform the drainage system in the city,” said Parnami. BJP has also released a ‘black paper’, which lists the failures of the Congress government in the last two years in the city. Failure to provide garbage collection, defunct street lights, unavailability of parking facilities, pathetic road condition and no redressal of complaints are some of the points the party mentioned in the black paper. Manoj Bhardhwaj, former deputy mayor, said work done by former mayor Ashok Lahoty is remembered by the public and their expectation is with the party. “Congress has done nothing in their tenure. This manifesto is a blueprint of our vision,” said Bhardhwaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-promises-ud-tax-relief-drainage-plan-in-manifesto/articleshow/78880249.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Riverfront to be extended by 5km||AHMEDABAD: A bridge-cum-barrage which will connect areas like Motera and Sabarmati to the airport and store 15 days worth of water for Ahmedabad city and extension of the riverfront by 5km on both banks are some of the projects that were passed by the Sabarmati Riverfront Development Corporation (SRFDCL) on Monday. These works are part of Phase II of the riverfront project. The barrage-cum-bridge will be built near the power station and will touch Sadar Bazaar Road on the other end. This will also create a reservoir holding some 12,000 million litres of water, about 15 days of water supply for the city. The barrage-cum-bridge was necessitated as water supply would be disrupted for 15 days because of repair work on the Narmada canal. Apart from these announcements, SRFDCL also cleared the design of a 5.2km extension of the riverfront on the western bank and a 5.8km extension of the eastern bank. The total length of the riverfront, both banks included, will now be 34km. The two banks will also be connecting roads that will allow people from Maninagar and Narol to travel to Gandhinagar or towards North Gujarat. “It will greatly ease traffic, which would get clogged on other routes at Maninagar and the main city bus stand,” said a senior AMC official. The extensions will have promenades, a children’s park, a food plaza and a recreation zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/riverfront-to-be-extended-by-5km/articleshow/78880238.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Issue fresh notice with info for zone plots: Congress||PANAJI: Congress on Monday wrote to the state government asking for the October 16 notification regarding change of zone for 72 land parcels to be withdrawn immediately and a fresh notification with details about the applicants, survey number and other details be issued within seven days. The party said that the town and country planning (TCP) department is playing hide and seek while converting land under Section 16B of the TCP Act, 1974. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also demanded that the cost of the public advertisement should be recovered from the salary of the chief town planner and member secretary of the TCP Board or from the person who authorised the public notice. “Unless, these details are set out in the public notice, none of us would be able to appreciate the nature and extent of the request for change of zone,” Chodankar said in the letter to the TCP dept. The party said that while Section 16B is “unconstitutional and requires to be struck down”, the recent public notice does not contain any basic facts sufficient to enable any person to understand and object to the request for change of zone. Chodankar said that objections can be given only if the name of the applicant, survey number, location, area, current zoning and the department’s recommendations are known. “There is no plausible justification nor explanation why the department has chosen to depart from the practice followed earlier, in placing full and complete details in the public notice in the newspapers. this kind of conduct of actually supressing the essential particulars in the public notice creates doubt and suspicion on the motives of such a sinister move of keeping the public in the dark,” Chodankar said. The party has demanded that TCP’s notice must be withdrawn immediately and a fresh public notice should be issued with clear details within seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/issue-fresh-notice-with-info-for-zone-plots-cong/articleshow/78881577.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kolhapur||S Maha sees dip in active Covid cases||Kolhapur: The number of active Covid-19 patients in the four south Maharashtra districts has come down along with the number of hospitalised patients. The four districts – Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur — had a combined caseload of 13,985 active patients on last Monday. The number came down to 11,212 on Sunday. In the meantime, 4035 new Covid cases were found and as many as 6,409 patients were discharged. Satara has the highest number of active patients even as the district has noted stronger signs of recovery. The district had 5,119 active patients on last Monday, which was reduced to 4,606 by Sunday night. The district also recorded 59 Covid-related deaths in the week. During the same period, active cases in Kolhapur district have come down from 2,068 October 19 to 1160. However, the district continues to have the highest number of Covid cases among the four districts — 47,777. Kolhapur district recorded 30 deaths in the week besides adding 350 new cases. As many as 1,228 patients were discharged from hospitals between October 19 to 25. Solapur city had 437 active patients on Sunday night while their number on Monday was 642. The number came down by 205. The number of new cases increased by 144 while 337 patients were discharged during the week. The city had 12 deaths in a week, which is the lowest among four districts. Solapur rural, considered as the badly affected zone, added 817 patients in the week while 1373 patients were discharged. The number came down by 608 in the week. It had 3,565 active patients on Monday, which was 2957 on Sunday night. The number of active patients in Sangli district came down by 539 in the week. It had 2,591 active cases on Monday and 2052 on Sunday night. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/s-maha-sees-dip-in-active-covid-cases/articleshow/78877910.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 3,500 drivers hit by flash floods seek government help||HYDERABAD: Cab driver Mohammad Zakir watched helplessly as the car, which he purchased last year, got washed away by the floodwater which inundated Baba Nagar area on October 14. Zakir now needs at least Rs 2 lakh to repair his damaged vehicle and his house. Zakir is among the 3,500 cab, bike taxi and auto drivers in the state, who are struggling to make ends meet after the floods. “The force of the water was so intense that we couldn’t do anything to secure our vehicles and belongings other than just stand and watch. I took my car to the service centre after the water level receded and was told that the electronic parts and engine along with interior components, including seats, have been damaged completely. It will cost nearly Rs 2 lakh,” said Zakir. Yasser Khan, an auto rickshaw driver of Shaheen Nagar, said, “My vehicle is damaged beyond repair. I had to spend Rs 3,000 just to hire an earth mover to pull my auto out of the nala where is got washed away. I still haven’t finished paying the loan amount I borrowed to purchase this vehicle.” “As it is, we were unable to earn anything due to Covid-19. And now, this flood has made life difficult. I don’t think I can overcome this loss without help from the government,” said Khan. The State Taxi and Drivers Joint Action Committee has submitted a representation. “According to IRDA regulation, we can claim insurance only for accidental damages and not for natural calamities. We request the state government to provide a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 for partially damaged vehicles and Rs 1 lakh for a replacement of vehicles which were completely damaged,” said Shaik Salauddin, chairman, State Taxi and Drivers JAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-5k-drivers-hit-by-flash-floods-seek-govt-help/articleshow/78880231.cms||Moulika.KV
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic poll candidates use creative ways for campaigns||JAIPUR: Civic poll candidates are using different tactics for campaigning to put a mark on the mind of the voters. Sushil Sharma, who is contesting from Ward No. 18 from Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater, weighed himself against bananas on Sunday afternoon while on a campaign trail. “We purchased a quintal of bananas and weighed myself. It is a good way to gain public’s attention. Later, the bananas were distributed among people,” said Sharma. Mohan Meena, who is contesting as an independent from Ward No. 121, has been going door-to-door barefoot to promote service to public. Mohan said, “I am a former councillor from this area. People have seen the development work that I have done. I am going door-to-door barefoot and giving a message to the public that my motive to contest for election is service.” Residents of Ward No. 80 have been complaining that the garbage collection vehicle hasn’t been coming to their ward for the last 10 days. So Rahul Samariya, the aspirant, hired a tractor and is going door-to-door to collect garbage. “My message is clear – service to people. Vehicles were not coming on time so I decided to collect the garbage from households. I have promised the people that I will continue doing it even after elections if necessary,” said Samariya. More than 1,500 candidates are contesting elections in 250 wards in both Heritage and Greater municipal corporation. Almost all the candidates start their campaign trail early morning by going door-to-door, meeting people in parks or in community halls. Many candidates were seen campaigning in PPE kits giving a message of prevention from coronavirus. Some were seen distributing masks and sanitisers among people. Bhagwat Singh Deval, another candidate, held meetings with one person from every household as part of his campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-poll-candidates-use-creative-ways-for-campaigns/articleshow/78880282.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man pawns wife’s car, makes her repay the lender||AHMEDABAD: A woman 38-year-woman from Naroda, Jyoti Parmar, lodged a complaint at Krishnanagar police station on Sunday alleging that her husband, Deepak Parmar, has pawned her car, taken the money, and is making her pay the instalments, both for the auto loan and to the moneylender to whom he has pawned the car. She said her husband — who is drunkard and beats her often — told her she would be in trouble if she didn’t repay the moneylender because the car is registered in her name. The woman works for a private company and has an 11-year-old son. According to the complaint, the complainant married the accused 16 years ago. He has a fabrication shop. The complainant alleged that for the last two years her husband has been drinking every day, harassing her and beating her, because he wants her to leave her job. She stated in the FIR that her husband does not give her money to run the house. She said she bought a car in 2017, which her husband has now pawned to a moneylender and taken money. “The complainant in her FIR stated that her husband threatens her, saying she must pay both the instalments or she will be in legal trouble as she is the owner of the car. “She alleged that on October 24, when she returned from work, her husband was sitting in the house drunk and demanded food. When she said there was no oil in the house, he got angry and started beating her saying that he wouldn’t allow her to work. She tried to call up the police, but as her son started crying she cut the call and went to her parents’ house the next day. We are verifying the allegations and gathering evidence,” said a Krishnanagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-pawns-wifes-car-forces-her-to-repay-loan/articleshow/78880283.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Verdict likely on Gujarat home minister Pradepsinh Jadeja’s plea||AHMEDEBAD: The Gujarat high court is likely to deliver its verdict on state home minister Pradepsinh Jadeja’s petition for quashing of criminal proceedings initiated by a metropolitan court on alleged violation of model code of conduct during the 2007 assembly poll campaign. The hearing on Jadeja’s plea was over on October 13 and Jadeja’s advocate, as well as the government lawyers, made their written submissions on October 21. Justice I J Vora has posted the matter on Monday for order. In February, the high court had stayed the metropolitan court’s summons issued against Jadeja. The magisterial court initiated proceedings against Jadeja under Section 127A(1) and 127(2)B of Representation of the People Act after taking cognizance of a private complaint filed by the then election officer after receiving an objection from the then city Congress president Prakash Shah. It was alleged that Jadeja, a BJP candidate from Asarva assembly constituency, had circulated pamphlets without the name of its printer-publisher during the 2007 assembly poll campaign, thus flouting the model code of conduct in force at the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/verdict-likely-on-jadejas-plea/articleshow/78862988.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana budget for heritage shrinking||HYDERABAD: The budget sanctioned for the heritage department has been dwindling over the years, RTI data shows. Incidentally, within a year of the formation of the state the amount fell from Rs 41.8 crore to a mere Rs 9.5 crore. In 2019-2020, the amount sanctioned has been the least in the last five years at Rs 9.4 crore, the data shows. The RTI query was raised by activist Mohammed Khan on September 18. Speaking about the issue, historian Sajjad Shahid said he was not surprised by the drop in funding considering heritage is given the least priority in the state. He says the lack of budget means that not just maintenance, but also field explorations are non-existent. “A part of the work of the department is field work done at different sites, which is now not being undertaken,” he said. Shahid said that the restoration of Moazzam Jahi Market alone had cost the state around Rs 15 crore. “So, if restoration of one heritage structure costs that much, what about the rest.” There are nearly 350 monuments under the aegis of the department of heritage and archaeology in the state. Activist Mohammed Habeebuddin said that there are several monuments languishing and need immediate attention, some protected and others not. “Two Qutub Shahi dynasty-era at Vinayak nagar in Shaikpet are in a dilapidated condition. The heritage department says these structures are not under its protection, which leaves them uncared for,” he said. The activist said a chunk of the budget would go towards office expenditure. “How much is left for maintenance and restoration is anybody’s guess,” he added. Sreenivasa Raju, director in-charge, department of heritage, said the state was providing additional funds on a case to case basis. “After a part of the wall of the Quila Shapur fort in Jangaon recently collapsed following the rains, an inspection was carried out. A proposal is being made and funds provided by the state to restore the heritage structure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-budget-for-heritage-shrinking/articleshow/78880281.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Covid-positive Tamil Nadu agriculture minister critical||CHENNAI: The health condition of state agriculture minister R Doraikkannu, who is being treated in a city hospital for Covid-19 pneumonia and its complications, remains critical, said a medical bulletin issued by hospital executive director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj on Monday. The minister is on ECMO and life support and is being treated in isolation at the intensive care ward of Kauvery Hospital. “Maintaining the functions of vital organs continues to be a challenge considering his comorbidities. He is on maximal life support and his response to treatment over the next 24 hours will determine the prognosis,” the bulletin said. In a bulletin on Sunday, Dr Aravindan said the viral infection had invaded 90% of the minister’s lungs. Senior ministers, including law minister C Ve Shanmugam, health minister C Vijayabaskar and civil supplies minister Kamaraj, visited the hospital on Monday and spoke to doctors. The 72-year-old minister was brought to Kauvery Hospital from a Villupuram hospital in an advanced life support ambulance. He complained of breathlessness and uneasiness while he was travelling by road to Salem from Chennai to offer condolences to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami after his mother died. Doraikkannu was first taken to Government Villupuram Medical College Hospital (GVMCH) where doctors on duty gave him first aid and stabilised his condition. The minister, who has diabetes, high blood pressure and a history of cardiac arrest, was brought to Kauvery Hospital from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agri-min-being-treated-for-covid-remains-critical/articleshow/78881566.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||7 OBC women eyeing mayor posts in twin civic bodies||Jaipur: Seven women belonging to the Other Backward Class (OBC) category, who are contesting the civic polls, are eyeing the mayor’s post in Jaipur Heritage and Greater Corporation. The city will cast its vote to elect women mayors for the fourth time in history. After the state government reserved the post of mayors for women candidates, the battle within the Congress and the BJP has intensified.In Congress, 28-year-old Divya Singh, who studied diploma in business management from Oxford, is among the frontrunners for the mayor’s post in Greater Jaipur. Divya’s father is Sanjay Singh, AICC member and close aide of urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal. Congress candidate Kiran Dewal has emerged as another contender for the mayor’s seat in Greater Japiur. Dewal is supported by cabinet minister Lal Chand Kataria and her husband Ghanshyaam Singh has strong connections on the ground.Though the party does not have a mayor’s face in Walled City area, many believe that two-time councillor Sunita Mahawar could be elected if the party does not field parachute candidate after the elections. After the Congress made strong inroads into BJP strongholds in Jaipur, the appointment of a new mayor would remain crucial for the saffron party. In the last state assembly elections, Congress won in five seats out of the nine in the city. Many party workers believe that BJP should appoint a new mayor who can prove to be a warhorse to take on the Congress.In Greater Jaipur, Sheel Dhahabai, first woman mayor of Jaipur, and Somaya Gujjar, women commission member, will be the strong contenders for the post. Like Congress, the BJP also does not have a strong candidate for the mayor’s post. Many believe, Kusum Yadav or Neeta Khetan, who were denied tickets by the BJP, are contesting as independents. The party would ask them to join again if it formed the board in Walled City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-obc-women-eyeing-mayor-posts-in-twin-civic-bodies/articleshow/78880285.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Arjun Ram Meghwal questions Rajasthan’s constitutional right challenging Centre’s agriculture bills||JAIPUR: Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal on Monday reminded the state that it didn’t have the constitutional competency to overrule the central government’s three agriculture sector legislations while reacting to the calling of the assembly session by the state government to pass a resolution on the farm bills on October 31. In a press conference held at BJP headquarters in Jaipur, Meghwal, while unveiling the vision document of the party for the municipal polls, said agriculture was a state subject but the Constitution clearly stated that the Centre could make laws in case of matters (agriculture) dealing with state. “CM Gehlot can be heard saying it’s a state subject thus having the right to come up with a legislation. But he is not saying that the same Constitution also gives the Centre the power to form laws on the subject,” said Meghwal, who explained that if a state farmer wanted to sell its products in Gujarat, he/she would be governed by a uniform central law for his ease. He clarified that in case of any contradiction between the state and Centre over the law, the Union’s law would prevail in the respective state. The three Acts — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation), the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act — have become a bone of contention between the central and some states including Rajasthan. Further slamming the government, he said the state simply wanted to follow Punjab by passing a resolution in the assembly. “Gehlot wanted to please the Gandhi family and it was happening at the behest of the same family,” said Meghwal. He called the farm bills as part of the ease of living initiative by the central government. “It is unfortunate that Gehlot wanted to reverse the progressive laws even when they don’t have the required competency,” said Meghwal. The state government has called the assembly session to take constitutional measures to counter agricultural laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/union-minister-meghwal-questions-gehlots-constitutional-competency-challenging-farm-bills/articleshow/78880303.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Covid vaccine guarantees only 40% security: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said even if a vaccine was available for Covid-19, it could prevent the virus only by 40% while masks could restrict it by 95%. He said the government was planning to bring a legislation making masks mandatory. The chief minister exhorted people to celebrate Dilwali without firecrackers as pollution from it could aggravate the heath crisis caused by the pandemic. He said the government was planning to launch post-Covid care clinics to attend to the complications of patients who were cured of the ailment but had lingering health issues. The patients could avail post-Covid care facilities also by dialing 181helpline, he added. The state government had launched an awareness campaign no masks, no entry camapign against corona on October 2 and said it would continue with increased vigour for the next two months. The chief minister sought the active participation of NCC, NSS, Scouts and Guides and Nehru Yuva Kendra to spread the message of prevention. The chief minister was holding a dialogue on the importance of jan andolan against coronavirus by educating the people on the importance of wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distance to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The chief minister said the state government was doing everything at its command to save the lives of people, but it was the duty of the citizens to prevent its spread. Principal secretary health Akhil Arora said the recovery rate in the state now stands at over 90 per cent while cumulative death rate has decreased from 0.99% to 0.69% in October. He said Rajasthan was at the top in the three critical parameters of infection, active cases and death rate per 10 lakh population. He said the infection rate per 10 lakh population was 2,340 in the state while in the country it is 5,843. Similarly, in active cases, Rajasthan logged 209 against the national average of 484. The death rate in the state is 23 against the national average of 88, he added. He said Rajasthan was currently having a capacity to carry out 50,000 RT PCR tests, have 12,000 oxygen ICU beds and 23,000 oxygen cylinders per day. Ministers Reghu Sharma, Govid Singh Dotasra and Bhanwar Singh Bhati was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-vaccine-guarantees-only-40-security-while-masks-give-protection-by-95-cm/articleshow/78880322.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||BJP vows to restore ancient waterbodies in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: The BJP will work for the restoration and rejuvenation of all ancient water resources and waterbodies of the city if it won the municipal elections, the party’s vision document stated on Monday.Emphasising on the historical value and roles of these waterbodies in tourism, Union Jal Shakti minister and MP (Jodhpur) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said Jodhpur was famous for its step wells, wells and ancient waterbodies and those would be restored if the party won the elections.He vowed to address all the issues of the city and promised decentralisation of the work of the civic body for the convenience of people in additon to adequate availability of funds for the development of the city.While promising to get rid Jodhpur of the problem of waterlogging during heavy rains, Shekhawat said the previous BJP board had done a survey of all the rain drainage channels and a detailed project was already available.Referring to decentralisation of work at municipal bodiy, he said the BJP would divide the city into zones, which would have seperate offices for better functioning and public convenience.Talking about residential colonies, which were inhabitable since long time due to absence of civic amenities like water, electricity, roads and sewerage system, Shekhawat said the process would be started for development of such colonies by the BJP board.“There are many such colonies in the city, which have been set up legally after conversion of land use charge. Inspite of deposition of conversion charges and development charges deposited, they are devoid of civic amenities. We would ensure development of such colonies by providing all these facilities,” he added. The vision document of the BJP also talked of relief to schools from UD tax, which would exempt fee of their students. He assured that all the central government schemes for the towns will have proper and timely implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-vows-to-restore-ancient-waterbodies-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78880318.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Dasara brings joy for market in Kolhapur after 6-mth lull||Kolhapur: After over six months of gloom, the markets in Kolhapur city were seen buzzing with activity again on Sunday, for Dasara. Malls, hotels and other commercial centres in the city were jam-packed entire day. With a decline in the number of Covid cases, people went out to shop in large numbers. However, the main Dasara event, which is usually observed at the Dasara Chowk in the presence of members of royal family of Kolhapur was cancelled. Also, the Nagarpradakshina of goddess Mahalaxmi was carried out with elaborate security, but without presence of devotees.According to the preliminary estimates, around 700 cars of all ranges and 400 two-wheelers were sold in the district on Sunday. The dealers claim that they did more business on Sunday as compared to last year’s Dasara.Vandana Mohite, manager of a car-dealing firm, “Cars in all price ranges were sold. Cars priced between Rs 6 lakh to Rs 8 lakh had more buyers. Our showrooms in the district has sold around 300 cars. The boom in the sale was mainly because the customers deferred buying on Gudi Padwa that came amid lockdown.”The jewellers also seemed content with their Sunday sales. Kuldip Gaikwad president of Gujari jewellers association said, “We have done only 50% business as compared to last years Dasara.” The jewellers from Gujari had appealed to the police not to block all roads heading to adjacent Mahalaxmi temple. Due to Nagarpradakshina of the goddess, the roads were closed. The gloom in the electronic market continued. Ajit Kothari, president of electricals association said, “Most of the business is done by e-commerce firms. Many electronic shops had not even a couple of customers to buy the items.” Heeding the concerns of the electrical shop traders, the members of Kolhapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries held protest at Shivaji Chowk demanding check on unfair practices done by e-commerce firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dasara-brings-joy-for-market-in-kolhapur-after-6-mth-lull/articleshow/78877944.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Coronavirus infections lowest in 39 days in Rajasthan, active cases dip||JAIPUR: The state on Monday reported 1,805 new infections, the lowest in 39 days. On September 17, the state had reported 1,782 cases and 1,817 new infections the next day. Though cases have dipped, ICUs and ventilators dedicated for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals are still running with full capacity. The graph of active cases in the state is continuously dipping. On October 13, the state had 21,924 active cases, the highest ever. Since then, it has been reducing and touched the 16,233 mark, the lowest in 45 days. In just 13 days, active cases have decreased to touch the lowest figure in 45 days. Daily new infections have gone down significantly over the past few days. “The situation has changed over the past few days. The ICUs and ventilators in government hospitals are lying vacant, which are dedicated for Covid-19 treatment. In government hospitals, we have 1,011 ventilators for Covid patients and 976 ICU beds. Out of those, 100 ventilators and 339 ICU beds are occupied as per October 22 report,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,805 others tested positive in the state taking the overall tally to 1,88,048. The casualty count stands at 1,853. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (352), Jodhpur (332), Bikaner (257), Alwar (141), Nagaur (97), Jhunjhunu (87), Jalore (80), Ajmer (73), Bharatpur (57), Sriganganagar (44), Sikar (41), Kota (32), Udaipur (29), Pali (23), Bundi (22), Barmer (21), Chittorgarh (20), Churu (20), Jaisalmer (16), Bhilwara (8), Rajsamand (8), Tonk (8), Dholpur (6), Banswara (5), Dausa (5), Dungarpur (4), Karauli (4), Jhalawar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Sirohi (3), Baran (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 365, Jodhpur 178th, Ajmer 136th, Bikaner 136th, Udaipur 68th, Sikar 53rd, Jalore 36th, Chittorgarh 28th, Rajasthan 28th, Jhunjhunu 27th, Sirohi 25th, Churu 22nd and Dungarpur reported its 22nd fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/active-cases-lowest-in-39-days/articleshow/78883063.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Udaipur||Coronavirus infections lowest in 39 days in Rajasthan, active cases dip||JAIPUR: The state on Monday reported 1,805 new infections, the lowest in 39 days. On September 17, the state had reported 1,782 cases and 1,817 new infections the next day. Though cases have dipped, ICUs and ventilators dedicated for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals are still running with full capacity. The graph of active cases in the state is continuously dipping. On October 13, the state had 21,924 active cases, the highest ever. Since then, it has been reducing and touched the 16,233 mark, the lowest in 45 days. In just 13 days, active cases have decreased to touch the lowest figure in 45 days. Daily new infections have gone down significantly over the past few days. “The situation has changed over the past few days. The ICUs and ventilators in government hospitals are lying vacant, which are dedicated for Covid-19 treatment. In government hospitals, we have 1,011 ventilators for Covid patients and 976 ICU beds. Out of those, 100 ventilators and 339 ICU beds are occupied as per October 22 report,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,805 others tested positive in the state taking the overall tally to 1,88,048. The casualty count stands at 1,853. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (352), Jodhpur (332), Bikaner (257), Alwar (141), Nagaur (97), Jhunjhunu (87), Jalore (80), Ajmer (73), Bharatpur (57), Sriganganagar (44), Sikar (41), Kota (32), Udaipur (29), Pali (23), Bundi (22), Barmer (21), Chittorgarh (20), Churu (20), Jaisalmer (16), Bhilwara (8), Rajsamand (8), Tonk (8), Dholpur (6), Banswara (5), Dausa (5), Dungarpur (4), Karauli (4), Jhalawar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Sirohi (3), Baran (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 365, Jodhpur 178th, Ajmer 136th, Bikaner 136th, Udaipur 68th, Sikar 53rd, Jalore 36th, Chittorgarh 28th, Rajasthan 28th, Jhunjhunu 27th, Sirohi 25th, Churu 22nd and Dungarpur reported its 22nd fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/active-cases-lowest-in-39-days/articleshow/78883064.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP bars liquor from other states sans tax||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday prohibited transport of liquor from other states without payment of applicable duties, taxes and fees to the state. The government on Monday issued new orders amending its previous rules allowing individuals to possess certain number of liquor bottles without permit or licence. The government said the permission was encouraging people to transport liquor bottles without payment of duties and fees. The order is aimed to make up the loss of revenue to the state exchequer and stop smuggling of liquor. The previous orders permit individuals to possess three bottles each of IMFL and FL, besides beer. However, now, while allowing the individuals to possess the same number of bottles, the government has prevented carrying bottles from outside the state without payment of applicable duties, taxes and fees from the state. The state, however, allows people coming from other countries to carry two litres of duty-free liquor without permit or payment to taxes as per the central government guidelines. Special Chief Secretary to the government, Dr Rajat Bhargava, on Monday said that the new orders would prevent smuggling of liquor from the neighbouring states, particularly from Telangana, as seen in the recent past. The AP high court had recently allowed people to carry three liquor bottles from outside and prevented the arrest of such persons. The police and the excise officials said that this would encourage people to smuggle liquor from other states without paying taxes and duties to the state. The order issued on Monday, specifies, “No transport of any intoxicant which is manufactured/ produced outside the state and on which applicable duties, taxes, fees, etc, payable under the AP Excise Act 1968 and the rules, notifications, orders etc, issued thereunder are not paid is permitted, except under a permit granted by the competent authority in advance and any transport of intoxicants in contravention of the provisions of the AP Excise Act 1968 is a punishable offence under section 34 of the said Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-bars-liquor-from-other-states-sans-tax/articleshow/78880332.cms||Gopi Dara
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||Man misbehaves with police, arrested||VADODARA: A man living on Ajabdi Mill Road near Panigate was arrested on Monday morning for allegedly manhandling cops who had come to arrest his sister. Police said that the accused, Vijay Ramchandani initially misbehaved and then created a ruckus at his home when they went to arrest his sister Guddi in connection with an assaults case. Guddi was booked in 2014 at Panigate police station. When a female head constable went to confirm Guddi’s presence, Vijay misbehaved with her. Later when other cops went to explain that they have an arrest warrant for Guddi, he started asking them for their identity cards and pushed them. Vijay then held a lok rakshak dal personnel’s collar and started shouting asking the cops to leave. Police said that they asked Vijay to cooperate but when he continued his behaviour, they decided to take him in. While pulling Vijay out of the house, he suffered a minor injury on his left elbow. He was then taken to Panigate police station where an offence was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-misbehaves-with-police-arrested/articleshow/78878045.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ajmer||Coronavirus infections lowest in 39 days in Rajasthan, active cases dip||JAIPUR: The state on Monday reported 1,805 new infections, the lowest in 39 days. On September 17, the state had reported 1,782 cases and 1,817 new infections the next day. Though cases have dipped, ICUs and ventilators dedicated for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals are still running with full capacity. The graph of active cases in the state is continuously dipping. On October 13, the state had 21,924 active cases, the highest ever. Since then, it has been reducing and touched the 16,233 mark, the lowest in 45 days. In just 13 days, active cases have decreased to touch the lowest figure in 45 days. Daily new infections have gone down significantly over the past few days. “The situation has changed over the past few days. The ICUs and ventilators in government hospitals are lying vacant, which are dedicated for Covid-19 treatment. In government hospitals, we have 1,011 ventilators for Covid patients and 976 ICU beds. Out of those, 100 ventilators and 339 ICU beds are occupied as per October 22 report,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,805 others tested positive in the state taking the overall tally to 1,88,048. The casualty count stands at 1,853. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (352), Jodhpur (332), Bikaner (257), Alwar (141), Nagaur (97), Jhunjhunu (87), Jalore (80), Ajmer (73), Bharatpur (57), Sriganganagar (44), Sikar (41), Kota (32), Udaipur (29), Pali (23), Bundi (22), Barmer (21), Chittorgarh (20), Churu (20), Jaisalmer (16), Bhilwara (8), Rajsamand (8), Tonk (8), Dholpur (6), Banswara (5), Dausa (5), Dungarpur (4), Karauli (4), Jhalawar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Sirohi (3), Baran (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 365, Jodhpur 178th, Ajmer 136th, Bikaner 136th, Udaipur 68th, Sikar 53rd, Jalore 36th, Chittorgarh 28th, Rajasthan 28th, Jhunjhunu 27th, Sirohi 25th, Churu 22nd and Dungarpur reported its 22nd fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/active-cases-lowest-in-39-days/articleshow/78883065.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Forum plans protest over power bills||Kolhapur: A forum of all parties, activists and organisations is going to protest outside the offices of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) on Tuesday, demanding waiver of power bills issued during the lockdown. The forum was formed after consumers from across the state started receiving inflated electricty bills. The MSEDCL has claimed that the bills of three months of lockdown was issued together and floated the option to the consumers to pay the bills in installments. However, the forum claims that the bills were inflated mainly because of the power rates hiked on April 1. Raju Shetti, president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) and one of the conveners of the forum, said, “The state government has remained ignorant about our demand despite repeated agitations. We have demanded to waive the power bills of the consumers with monthly consumption of less than 100 units since they have faced huge economic loss due to the lockdown. There will be no major loss of revenue to the government if the waiver is granted. The demand has fallen on deaf ears and therefore we have decided to lock the MSEDCL offices to make the government listen to our demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forum-plans-protest-over-power-bills/articleshow/78877961.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Recovered Covid patients complain of cough, weakness, difficulty in breathing on 181 helpline||Jaipur: After the state government launched 181 helpline on Thursday for recovered patients, experts are getting majority of the calls related to post-Covid complications such as cough, weakness and difficulty in breathing.Also, some complaints are related to rise in blood glucose level. The government introduced the three-layer facility for recovered cases — establishing 181 helpline, setting up separate OPDs for recovered cases and separate ward/ICU for cured cases.A health department official said that the orders were issued on Thursday and preparation is on for setting up separate OPDs and wards for recovered cases if they have post-Covid complications.“We received calls from recovered cases, who have some basic complaints related to cough, weakness and in some cases difficulty in breathing. While some cases have uncontrolled diabetes,” said a health department official.These are those patients who have recovered and were discharged from the hospital. However, there are such patients who tested negative in the hospital, but require treatment. For such cases, SMS medical college has set up a separate ICU with more than 30 beds. Once a patient is tested negative at dedicated Covid-19 RUHS hospital, he is shifted to SMS hospital’s ICU for post-Covid complications for further treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recovered-covid-patients-complain-of-cough-weakness-difficulty-in-breathing-on-181-helpline/articleshow/78880325.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kozhikode||IUML engaging in communal politics, claims LDF convener||Kozhikode: LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan claimed that IUML was engaging in communal politics and trying to achieve religious consolidation by deliberately resorting to false propaganda against the government over its decision to provide 10% job reservation for economically-weaker sections among forward communities. Addressing the media in Malappuram on Monday, Vijayaraghavan alleged that the party was trying to communalize all issues and has accepted the tutelage of extreme communal forces. “Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and KPCC President Mullappally Ramachandran should clarify if they also endorse the stand of IUML on the reservation issue,” he said. Vijayaraghavan said that Parliament had passed the bill for providing reservation to economically-weaker sections among forward castes in January 2019 and it is being implemented by state governments. “It is a central law and does not come under the purview of the state government. Now, IUML is trying to mobilize protests on the matter against the state government,” he said, adding that while some organisations had approached the Supreme Court on the matter, IUML has not done so. He alleged that IUML was resorting to dangerous politics of communalizing people and trying to mobilizing them against LDF government following the realization that even the sections –who were traditionally behind the party – were now thinking of aligning with LDF. “What IUML is attempting is dangerous politics of polarizing people on communal lines. The people of Kerala will not accept it," he added. Last week, the cabinet approved 10% reservation in government jobs for economically-weaker sections in the general category. A meeting of the leaders of various Muslim organizations held at Panakkad on Sunday had decided to launch a joint agitation against the reservation for forward castes with the cooperation of likeminded organizations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-engaging-in-communal-politics-claims-ldf-convener/articleshow/78879023.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus infections lowest in 39 days in Rajasthan, active cases dip||JAIPUR: The state on Monday reported 1,805 new infections, the lowest in 39 days. On September 17, the state had reported 1,782 cases and 1,817 new infections the next day. Though cases have dipped, ICUs and ventilators dedicated for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals are still running with full capacity. The graph of active cases in the state is continuously dipping. On October 13, the state had 21,924 active cases, the highest ever. Since then, it has been reducing and touched the 16,233 mark, the lowest in 45 days. In just 13 days, active cases have decreased to touch the lowest figure in 45 days. Daily new infections have gone down significantly over the past few days. “The situation has changed over the past few days. The ICUs and ventilators in government hospitals are lying vacant, which are dedicated for Covid-19 treatment. In government hospitals, we have 1,011 ventilators for Covid patients and 976 ICU beds. Out of those, 100 ventilators and 339 ICU beds are occupied as per October 22 report,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,805 others tested positive in the state taking the overall tally to 1,88,048. The casualty count stands at 1,853. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (352), Jodhpur (332), Bikaner (257), Alwar (141), Nagaur (97), Jhunjhunu (87), Jalore (80), Ajmer (73), Bharatpur (57), Sriganganagar (44), Sikar (41), Kota (32), Udaipur (29), Pali (23), Bundi (22), Barmer (21), Chittorgarh (20), Churu (20), Jaisalmer (16), Bhilwara (8), Rajsamand (8), Tonk (8), Dholpur (6), Banswara (5), Dausa (5), Dungarpur (4), Karauli (4), Jhalawar (4), Sawai Madhopur (3), Sirohi (3), Baran (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 365, Jodhpur 178th, Ajmer 136th, Bikaner 136th, Udaipur 68th, Sikar 53rd, Jalore 36th, Chittorgarh 28th, Rajasthan 28th, Jhunjhunu 27th, Sirohi 25th, Churu 22nd and Dungarpur reported its 22nd fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-lowest-in-39-days/articleshow/78880324.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Notification for allotment of election symbols issued with minor changes||Jaipur: The state election commission on Monday issued a notification for the allotment of election symbols to political parties and candidates for the zila Parishad and panchayat samiti polls, which will be held in four phases. Earlier, the state Congress president had ruled out speculations that zila parishad and panchayat samiti polls would be conducted without party symbols.An SEC official said, “Minor changes have been made in the format of the application form for election symbols. The column, which was meant for mentioning ward number, has been removed. In another change, the terms abhiyarthi and umidwaar (candidate) have been merged as abhiyarthi (candidate).”As the state election commission has announced the dates for elections to the posts of zila Parishad and panchayat samiti members, 222 panchayat samitis will be covered under poll in 21 districts. Sixty-five panchayat samitis will be covered in the first spell, 59 in the second phase, 52 in the third phase and 46 in the fourth phase. Around 2.41 crore voters will cast their votes.There will be 1.24 crore male voters and 1.16 crore female voters. There are 86 third gender voters.The elections will be held on November 23, November 27, December 1 and December 5. 3,765 kg of adulterated mustard oil seizedJaipur: Under ‘Suddh ke liye Yudh Abhiyaan’ launched by the state government, 3,765 kgs of adulterated mustard oil has been seized from a shop in Chaksu on Monday, informed district collector Antar Singh Nehra. A team of officials of the district administration has been appointed by the collector for conducting raids. In one of the raids in Chaksu, the mustard oil was seized from a shop named Rajesh Traders Sanjeebani scheme. Samples of sweets were collected from Laxmi Mistanna Bhandar at Johri Bazaar. Six bottles of vinegar were found to have been expired at LMB. From another shop, named Dudh Mistanna Bhandar (Jothwara Road) 43 expired bottles of different flavours of liquid stuff were found. The bottles were destroyed on the spot. Expired food colour boxes were also found in this shop, which were destroyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notification-for-allotment-of-election-symbols-issued-with-minor-changes/articleshow/78880327.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Campaign against illegal sand mining resulted in 110 FIRs, says ACS||JAIPUR: The campaign against illegal sand mining, transport and storage by the state mines department since October 15 resulted in the seizure of 41,241 tonnes of sand and 194 vehicles in addition to 110 FIRs being filed. Additional chief secretary of mines and petroleum department Subodh Agrawal said the campaign against illegal mining, transport and storage of sand jointly by the mines, revenue, forest, transport and police departments in 13 districts launched on October 15 under the direction of collectors will continue till October 31. Aggarwal said as of October 25, 262 cases of illegal mining, transport and storage of sand have come up, 110 FIRs have been filed and an amount of over Rs 31 lakh has been recovered. He informed that along with confiscation of sand on the spot during the joint operations, 194 vehicle-machinery including poclain machine and tractors have been seized during the operations. Aggarwal said during the campaign, the highest number of 72 cases were reported from Bhilwara. The seizures from the district include 21,439 tonnes of gravel and 40 vehicles. In all, 44 cases have come to light in Jaipur leading to the seizure of 3,150 tonnes of sand and 42 vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/campaign-against-illegal-sand-mining-resulted-in-110-firs-acs/articleshow/78880329.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Water tax relief for commercial users||Kolhapur: Water tax for commercial establishments will be charged at domestic rates for the lockdown period. The general body of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has approved the proposal to provide relief to the operators of commercial establishments in the city which faced severe losses during the lockdown. After the coporators’ demand, the water supply department of the KMC had drafted the proposal. Since the water tax bills for the lockdown period have already been issued, the concession will be given in the bills that will be issued henceforth. There were very few commercial establishments operating during lockdown months. Such establishments have received the rental or basic bill as per commercial rates. The rental charges and the rates per 1,000 litre consumption of water are much higher for commercial water connections than domestic connections. According to the officials, over 35,000 commercial establishments will benefit from the tax relief.. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-tax-relief-for-commercial-users/articleshow/78877970.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Inform Rajasthan government about food adulteration, get Rs 51,000||JAIPUR: On the lines of mukhbir yojna which encourages people to inform the authorities about those involved in sex determination and female foeticide, the state government has now launched a similar initiative encouraging people to inform about those involved in food adulteration. A reward of Rs 51,000 has also been announced. “The state government has announced a reward of Rs 51,000 to those who give correct information about adulteration in the ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ campaign. Also, the name of the person giving information will be kept confidential,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. The state government launched ‘Shudh Ke Liye Yudh’ across the state on Monday to check food adulteration. The food safety officers across the state collected samples of food items from retailers, manufacturers, distributors and producers for checking the quality of the food products. “The drive is currently being run as a special campaign, but under the ‘Nirogi Rajasthan’ campaign, the state government is making efforts to take action against the adulterators throughout the year,” said Sharma. During the festive season, complaints of food adulteration increases in products made of milk. Therefore, this campaign has been started from Monday, ahead of the festive season as per the directions issued by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The collector will be the nodal officer of the campaign in every district. While the state is already fighting a battle against Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has launched a campaign against adulteration and decided to take necessary legal action against people involved in food adulteration. Across the state, there are 11 testing laboratories with modern technology. Apart from this, the health department has developed a mechanism in which there is no possibility of contact between the person taking the sample and the one who is testing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inform-govt-about-food-adulteration-get-rs-51k/articleshow/78880331.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Police give Diwali shoppers neck bands to keep chains safe||CHENNAI: The thousands of women shoppers expected to descend on the commercial hub of T Nagar police for Diwali shopping, bedecked in their finest jewellery, will now have protection. The city police have so far distributed 1,000 ‘neck bands’ that will cover up the jewellery. “We got excellent feedback and plan to distribute them to more people in the coming weeks,” said D N Hari Kiran Prasad, deputy commissioner of police (DCP). The neck band, which flows from the neck to the chest, can be easily worn and zipped up, the DCP said, adding that the germ of the idea was planted in his mind when he saw many people going around with face masks around the neck instead of covering the nose and mouth to protect themselves from Covid-19. He then discussed it with his junior officers and a plan was formed. “We decided to redesign the face mask into a lengthier cloth with a zip so that people can easily wear it,” added DCP Prasad. Assistant commissioner of police of T Nagar Kaliyan said they got a lot of cloth from textile showrooms in T Nagar and assigned a tailor to stitch up the neck bands. “We have distributed many so far,” he said. The DCP said the festive season also brought multitudes of chain snatchers and other criminals to the area, looking for easy prey. Police have made entry and exit points on Ranganathan Street through which most shoppers prefer to walk and are sanitizing everyone entering the zone. They also urge people to wear face masks and maintain social distancing. Police have blocked vehicular movement on South Usman Road and all lanes leading to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-give-diwali-shoppers-neck-bands-to-keep-chains-safe/articleshow/78881580.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KPCC political affairs panel to discuss plans for polls||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The political affairs committee of KPCC will meet on Wednesday and the meeting assumes significance as it will decide strategies that have to be followed in the ensuing local body elections. Though UDF has decided not to have alliance outside the front with political parties, it has decided to have a local-level understanding. KPCC will take a decision on this matter. Already, Welfare Party has decided to have a local-level understanding with UDF in the local body election. The meet also assumes significance as leaders like K Muraleedharan and VM Sudheeran were complaining that party’s policy decisions are not discussed in the party forum. They had alleged that all decisions are taken by one or two leaders. The exit of Jose K Mani faction will also be discussed.  Senior leaders are of the view that there was no attempt from the party leaders to have a dialogue with Jose to prevent the faction’s exit from the front. Thomas faction to hold talks with UDF Kerala Congress (PC Thomas) faction has decided to hold talks with UDF after its party secretariat decided to severe ties with NDA. Party chairman PC Thomas said the group will not put forward conditions and that he was happy to join the front that has PJ Joseph as an ally. When asked whether he would like to merge with Joseph group, Thomas said, “A dispute is going on and it is who is the real Kerala Congress (M), this is happening between Joseph and Jose K Mani. Let that issue get settled first.” He also said that he wants to bring various KC factions in UDF under one Kerala Congress. However, the time is not right for that, he added. He said that the name Kerala Congress is officially allotted to him and it will be an added advantage in his efforts to bring together various Kerala Congress factions in UDF. Earlier, Thomas said that he was quitting NDA after his party was not given the promised chairman post of the rubber board and five membership for his party leaders in various boards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kpcc-political-affairs-panel-to-discuss-plans-for-polls/articleshow/78879096.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||3 cops injured as locals attack them for seizing sand tractor||Jaipur: Three policemen were injured when locals allegedly involved in illegal mining attacked them after the cops seized a tractor trolley carrying illegally bajri at Todaraisingh town of Tonk district on Monday. After assaulting the cops, the locals fled with the tractor and later protested outside the police station and pelted stones. Police have so far arrested nine persons for disturbing peace and causing hindrance to government work. “While we were seizing the tractor carrying gravel, a large number of locals attacked our team. During the clash, they managed to flee with the tractor. Three policemen were injured after they were beaten and stones pelted on them,” Todaraisingh SHO Amar Singh said. He said later the locals pelted stones at the police station. “We have registered a case under appropriate sections of IPC against more than 20 people for attacking police and obstructing government work,” he added. The police team which stopped the tractor trolley only had batons and had to run away to save their lives. “Those involved in illegal mining are behind the act. We have registered FIR against 20 people out of which we have arrested nine,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-cops-injured-as-locals-attack-them-for-seizing-sand-tractor/articleshow/78880333.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Goa civil contractors bat for CM, say he’s open to suggestions||PANAJI: There is no need to agitate. True to his word, chief minister Pramod Sawant is open to hearing grievances and resolving them, we experienced it firsthand, stated All Goa Civil Contractors’ Welfare Association on Monday, endorsing CM’s appeal to agitators currently protesting over different issues in the state. The association said that to safeguard the interest of Goan contractors, the CM made the necessary amendments to the ‘Rules of Enlistment of Contractors in PWD/WRD, 2020’. “Like the CM always says, do not protest, but explain your grievances to him and he will surely resolve the issues where possible. He gave us a patient hearing, noted our grievances and resolved them immediately,” said Rupesh Pangam, president of All Goa Civil Contractors’ Welfare Association. Due to implementation of the new rules of enlistment 2020, Goans contractors already registered with Goa PWD or WRD were on the verge of getting disqualified, which would have resulted in huge losses for local Goan contractors and helped big construction companies make inroads in the Goa market, the contractors said. The association had earlier met the CM to bring this to his notice. “The new ‘Rules of Enlistment of Contractors in PWD/WRD, 2020’ were framed by taking base of specifications of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH). The CM after studying the matter decided to use the rules of enlistment of Central Public Works Department, as this would safeguard interests of local contractors,” said Pangam. As per MORTH specifications, it was mandatory to acquire machinery. However, looking at the annual quantum of work offered to Goan contractors, it was not at all possible for them to fulfil these conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civil-contractors-bat-for-cm-say-hes-open-to-suggestions/articleshow/78881579.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Law college professor submits reply||PANAJI: Shilpa Singh, assistant professor, at V M Salgaocar College of Law on Monday submitted her response to the institute, on the complaint made against her by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP). The RSS-affiliated student wing had accused Singh of ‘promoting hateful thoughts against a particular religion’ during her online classes. The college had given the teacher seven days’ time to submit her say in the matter. Singh on Monday told TOI that she fears for her security in public due to the threatening the language of the letter made against her to the college. “My right to life has been violated by criminal intimidation inherent in this representation. I hope my dignity as a teacher is upheld against these scurrilous allegations in the representation,” said Singh, 31. The ABVP had initially asked the college, where Singh teaches political theory to first year students, to terminate the assistant professor’s services within 24 hours. “It’s a matter of supreme irony that, on one hand, they claim to stand for best interest of a law student in my classroom whereas, on the other hand, they are unlawfully resorting to jurisprudence of the kangaroo court, by giving a 24 hours ultimatum for my removal from the job without any scope of hearing to me as per procedure established by law,” said Singh. The college has said that it will also inquire as to how the video of the online class was filmed, when it is not permitted as per the code of conduct for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/law-college-prof-submits-reply/articleshow/78881582.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Late Dussehra, wind woes keep AQI up despite Covid controls||NEW DELHI: Despite restrictions imposed on gatherings due to Covid-19, the use of firecrackers during Dussehra celebrations and the traditional effigies being burnt across the city sent pollution spiralling after 7pm on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe hourly PM2.5 data at 5pm read 95 micrograms per cubic metre but doubled to 196 micrograms per cubic metre within three hours. The pollution peaked at 11pm with an hourly reading of 226 micrograms per cubic metre before a drop. While Sunday logged an AQI reading of 349 (very poor), it was 353 (very poor) on Monday’s daily, showing overall there was barely a change in pollution levels the day following Dussehra, which otherwise usually sees an increase in the AQI of 30-40 points. CPCB data showed a similar spike in the hourly PM10 readings, which doubled between 5pm and 8pm. While the hourly PM10 reading at 5pm was 202 micrograms per cubic metre, it had risen to 425 micrograms per cubic metre by 8pm. The standard acceptable limit for PM10 is 100 micrograms per cubic metre. While this is statistically the worst Dussehra in terms of AQI, experts contented that the date of the festival and the prevailing meteorological conditions determined the spike in pollutants. Sumit Sharma, director (Earth Science and Climate Change), TERI, said, “This year, Dussehra was celebrated in adverse meteorological conditions. It appears that fewer effigies were burnt than last year, but there was more accumulation of pollutants due to low wind speed and shallow mixing height.” Last year, Dussehra fell in early October and had recorded an AQI of 112 (moderate). The following day, October 9, the AQI went up to 173. In 2018, Dussehra was celebrated closer to this year’s date, October 19, and the AQI spiked by around 50 points to 326 (very poor) the following day. In 2017 and 2016, a slight improvement was recorded the day after the festival, apparently due to a change for the better in wind speed. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, added, “As Dussehra arrived by the end of October this time, we lost the weather advantage that prevented trapping of pollutants. Even Diwali was celebrated in 2018 at around this time and we saw a big spike in air quality.” The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, reported an increase in wind speed on Monday. “The SAFAR model suggests a marginal improvement in the current condition on Tuesday, though AQI is predicted to remain in the ‘very poor’ range for the next two days,” read its outlook on Monday. “SAFAR’s synergised stubble fire counts increased to 1,275 on Sunday and the SAFAR model estimates the share of stubble burning in PM2.5 to be 16% on Monday. In summary, while the expected slight increase in local surface wind speed is a positive sign for Tuesday, these improved winds speed are not likely to stay for long.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/late-dussehra-wind-woes-keep-aqi-up-despite-covid-controls/articleshow/78881588.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong, BJP vying for 2nd spot in Dubbak: Harish||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi is banking on development, welfare and K Chandrashekar Rao for votes in the Dubbak bypoll, says finance minister T Harish Rao. The minister, who is leading the campaign, tells Koride Mahesh in an exclusive interview that both Congress and BJP will be vying for second position after TRS. Excerpts: n There is an intense fight between TRS, Congress and BJP? How confident is TRS? The party is sure about the winning the election with huge majority, better than 2018 assembly general elections. Dubbak is rural, agri-based constituency, and the government has been proved as a pro-farmer, pro-poor government. In the constituency, as many as 78,000 farmers got Rythu Bandhu benefits, and several hundred got Rythu Bima. Some 60,000 have been getting Aasara pensions and every family in the constituency has been getting one benefit or the other from welfare schemes such as KCR Kits, Shaadi Mubarak or other schemes. Farmers are getting 24X7 quality power and Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project water for irrigation. n Both Congress and BJP are blaming the TRS for backwardness of Dubbak. What do you feel? Congress ruled the state for 30 to 40 years and did not develop the constituency. It is Telangana Rashtra Samithi, which has developed it by sanctioning roads, infrastructure and implementing many other schemes. During Congress rule, farmers used to get two hours of power each in the morning and night. But the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government is giving power 24X7. People used to spend Rs10,000 for burnt motors and Rs30,000 for transformers due to power fluctuations. Now they are things of past. United Progressive Alliance government made ‘skull’ symbol on Beedi packs mandatory, and Bharatiya Janata Party government imposed Goods and Services Tax (GST) on Beedis, that affected nearly 30,000 beedi workers in Dubbak alone. n BJP claims, many state schemes, like pensions, are being funded by the Centre. What is your comment? BJP leaders in the state are making false claims. Centre is giving 1/10th of total pensions for seniors and the physically challenged, and that too 1/10th of the amount. For instance, while the state is giving Rs2,000 per month to the old, contribution from Centre is just Rs200, and it is just Rs300 for physically challenged persons against Rs3,000 a month given by state.  Of the 39 lakh Aasara pensions, Centre’s contribution is just for six lakh people, and that too only 1/10th of the pension amount. I challenged Bharatiya Janata Party president for debate and prove it, but there has been no response . n Some farmers, especially those who lost their land in Kaleshwaram project, seem to be angry. Will it have an impact for you in the polls? Not at all. While only 2 to 3% farmers are unhappy as their land was acquired for the projects, 97% have been benefited with the irrigation schemes. For every major project taken up in public interest, some suffer. We understand their anguish. The state government is making every effort to compensate them, and provide them other benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bjp-vying-for-2nd-spot-in-dubbak-harish/articleshow/78880359.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||2BHK scheme an issue for TRS: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday said that the 2BHK housing scheme will be a major issue for the TRS in the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls. “The Centre is ready to give its share to the state government for double-bedroom houses without any cap on numbers. This will be the main focus in GHMC polls. TRS promised it but did not implement it. The government failed in controlling Covid-19 and construction of 2BHK houses,” he told reporters. He said that there is no clarity or discussion on alliance with Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party in the GHMC elections. There is no discussion on Pawan Kalyan campaigning in Dubbak for the BJP candidate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2bhk-scheme-an-issue-for-trs-kishan/articleshow/78880357.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Monsoon set to withdraw with surplus post-season rainfall||PANAJI: With likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over Bay of Bengal and extreme south peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country around Wednesday, October 28, the India meteorological department (IMD) said. Simultaneously, the northeast monsoon rains are also likely to commence over Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining areas of Karnataka and Kerala. Meanwhile, in keeping with the wet trend, after the seasonal rainfall surplus ended with a bountiful 41%, the first post-monsoon month has also recorded above average rainfall — 35% above normal so far. The surplus had actually risen to 41%, but has come down slightly due to weak rain activity during the past few days. After dry spell of few days, several parts of the state experienced thunder showers late Monday night. The total rainfall during October so far is 195.7mm while at this stage 145.2mm is considered normal. A rainfall of 44.3mm recorded on October 16 was the highest state average recorded during this month, while there were four totally dry days.  The four-month monsoon season ended on a record note with a total of 162.1 inches recorded this time while 160.9 inches was recorded in 1961.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-set-to-withdraw-with-surplus-post-season-rainfall/articleshow/78881617.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: KT Rama Rao hands over 1,100 2BHK houses to beneficiaries||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao on Monday inaugurated and handed over 1,150 2BHK flats to beneficiaries of the 2BHK scheme. The houses, built at a cost of Rs 95.58 crore under the scheme, were handed over to the beneficiaries at Jiyaguda, Ghode Ki Khabar and Kattel Mandi in GHMC Khairatabad zone. In Jiyaguda, a basti dawakhana, an anganwadi school and a library will dot the newly-constructed housing society. Speaking on the occasion, KTR said that the pending proposal to build a modern slaughterhouse in Jiyaguda is also being considered. The minister said that though the government is spending Rs 9 lakh for construction of each house, the market value of each house is not less than Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh and houses will be allocated in a phased manner. Slamming the opposition, KTR said that the TRS government is ready to put on display one lakh houses being built under the 2BHK housing scheme. “Some people are resorting to gibberish, they are asking where are the one lakh houses. We will send them the details along with photographs, if needed, we will send them the details through papers too, but we will send them for sure,” said the minister at the inauguration. Addressing the beneficiaries, KTR said that the houses allotted to the poor by the previous governments were ‘dabba’ (box) houses, due to the small size of the houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-hands-over-1100-2bhk-houses-to-beneficiaries/articleshow/78880382.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 27, 2020||Goa||Fresh lease of life for 59 govt primary schools as major repair works on anvil||PANAJI: Major repair works in 59 government primary schools across Goa — most of them in remote locations — will be taken up during the academic year 2020-21. While 30 of the schools are located in North Goa, the rest are from South Goa. The repairs will be carried out at a cost of Rs 2 lakh per school. In all, Rs 1.4 crore has been allotted for the work to the state by the Centre. The project is part of the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, which integrates Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan for Class I to IV and the Rashtriya Madhaymik Shiksha Abhiyan for higher classes. “This would enable and facilitate the state in improving the enrolment and retention at the primary and elementary level,” stated the Centre while approving the funds for Goa. Additionally, Rs 7.2 lakh has also been approved for Goa to carry out educational paintings on the walls of schools. “The objective of this activity is to achieve enhancement of learning of students in early literacy, early numeracy in Classes I to V, and science and mathematics in Classes VI to VIII,” the approval states. The interventions are expected to help government schools improve their infrastructure. During the last academic year 2019-20, under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, 24 toilets for boys were constructed in government schools, while major repair works of 49 state-run schools were also initiated. Additionally, 38 schools got ramps and handrails to improve infrastructure for children with disabilities. Eleven government primary schools in Goa shut down during the academic year 2019-20. Hundreds of other government primary schools in Goa have an enrolment of 20 or fewer students in Classes I to IV. Two to eight such schools shut each year for want of students. Across the state, an increasing migration of students from government primary to privately-managed aided schools is being witnessed. This is seeing government primary schools shut down year after year. During the academic year 2018-19, 19 government primary schools had closed down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fresh-lease-of-life-for-59-govt-primary-schools-as-major-repair-works-on-anvil/articleshow/78881585.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi sent back by police||Hyderabad: On a day when there was high drama at the residence of BJP Dubbaka by-poll candidate Raghunandan Rao's relative's house in Siddipet pertaining to seizure of Rs 18.67 lakh cash on Monday, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay was prevented from entering the town. Sanjay, who started his journey from Karimnagar in support of Raghunandan, was stopped by police on the outskirts of Siddipet.  “He was sent back to Karimnagar keeping in view law and order situation in Siddipet," Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis said. The district police have taken 14 persons into preventive custody. Union home minister Amit Shah called him up and enquired about the situation. A team of BJP members would meet chief electoral officer on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-sent-back-by-police/articleshow/78880387.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University tussle: VC can give and take back his powers, says EC nominee||NEW DELHI: A week into the chaos at Delhi University, the camp supporting vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi has refused to back down. Sources in the university said that P C Jha, registrar appointed by Tyagi while on leave, was planning to send letters to all members of the DU administration and college principals asking them to follow the institute’s statutes and laws “in an attempt to claim legitimacy”. On Saturday, the Union education ministry had written to DU of being “in receipt of a letter from one P C Jha claiming to be registrar of the university. It is requested to ascertain who this person is and if he turns out to be an employee of DU, then strict action as per DU Act 1922 be undertaken.” On Monday, Rajkumar Bhatia, nominee of the chancellor on DU’s Executive Council, called out the ministry for “intruding in a university matter”. Bhatia, who was appointed in August, said that Tyagi was in the right. “I think the vice-chancellor is legally correct in what he is doing. The only solution is that the VC and the ministry should find a solution together. But the ministry has intervened in this matter,” Bhatia asserted. Geeta Bhatt, the pro vice-chancellor also appointed by Tyagi, added that “all appointments by the VC are as per the statutes of the university”. Bhatia further said that contrary to claims, the VC does not need a medical certificate to resume duties after leave. “I don’t think there is a rule for a VC who was unwell to show a medical certificate to come back to work. It is the VC who deputes his responsibilities to the pro vice-chancellor to run the university and he can very well take them back when he returns to work. The vice-chancellor can give and take back his powers.” A letter from the ministry last week had stated that if Tyagi wanted to join office, he had to submit a medical fitness certificate. Bhatia said, “Tyagi was back and had started to work after taking over charge. There was an EC meeting on October 10, which was called by pro VC PC Joshi. The VC, however, asked Joshi to postpone the meeting and the pro VC agreed and postponed it for 10 days. I was at that meeting and I heard him say this. If the VC’s authority was intact on October 10, how is it that his authority was then lost by October 21 on the claim that hadn’t submitted a medical certificate?” This sequence was corroborated by EC elected member Rajesh Jha, who said that “the pro VC conveyed to us on October 10 that the VC said that the meeting should be convened 10 days later and that he would chair the meeting then.” According to a senior university official, a letter from the ministry secretary on October 19 was addressed to Tyagi as VC. “This begs the question why just a few days later, the ministry changed its stance on Tyagi’s status. If these DU members are opposing the VC, then they are indulging in insubordination and strict action must be taken against them,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-tussle-vc-can-give-and-take-back-his-powers-says-ec-nominee/articleshow/78881626.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Support Left forces to protect secularism: CPM leader V S Achuthanandan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Only a government in which Left and secular forces have considerable clout can protect India’s secularism and work for the upliftment of the downtrodden, said veteran CPM leader and former CM V S Achuthanandan. VS, who turned 97 last week, was remembering martyrs on the eve of Punnapra-Vayalar struggle on his Facebook page. “When we recall our memories about Punnapra-Vayalar martyrs, what we can do is to pledge our commitment to strengthen the Left and secular forces which are committed to the people,” VS said in his message to followers. VS, who has been confined to home because of ill health and Covid-19 crisis, had last communicated to followers on August 31, on the eve of Thiru Onam festival. Then he had reminded everyone to focus on extreme care during celebrations held in the time of pandemic. “I am sad that I still can’t address you in person because of my health condition and Covid-19. But I am here today to remind you all about Punnapra-Vayalar struggle which still remains as a thrilling episode in people’s struggles,” he said. “Punnapra-Vayalar was a political struggle. It is one of the major mass movements in India, on a par with peasant struggles of Malabar. The protest was against the Travancore Diwan who tried to draft an American model constitution and keep Travancore as an independent nation. The strike was against this,” said VS in the post. Recalling the run up to the protest, VS, who was one of the organisers of the struggle, said it was in that struggle that the alliance of peasants and workers had become operational first in the country. “In Alappuzha, beedi workers, toddy tappers and coir workers all cooperated with agriculture workers to resist Diwan’s agenda. The Leninist perspective of worker-peasant alliance was demonstrated at Punnapra-Vayalar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/support-left-forces-to-protect-secularism-vs/articleshow/78879139.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five arrested for theft at businessman’s house||HYDERABAD: Five citizens of Nepal were arrested by Rachakonda police on Monday for allegedly committing theft at a businessman’s house in Nacharam a week ago. Police recovered 9 tolas gold, Rs 1.49 lakh cash and two wrist watches from their possession. The accused were identified as Maya, Rajesh Chabilal Soni, Hema Prasad, Nirmal Saud and Visna Sunar. On October 19, the local police had received a complaint from a businessman, Praveen Kumar, that two of his servants, Arjun and Maya, mixed sedatives in the family’s food and fled with 18 tolas gold, 40 tolas silver and Rs 10 lakh. “We nabbed Maya in Lucknow but Arjun is still missing,” Rachakonda CP Mahesh Bhagwat said. Based on her confession, police nabbed remaining four accused in West Marredpally. The accused were helped by two accomplices Ratan and Jagath. Police said they have launched a manhunt to nab the absconding accused . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-arrested-for-theft-at-businessmans-house/articleshow/78880391.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Support Left forces to protect secularism: CPM leader V S Achuthanandan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Only a government in which Left and secular forces have considerable clout can protect India’s secularism and work for the upliftment of the downtrodden, said veteran CPM leader and former CM V S Achuthanandan. VS, who turned 97 last week, was remembering martyrs on the eve of Punnapra-Vayalar struggle on his Facebook page. “When we recall our memories about Punnapra-Vayalar martyrs, what we can do is to pledge our commitment to strengthen the Left and secular forces which are committed to the people,” VS said in his message to followers. VS, who has been confined to home because of ill health and Covid-19 crisis, had last communicated to followers on August 31, on the eve of Thiru Onam festival. Then he had reminded everyone to focus on extreme care during celebrations held in the time of pandemic. “I am sad that I still can’t address you in person because of my health condition and Covid-19. But I am here today to remind you all about Punnapra-Vayalar struggle which still remains as a thrilling episode in people’s struggles,” he said. “Punnapra-Vayalar was a political struggle. It is one of the major mass movements in India, on a par with peasant struggles of Malabar. The protest was against the Travancore Diwan who tried to draft an American model constitution and keep Travancore as an independent nation. The strike was against this,” said VS in the post. Recalling the run up to the protest, VS, who was one of the organisers of the struggle, said it was in that struggle that the alliance of peasants and workers had become operational first in the country. “In Alappuzha, beedi workers, toddy tappers and coir workers all cooperated with agriculture workers to resist Diwan’s agenda. The Leninist perspective of worker-peasant alliance was demonstrated at Punnapra-Vayalar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/support-left-forces-to-protect-secularism-vs/articleshow/78888092.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 1,900 fresh cases, lowest in 100 days||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,901 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, the lowest single-day count in over 100 days after 1,933 cases recorded on July 12. While the cumulative caseload rose to 8,08,924, the toll jumped to 6,606 as 19 more people died of the disease on Monday. Altogether, 3,972 patients were declared cured and there are currently 28,770 active cases in the state. The cumulative recoveries stand at 7,73,548, translating to a recovery rate of 96 %. Nellore district achieved a near 99% recovery rate, while it was over 98% in Kurnool and Vizianagaram. Andhra Pradesh tested 51,544 Covid-19 samples on Monday. This reflects a case positivity rate of 3.7%, the lowest positivity rate in several months. West Godavari reported 397 new cases on Monday, followed by East Godavari 313 and Chittoor 289. For the first time in months, eight districts recorded less than 100 cases with Srikakulam registering as low as 18 cases and Anantapur 21 cases. East Godavari continued to lead the table with 1.13 lakh cumulative infections. West Godavari stood in the distant second place with 83,224 cases. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 76.21 lakh Covid-19 samples with an overall case positivity rate of 10.6%. The mortality rate stood at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-1900-fresh-cases-lowest-in-100-days/articleshow/78880392.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Dasara prayers across Hyderabad, but celebrations remain subdued||HYDERABAD: The festival of Dasara, which symbolises victory of good over evil, was celebrated in the city with religious fervour and the usual enthusiasm on Sunday. Clad in their festive best, people thronged temples from the crack of dawn to worship Goddess Durga and offered special pujas to mark the day. Temples across the city were decked up with lights and flowers. The burning of effigies of Ravana was also organised in some localities. Police imposed traffic curbs on some roads in view of the immersion ceremony of Goddess Durga. “The celebrations this year were subdued, but we offered special pujas in temples by following safety norms. I prayed that the pandemic ends soon,” said M Pradeep, a resident of Balkampet. On Monday too, several people were seen enjoying the festivities at pandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dasara-prayers-across-city-but-celebrations-remain-subdued/articleshow/78880403.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Roof collapse kills 5 in Wanaparthy||HYDERABAD: Five members of a family died and two others suffered injuries when the mud roof of their ancestral house collapsed at Buddharam village in Wanaparthy district on Sunday. Family members of Ch Narasimha, a former grocer from Buddharam village, were gathered at his house on Saturday for his death anniversary. Some family members were sleeping inside the house. The mud roof of the ancestral house had become weak due to recent incessant rain and during the early hours of Sunday, the roof suddenly collapsed. The deceased were identified as Narasimha’s widow Ch Manemma, 68, her daughters-in-law, Supraja, 40, Umadevi, 38, Supraja’s daughters, Vyshnavi, 14, and Akshaya, 12. Supraja’s husband Kumaraswamy suffered severe injuries and he is currently undergoing treatment at a local hospital. “Kumaraswamy suffered multiple injuries and his condition is critical. Another family member suffered minor injury,” Wanaparthy circle inspector (CI) Surya Naik said. Kumaraswamy, who lost his wife and two daughters in the mishap, runs a grocery store in Gadwal. He along with family members of three of his brothers gathered at their native place for his father’s first death anniversary. “No one was staying at the ancestral house for the past few months. The victims would have left the village on Sunday morning,” the inspector said. A case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/roof-collapse-kills-5-in-wanaparthy/articleshow/78880407.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP & TRS using money power: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress has charged both BJP and TRS of indulging in money politics to win the Dubbak by-poll. Referring to reported cash seizure at BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao’s relative’s house on Monday, former MP V Hanumanth Rao said both TRS and BJP were trying to buy voters with money power while Congress was banking on the good work done by the party between 2009 and 2014 when the people of Dubbak voted for Congress candidate Cheruku Muthyam Reddy’s victory in the 2009 assembly polls. “ I have never seen such huge spending of money in a by-poll in my entire political career,” Rao said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-trs-using-money-power-cong/articleshow/78880400.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP luring voters with cash: Minister||HYDERABAD: Reacting to the seizure of Rs 18 lakh in Siddipet, finance minister T Harish Rao said the BJP is trying to lure voters by distributing money in Dubbak since it has failed to enlist their support. “After the money was seized from the relatives of BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao, BJP leaders are raising a hue and cry instead of cooperating with cops,” Harish Rao said at a meeting in Mirdoddi village on Monday evening. He said if BJP leaders were not guilty, why were not they cooperating with police. He alleged that some BJP rowdy elements even snatched the seized amount from the cops. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-luring-voters-with-cash-min/articleshow/78880394.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Suspense over sectt contract to continue||HYDERABAD: The suspense over which of the two construction companies will get the contract to build the new secretariat complex is likely to continue for a few more days. Though the roads and buildings (R&B) department officials had opened the financial bids of Larsen and Toubro (L&T) and Shapoorji Pallonji on Friday itself, the only two agencies in the race, they did not announce the name of the lowest bidder. As per the government rules any bids of over Rs 10 crore value, the R&B department has to refer it to the Commissionerate of Tenders (CoT) for its scrutiny and final approval. “Due to the festival holidays, the financial bids could not be forwarded to CoT. They will be sent to CoT on Tuesday,” an official said. The CoT comprising engineering-in-chiefs of various departments will scrutinise the financial bids and see if the R&B department has followed all the rules. After verifying all the documents, the CoT will either announce the lowest bidder or send its decision to R&B. This procedure may take two to three days as the ENCs of various department have to come together at a meeting. Though several firms including Tata Projects, Mumbai-based JMC projects and Uttar Pradesh Project Ltd had attended the pre-bid meeting on October 7, these companies did not submit their tender documents. Larsen and Toubro (L&T) and Shapoorji Pallonji are the only two construction giants who submitted the tenders for the construction of the new secretariat complex, Telangana state government’s prestigious project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspense-over-sectt-contract-to-continue/articleshow/78880397.cms||Roushan Ali
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Green gas to fuel kitchens, vehicles in Ayodhya soon||LUCKNOW: Poised to become a leading tourist destination of the world, Ayodhya will also get natural gas supply for cooking and transportation purposes. The temple town has been included in the ninth round of bidding undertaken by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board earlier this year. The responsibility has been given to service provider Green Gas Limited (GGL) which is already providing eco-friendly fuel to Lucknow and Agra. GGL is operating in four geographical areas, providing piped natural gas to over one lakh consumers and also running 61 CNG stations. “Along with Ayodhya, PNGRB has allowed us to expand base in Sultanpur and Unnao,” said managing director of GGL Sanjeev Medhi. GGL is a joint venture of GAIL and IOCL which working to realize the government’s vision of increasing the share of natural gas in primary energy mix from 6.5% to 15% by 2030. Director, GGL, AK Tewari said, “The company has set an aggressive target for capital expenditure to increase supply of natural gas in Lucknow, Ayodhya, Agra and Unnao for 2020-21. “GGL plans to invest Rs 1,600 crore in the development of city gas distribution network in all its authorized geographical areas in next five years.” “Categorization of Ayodhya as Smart city has become important for GGL. We will act as enabler towards development of Ayodhya. Besides setting up CNG stations, GGL will provide natural gas to domestic, industrial/commercial entities which will not only lead employment generation but will also contribute in clean and green environment and development of the temple town,” he said. He said contracts had been placed and work was going on in full swing taking all Covid-19 precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/green-gas-to-fuel-kitchens-vehicles-in-ayodhya-soon/articleshow/78881624.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Youth caught sneaking out Rs 14 Lakh in foreign currency||CHENNAI: A 26-year-old man who attempted to smuggle foreign currencies worth Rs 13.7 lakh by hiding it in his underwear was caught at the city airport’s international terminal by customs officials on Monday. He was to board a flight to Dubai. Officials seized a total of US$18,600 in denomination equivalent to Rs 13.7 lakh. The air intelligence unit from the office of the commissioner of customs received a tip off that a passenger may be smuggling foreign currency out of India in a flight bound to Dubai. Immediately, the team acted on it and intercepted Syed Ali at the departure terminal after immigration clearance. Upon personal search, they found three bundles wrapped with black adhesive tape and hidden in his underwear. The bundles had US$15,600 while another US$3,000 was found concealed in a cigarette packed kept in the man’s handbag, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/youth-caught-sneaking-out-rs-14l-in-foreign-currency/articleshow/78881623.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad teenager kills 5-year-old after stunt goes wrong||HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old boy allegedly killed a minor boy in an incident that happened on October 15. The victim’s skeletal remains were recovered by the police on Monday. According to the police, the victim, aged five, had sustained an injury while performing for a share chat video. “As the boy began crying due to the injury, the accused, the victim’s neighbour, panicked and smothered him to death and later dumped the body in the bushes near Outer Ring Road,” police said. At 7.30 pm on October 15, Shamirpet police received a complaint from an auto driver, Syed Yousuf, of Shamirpet stating that his son Adhiyan, who had left home in the morning to play, was missing, following which police registered a missing case. During the investigation, on October 23, the 17-year-old accused, a dhaba worker, who lived in the same building as the victim’s, contacted the house owner, Chand Basha, whose phone number was printed on the missing boy posters. Posing as the boy’s kidnapper, the accused demanded Rs 15 lakh ransom from the boy’s family. Police tracked the cell phone number and identified the accused. In one of the CCTV camera footages of Shamirpet, the accused was seen carrying a bag on October 15. During the interrogation, the accused confessed to having throttled the boy to death before dumping his body in the bushes adjacent to ORR service road at Shamirpet. “The boy sustained a head injury when the accused was recording videos of stunts for a share chat app. As the boy began to cry, the accused panicked thinking that his parents would reprimand him and hence killed the boy,” Shamirpet inspector S Santosham said. Police recovered the boy’s remains from the bushes and arrested the accused under Section 302 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teenager-kills-5-year-old-after-stunt-goes-wrong/articleshow/78880417.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Collectors review poll preparations||HYDERABAD: Two new collectors, posted to Siddipet and Medak, began taking preparations forward for the bypoll. Bharathi Hollikeri, who assumed office as Siddipet district collector in place of P Venkata Rami Reddy, and M Hanumantha Rao, who took over as Medak district collector, reviewed measures for poll. P Venkata Rami Reddy, who was Siddipet collector and was also holding charge as Medak district collector, was shifted to Sangareddy in place of Hanumantha Rao. Bharathi, who was collector of Mancherial, took charge and held meet with officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collectors-review-poll-preparations/articleshow/78880405.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 27, 2020||Goa||New app soon for booking tours to Dudhsagar falls||PONDA: Tourists wishing to visit the scenic Dudhsagar waterfalls will soon be able to book their individual tours via a mobile application. “The Dudhsagar Tour Operators’ Association (DTOA) is in the process of developing an app and the booking through the app would be in addition to the existing online booking via a portal,” said the association’s chairman Dilip Mairekar. Explaining the difference between making a booking through the portal and the app, Mairekar said one has to book an entire jeep via the portal, but through the app the visitors would be able to book a single seat. Additional principal chief conservator of forests Santosh Kumar said the app would also facilitate the visitors to pay all amounts online at a time. Presently, a person who visits the falls has to make payments separately. Jeep charges have to be paid to the DTOA, gate entry amount to the forest booth and life jacket charges to the local village panchayat. “Once the app is launched, all payments will be online and no visitor would need to use hard cash, which would be more safer during the ongoing Covid pandemic,” said Kumar, who is also the chief wildlife warden. As per DTOA records, since Sunday, only 270 tourists visited the waterfalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-app-soon-for-booking-tours-to-dudhsagar-falls/articleshow/78881638.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Three new damsels leave scientists abuzz||CHENNAI: She was first spotted resting on a twig by a little stream in a teagarden, clearly enjoying the serenity of the evergreen forests of the Meghamalai wildlife sanctuary in the Theni district of Tamil Nadu. Little did this damsel with the piercing blue eyes think she would be a protagonist in a zoological study released a year later. Protosticta sholai is her name and she is one of three species of damselflies discovered in biodiversity hotspots along the Western Ghats by a team of scientists from Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai. The other two species discovered were Protosticta cyanofemora from the Meghamalai and Aghastyamalai hills of Western Ghats of Tamil Nadu and Kerala; and Protosticta myristicaensis from Sharavati valley, Karnataka. The discoveries were published in the September edition of international peer reviewed journal Zootaxa. "Cyanofemora was named for the species’ distinct blue legs, while the names myristicaensis and sholai came from the places they were found," says K A Subramanian, scientist and officer in charge at the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Chennai. Subramanian, R Babu from the ZSI, Krushnamegh Kunte and Shantanu Joshi from the National Center for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, and Dr Dattaprasad Sawant from Mumbai embarked on the trail of the odonate a few years ago. Chance discovery to in-depth documentation took four years, say the scientists. Damselflies, like dragonflies, are found mainly near shallow, freshwater habitats but are smaller, more delicate, and weaker fliers. Larvae of damselflies are usually in water and the adults on land. "They are sensitive to any slight change in water conditions. They disappear if the water is polluted," says Subramanian. "These discoveries are important for identifying conservation priority areas," says Joshi. "The Myristica swamps, where Protosticta myristicaensis was discovered, for instance are one of the most threatened forest swamp ecosystems in the country.." The disappearance of the swamps could quite literally leave this damsel in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-new-damsels-leave-scientists-abuzz/articleshow/78881656.cms||Kamini Mathai
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Best before tag? Most shops comply, some find sweet ways around rule||NEW DELHI: Since October 1, Food Safety and Standard Authority of India (FSSAI) has made it compulsory for sweet shops to display a ‘best before date’ to prevent sale of stale wares. TOI did a reality check on Monday and found many of the shops it visited complying after a manner, while a few had taken recourse to innovation to circumvent the order. The popular Hira Sweets in Connaught Place had the mandatory label on every displayed tray of sweets. However, the compliance was through small stickers with faint numbers. “We visited other shops on October 1 and found they had put up the stickers in a similar fashion,” said the store manager. Senior manager Satendra Singh asserted, “We have been abiding by the rules since day one. We also make sure the stickers are changed regularly.” Many store owners, swearing they only stocked the best sweets, opined that the labelling was redundant because they were always conscious of product quality. “We have been running the shop for over 40 years and customers keep returning. We have a legacy of always informing our customers of a product’s viability,” shrugged an executive at one shop. “Nonetheless, we are following the orders.” At Bengali Market, Bengali Sweet House had prominently placed stickers on every tray on display. Girish Agarwal, shop partner, claimed that as soon as FSSAI issued the directive, the shop placed an order for the stickers and ensured that October 1 onwards, customers could see every tray to find out till when the sweets could be eaten. “With or without the sticker, we have always informed our customers of the shelf life of the sweets they buy from us. We did it verbally earlier, now we put it on display,” Agarwal maintained. The neighbouring Nathu’s Sweets did not append the date, contending it was okay to advise “Best before 24 hours” or “Best before seven days”, etc. When asked on which day the prescribed safety period started, a shop executive explained, “It was a three-line notification from FSSAI, which led to confusion. From October 1 itself, we mentioned the number of days the product would remain edible. We realised the miscommunication when someone from the health department told us we had to insert actual dates, not just hours or days.” Kashish Gupta, shop owner, added, “We ordered a set of 400 new stickers on Sunday evening and by Tuesday, we will start using them.” Kaleva Sweets in Gole Market had neatly displayed the rates followed by the date of expiry on all its products. “We have always provided utmost transparency to our customers and now continue to do so by displaying the expiry dates,” said a shop manager. “We don’t want anyone to fall sick after eating our sweets. And normally nothing remains unsold, but if some sweets do, we will donate them to organisations that can use them.” Smaller sweet shops seem to be getting along without any overt compliance with the validity labels. In south Delhi’s Chittaranjan Park, for instance, the trays in many stores did not have information. “There was a huge crowd and we did not have time to put up the stickers,” defended a worker at one of them. In the adjacent shop, a staffer claimed the stickers had been ordered, but hadn’t been delivered yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/best-before-tag-most-shops-comply-some-find-sweet-ways-around-rule/articleshow/78880419.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||BTech: Conventional courses preferred over emerging tech||HYDERABAD: Newly introduced courses in emerging technologies, such as data sciences, cybersecurity, internet of things, have received lukewarm response from BTech aspirants, who instead swore by conventional computer science engineering (CSE), in the first phase of seat allotment. Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) declared the first phase of seat allotment for engineering courses on October 24. Consequent to All India Council of Technical Education’s approval and commissioner of technical education’s recommendations, the state government granted permission to about 18,210 seats in all emerging and cutting edge technology courses with an additional financial commitment of Rs 33.85 crore per annum from the ensuing academic year. Despite this, merely 50% seats were filled in the emerging technology courses. College managements attributed the poor response among students to confusion over separation of emerging technology courses from the core CSE branch. “Students were mistaken that the said courses are not connected with CSE and hence preferred conventional courses,” said KVK Rao, general secretary of All India Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions, who wrote a letter to the TSCHE seeking placing of all courses under a single bracket. Despite having specialized courses in emerging technologies, many students preferred the conventional CSE. It was evident from the fact that 95 % seats in CSE were filled in the first phase of allotment. “By choosing CSE, I can study all new technologies. Therefore, I preferred CSE over other specialized courses,” said Balakrishna, an aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/btech-conventional-courses-preferred-over-emerging-tech/articleshow/78880406.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||CM’s maize move jolts Congress, BJP||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement that the government will procure maize at Rs 1,850 per quintal from farmers has come as a jolt to the Congress and BJP who are trying to turn the tables on the ruling TRS in the Dubbak Assembly constituency.  The chief minister’s announcement came as a major relief to the maize farmers. Though the feeling in both the Congress and the BJP camps in Dubbak is that the CM’s announcement may influence the maize farmers to vote for TRS, none of the opposition parties have lodged a complaint with the election officials about the issue. On the contrary, both the BJP and the Congress have adopted a counter strategy and are telling the farmers that it is due to the pressure exerted by the opposition parties that forced CM KCR to announce a maize procurement plan. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy termed it as a moral victory for the people of Dubbak. “KCR had expressed anger over farmers who cultivated maize and claimed that it was being sold for Rs 1,200 per quintal. However, KCR was forced to announce Rs 1,850 per quintal price for maize fearing the backlash of people in the bypoll,” Uttam said. Chief electoral officer Shashank Goel said t they have not received any complaint from political parties nor any communication from state government so far on the issue. “We will look into the issue of whether MSP for maize would be applicable to farmers in Dubbak constituency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cms-maize-move-jolts-cong-bjp/articleshow/78880411.cms||Roushan Ali
October 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt committed to ensuring justice to Walayar girls: CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government is committed to ensuring justice for the mother of the two minor girls who were allegedly sexually abused and murdered in Walayar. “I had given this assurance to the mother of the children when they had come and met me one year back,” he said. The government had taken the initiative to continue the legal fight against the lower court decision to acquit all the accused in the case. The government had approached the high court against the lower court verdict in 2019 itself. In addition to this, the appeals filed by the mother of the victims are also before the high court. It was the government that requested the high court to order the arrest of those who have been acquitted by the lower court. At present, the government cannot order an investigation into the case through some other agency. Only if the high court quashes the lower court order and asks for a reinvestigation, then the government can go for it, said the chief minister. The government has already appealed before the high court that there should not be any delay in considering this case. It has been made it clear that the case will be considered again on November 9. On the lapses occurred during the investigation, the chief minister said the government had appointed a commission headed by retired judge P K Haneefa to probe into it. The report has been tabled before the Assembly. Based on this report, the special prosecutors in the case have been removed. The police officers against whom the commission has recommended action is under the consideration of the government. Steps would be taken soon to initiate action against them, said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-committed-to-ensuring-justice-to-walayar-girls-cm/articleshow/78879151.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||AAP dares BJP MLAs to take a stand on double-tracking||PANAJI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has challenged the seven MLAs in whose constituencies the double-tracking of the South Western railway line passes to declare their stand on the matter. AAP has asked BJP MLAs whether they would resign from the party if the party does not accept their objections to the project. In a letter to the MLAs, the party questioned BJP’s move to push the project that their own constituents have been protesting against. Speaking to reporters, spokespersons Sandesh Telekar and Venzy Viegas pointed out that Goans have, for some time, been opposing the double-tracking of the railway line which is actually aimed at only helping Adani transport coal from MPT to neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. The party pointed out that Goans were not consulted when the project was envisaged or approved, asserting that Goans should be the final decision-makers in the matter and have every right to object to the project. While asserting that the people of Goa should be the final decision-makers about their future the party strongly opposed the double-tracking of the South Western railway line. A team of AAP workers submitted memorandas to the MLAs of Vasco, Mormugao, Dabolim, Cortalim, Nuvem, Curchorem, and Sanvordem and asked them to clear their stand on the projects. As MLAs, they should get this project cancelled within 15 days or give their resignation as MLA and must either stand with the Goans or resign, the party further challenged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-dares-bjp-mlas-to-take-a-stand-on-double-tracking/articleshow/78881627.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Applicants for Lucknow University teaching posts get option to appear for interview online||LUCKNOW: Applicants for 180 teaching posts at Lucknow University will have the ease of appearing for the interview from anywhere in the country. In view of the pandemic situation, the varsity has decided to give them the option to appear for interviews in both online and offline modes. Similarly, experts nominated in the selection committees will also be given the online option and be part of the process while staying at home. It is for the first time that the online mode will be used in LU for recruitment through duly formed selection committees. The interview hall will be equipped with all facilities for online interviews. Participation of candidates from diverse backgrounds and different parts of the country increases the quality of selection. “I think we are the only university in the country to have adopted the hybrid model of online and offline interviews for bulk appointments,” said LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. “Shortlisted candidates will get the options of appearing interviews in person as well as through video conferencing which will help hundreds of applicants who have applied for the posts from across the country”, he added. The last date for submitting applications online was October 19. Candidates who have registered online can send the hard copies of their applications and documents through post by October 31. Thereafter, the eligible ones will be shortlisted and called for the interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/applicants-for-lu-teaching-posts-get-option-to-appear-for-interview-online/articleshow/78881628.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Five booked for ‘disrupting harmony’ on Dussehra night||PILIBHIT: At least five named and a few unidentified persons were booked for disrupting peace and harmony by burning an effigy of Ravan on a land adjacent to a shrine in Pilibhit, on Dussehra, on Sunday night. The incident led to a heated argument between two groups. Police and administrative officials, including the SP Jai Prakash Yadav and the city magistrate Arun Kumar Singh, reached the place and brought things under control. The complainant, Vishesh Kumar, posted as sub inspector at Pilibhit Kotwali police station, noticed that a few locals were burning the effigy of Ravan at 9.30 pm without any prior permission. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said that five named and a few unidentified locals were booked under IPC sections 295 (making defilement of a place of worship or an object held sacred, with intent to insult the religion of a class of persons), 143 (unlawful assembly) along with certain sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-booked-for-disrupting-harmony-on-dussehra-night/articleshow/78875284.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hubballi||Pandemic, China conflict delay induction of e-bus to NWKRTC||HUBBALLI: Unforeseen and unprecedented events this year have slammed the brakes on the induction of electric buses to the Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HDBRTS) fleet. As part of its efforts to mitigate pollution and encourage eco-friendly vehicles in public transport, the central government had, under the second phase of Faster Adoption and Manufacture of Electric Vehicles (FAME) India initiative, had sanctioned funds to Hubballi-Dharwad for procurement of up to 50 electric buses. In fact, an agency had met all the necessary requirements and had been selected for the implementation of the project, which entailed induction of electric buses to the North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) fleet. However, the clash between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army in Galwan earlier this year meant that the procurement of buses had to be put on hold since the Indian government barred import of key electric components from the neighbouring country.  NWKRTC’s deputy chief mechanical engineer M Rajkumar pointed out that, for the electric buses that the transport agency was slated to procure, nearly 90% of the components were to be imported from China. “We were about to invite bids for the procurement of buses when restrictions imposed on the import of components from China compelled us to halt the process,” Rajkumar said. He said that NWKRTC had sought a clarification from the government as to whether or not they could float a fresh tender for procurement of buses. “The process was initiated in August 2019, but the advent of the pandemic delayed its completion,” said Rajkumar, adding that the buses were to start plying on the roads of the twin cities by December, a prospect that now seems very unlikely. The Union ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises had sanctioned funds for 5,595 electric buses to 64 cities, Hubballi-Dharwad aong them, across the country under the second phase of FAME India scheme. Since the electric buses were meant for inter-city commute, the vehicles were scheduled to ply on the HDBRTS corridor. “There are concerns about the operational costs involved in maintenance of electric buses. If the costs are high, then NWKRTC will operate these buses along shorter routes in Belagavi or Gadag,” Rajkumar added. However, regular bus commuters in Hubballi-Dharwad are disappointed with the delay in the induction of these eco-friendly buses into the NWKRTC fleet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-strained-ties-with-china-delay-induction-of-electric-buses-to-nwkrtc/articleshow/78879458.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Seven firms being considered for Kadapa steel plant: Official||Vijayawada: Seven major companies have shown interest in taking up the Kadapa Steel Plant, said industries special chief secretary Karikala Valavan. He briefed chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy at a review meeting at the Tadepalli camp office of the chief minister on industries’ progress in the state. The senior officer told the chief minister said that the department was now getting ready to seek proposals from the seven companies. The department would require at least seven weeks to study the proposals and finalise the industry to take up the construction of the steel plant. Once the agreements are signed with the selected company, the works would start in four to five weeks, the senior officer said. Responding to this, the CM told the officials to speed up the process and ensure that the work for the steel plants starts in the next 10 months or even at the earliest. He told the officials to call for letters of interest and proposals from the companies and complete the process in the next two weeks. He reiterated his commitment to start the steel plant at the earliest. The chief minister also reviewed the progress of works in the electronics manufacturing cluster at Kopparti village on the outskirts of Kadapa town. The chief minister directed the officials to design the cluster to provide employment to at least 30,000 people from the area. The officials told the chief minister that the Dixon Technologies (India) limited had come forward to invest Rs 300 crore in the cluster. Talks were being held with the Dixon to increase the investment besides inviting other companies, the officials said. The chief minister told the officials that skill training colleges are to be started soon in even Lok Sabha constituency in the next few months. He wanted the officials to plan the start of the industries in the state to provide employment to the people coming out of these skill development colleges from the first batch itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seven-firms-being-considered-for-kadapa-steel-plant-official/articleshow/78879841.cms||Gopi Dara
October 27, 2020||Amaravati||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to seek Centre’s support to complete Polavaram project||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will write a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking full financial support for Polavaram project. The chief minister will explain the need of the Centre to keep its commitment for completing the national project and the state government has no role to play in meeting the costs of the project. The chief minister will highlight the issue of implementation of Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package for the oustees as the project would not be completed without implementing the R&R. Speaking to media at the party office here on Monday, water resources minister P Anil Kumar Yadav said that the CM has decided to raise the issue of the finance ministry’s decision to take the cost of only irrigation component at all relevant forums and concerned authorities in New Delhi. He said that the state government was not in a position to take the cost of nearly Rs 30,000 crore for the implementation of the R&R package. “The state has very limited role in the completion of the project. It is the Centre’s commitment as Polavaram was declared a national project,” the water resources minister said. He said TDP president Chandrababu Naidu was lying to people on Polavaram issue. He said that the TDP government had duped people by not disclosing a decision by the Union cabinet in 2017 to take only irrigation cost. “The TDP was part of NDA and its ministers Ashok Gajapati Raju and Sujana Chowdary were present at the cabinet meeting which decided to bear only the irrigation component of Polavaram project. They did not express their dissent at the meeting,” Anil Kumar said. The water resources minister said that the TDP government spent only Rs 265 crore between 2014-16 and agreed to the special package announced by the Centre without getting any benefit to the state. He said that Naidu had dumped the state’s interests for his own gains by agreeing to the 2013-14 prices of irrigation component. “He (Naidu) was concerned only about minting monies from dam works,” Anil said. He said they would also be going to Delhi to appraise the facts to Union ministers and senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/jagan-to-seek-centres-support-to-complete-polavaram-project/articleshow/78879468.cms||Samdani MN
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Two held for staging theft to claim insurance||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police arrested two persons for stealing 350 bags of raw cashew worth Rs 24 lakh from a warehouse in Modavalasa under Denkada police station limits in Vizianagaram district. The duo committed the theft in order to claim insurance from the State Bank of India (SBI). The arrested were identified as D Vasudev Girish and G Manoj Kumar, business manager of the New Delhi-based Kissandhan Agri Financial Services Private Limited. Vizianagaram police chief B Raja Kumari said an employee at the firm, Manoj Kumar, on October 24 lodged a complaint that unidentified persons had stolen raw cashew nut from the warehouse in Modavalasa. Investigation revealed that on October 22, the cashew was loaded into a lorry and shifted from the warehouse to another location. It emerged that Vizianagaram-based V-One firm engaged in raw cashew trade had stored the bags in a warehouse belonging to Kissandhan Agri Financial Services at Modavalasa. Managing director of V-One N Viswanatham, DGM Vasudev Girish, AGM Ch Venkata Rao and Manoj Kumar of Kissandhan Agri Financial Services were involved in the bid to claim theft insurance of Rs 60 lakh from SBI and sell the stolen cashew. Police said V-One had availed a loan of Rs 1.6 crore from Kissandhan Agri Financial Services after depositing the cashew in the firm’s warehouse. However, V-One was unable to repay the loan after business slumped during the lockdown..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-held-for-staging-theft-to-claim-insurance/articleshow/78879950.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Office for driverless metro inaugurated||VISAKHAPATNAM: The tendering process for the Vizag light metro rail project will be completed by March 2021, said state municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana. The minister inaugurated the new regional office of the Andhra Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (APMRC) set up at the LIC Building in Vizag on Sunday. A unique feature of the project will be its driverless system. The metro will not have overhead electrical lines as is the case with other metro rails in the country. A third-rail system will supply 750 volts DC power. APMRC managing director NP Ramakrishna Reddy gave a presentation on the 140-kilometre-long metro project and modern tram corridors to people’s representatives of the district present, including tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao and MLAs T Nagi Reddy and Adeep Raj. Speaking to media after the inauguration, Botcha Satyanarayana said two separate detailed project reports (DPRs) are being prepared for the 79.91 km light metro rail system and 60.2-km modern tram system. “The private agency would submit the metro rail DPR by the second week of November and the modern tram DRP in December. CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has initiated branching out powers between three capital cities for inclusive development of all regions of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/office-for-driverless-metro-inaugurated/articleshow/78879985.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Power restored in two units of Srisailam plant||HYDERABAD: Two months after the Srisailam power station was shut down following a fire accident inside the plant, the Telangana Genco on Monday commissioned two units out of the total six units. Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy and CMD of Telangana Genco and Transco D Prabhakar Rao commissioned units I and II in the afternoon. Each of these units generate 150MW power. The minister said three more units would be brought into operation in next three months. “Since unit IV was completely damaged in the accident, it may take time to get it running in May 2021,” Jagadish Reddy said. In the August 20 mishap, in which nine persons were killed, units IV and VI were completely gutted. The officials estimated the loss at about Rs 100 crore. Genco had planned to restore power generation in two units (I&II) in the last month itself. But it was delayed as some of the engineers and Genco staff had tested positive for the coronavirus. The minister said the restoration works were done by the Genco staff. He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had been reviewing progress of the works. Meanwhile, the CID and the five-member internal committee headed by TSSDPCL CMD G Raghuma Reddy are yet to submit reports into the circumstances that led to the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-restored-in-two-units-of-srisailam-plant/articleshow/78880441.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Twitterati back 80-year-old man selling saplings in pouring rain||BENGALURU: Bengalureans did a ‘Baba Da Dhaba’ by coming together to help a street vendor selling saplings on Kanakapura Road after a tweet shared details about him early Monday morning. Recently, ‘ Baba Da Dhaba’ in Delhi got scores of people rushing to help a senior couple running it after someone tweeted a video of the Baba sharing his grief over lack of business. Bengaluru’s sapling seller Revana Siddappa, 80, struck a chord with people beyond the city. Bollywood actor Randeep Hooda shared the story urging people to go out and help him. Hey Bangalore .. do show some love .. he sits in front of Wular Fashion factory, JP Nagar, Sarakki Signal, Kanakapu… https://t.co/jdsfrt8pdj— Randeep Hooda (@RandeepHooda) 1603696519000“Hey Bangalore, do show some love. He sits in front of Wular Fashion factory, JP Nagar, Sarakki Signal, Kanakapura Road, Bangalore,” Hooda shared a post by another Twitter user, Shubham Jain, whose tweet has garnered over 4,000 likes and 1,500 shares. Images of senior citizen Siddappa selling saplings even as he took shelter from pounding rain under an umbrella triggered a tweet storm. Twitter users thronged his stall. While some people promised to visit the stall and purchase saplings, others suggested the movement be spread to other local vendors as well. Actor Samyukta Hornad, along with Changemakers of Kanakapura Road (a group of RWAs and NGOs on Kanakapura Road from Sarakki signal to NICE Road), also reached the spot to show support to Siddappa. By the end of the day, Changemakers of Kanakapura Road had provided Siddappa with a table, chair and a canopy with the help of donors. @_kanakapuraroad https://t.co/uL85uPB49f— Samyukta Hornad (@samyuktahornad) 1603709433000“We are buying canopy chairs and some stocks for him to sell. If anyone wants to help, you can reach out to us, we will pool together and help!” the group tweeted Abdul Aleem, co-founder, Changemakers of Kanakapura Road, told TOI they don’t want it to make a one-day affair but have a sustainable support system. “We raised money from donors to help him with regular material in the long term as well as visibility. He now has a board announcing the sale of medicinal saplings,” Aleem said, adding that vendors around him also approached them for help. “We plan to help vendors in need with a canopy and other support,” he said. Aleem explained that in just one hour, 15-20 people approached Siddappa, some making purchases, some paying him an advance for future purchases. “Siddappa is almost 80 years old and finds it difficult to make ends meet. We plan to help him with some steady employment with comfort within apartment complexes,” he said. Siddappa lives in Ramakrishna Nagar, 500 metres from where he sells saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/twitterati-back-80-yr-old-man-selling-saplings-in-pouring-rain/articleshow/78879983.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists kill villager in Telangana, cops claim he was courier||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old agriculturist was killed by Maoists after being branded as a police informer on Sunday in Telangana’s Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. But the local police claimed that the deceased was a Maoist courier. This is the second person to be killed by Maoists this month. On October 10, TRS activist Bheemeshara Rao was murdered inside his house in Mulugu district. Kothagudem police on Monday said that N Eshwar was strangulated to death by Maoists in Chhattisgarh before his body was shifted to Telangana and left in the middle of the road between Chennapuram and Gorukonda, which is a deeply forested area. Police also recovered a letter allegedly left by Maoists. “In the letter, Maoists claimed that Eshwar was killed since he was acting as a police informer,” an investigator said. Kothagudem district superintendent Sunil Dutt, however, claimed that Eshwar, who is from Mulugu district, was working as a courier for Maoist Insurgents. “He was a courier for state Maoist committee leaders Haribushan Damodhar and Chandranna. For the last several years, Eshwar was forced to work as a dalam member, but he recently refused to work. As a result, he was killed by Maoists,” said another officer probing the case. For the last three months, Maoists have been making attempts to revive their activities by frequently camping in forested areas in Kothagudem, Mulugu and Adilabad districts . They have been trying to win over local tribals by assuring they them to take up their issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-kill-villager-in-t-cops-claim-he-was-courier/articleshow/78880457.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Amaravati||PPA pegs project cost at Rs 47,726 crore||AMARAVATI: The Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) has confirmed that the revised cost of the Polavaram project is Rs 47,725.74 crore. It said the cost was estimated at 2017-18 price level and increased from Rs 29,027.95 crore (2013-14). In response to a RTI query posed by Saurabh Kumar of Vijayawada, PPA director (A&C) P Devender Rao last week (20.10. 2020) clarified that the state has no role in bearing the cost of the project. Rao said the state is acting as a facilitator to the Centre in completion of the project. He said that the Centre had so far released Rs 7,514 crore since 2014-15. According to the information provided by PPA, the Centre released Rs 250 crore in 2014-15, Rs .600 crore in 2015-16. Subsequently, funding of Polavaram has been shifted to Nabard through Director General of National Water Resources Development Authority (NWDA). The Centre through NWDA had released Rs 2,414 crore in 2016-17, Rs 2,000 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 1,400 crore in 2018-19. The PPA said that the Centre had released Rs 1850 crore during 2019-20 for Polavaram project. The PPA, however, claimed the Centre would provide 100% financial assistance to the extent of irrigation component as per the finance ministry’s memorandum of 30.09.2016. This memorandum was accepted by the Naidu regime. — Samdani MN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ppa-pegs-project-cost-at-rs-47726-crore/articleshow/78879527.cms||Samdani MN
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: NEET zero scorer admits she didn’t attempt any question||NAGPUR: The Amravati girl who had claimed that she received zero marks in NEET exam and approached Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court for revaluation, has disclosed that she had lied to her parents and actually had not attempted any question in the exam. Expressing disappointment over her misleading the court, a division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryavanshi imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 before allowing her to withdraw the plea. Earlier, petitioner Vasundhara Bhojane’s counsel Ashwin Deshpande informed HC the teenager had kept everyone in dark, including her parents, about the fact that she didn’t attempt even a single question. Bhojane’s lie came to fore after the National Testing Agency (NTA) that conducted the entrance exam, submitted her OMR sheet in the court through counsel Prithviraj Chavan which was totally blank. Even after NTA’s mark-sheet brought forth the reality, she wasn’t ready to accept. It was only after her counselling by lawyer Deshpande that she revealed everything to him stating that she was under “parents’ pressure” to score well. Deshpande then tendered an unconditional apology on her behalf before withdrawing the case. Claiming she was shocked to receive a zero scorecard, Bhojane had moved the court through Deshpande praying for revaluation of her answer-sheet manually or through software and declare the result. Contending that she was expecting a score of over 600/720 marks, Bhojane pointed out she had an excellent academic record with a score of 93.4% in Class 10 and 81.85% in Class 12 exams. She claimed her zero score was may be due to some technical discrepancy in evaluation process. Praying for directives to NTA to produce original copy of her ‘OMR’ (Roll No. 3111212189) before HC, the petitioner also requested for granting an interim stay on medical admission process till pendency of petition. Besides, NTA, Directorate General of Health Service at Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Department of Higher Education at Ministry of Human Resource Development, State Medical Education and Drugs Department secretary and Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) were the other respondents in the case. While issuing notices to respondents, Justices Chandurkar and Suryawanshi had kept the hearing for final disposal on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/girl-who-challenged-zero-score-in-neet-admits-she-didnt-attempt-any-question/articleshow/78880326.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Clean Ganga, Covid-19 norms for Magh Mela’||LUCKNOW: Reviewing the arrangements being made for the upcoming Magh Mela to be held in Prayagraj, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to complete all work on time. Yogi on Monday said that proper arrangements should be made for the Kalpvasis, keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols. He said that a detailed plan should be in place to ensure sanitation, sanitization and security at the venue. He has asked officials to coordinate with the Jal Shakti department to ensure that the water in the Ganga river during Magh Mela remains clean. The annual fair is scheduled to take place next to the river from January to early March. During this period, six days have been earmarked for bathing in the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/clean-ganga-covid-norms-for-magh-mela/articleshow/78881634.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||After Nayani, his wife too passes away||Hyderabad: Days after former state home minister and senior TRS leader Nayani Narasimha Reddy died of post-Covid complications, his wife Ahalya Reddy (64) breathed her last at Apollo Hospitals in the city on Monday. Sources said that the former minister’s wife had fully recovered from the Covid-19 infection but suffered extensive fibrosis of lungs. Ahalya was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on October 20 with lung inflammation and severe breathlessness. “Cause of death is post-Covid-19 multiple-organ dysfunction syndrome,” read a statement from Apollo Hospitals. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-nayani-his-wife-too-passes-away/articleshow/78880467.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||1 killed, 9 hurt in Ramdeora mishap||One woman died and nine others injured after a van carrying devotees from Jalore to Ramdeora overturned in front of Ramdeora police station early on Monday. All the injured were taken to Pokhran govt hospital where they are being treated. According to police, Ruparam Devasi, a resident of Bhavrani in Jalore, along with his family, was coming for darshan to Ramdeora when the tyre of the van burst on Monday morning and the vehicle overturned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-killed-9-hurt-in-ramdeora-mishap/articleshow/78880418.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Caught performing bike stunts? Sign Rs 2 lakh bond||BENGALURU: Punishment has got more stringent for stunt riders caught in the act. They have to sign a bond of Rs 2 lakh, undertaking they will never repeat the offence. In a first-of-its-kind move, traffic police recently booked 28 motorbike riders under section 107 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and made them sign a bond of Rs 2 lakh each. If any of them is caught performing bike stunts again, s/he will have pay the amount in a court of law, failing which they will be imprisoned for a few months. Similarly, four garage owners were booked under section 110 of CrPC for abetment, for allegedly modifying bike silencers. They too have been asked to sign a bond for the same amount. Last week, traffic police carried out a special drive against stunt riders and booked 48 of them under IPC section 279 (rash and negligent driving) for wheelies and drag racing. Of them, 28 were found performing stunts in crowded places, risking others. “These offenders were booked under section 107 of CrPC,” said joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikanthe Gowda. “First, we book them under IPC. Then, we bring the matter to notice of the DCP (law and order) concerned, who possesses magisterial power to register another FIR against the offender under CrPC. The bond is valid for six months,” he said, adding DCPs will determine the bond amount and for now it has been fixed at Rs 2 lakh. Section 107 of CrPC provides for an executive magistrate to get a bond from any individual whom the authority fears can in any way breach public peace. A decision in this regard was made during a meeting chaired by police commissioner Kamal Pant, who had expressed concern over continuing cases of motorbike stunts despite cases slapped against offenders. “All these days, we would seize the vehicles and recommend suspension of their driving licences. Such offenders were fined Rs 2,000 in courts. In addition to all these actions, we will now book them under section 107 of CrPC,” he said. “Notices issued to garage owners were for abetting violations that fall under section 107 of CrPC. One such garage owner from Banashankari appeared before police on Monday and signed a Rs 2 lakh bond, undertaking he will not modify silencers in future, ” said a traffic police officer. Bizman who rode at 299 kmph signs Rs 5L bond On July 20 this year, a 30-year-old businessman was arrested for riding his sports motorbike at 299kmph on Electronics City elevated expressway on July 17. Recently, police booked T Muniyappan, a Domlur resident, under CrPC and undertook a bond of Rs 5 lakh from him. “His case was rare. We haven’t come across another motorist riding at 299 kmph in Bengaluru,” said DCP (traffic-east) M Narayana. What CrPC section 107 saysWhen an executive magistrate receives information that any person is likely to commit a breach of peace or disturb public tranquillity or to do any wrongful act that may probably occasion a breach of peace and is of opinion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding, he may, in the manner hereinafter provided, require such person to show cause why he should not be ordered to execute a bond, with or without sureties, for keeping peace for such period, not exceeding one year, as the magistrate thinks fit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/caught-performing-bike-stunts-sign-rs-2l-bond/articleshow/78879874.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Captured Tipeshwar tigress to undergo Covid test||Nagpur: The young tigress T2-C1, which was captured on September 23, from outside the Tipeshwar sanctuary, after it was found in conflict with humans, is to undergo a Covid-19 test as one of the veterinarians treating her at Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) at Seminary Hills tested positive on Saturday. The tigress was brought to TTC on September 23 for a 14-day quarantine before being shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre. However, it has remained there since in a 15x15 feet cage that has no crawl area to move. “It was being treated for a shoulder wound since the day it was brought from Andharwadi where it was captured. The tigress is stable and fit to be transported to Gorewada. On Saturday, we had decided to shift the animal but as the veterinarian treating her tested positive, the plan was dropped,” said forest officials. On March 13, 2020, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) issued an advisory to all zoos, transit treatment, and rescue centres keeping on testing. TTC Seminary Hills is also into treating several animals, reptiles and birds and there is movement of people bringing in rescued animals for treatment. Staff too is coming in contact with many people in different areas while performing rescue operations. At least a dozen TTC staff and volunteers have tested positive earlier and have recovered. “We will go for the Covid-19 test of the tigress. The samples will be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, which is one of the institutes authorized by CZA. We will shift the tigress to Gorewada only after the report,” said Prabhunath Shukla, deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), Nagpur. With this, the plan to release the tigress in the wild has been derailed for now. Further delay may mean the tigress will have to remain in captivity. A month ago, the state-level committee on re-wilding abandoned and captured tigers gave a go-ahead to its release in the wild but no decision has been taken by forest officials yet and the area where it will be released has also not been finalized. Acting PCCF (wildlife) MK Rao said, “A decision will be taken soon. We are ensuring there are no human imprints on the animal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/captured-tipeshwar-tigress-to-undergo-covid-test/articleshow/78880434.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Junior doctors want non-Covid services back||HYDERABAD: Citing the loss of clinical experience over the last seven months, junior doctors at the Gandhi Hospital, which is the nodal centre for the infection in the state, have threatened to boycott services from November 1 if non-Covid services are not started at the hospital. A representation in this regard was submitted to Director Medical Health (DME), Telangana, and superintendent, Gandhi Hospital, on Sunday. “Since there are no surgeries or other procedures related to any department which is not involved with Covid-19, junior doctors are just getting theoretical knowledge. Even when these batches pass out, they will lag behind in this crucial aspect,” a PG medical student from the hospital said. Nearly 350 junior doctors have threatened to boycott duties if their demand was not met, leaving senior residents, professors, assistant professors and associate professors to handle patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jr-docs-want-non-covid-services-back/articleshow/78880424.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||No MBBS admission for Maharashtra students till Nov 10: State to HC||NAGPUR: The Maharashtra government on Monday stated that it will not commence medical (MBBS) admissions for 70:30 seats in government medical colleges (GMCs) across the state till November 10. This means, there will be no admission for students from Maharashtra till that date. However, admissions under 15% all India quota would continue as and when they are announced. A statement in this regard was made by the government through senior counsel AV Anturkar in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court during hearing of a plea by medical aspirant Nikita Lakhotiya. She had challenged the government’s decision to abolish 70:30 regional quota through September 7 notification. While seeking adjournment till November 10, the senior counsel requested HC to grant time for a reply. His pleadings were opposed by petitioner’s counsel Ashwin Deshpande contending that if the MBBS admission process commenced, it would make their petition infructuous. A division bench comprising justices Atul Chandurkar and Nitin Suryavanshi then granted time to the government till November 10 after the senior lawyer made a statement that the admission process will not start till that date. The government had amended ‘Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Education Institutions (Regulation of admission to the full-time professional undergraduate medical and dental courses) Rules, 2016’ by substituting new Rule 9 to abolish the 70:30 quota that was in existence for 20 years. According to the petitioner, the right of candidates like her, who had 70% regional quota available for admissions and on whose basis preferences were to be given, is taken away by this decision. “Its abolition caused serious hardship to Vidarbha aspirants while Marathwada students would be benefited due to having just four colleges. There would be an encroachment on 70% seats that were earlier reserved region-wise. The objective of getting a share for regional candidates in the admission process in their respective regions is totally removed,” she argued. In 2016, the government’s Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) had defended 70:30 quota in the Nagpur bench while hearing a petition (No. 2426/2016). It had cited that the quota was introduced to protect students’ interest from three different development boards — Rest of Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada. In the 2018 winter session in Nagpur during Devendra Fadnavis-led government, the then opposition legislators from Congress and NCP had demanded abolition of 70:30 quota. They said due to less number of seats in Vidarbha and Marathwada as compared to Rest of Maharashtra (ROM), meritorious students suffered as they couldn’t get a seat even after scoring decent marks in NEET. The issue was raised through calling attention motion by members Amarsinh Pandit, Satish Chavan, Vikram Takle, Hemant Takle and others pointing out that students from backward regions of Vidarbha and Marathwada were suffering due to less number of seats. They demanded cancellation of 70:30 quota for at least these two regions. The then medical education minister Girish Mahajan replied that the system was prevalent since 1985 when Congress was in rule. During the last hearing on October 14, the government had defended its decision pointing out that there would be 285 seats for RoM due to abolition of the 70:30 quota. On other hand, Vidarbha students could get 96 additional seats while Marathwada will get 189 extra seats. The candidates from all three regions could get a chance to compete for 5,253 MBBS seats purely on merit basis, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-mbbs-admission-for-maha-students-till-nov-10-state-to-hc/articleshow/78880330.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three mayors protest for Rs 13,000 crore ‘dues’||NEW DELHI: The three mayors of the BJP-led municipal corporations sat on a dharna outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Monday demanding an audience with him over “pending dues not being released to them”. They claimed that over Rs 13,000 crore had not been released by Delhi government due to which they were unable to pay civic staff. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the post of mayor, who is called the first citizen of a city the world over, was being insulted by the AAP government. “We have been sitting outside the CM house for 10 hours, but Kejriwal hasn’t met us. The AAP government must release funds so that doctors and other employees can be paid,” he added. After around nine hours, health minister Satyendar Jain met the mayors. “The minister assured us that dues of the corporations would be cleared within 10 days. The mayors then called off the sit-in protest,” said Prakash. Prakash said a part of the basic tax collected by Delhi government was constitutionally required to be shared with the corporations. “AAP is making corona warriors and the general public suffer just to try and win the municipal polls,” he added. South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Singh said despite them sitting outside the CM residence from noon till late at night, the CM couldn’t even find 10 minutes to meet them. “Kejriwal has time for playing politics, but he cannot spare 10 minutes for the mayors. Front line warriors have not received their salary and the CM is taking the matter lightly,” she added. Singh added that the failure of the AAP government had led to suffering of families of municipal workers as they weren’t getting their salaries even during the festive season. “Delhi government ordered our teachers to distribute rations during the pandemic and sanitation workers to clean roads during the lockdown, but cannot release our legitimate funds. There is a shortfall of over Rs 400 crore this year alone,” she said. East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain said the three corporations were going through an economic crisis. “EDMC is owed Rs 2,985 crore by Delhi government, apart from Rs 956 crore for this year. The CM showed disrespect by refusing to meet us,” he added. While EDMC claimed that they are owed Rs 3,000 crore, north corporation and SDMC claimed the government had not paid them Rs 6,500 crore and Rs 4,500 crore, respectively. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said the mayors and senior officials would again try and meet Kejriwal on Tuesday. “Delhi BJP and the three civic bodies will not allow Delhi government to discriminate against employees of the corporations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-mayors-protest-for-rs-13000cr-dues/articleshow/78881642.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru suburban rail project: Pvt operator to run trains, fare to be comparable to metro’s||BENGALURU: Close on the heels of Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) approval, the railway board has sanctioned the 148km suburban rail project for Bengaluru with eight conditions. CCEA on October 7 had okayed the project at an estimated cost of Rs 13,926 crore and completion cost of Rs 15,767 crore. But Union railway minister Piyush Goyal at the press meet had refused to provide any information on the approval citing the model code of conduct in Bengaluru. This is the first time the railway ministry has officially acknowledged the nod. The project will comprise four corridors: KSR Bengaluru City-Yelahanka-Devanahalli (41Km), Byappanahalli-Yeshwantpur-Chikkabanavara (25Km), Kengeri-Cantonment-Whitefield (35Km) and Heelalige-Yelahanka-Rajanukunte (46Km). Of the total cost, the Centre and state will provide Rs 2,479 crore each; Rs 7,438 crore will be loaned from funding agencies. In a letter to Karnataka Rail Infrastructure Development Enterprises on October 21, the railway board said: “Completion period of the project is six years. However, corridor 1 (Bengaluru City-Yelahanka-Devanahalli with airport link) has been planned for completion within three years after this sanction.” This means suburban rail is likely to connect Kempegowda International Airport ahead of Metro’s Silk Board-KR Puram-KIA line, which is likely to be commissioned only by December 2024. In fact, ORR-KIA is yet to get approval from the Centre. The railway board has set eight conditions for the project. “The procurement, operation (with on-board train staff only) and maintenance of rolling stock should be done under PPP model,” it said. This means trains will be operated through a private player.  “K-RIDE shall have autonomy in fare fixation and fare will be kept comparable to Bengaluru Metro...” it further said. The minimum fare could be Rs 13 for less than 3km. In Chennai and Mumbai, a train trip for the same distance costs Rs 5 currently. The board asked K-RIDE to take steps to expedite execution, signing of concession agreement, land acquisition and financial closure. “The railway ministry’s contribution to equity is through budgetary support initially limited to Rs 500 crore. The rest is proposed to be financed through returns from monetisation of railway land. The vacant railway land parcels are expected to generate up to Rs 4,815 crore..” it said. It further stated that the state government has agreed to grant a Floor Space Index (ratio of total area to built-up area) of 5 on railway land in the corridor’s influence zone. A higher FSI means developers can build more on a given plot by adding floors. “The state will set up an empowered committee to facilitate railway ministry initiatives for monetisation of its land and timely realisation of benefits for the project,” it said. “The remaining expected Value Capture Financing from non-railway land to the tune of Rs 2,573 crore, which is expected to come through premium floor area ratio, land use charge and cess on approval of new layout, shall be taken towards non-fare box revenue to repay the debt,” the board said. It stated the state and railway ministry will provide land at nominal lease charges of Rs 1 per acre. Procurement packages will be formulated on engineering, procurement and construction basis. Eight conditions *Procurement, operation and maintenance of rolling stock should be done on PPP model *With railways’ contribution initially limited to Rs 500 crore, monetisation of railway land to be a major source of funds *State must grant Floor Space Index of 5 on railway land in the corridor’s influence zone *State must set up an empowered committee to facilitate monetisation of railway land *About Rs 2,573 crore, which will come through premium FAR, land use charge and cess on approval of new layout, shall be taken towards non-fare box revenue to repay the debt *Karnataka and railways to provide land at nominal lease charges of Rs 1 per acre *Autonomy in fare fixation; fare will be comparable to that of Metro *Contractor will be responsible for everything from design, procurement, construction, commissioning and handing over of the project||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/board-sanctions-suburban-rail-project-with-8-conditions/articleshow/78879907.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer welcomes rare feathered guests||JAISALMER: Rare migratory birds are flocking in large numbers to the desert district from colder countries because of warmer climate a lot of greenery following heavy rains this monsoon. Sociable lapwing, a rare bird which is on the verge of extinction and is Schedule 1 of the wildlife Act, has been sighted at Jamda area. This bird covers a distance of 10,000-12,000 km from Kazakhstan and other colder nations. There is excitement among bird lovers on sighting such rare species. A duck found in the Himalayan areas has also been sighted at Lathi, Dholi and Khetolai areas. Thousands of Kurja birds have also arrived in Ramdeora and Khetolai areas. Divesh Saini, a wildlife lover said, “Sociable lapwing was first sighted by local guide Musa Khan on October 23. This bird has been sighted in the grasslands of Desert National Park.” He said sociable lapwing (vanellus gregarius) is a critically endangered due to very rapid decline in its population. It was seen in DNP with lark flocks of Indian Courser during winter migration. He said, “The medium-sized lapwing has longish black legs and a short black bill. Winter adults have a less distinct head pattern, slightly browner back and breast and white belly. This species breeds on open grasslands in Russia and Kazakhstan. They migrate the south to wintering sites include India.” He said, “The sighting of the bird is a very encouraging sign. It is of great importance that the these grasslands of DNP must be protected which are critical habitats for this and many more migratory species such as Finisch Whetear, Trumpeter Finch, Greater Hoope Lark, Grelag Goose and Cinereous Vulture.” Birds enthusiast & ecologist Radheshyam Bishnoi Pemani said the sociable lapwing or sociable plover is a critically endangered wader in the lapwing family of birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-welcomes-rare-feathered-guests/articleshow/78880447.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka to make another push for Unesco tag for Mysuru Dasara||MYSURU: The famed Mysuru Dasara is making another push for Unseco Intangible Cultural Heritage tag, said R Gopal, director of archaeology, museums and heritage. Speaking at a book release hosted by the department, he said the department has presented its case for a world heritage tag and the Union government has submitted the report to Unesco at its headquarters in Paris. India missed out again last time as experts had failed to make a case for this traditional fest which is also famous across the country, he said. Though Shravanbelagola’s ‘Mahamasthakabhishekha’ and Kodava culture are also in the race for the tag, chances of Mysuru Dasara are better as the event is a platform to showcase the art and culture of the people of Karnataka. The festival, Gopal said is celebrated by all sections of society and truly reflects the customs and traditions of the state. “Besides, Mysuru Dasara is well- documented among medieval travellers and artistes. Unesco will make an announcement in this regard soon,” he added. Earlier, minister of Kannada, culture and tourism and BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said India has a rich culture and tradition. The recent excavation in and around the historical and ancient site of Talakadu in T Narasipur taluk which was conducted by state archaeology department found a lot of clues hinting at earlier human habitation. Archaeologists digging up the sand dunes unearthed artefacts like Roman-European coins, relics of Jain and Hindu temples dating back to 2nd to 5th century, flood and storm control measures initiated by then rulers. He wanted archaelogists and researchers to throw more light on the mythical curse of Alamelamma of 17th century which is believed to have turned Talakadu into a barren expanse of sand. District minister S T Somashekhar released the books. Former minister and MLA Ramadas and MLA L Nagendra, Muda chairman H V Rajeev and commissioner of department of archaeology and museums R Poornima were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/state-to-make-another-push-for-unesco-tag-for-mysuru-dasara/articleshow/78878169.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC targets 48,000 houses for on-site composting by year-end||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), which is currently implementing on-site composting in 14,600 households of the city, is targeting to scale-up the programme to cover 48,000 households by December 2020. As part of GVMC’s plan, a group of ward secretariat staff, volunteers and resource persons will train the public in techniques of wet waste composting. The civic body will extend the initiative to 101 resident welfare associations (RWAs) and 186 bulk waste generators to convert segregated wet waste into useful manure. This, and other programmes are being taken up as the civic body wants to better its rank and rating in the next cycle of Swachh Survekshan. Vizag was adjudged the ninth cleanest city with over 10 lakh population in Swachh Survekshan-2020. The city got a 3-star rating in the garbage-free ratings in SS-2020 and now seeks to sustain its achievements and build on the progress. As always, citizen participation will be a crucial component for Swachh Survekshan-2021 rankings. In an effort to take citizen participation a notch higher, the revised 2021 survey indicators will recognise citizen-led innovations including start-ups and Swachhata Champions and their contribution in reducing solid waste generation. GVMC commissioner G Srijana said that the civic body is planning to implement various citizen-led innovation and activities. “Citizen participation will prove to be the backbone in improving the city’s rank in the upcoming Swachh Survekshan. The civic body urges the public to segregate waste at source into wet, dry and hazardous categories and hand it over for further processing and disposal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-targets-48k-houses-for-on-site-composting-by-year-end/articleshow/78879923.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||City parks in Vizag cry out for maintenance||VISAKHAPATNAM: Most of the city parks along the Beach Road, favourite haunts of Vizagites, remain closed to the public and in need of repair and maintenance. One of the most prominent and oldest attractions of Vizag for locals, morning walkers and tourists, is the Vuda Park overlooking the sea. The park has been closed for repair works since January. The skating rinks and boating facility also remain closed. Tenneti Park opposite Kailasagiri had briefly opened but was closed again to prevent locals from crowding the spot after a Bangladesh merchant navy vessel got stuck near its beach a fortnight ago. The boundary walls of another popular spot, the Children’s Park on Beach Road near Park Hotel, have collapsed but neither repair works have been taken up nor has a temporary fence been put up to ensure public safety. Meanwhile, Lawson’s Bay Park, which was inaugurated a couple of years ago, is now being used as a garbage dump and has become a haunt for miscreants. Drainage water flows through the area into the sea and litter from nearby slums finds its way here. When contacted, VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said, “The Vuda Park had been closed due to ongoing repair works. It is getting 70% facelift from World Bank funds worth around Rs 40 crore. However, it would be open to the public by December. AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) is in charge of boating facilities within the park. As for the maintenance of Lawson’s Bay Park or repair of Children’s Park, it comes under the purview of GVMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-parks-in-vizag-cry-out-for-maintenance/articleshow/78879695.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling: Wife of accused points finger at MLA, councillor||KOCHI: An LDF-backed MLA was left in a tight spot on Monday after it was found that Soumya –the wife of Sandeep Nair who is a key accused in the gold smuggling case – had told Customs sleuths that her husband and KT Ramees were smuggling gold for Karat Faisal and MLA Karat Rasak from Koduvally. However, the MLA staunchly denied the same and said that no investigation officer had contacted him, till date, regarding the alleged statements against him. According to official sources, Soumya had also told the sleuths that the smuggling gang was from Koduvally in Kozhikode. Soumya was summoned to by Customs to its Kochi office soon after Sandeep and Swapna went into hiding and she had given crucial details about the gang to Customs sleuths. Reacting to her statement, Rasak said that he did not know Swapna, Sandeep or Ramees other than what he read in news reports about their smuggling. “The statement against me was elicited from the wife of an accused and not from the accused. This itself suggests a conspiracy,” said Rasak, adding that he had no gold business. He claimed that if the case is progressing without external interference, then a need for questioning him would never arise. Rasak had contested the elections in 2016 as a Left-backed independent after leaving IUML. Earlier, BJP state president K Surendran had alleged that Rasak was involved in the issue and on Monday he told the media that those who knew about the case will have no doubt about Rasak’s involvement. Customs had earlier questioned Koduvally municipal councillor Karat Faisal in Kochi. Faisal was allegedly involved in a smuggling case in the past. Faisal also contested as a Left-backed independent and was elected as councillor in the local body elections. Meanwhile, the NIA special court dismissed a petition by Customs sleuths who approached it seeking permission to arrest two accused in the NIA case, Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Shafeeq. The court denied permission as the two accused were already granted bail by the court in NIA case. However it permitted Customs to arrest Muhammad Ali and Sharafudheen who were denied bail and are in judicial custody in the case. Till date, the special court has granted bail to 12 persons in the NIA case.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-smuggling-case-wife-of-accused-points-finger-at-mla-councillor/articleshow/78879213.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Miscreants loot 14 tonnes of gwar, Rs 2.36L from truck||Jaisalmer: A group of unidentified men stole 150 gunny bags full of gwar (about 14.50 tonne), along with Rs 2.36 lakh cash from a truck driver near Lavan village on the national highway to Jodhpur in Pokhran sub-division of Jaisalmer district. The miscreants were in a vehicle with a fake name plate of transport department. They stopped the truck transporting gwar and then taking the driver hostage, carried out the loot. Police on the report of the driver have lodged a case and started the investigation. Pokhran SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi said that the driver Jaswant Singh, a resident of Balesar, informed that he was going from Mohangarh to Jodhpur carrying 22 tonne of gwar. Between Lavan and Pokhran near Didiania Fanta around 10pm on Sunday, a car with a plate of transport department on it, in which there were eight people, stopped the truck. When the driver stopped the truck and got down, one of the youths asked for the truck’s documents. On this, the driver phoned the truck owner. In the meantime, someone hit him on the head from behind. They then tied his hands and eyes and made him sit in the car. Few of the youths then took the truck to Jodhpur Road. The driver told the police that they also snatched his mobile phone. They also stole Rs 2.36 lakh cash kept in the truck and even made away with 14.50 tonne of gwar i.e. 150 gunny bags full of gwar. They then left the driver in the truck at the toll plaza near Kolu village. In the morning, the driver somehow reached the toll plaza in a private vehicle and informed his family members, the truck owner and reached the Pokhran police station in a private vehicle.SHO said that on getting information he reached the spot. Throughout the day, investigation was done on Jodhpur Road and the route going to Kolu village. The CCTV footage of the toll plaza and other places were checked too and cops spoke to toll plaza personnel. The incident has been confirmed and in the CCTV footage too, the truck can be seen being taken somewhere. SHO said that there were 250 bags of gwar in the truck, of which 150 bags and Rs 2.36 lakh cash kept with the driver were looted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/miscreants-loot-14-tonnes-of-gwar-rs-2-36l-from-truck/articleshow/78880483.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Moms unite to donate life-saving liquid gold||COIMBATORE: Four women from the city, who gave birth recently and are still nursing their babies, donated 16 litres of breast milk to the milk bank of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Sunday. It was an initiative of Coimbatore Parenting Network’s Uyirthuzhi project. “While we have been collecting the first breast milk, nicknamed liquid gold, for the GH regularly, it was the largest quantity we donated in a single shot,” said M Aishwarya, a mother and a trustee of the network. The network, which motivates mothers to donate excess breast milk, has been active since 2016. “We motivate young mothers to collect, store and donate excess breast milk, rather than throwing it away or letting it be till it leads to engorgement,” Aishwarya said. “We assure them that donating excess milk will not deprive their babies of milk when they are hungry. The more you empty your breasts, the more milk you’ll make.” Milk donated to the bank is screened for infections, pasteurized and frozen before given to babies on a priority basis. Donated breast milk benefits extremely premature babies weighing between 650gm and 750gm, whose mothers’ secretion have not begun and are too weak to digest formula. The initiative is also a boon to abandoned babies, who are often underweight and sick. As extremely small premature babies consume hardly 10ml to 30ml milk a day, the bank can feed 100 premature babies for five days. S Shreepriya, 24, who donated milk, said she had never felt prouder and happier for her and her one-month old child. “I realized that this is something that no one else can buy or recreate. It’s worth the extra pumping sessions,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/moms-unite-to-donate-life-saving-liquid-gold/articleshow/78880480.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Two car thieves held during vehicle check||COIMBATORE: The Periyanaickenpalayam police on Monday arrested two vehicle thieves and recovered three stolen cars and a goods autorickshaw from them. The arrested were identified as R Udhyanidhi, 25, from Pattukottai in Thanjavur district and A Dhanraj, 35, from Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar district. The duo didn’t stop the car they were travelling in when a team led by Periyanaickenpalayam police inspector Prithviraj tried halt the car during a vehicle check. The team chased the car and nabbed the accused. “When questioned, we came to know they were thieves. They told that they had stolen a multi-purpose vehicle at Idikarai, a goods autorickshaw at DM Engineering Company and four motorcycles from Ganeshapuram, Kunnathur and surrounding areas. They also stole a car from Kunnathur and an MPV from a petrol bunk at Kottaipalayam near Kovilpalayam,” a police officer said. Police recovered Rs 40 lakh worth stolen vehicles from them. Police said while Udhyanidhi was facing cases in Thanjavur, Pudukkottai, Trichy, Tirupur and the Nilgiris, Dhanraj was wanted in counterfeit currency notes cases in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. The arrested were remanded in judicial custody on Monday evening. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-car-thieves-held-during-vehicle-check/articleshow/78880493.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BSP banks on other parties to win Upper House seat||LUCKNOW: BSP’s Ramji Gautam, the party’s national coordinator and in charge of Rajasthan and Bihar, filed his nomination for Rajya Sabha seat from UP on Monday. BSP’s move has brought a twist to the  as the party does not have the numbers to win this seat on its own. Gautam filed his nomination in the presence of party’s national general secretary Satish Mishra and other senior party members. With his selection as its RS candidate, BSP has attempted to strike two birds with one stone. Gautam is a Dalit and the party wants to send a strong message to its core supporters ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. He is also a party worker, having joined BSP in 2015 and since having risen in rank, and the decision to field an insider is expected to boost the morale of the party which has been losing its vote share across all states, including UP, over the past few years. Even as the party officially remained mum on who it was banking on for support to see its candidate through, sources said that BSP was likely to take support from multiple parties. “A candidate needs 36 votes to win while BSP has just 15 votes as two of its members have officially rebelled and one is in prison. In fact, there might be a few hiccups even with 15. That leaves BSP to seek support from either BJP or from a mix of parties like SP, Congress, SBSP,” said a party member. Currently, BJP is expected to safely win eight seats with 304 members in UP Assembly while SP with 48 MLAs can win the ninth. BSP officially has 18 MLAs of whom two have rebelled. Apna Dal has nine, Congress seven and SBSP four. There are five independents as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-banks-on-other-parties-to-win-upper-house-seat/articleshow/78881643.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Captured Tipeshwar tigress to undergo Covid test||Nagpur: The young tigress T2-C1, which was captured on September 23, from outside the Tipeshwar sanctuary, after it was found in conflict with humans, is to undergo a Covid-19 test as one of the veterinarians treating her at Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) at Seminary Hills tested positive on Saturday. The tigress was brought to TTC on September 23 for a 14-day quarantine before being shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre. However, it has remained there since in a 15x15 feet cage that has no crawl area to move. “It was being treated for a shoulder wound since the day it was brought from Andharwadi where it was captured. The tigress is stable and fit to be transported to Gorewada. On Saturday, we had decided to shift the animal but as the veterinarian treating her tested positive, the plan was dropped,” said forest officials. On March 13, 2020, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) issued an advisory to all zoos, transit treatment, and rescue centres keeping on testing. TTC Seminary Hills is also into treating several animals, reptiles and birds and there is movement of people bringing in rescued animals for treatment. Staff too is coming in contact with many people in different areas while performing rescue operations. At least a dozen TTC staff and volunteers have tested positive earlier and have recovered. “We will go for the Covid-19 test of the tigress. The samples will be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, which is one of the institutes authorized by CZA. We will shift the tigress to Gorewada only after the report,” said Prabhunath Shukla, deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), Nagpur. With this, the plan to release the tigress in the wild has been derailed for now. Further delay may mean the tigress will have to remain in captivity. A month ago, the state-level committee on re-wilding abandoned and captured tigers gave a go-ahead to its release in the wild but no decision has been taken by forest officials yet and the area where it will be released has also not been finalized. Acting PCCF (wildlife) MK Rao said, “A decision will be taken soon. We are ensuring there are no human imprints on the animal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/captured-tipeshwar-tigress-to-undergo-covid-test/articleshow/78880517.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Inmates attack undertrial in Jodhpur jail, probe begins||Jodhpur: Jodhpur central jail continues to be in the news for all the wrong reasons. After a series of seizures of mobile phones and drugs from inmates, the jail is in the news again for attempt of murder of an inmate by co-inmates.The incident took place late on October 19, but was reported to police on Monday by the victim identified as Mujahid, an undertrial.According to Ratanada police, he was attacked by three other inmates on the night of October 19 with a stone when he was asleep. “He alleged that three inmates Mohammad Asif, Mohammad Saddam and Mohammad Nadeem attacked him with a stone when he was sleeping in his cell. They broke his jaw and disfigured his face by hitting it constantly,” police said.On hearing the sound of his wails, other inmates woke up and raised an alarm, after which he was rushed to the jail dispensary for treatment. “We have registered a case on the victim’s complaint and have initiated investigation into the matter,” police said.It has been alleged that the assailants had an eye on the victim's bag of eatables he usually carries. They have attacked him in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inmates-attack-undertrial-in-jodhpur-jail-probe-begins/articleshow/78880506.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||BSF cycle rally on Covid awareness||On the occasion of Police Martyrs Day, the BSF took out a 71-km cycle rally from Bikaner district headquarters to Shri Dungargarh. The rally, which was organised to make people aware about Covid guidelines, started from Martyr Major Puran Singh Circle led by BSF regional headquarter DIG Puspendra Singh Rathore. Bikaner SP Prahalad Krishaniya flagged the rally. Around 110 BSF personnel and 25 cyclists of Bikaner city took part in the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-cycle-rally-on-covid-awareness/articleshow/78880474.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records lowest Covid-19 positive count since June||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded just 582 new Covid-19 positive cases, lowest since June 19 when the state reported 499 cases. With four more deaths, the total count of Covid-19 toll rose to 1,311, while the Covid-19 caseload went up to 2,31,834. Health department officials attributed the low numbers to the fact that only14,729 Covid-19 tests were done on account of Dasara festival, which resulted in fewer visitors at healthcare centres. “Also, the fact that Sunday was a government holiday has impacted the testing with several districts conducting zero tests. We are hopeful of scaling it up once again,” said an official. So far, 2,11,912 patients have recovered from the infection. Continuing on a decline, the number of active cases in the state fell to 18,611 on Monday, as against 21,098 a week ago. The GHMC recorded 174 new cases, followed by 87 cases in Nalgonda, 55 cases in Rangareddy, 38 in Medchal-Malkajgiri and 31 in Sangareddy. Districts with no tests and no new cases include Jayashankar-Bhupalpally, Kamareddy, Kumarabheem-Asifabad, Mulugu, Nizamabad, Peddapali, Narayanpet and Nirmal. Speaking about the drastic drop in the number of tests conducted, another source from the state health department said that in the majority of the districts, the turnout of patients at primary health centres has been very low due to Dasara. “The districts are usually given a daily target and the primary health centres are conducting tests to ensure that the targets are met. However, due to the festive season, some PHCs saw less than five patients,” he said. The case fatality rate is 0.56%, as against the national average of 1.5%. The recovery rate is 91%, as against the national average of 90%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-lowest-covid-19-positive-count-since-june/articleshow/78880482.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Fire erupts in coir factory; farmers say unit flouting safety norms||COIMBATORE: A massive fire broke out at a coir factory at Malaipalayam near Sulur on Sunday evening. The fire and rescue services personnel took a gruelling 10 hours to put out the blaze. However, there were no casualties or injuries. Meanwhile, on Monday, a group of farmers from the area petitioned the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) against the coir fibre export company alleging that it has been flouting safety norms. “The fire occurred when we were driving our tractor on the coir fibre that was spread over a 5-acre plot to remove moisture. A spark from some motor nearby could have led to the fire,” said Muthumanickam, who runs the export unit. Within minutes the fire spread across the entire plot as dry coir fibre is highly inflammable and smoke spread for about 3km radius around the factory. Thiagarajan, a farmer who cultivates the adjacent plot and one of the petitioners, said, “Due to smoke, many people living close to the land began coughing. As there was no concrete compound wall around the factory, the fire spread to my land burning maize and tomato crops and damaging the irrigation system.” Two fire vans were deployed to put out the fire, S Gopal, officer at the Sulur fire and rescue services station, said. “We took one van from Sulur and one van from Kinathukidavu, with six people from each station. We came to the spot a little after 4pm and efforts went on until 2am on Monday,” he said, adding, “We ended up using nearly 40 private tanker lorries for supplying water.” The export unit executive said they had started the unit just before the first lockdown after obtaining all approvals. “We are trying to look into ways we can prevent such instances and are willing to take suggestions from the authorities too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-erupts-in-coir-factory-farmers-say-unit-flouting-safety-norms/articleshow/78880513.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Wanted dacoit manages to escape in Rajasthan's Dholpur, cop injured||ALWAR: Ravines of Dholpur, which are known for bandits and bullets, again witnessed a police-robber encounter in the early hours on Monday when police tried to nab notorious dacoit Keshav Gujjar. Keshav is wanted by Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan police in several cases of extortion, loot and murder and has a Rs 1 lakh reward on his head by Rajasthan police. One constable sustained grave bullet injures while Keshav managed to escape leaving behind his wife and two of his gang members. Police have arrested his wife and the two dacoits. Acting on a tip-off that Keshav would come to Sona burj village in the ravines of Chambal under Bari Sadar police station area, a police team rushed to the spot and hid there. “We had information that Keshav will leave for Sarmathura by road covering a distance of 10 km. We had planned to move towards the house in which he was sleeping at 4.30 am on Monday,” said Dholpur SP Kesar Singh Shekhawat. Police had no clue that Keshav’s gang members were sleeping in the open air. “While our team comprising 26 members including 12 commandos reached near the hut, his gang members sleeping at a distance started firing on our team in which one of our constables Awdesh Sharma got seriously injured,” Singh added. As firing started from various directions, our team took a cover which allowed Keshav to flee from the scene. “We also started firing after which other gang members fled. However, we managed to arrest the wife of Keshav and two of his gang members,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wanted-dacoit-manages-to-escape-cop-injured/articleshow/78880532.cms||Rajendra Sharma
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Rabins arrested by NIA on arrival at Cochin airport||Kochi: One of the key links behind the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling racket in the UAE, Rabins K Hameed (A-10), was arrested by NIA on Monday. Sources said Rabins was taken into custody by NIA sleuths after he arrived at Cochin International Airport around 4.30pm from Dubai. “On Oct 26, 2020, NIA arrested fugitive Rabins K Hameed (A-10), aged 42, son of Hameed, resident of Muvattupuzha, Ernakulam, Kerala in RC-02/2020/NIA/KOC (Kerala Gold Smuggling Case), following his arrival at Kochi International Airport from Dubai, United Arab Emirates,” NIA said later in a release, confirming his arrest. The arrested accused will be produced in special court and his custody will be sought, said the agency. NIA added in its statement that investigation in the case had revealed that Rabins – while in the UAE and India – had conspired with arrested accused KT Ramees (A-5) and Jalal AM (A-6), arranged funds and purchased gold in Dubai that were smuggled to India via diplomatic baggage, said the statement. “NIA special court in Ernakulam had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against the fugitive Rabins Hameed. He is also learnt to have arranged for the concealment of gold in electronics or electrical equipment and household items in UAE, for smuggling it to Thiruvananthapuram, through diplomatic baggage,” the agency said in its statement. As per the data compiled by NIA, based on call data records and WhatsApp contacts, Rabins had two-way contact between accused Muhammed Ali (A12), Jalal AM (A6), Muhammed Shafi (A7), Sidhiqul Akbar (15), KT Ramees (A5), Abdu PT (A9). Also, he was the only link between Faisal Fareed and the racket, showed the data submitted in court by the agency. Meanwhile, Faisal Fareed is yet to be brought here. The agency has also identified four others who are on the run in the UAE, including Sidhiqul Akbar alias Siddique, Ahammed Kutty alias Kunjani, Raju alias Ratheesh K and Muhammed Shameer. The case pertains to the seizure of 30kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore on Jul 5, 2020 at Trivandrum International Airport by customs (preventive) commissionerate from a diplomatic baggage. NIA is probing the terror angle behind the case. NIA had earlier submitted in court that the prime accused Faisal Fareed and Rabins Hameed were arrested in UAE. The agency had sent sleuths to UAE to conduct investigation and coordinate with their counterparts in UAE. Rabins’ arrival at Kochi can be seen in this backdrop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-smuggling-case-rabins-arrested-by-nia-on-arrival-at-cochin-airport/articleshow/78879238.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old man hangs self near lover’s grave||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old government employee died by hanging himself to a near following the death of his lover in Bhuapalapally district on Sunday. Mahadevpur police said that Mahesh killed himself near the grave of his girlfriend, who had died 15 days ago. “His girlfriend had died due to ill-health. Since her death, Mahesh was grieving. He had left his residence on Saturday night,” said B Anil Kumar, the sub-inspector of Mahadevpur police station. Police said that he has sent messages to his friends and others, informing them of taking the extreme step. Upon seeing the message, one of his friends reached out to his family on Sunday morning. After Mahesh’s family members said that he had not returned since Saturday night, they started to search for him. They found his bike near a forest area. Mahesh was working at the Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-man-hangs-self-near-lovers-grave/articleshow/78880534.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Captured Tipeshwar tigress to undergo Covid test||NAGPUR: The young tigress T2-C1, which was captured on September 23, from outside the Tipeshwar sanctuary, after it was found in conflict with humans, is to undergo a Covid-19 test as one of the veterinarians treating her at Transit Treatment Centre (TTC) at Seminary Hills tested positive on Saturday. The tigress was brought to TTC on September 23 for a 14-day quarantine before being shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre. However, it has remained there since in a 15x15 feet cage that has no crawl area to move. “It was being treated for a shoulder wound since the day it was brought from Andharwadi where it was captured. The tigress is stable and fit to be transported to Gorewada. On Saturday, we had decided to shift the animal but as the veterinarian treating her tested positive, the plan was dropped,” said forest officials. On March 13, 2020, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) issued an advisory to all zoos, transit treatment, and rescue centres keeping on testing. TTC Seminary Hills is also into treating several animals, reptiles and birds and there is movement of people bringing in rescued animals for treatment. Staff too is coming in contact with many people in different areas while performing rescue operations. At least a dozen TTC staff and volunteers have tested positive earlier and have recovered. “We will go for the Covid-19 test of the tigress. The samples will be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, which is one of the institutes authorized by CZA. We will shift the tigress to Gorewada only after the report,” said Prabhunath Shukla, deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), Nagpur. With this, the plan to release the tigress in the wild has been derailed for now. Further delay may mean the tigress will have to remain in captivity. A month ago, the state-level committee on re-wilding abandoned and captured tigers gave a go-ahead to its release in the wild but no decision has been taken by forest officials yet and the area where it will be released has also not been finalized. Acting PCCF (wildlife) MK Rao said, “A decision will be taken soon. We are ensuring there are no human imprints on the animal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/captured-tipeshwar-tigress-to-undergo-covid-test/articleshow/78880537.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Contact tracing up in Delhi during fests||NEW DELHI: Contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases has got a major push due to festivals. In September, on average, two contacts were being traced for each case while in October, 15 contacts are being traced. In some districts, the figure is as high as 18. Contact tracing is important for Covid-19 management and authorities are intensifying focus on this because of spike in cases. According to a report prepared by the health department, the average contact tracing of positive cases in all the 11 districts was only 2.1 in September as the districts did not focus much on it. The districts, however, swung into extensive contact tracing activities after the experts committee headed by Dr VK Paul of the NITI Aayog laid stress on contact tracing in the revised Covid-19 management strategy. By October 20, the average contact tracing carried out by all the districts jumped to 13.1. An official said that on October 18, Central district’s average contact tracing was 15, North 14.8, North East 17, South 15.4, South West 17, and West 15. “The figures of all the districts have further improved in the last one week,” said the official adding that contact tracing will become more aggressive in the days to come. Delhi on Sunday reported 4,136 Covid positive cases. District magistrate (North East) Pankaj Kumar said the current average of his district was 18 and, in some cases, up to 21 contacts were being traced and tested while DM (North West) Sandeep Mishra said the current average of his district was 17. Contact tracing and follow-up interventions by the district health authorities are key to the containment of the coronavirus spread. The dispensaries get daily list of persons found Covid-19 positive every day. They call up people and seek details about the persons they have met, including immediate family members. Those unable to talk on phone properly are visited by the frontline health workers like ASHA workers and ANMs. “It is challenging to trace all the contacts because now that almost all economic activities are permitted, people visit various places, including public transport facilities, markets and shopping complexes. Many people do not even remember whom all they met in the last couple of days,” said an official, adding that tracing is mostly possible at a patient’s home, neighbourhood and workplace. All the contacts are asked to go for Covid-19 tests and those found positive are immediately isolated. The asymptomatic high-risk contacts are tested between 5 and 10 days since the last exposure, said DM (North West). With gradual opening up of offices and economic activities, the workplaces are becoming hotspots. In view of the widespread spread of infection of Covid-19, contact tracing strategy needed to be rationalised, felt the experts committee in early October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/contact-tracing-up-in-city-during-fests/articleshow/78880540.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris adds 38 new cases||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The district added 38 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 6409. As many as 61 patients recovered and were discharged on the day ile one person died pushing the toll to 38. A 70-year-old man from Ooty succumbed to the virus in a private hospital in Coimbatore. The district has seen 6,127 Covid patients recovered so far. As many as 244 active cases are being treated at various health facilities in the district.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-adds-38-new-cases/articleshow/78880518.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Delhi||17 foot overbridges to ensure safety near Delhi's Pragati Maidan||NEW DELHI: Bhairon Marg and Pragati Maidan stretches will soon have 17 new foot overbridges (FOBs) to ensure smoother movement for pedestrians. These are the two main stretches where six underpasses and a 1.2-kilometre long tunnel will be made under the Pragati Maidan redevelopment plan. Since these roads will become entirely signal-free after the underpasses and the tunnel are ready, FOBs have been planned to ensure pedestrians’ convenience and safety, officials said. Two of the FOBs will be built in the new building of the Supreme Court. Another FOB will be constructed near DPS School and Kaka Nagar Underpass on Mathura Road. There are plans to build some FOBs on the Ring Road as well. According to PWD officials, six underpasses are being constructed on Mathura Road and Bhairon Road. The first underpass is being built near DPS School on Mathura Road. After this underpass is built, the traffic signal here will be removed. Then those crossing the road on foot will have problems, officials said, adding an FOB will be built just above this underpass for pedestrians’ convenience. Further, when coming towards Kaka Nagar, a two-lane wide U-turn underpass will also be built near the traffic signal. After the underpass is built, the road will become signal-free. A FOB will be made here as well. Another FOB will come up near a three-lane wide underpass, which is being constructed at the old Fort Road and Mathura Road T-junction. The underpass to be built between Bhagwan Das Road and the Mathura Road T-junction will be of two lanes and a FOB will also be built here. Two FOBs will be built near the bus stand and near the main tunnel on Mathura Road. FOBs will also be erected near gate numbers 8 and 5 of Pragati Maidan on Bhairon Marg. Near the railway track on the Ring Road where the PWD office is located, one of the FOBs will be made while another FOB will be built near the bus stand. The Ring Road and the Bhairon Marg T-junction will also have FOBs. The FOBs will be built on each side of Pragati Maidan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/17-fobs-to-ensure-safety-near-pragati-maidan/articleshow/78881663.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Udaipur||Flower power: Success story of a dad-son duo||UDAIPUR: PalGamdi, a nondescript village some 12km inside from Kherwara-Ahmedabad road under Dungarpur district, is receiving huge footfall of curious visitors from far and wide these days. Farmers, entrepreneurs and traders are frequently paying visits to meet the enthusiast father-son duo who have earned much fame in the past five months. Their polyhouse is blooming with marigold flowers. People find it hard to believe the story of Kantilal and his son Dinesh Damor. They had suffered losses in March when the same polyhouse was full of cucumbers but there were no buyers due to the lockdown. They somehow- managed to sell 12 tonnes of cucumber for a meagre price of Rs5/kilo. “Ours was a small land holding on a tough terrain. My son, who is a government school teacher, came to know about the subsidy on polyhouses by the agriculture department and so we dared to venture into it in 2018. We erected the polyhouse on an area of 2,000 sq-metre and we planted cucumber which fetched us good returns till March this year till Covid arrived and shattered our dreams,” says Kantilal, the 50-year old illiterate farmer. The family was in great distress since they had a loan to repay which was taken to create the polyhouse. One day, they came to know about the demand for flowers and decided to give it a try. Kantilal and his son bought 5,000 hybrid seedlings of marigold varieties from HimmatNagar, Gujarat, around May. They grew the crop as per experts advice and now the polyhouse is at full bloom and they are selling the flowers at a good price of Rs 30 per kg. “By Diwali, the price will soar to Rs 70/kg and they will reap good profits. As per a rough estimate, they are getting 2kg flowers from a plant and five thousand plants would definitely fetch them at least Rs 50,000 monthly,” said deputy director (agriculture) Gauri Shankar Katara. “Inspired by the success story, we have planned to organise open demonstrations at farms of peasants who are interested in growing marigold so that more farmers can reap benefits,” Sudhir Verma, Dungarpur district project director ATMA (Agricultural Technology Management Agency) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/flower-power-success-story-of-a-dad-son-duo/articleshow/78880523.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath orders checks at paddy centres to curb anomalies||LUCKNOW: Days after UP Police registered FIRs against 10 persons, including eight paddy purchase centre in-charges, for anomalies in paddy purchase, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to carry out surprise checks of purchase centres. “The CM has directed officials to ensure that farmers get the minimum support price for paddy and that purchase centres located in the border areas are operated properly,” said a government spokesperson. During a review of the paddy purchase exercise on Monday, Yogi asked officials to carry out regular monitoring of the purchase centres and ensure that farmers do not face a problem at the centres. Principal secretary, food and logistics, Veena Kumari Meena informed the CM that farmers bringing up to 50 quintals of paddy were being given preference in purchase centres. She said that nodal officers had also been appointed for each centre to ensure that farmers were able to sell their produce without any hassle and at the MSP. Till Saturday, the state government had purchased over 2.4 lakh tons of paddy through various agencies, up from 46,096 tons purchased during the same period in 2019-20. Paddy purchase started in western UP from October 1 while the purchase in eastern UP started from October 15 through about 4,000 centres. The government has set the purchase price of paddy to Rs 1,888 per quintal for A grade paddy and Rs 1,868 per quintal for general paddy. Between October 1 and 24, a sum of Rs 213 crore has been paid to farmers for the purchased paddy at the MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-checks-at-paddy-centres-to-curb-anomalies/articleshow/78881649.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Hours before effigy burning, Ravan vanishes from venue||AGRA: This was as Godot-esque as it could get. Angst astride his arched brow, Lord Rama was ready with his arrow ready on the stretched bowstring. The organisers were waiting with garlands, flowers and a thaal for aarti in anticipation of the much-awaited victory of the good over the evil. Spectators were all set for the culmination of the Ramlila with the burning of the demon king’s effigy. Just one thing was missing – Ravan who had disappeared from the venue without a trace. Watch: Hours before effigy burning, Ravan vanishes from venuehttps://t.co/aPmxYj1zNw#UttarPradesh https://t.co/fFLkFzOsXp— TOIWestUP (@TOIWestUP) 1603775633000It came to be known only later that the demon king’s effigy had been moved to an unknown location by the Ramlila committee’s president – something others didn’t seem to have a clue to. People kept waiting at the venue in vain. The incident happened in Aligarh and the panel’s president and a woman security guard were later booked for allegedly shifting the effigy out without informing others. On his part, the Ramlila committee president Vedprakash Jain claimed that the effigy was removed on the directions of the police, “as permission was required for public function in view of the pandemic-related restrictions”. However, police officials said that this all happened due to some dispute among the committee members. Based on a complaint filed by a BJP worker, Subodh Sweety, who is also the member of the committee, police have now registered a case against Jain and security guard Radharani under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage feelings) of IPC at Gandhi Park police station. Gandhi Park SHO Manikant Sharma told TOI, “If police personnel had approached him (Jain), he should have informed the local police station.” Circle officer Raghvendra Singh said that the claims of both the parties are being probed. “The CCTV footage is also being scanned to verify facts,” he added. Meanwhile, at the end of the evening, a small Ravan effigy was quickly put together and set on fire at the venue for the waiting spectators. However, according to a few eyewitnesses, the tiny demon king quietly engulfed by fire without the quintessential bang earned him more sympathy than hate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hours-before-effigy-burning-ravan-does-a-houdini-from-dussehra-ground/articleshow/78878172.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||Charred body of liquor shop worker found inside store in Rajasthan's Alwar||ALWAR: High drama prevailed at a liquor shop at Harsoli village under Khairthal police station area of Bhiwadi in Alwar since Sunday morning after a 22-year-old man was found charred under mysterious circumstances inside the shop. The family of the deceased initially lodged a case of murder against the shop owner. However, on Monday, they gave a written application saying they don’t want any police action in the case. Kamal Kishor was found charred inside the shop on Sunday morning. Since then, Roop Singh, brother of the deceased alleged that Kamal was murdered by the owner of the shop since he was not paid salary for a long time. Police too had registered a case of murder under appropriate sections of IPC against two liquor contractors identified as Subash and Rakesh, who owned the shop. However, on Monday the family again approached police stating that they don’t want any further police action in the case. Bhiwadi SP Rammoorty Joshi told TOI, “On Sunday morning, some villagers saw smoke coming out from a shop and intimated police. A team of police rushed to the spot. The shop was closed from inside thus was unlocked with the help of iron rods and other mechanical tools.” “While our team entered inside a charred body of a man was found. The body was in sitting position on a freezer. Prima facie it appeared to be a case of accident in which fire broke out accidentally. However, on the application of family, we have lodged a case of murder and initiated investigations,” Joshi added. Police stated that the deceased was also alcoholic and there is a possibility that fire broke out due to smoking cigarette or beedi. “We also called in forensic team at the spot,” said an officer. However, while police initiated a murder investigation, the family of the deceased on Monday gave a written application stating they don’t want any investigation in the case. “We have lodged an FIR, thus the case would be investigated,” said a senior officer at Khairthal police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/charred-body-of-liquor-shop-worker-found-inside-store/articleshow/78880543.cms||Rajendra sharma
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||CPRO Rao’s book released||Hyderabad: A book ‘Sri Madhbhagavata Kathalu’ written by CPRO to chief minister Jwala Narasimha Rao Vanam was released by literary exponent Garikapati Narasimha Rao on Sunday. The book was released in a video conference. Participants said the author had written the book in a simple, lucid and expressive style. Garikapati Narasimha Rao said the book would evoke interest from scholars to the common literate person. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cpro-raos-book-released/articleshow/78880546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Seven months on, 3 ISBTs in Delhi may reopen in November||NEW DELHI: Interstate bus terminals (ISBT) in Delhi are likely to reopen from next month with a new standard operating procedure (SOP) in place keeping in mind the pandemic, sources said. The three ISBTs of Delhi — at Kashmere Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan — have been closed for seven months. Before the national lockdown, these three ISBTs used to witness a total footfall of three lakh passengers a day and nearly 3,500 buses arrived at these ISBTs from neighbouring states. Sources in the transport department said that a decision has been taken and the official go-ahead for reopening of the ISBTs is expected in the next few days and it is likely that the ISBTs will reopen by Diwali next month. While the central government had allowed inter-state bus transport from June 1 as part of Unlock 1.0, the services didn’t start in Delhi, which saw a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the month of June. Sources said that Rajasthan had sent a proposal to operate 70 buses from Delhi but since the ISBTs remained closed, the services couldn’t be started. A total of 3,467 buses from other states arrive in Delhi every day and most of these operate from Kashmere Gate ISBT (1,636), followed by Anand Vihar (1,210) and Sarai Kale Khan (621). Most of the inter-state buses arrive from Uttar Pradesh (1,519), followed by Haryana (757) and Uttarakhand (313). Delhi Transport Corporation doesn’t operate any inter-state bus as its entire fleet runs on CNG, which is not easily available in other states. While the ISBTs remained closed, the demand for inter-state travel led to a spike in the number of private buses ferrying passengers illegally. The department had, in fact, cracked down on these private buses, most of which were registered in Uttar Pradesh, followed by those from Rajasthan and Bihar. When the ISBTs reopen, these are going to see new safety measures like all-night bus operations, fewer buses, staggered timings, thermal screening, entry through online booking, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-months-on-3-isbts-in-capital-may-reopen-in-nov/articleshow/78880551.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 27, 2020||Agra||STF quizzes Hathras rape victim’s kin about Congress member's visit||AGRA: The Special Task Force (STF) investigating the alleged conspiracy theory in the Hathras incident on Monday questioned the family members of the victim about the visit of a Congress member to their house. A three-member team reached the victim’s house and questioned her father for almost an hour about the visit of Congress member Shyoraj Jivan Valmiki. Valmiki had made a controversial statement a day after the deceased recorded her statement in the hospital about the alleged gang-rape. Confirming this, the father of the victim said, “The officials questioned Congress member Valmiki. They asked me the details as to when he had visited, what he had said and even where he sat during his visit?” He added that he just wants justice for his daughter and hence is ready to cooperate with every investigative agency. Earlier in the day, STF officials visited Chandpa police station where two FIRs were registered, one each against Valmiki and four men, including a journalist from Kerala, who were arrested by Mathura police on their way to meet the victim’s family in Hathras. All four men were named in the FIR registered in Hathras on October 4 after close examination of the 17 to 18 pages of documents seized from them. It was revealed that they were coming to Hathras to disrupt peace, the police said. Recently, the government had transferred a part of the probe relating a “conspiracy” to defame the government and trigger caste riots in the state to the STF. The four FIRs had been transferred in this connection that include two FIRs of Hathras, one each in Aligarh and Mathura — against Valmiki and four men, who the police say are associated with the Popular Front of India and its students' wing Campus Front of India. Valmiki was booked by Hathras and Aligarh police for making a controversial statement in both the districts. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/stf-quizzes-hathras-rape-victims-kin-about-congress-members-visit/articleshow/78878187.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||PM Modi to interact with vendors who received loan under SVANidhi||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with beneficiaries of the PM SVANidhi Scheme on Tuesday. The scheme was started in June this year under which street vendors are being offered a loan up to Rs 10,000 on easy terms in order to kickstart their work after the Covid lockdown. UP has recorded the highest number of applications, sanctions and disbursals among states and has set itself a target of disbursing loans to at least 2.50 lakh vendors before Tuesday’s event. A government spokesperson said that the PM would hold a virtual dialogue with the beneficiaries and will be joined by chief minister Yogi Adityanath during this meeting. The interaction would be shown live across 75 districts. The SVANidhi scheme entails providing an easy loan to vendors, at a subsidised rate of interest, incentivized regular repayment of the loan and a reward for digital transactions. The scheme is applicable for vendors and hawkers in urban, pre-urban and rural areas who faced a major financial crisis especially during the Covid-19 lockdown. Since the launch of the scheme, UP has disbursed loans to 2.62 lakh beneficiaries. It has received over 6 lakh applications and sanctioned loans for 3.62 lakh vendors. This has placed UP first among all other states. To meet the target of 2.50 lakh before Tuesday’s event, the government had directed officials to work even on the weekend. Deepak Kumar, (principal secretary) Urban Development, said there are 3,050 registered vending zones under the 651 urban local bodies in the state. Over 7.78 lakh vendors work in these zones even though just 6.68 lakh are registered vendors. While the government has issued certificates to 4,70,923 vendors, it has given ID cards to over 4.77 lakh vendors to ensure that they can carry on with their business without any hassles. In all India rankings, seven cities from UP have been placed in top 10, which includes the first five positions. This includes Varanasi, Lucknow, Aligarh, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur in first five slots, Kanpur on 8th place and Ghaziabad on the 9th. The remaining spots have been occupied by Indore in the 6th place, Bhopal in the 7th and Hyderabad in the 10th spot. Among states, following UP is Madhya Pradesh with loan disbursements to over 1.25 Lakh beneficiaries, followed by Telangana with disbursements to 53,926, Gujarat with 18,960, Andhra Pradesh with 16,047, Maharashtra with 13,219 and Chhattisgarh with 9,233 disbursals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pm-modi-to-interact-with-vendors-who-received-loan-under-svanidhi/articleshow/78881662.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||India on track to meet 175GW green energy goal by 2022: PM||NEW DELHI: India is well on track to meet the renewable energy target of 175 GW (gigawatt) by 2022 and will raise it to 450 GW by 2030 with a view to ensuring a low carbon footprint as the world’s third largest oil consumer drives global energy demand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. “We are well on track to meet the commitment we made to the global community. We had aimed to increase the renewable energy installed capacity by 175 GW by 2022. We have further extended this goal to 450 GW by 2030. India has one of the lowest carbon emissions than the rest of the industrialised world. Yet, we will continue to make efforts to fight climate change,” the PM said while inaugurating the fourth edition of the India Energy Forum-CERA Week. Echoing recent outlooks from entities such as BP and International Energy Agency suggesting India as the major driver of energy demand, Modi said this growth will be based on the principle of ensuring “energy justice” while following global commitments for sustainable growth. “This means more energy to improve the lives of Indians. But, with a smaller carbon footprint.” “India believes that access to energy must be affordable and reliable. That is when socio-economic transformations can take place. We view the energy sector as one that empowers people and furthers ease of living,” the PM said pointing to 100% electrification and expansion in LPG coverage through his government’s flagship programmes. “These changes particularly helped our rural areas, our middle class and the women.” Referring indirectly to the historic crash in oil demand and prices due to lockdowns prompted by Covid-19 pandemic, Modi pitched for responsible pricing. “For too long, the world has seen crude prices on a roller-coaster. We need to move towards responsible pricing. We have to work towards transparent and flexible markets for both oil and gas,” he said. Noting that the price instability has impacted investment decisions, Modi said India’s energy consumption is set to double in the long run. But here too, the underpinning was the PM’s climate commitment. “Our energy sector will be growth centric, industry friendly and environment conscious. That is why, India is among the most active nations in furthering renewable sources of energy.” Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said energy has become an essential component and even a strategic component in India’s bilateral engagements with several key global players. “Under the Neighbourhood First Policy, we are developing energy corridors with neighbouring countries and beyond to promote energy access in the region,” he said. He said Indian oil and gas industry rose to the occasion “in a commendable manner during these challenging times by ensuring energy supplies, including clean cooking fuel, reach the remotest part of the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-on-track-to-meet-175gw-green-energy-goal-by-2022-pm/articleshow/78882485.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 200 crore central help to repair roads||HYDERABAD: The Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry has sanctioned Rs 200 crore for repairs and development of various national highways being maintained by the state government in Telangana. The Roads and Buildings department officials had written to the ministry seeking funds to repair roads damaged by the recent heavy rains and floods, an official in the R&B department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-200cr-central-help-to-repair-roads/articleshow/78881666.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Caste killing is an open threat to society: Madras HC||MADURAI: Observing that caste killing is an open threat against the society and against Article 17 of the Constitution, the Madras high court has denied bail to six accused who were arrested in connection with the murder of a dalit youth, Gokulraj at Namakkal in 2015. The court was hearing the criminal appeals preferred by Sathishkumar, Ragu alias Sridhar, Ranjith, Suresh, Giridhar and Prabhu challenging the order of the Madurai III additional sessions court (PCR) which had dismissed their bail applications. Referring to the offence as caste terrorism, justice R Tharani observed that the alleged motive for the occurrence is communal hatred which is against the Constitution. The judge said that out of 116 witnesses, 86 were already examined and the remaining, who are yet to be examined are only official witnesses. Taking into account that the bail applications of the accused were dismissed by various courts and considering that the Supreme Court has ordered for the disposal of the case within the prescribed time, the judge observed that releasing the appellants on bail when the trial is in a crucial stage, may cause delay in disposal of the case. Observing that the offence is grave in nature, the judge said, “Whether there is any overtact against the appellants, whether there is evidence against the appellants cannot be decided before the completion of the trial.” Hence, the judge dismissed the criminal appeals. It may be recalling that a dailt youth Gokulraj, an engineering student from Omalur, was kidnapped by a gang on June 24, 2015, from a temple at Tiruchengode where he was talking to his girlfriend, belonging to the gounder community. His beheaded body was found near a railway track at Pallipalayam a few days later. Seventeen people were arrested in connection with this murder. In 2019, the Madras high court (principal seat) had transferred the trial of the case from Namakkal court to a court in Madurai district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/caste-killing-is-an-open-threat-to-society-hc/articleshow/78880556.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Agra||15 localities face water scarcity due to pipeline leaks||AGRA: Residents of 15 localities in the city had to put up with inadequate water supply on Monday due to leaks in supply pipeline and other mechanical faults. Despite complaints, Jal Sansthan failed to send water tankers, residents claimed. A few localities, including Awas Vikas, Sadar Bhatti, Prakash Nagar, Chandra Nagar, parts of Dayalbagh and Kamla Nagar, received foul-smelling water. Old city areas are dependent on Jeevani Mandi waterworks station for water while nearly half of the city gets supply from Sikandra waterworks. Both stations were not working to their full capacity on Monday. Besides, some 20 leakages in water supply pipelines maintained by Jal Sansthan were reported. The areas affected included Awas Vikas, Sikandra, Dayalbagh, trans-Yamuna and, Transport Nagar, RS Yadav, general manager, Agra Jal Sansthan, said “We are working to fix all the leaks. The pipeline are old and are not able to bear pressure of water. Therefore, they often spring a leak We are working on a plan to lay new pipelines in areas where frequent leakages are reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-localities-face-water-scarcity-due-to-pipeline-leaks/articleshow/78878198.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New regulations by central panel: KSEB moves Kerala high court||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala State Electricity Board Limited has approached the Kerala high court against the regulation changes introduced by Central Electricity Regulatory Commission towards calculating the interstate transmission line charges. The new regulation by the commission would badly affect KSEB as its bills are set to triple in two years. Following the request of CERC counsel, the petition has been posted for hearing on November 6. The board authorities claimed that the unilateral changes in principals followed by Power Grid Corporation of India for arriving at the charges to be paid by each state for using the interstate transmission lines would thrust upon a huge financial liability on Kerala. It was the new regulations announced by CERC that empowered power grid to adopt new way of calculating charges for the use of transmission lines. According to the board, its bills would immediately jump from Rs.550 cr to Rs.1,000 cr and it would further go up to Rs.1,500 in another few months. Sources in the board said the new regulations passed by the commission would give financial gains to at least four states such as Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. As the new regulations take off the thrust on usage-based billing, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and West Bengal would be forced to pay substantially high amount. Other states in the league of losers are also expected to take legal recourse sooner or later. According to KSEB, it was not responsible for the underutilization of power evacuation lines set up by power grid. It puts the blame on power grid which set up lines on the basis of the request from power generators, mostly in private sector. It is said lines worth 36,000 MW power transmission remain idle in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-regulations-by-central-panel-kseb-moves-hc/articleshow/78879273.cms||B S Anilkumar
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: HC seeks response on infrastructure in govt tribal schools||MADURAI: The Madras high court has sought a response from the state government in a plea which sought to provide proper infrastructure facilities to the government tribal residential schools in the state. A division bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy sought the response to the public interest litigation filed by G Pandiyan, a resident of Tirunelveli district. The petitioner stated that the central and state governments are implementing several schemes for the welfare of the people belonging to the tribal community. He stated that when he visited a few schools at Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli, Theni and Virudhunagar districts, he found out that the buildings were in poor condition, some lacked hostel facilities and some did not have toilet facilities. There was a lack of teachers in few schools and in some the teachers were not attending regularly. The petitioner sought to strictly implement biometric attendance system for the teachers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-infra-in-govt-tribal-schools/articleshow/78880559.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Notices seeking maintenance cost for jumbo quashed||MADURAI: The Madras high court has quashed demand notices which sought maintenance cost from the custodian of an elephant, which was seized by the forest department. The court was hearing a petition filed by L Indira, a resident of Madurai. Indira’s husband was employed as mahout in Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple at Madurai and the petitioner was having a captive elephant. The elephant was seized from the petitioner as it was used for begging and subjected to ill-treatment, and is now maintained by the Trichy district forest officer. The petitioner was served with two demand notices wherein she was asked to pay Rs 9,21,678 and Rs 63,265 respectively for maintenance of the elephant. Justice G R Swaminathan said the authorities want the court to sustain the demand notices by referring to Rule 14 of the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephants (Management and Maintenance) Rules 2011. The judge observed that only if the elephant could not be maintained by the person concerned and it is handed over to the forest department, then alone the cost of maintenance should be borne by the original custodian. In this case, the petitioner did not surrender possession of the elephant, but it was taken over by the department based on an earlier order of principal seat in 2019. Hence, the judge observed that Rule 14 will not have any application to the case on hand. The petitioner is not only deprived of the animal but has also been called upon to bear the cost of maintenance. Observing that nothing can be more unfair, the judge quashed the demand notices issued to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/notices-seeking-maintenance-cost-for-jumbo-quashed/articleshow/78880558.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University postpones backlog exams||HYDERABAD: Osmania University has postponed the undergraduate first to fifth semesters backlog examinations for BA/BSc/BCom/BCom (Hons)/BBA/BSW) scheduled from October 27. According to a press release issued by the university, new timetable/schedule will be issued in the first week of November. Post-graduation exams will be held as per schedule from October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-postpones-backlog-exams/articleshow/78880562.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt makes first list of corona warriors for vaccine||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is preparing a database of health workers and others at the forefront in the battle against Covid-19 — both from government and private sectors — who are likely to get vaccination in the first phase. The database of these ‘corona warriors’ will be submitted to the Union health ministry by Delhi government’s health and family welfare department. The Union ministry had directed all states and Union territories to submit plans on backend infrastructure, cold storage and distribution by October 31. They were also told to prepare for a robust vaccine supply chain, which will require a cold chain and also space for bulk cold storage of the vaccine. “This database will be submitted to the Union ministry and it will decide how to go about it,” a Delhi government official said, adding that at the moment, there is no confirmation about which priority groups will be selected for first phase of vaccination. The Delhi government will use the existing cold chain system in the city used for regular immunisation programmes, apart from the supply and distribution chain for introduction of the Covid-19 vaccine in the future. “We already have a robust immunisation programme in place and it is natural that the people who are already involved in immunisation will also be deployed for the work related to introduction of Covid-19 vaccine,” he said. The process of vaccination and immunisation in Delhi is mostly carried out with the help of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) and Anganwadi workers and for the purpose of introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, auxiliary nurse midwives and other healthcare workers are also going to be roped in. Officials said that it is also likely that district-wise micro plans for the vaccination programme is also chalked out soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-makes-first-list-of-corona-warriors-for-vaccine/articleshow/78880565.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 27, 2020||Agra||Man who accused three of killing daughter arrested for her murder||AGRA: Three miscreants had barged into the house of a 16-year-old Dalit girl, a Class XI student, in Prem Nagar locality late Friday night and killed her as she resisted sexual harassment bid by them, her father had claimed. Police on Monday said it was the girl's father who had shot her dead from the point-blank range as he did not like her affair with a youth living in their locality. After committing the crime, the father concocted the harassment story and lodged a complaint against three, including his daughter's boyfriend, at Rasulpur police station only to mislead the probe, police claimed. Inspector general (Agra range) A Satish Ganesh said, “A bullet hit the girl on her head and she collapsed. Following the complaint, police arrested one of the accused late Friday night and two others on Saturday. They, however, denied their involvement in the crime and pleaded their innocence.” “When questioned separately, contradictory statements by family members, however, made police suspicious, which was further strengthened by an analysis of the call details of the accused. And, police concluded that the girl’s father was trying to mislead the probe,” said the IG. “It was, however, the disclosure made by the victim’s brother — that his father had shot her dead as he was unhappy with her friendship with the youths of their locality — when police arrested the accused,” said the IG. On the fateful night, the accused had inquired about the three youths named in the FIR with people in his locality and then spoke to them over the phone, said police. “Upon returning home, the accused confronted his daughter over her friendship with the youths. As she refused to talk to the accused, he in a fit of rage opened fire at her with a country-made pistol, killing her on the spot. He then threatened his family members not to disclose the crime to police,” said senior superintendent of police Sachindra Patel. Additional superintendent of police Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “We arrested the accused around 5am on Monday and seized from his possession a 315-bore country-made pistol, the weapon used to kill the girl, and a cartridge. We have booked the accused under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder) and section 3/25 of the Arms Act. He was sent to jail following a court order.” Police, meanwhile, released the youths on Monday. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-who-had-accused-three-youths-of-killing-daughter-arrested-for-her-murder/articleshow/78878211.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: DMDK can lead third front in state, says Vijay Prabakaran||MADURAI: There is a possibility for the DMDK to lead the 3rd front in the assembly elections next year, said Vijay Prabakaran, son of party founder Vijayakant. “The DMDK was formed as an alternative to the DMK and AIADMK. We had competed in all the 234 assembly segments just after the formation of the party and proved our strength,” he told reporters after attending a wedding in Madurai on Monday. The party wanted to go alone as an alternative but went for an alliance due to circumstances, he said. “There is no friend or foe in politics. Surely strategies will change with time,” he said responding to a query on the possible alliance for the upcoming assembly polls. He also claimed that no other party can lead the third front. According to him, the coming election is the first poll to be held after the demise of Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa. “All the existing leaders have experience but nobody has proved to be a leader. So it is the first election for everyone. Nobody can claim to be a big leader. People will decide the big leader in the election,” he said. Vijay Prabakaran said the party has begun electioneering. He said his father has completely recovered from Covid-19 and is back to his routine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmdk-can-lead-third-front-in-state-says-vijayakants-son/articleshow/78880569.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Startup to provide healthcare to elderly||AHMEDABAD: Running errands for themselves was easier before the pandemic for the elderly, who were dependent on neighbours and friendly auto rickshaw drivers. However, the lockdown spelled havoc for many of them, with public transport coming to a standstill and leaving them struggling to meet even their basic needs. A number of elderly people who put up alone often face this issue and to address this, entrepreneurs, Dipaali Bhatt and Snehal Avashiya co-founded a startup, MyBezzie.  “The idea is to bring dignity in the life of senior citizens who live alone. Finding a reliable service provider, be it for availing medical assistance, or home care services or daily services is often a challenge and through our startup, we will be offering a slew of services on a subscription model,” said Avashia. Services provided by the platform include concierge services, home care and skilled services, travel, professional services, daily living essentials and medical services. “We have collaborated with a team of skilled professionals to arrange for these services. Once someone is enrolled with us, we make each of the services available on request. Our professionals also call them from time to time to check on their well-being. With more people migrating out of the city for jobs, elderly persons are often left in the lurch and our business exactly understands and addresses their needs,” said Bhatt. Elderly people whose children stay away from the city typically avail these services. The startup is currently headquartered in Ahmedabad and provides services to at least 35 clients in Vadodara and Ahmedabad. Sharing future plans, Bhatt further went on to say, “We also plan to expand to Mumbai, Pune and other Indian cities in the coming days.” The startup is currently incubated with Gujarat University Startup and Entrepreneurship Council (GUSEC). Both the co-founders are funding the company by themselves at present and they haven’t yet opted for any form of funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/startup-to-provide-healthcare-to-elderly/articleshow/78880601.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Bike thefts on the rise in Madurai||MADURAI: Even though police have tightened vigilance by increasing night patrols, two-wheeler theft incidents continue unabated in various parts of the district as at least 10 cases of bike theft are being registered every month lockdown was lifted. So far, 17 cases have been registered this month in 12 police station limits - Othakadai, Melur, Checkanurani, Samayanallur, Alanganallur, T Kallupatti, Thirumangalam Town, Silaiman, Palamedu, Austinpatti, Kadupatti and Sholavandan. A police officer said, “90% of two-wheeler theft incidents are reported at night. Thieves are targeting bikes without secondary locks only. Police rounds have been increased at night to prevent thefts,” he said. Another police officer said that in cities, detection of two-wheeler theft incidents is comparatively easier, since there is chances of thieves getting caught on CCTV cameras. Only a few places in rural areas have CCTV cameras. He added that there is a standing instruction to register FIRs immediately in two-wheeler theft incidents. The incidents can be prevented once a few thieves are arrested, he said. Police said goat thefts are also being reported. “At least five such incidents have been reported so far. Such incidents are reported mostly towards the end of the week as demand for goats goes up on Saturdays and Sundays.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bike-thefts-on-the-rise-in-madurai/articleshow/78880563.cms||V Devanathan
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Safety precautions thrown to the wind during festive shopping||MADURAI: As Diwali shopping is in full swing, textile stores are packed with people throwing physical distancing to the wind. Not just stores, entire streets in commercial hubs are crowded, resulting in frequent traffic jams. Although police personnel have been deployed to control the crowd movement, people go berserk on weekends as the crowd surges. They are asked to maintain distance and wear masks through public address systems installed at vantage points, but hardly any pay heed to them. “At least 20-30% of people don’t wear masks at all. There is no fear of Covid-19 any more as people move closely with others and chat after removing masks,” said a police officer deployed for duty at South Masi Street. Police said that there also have been incidents of children getting lost in the crowd. On Monday, a three-year-old boy, who was separated from his parents was reunited after one hour of continuous announcement over the public address system. There was no major difference on the crowd movement for Diwali purchase this year compared to yesteryears, they added. However, people who are concerned of Covid-19 prefer shopping on weekdays when the crowd is comparatively less. V Selvam, a resident of Anaiyur, said, “We went for shopping on Monday, but as it was a government holiday prominent stores were crowded. We returned home without purchasing anything, after deciding to do it on some other day. The crowd will only increase in the days to come.” “The irresponsible behaviour of people and traders will not be tolerated. A meeting will be conducted with the representatives of traders to warn them to follow all the precautionary measures religiously,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/safety-precautions-thrown-to-the-wind-during-festive-shopping/articleshow/78880564.cms||V Devanathan
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Gaur gores man to death||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A 26-year-old man was gored to death by a gaur at Kil Attadi Colony near Vandisolai in the Coonoor forest range on Monday. The deceased was identified as N Ranjith Kumar. He was on the way to a shop around 9.15am when the animal attacked him. Kumar died on the spot, assistant conservator of forests Saravanakumar said. The forest department handed over Rs 50,000 as initial compensation to the victim’s family. “The balance compensation of Rs 3,50,000 will be handed over to the family after the procedural formalities are over. An inquiry is under way,” Saravanakumar said. The body was sent to the Coonoor Government Hospital for postmortem and was later handed over to the family.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gaur-gores-man-to-death/articleshow/78880582.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Summons to Haryana ex-minister scrapped||NEW DELHI: A city court on Monday set aside an order of a magisterial court summoning former Haryana minister Gopal Kanda and his aide, Aruna Chaddha, for allegedly abetting the suicide of Anuradha Sharma, who expired six months after her daughter died by suicide on August 5, 2012. The magisterial court had rejected the closure report filed by police in the case last year and taken cognisance of IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (common intention) and summoned the accused. On Monday, however, additional sessions judge Kiran Gupta said, “The picture, which emerges from a cumulative reading and assessment of the two suicide notes, is this. Presumably because of the death of her daughter, who allegedly killed herself due to certain acts of the petitioners, caused distress and she felt disappointed, frustrated and depressed.” The court further opined, “She was overtaken by a feeling of shortcoming, which she attributed to herself. She was overcome by a forceful feeling generated within her that her death would only bring justice to her daughter, Geetika.” Appearing for Kanda, advocate RS Malik submitted that there was “no proximate link between the two suicides” and there was a gap of six months between the two cases. He added that the magisterial court failed to consider that Anuradha was a “hypersensitive woman” and there was “suicidal tendency in the family”, which could be inferred from the two incidents. The prosecutor opposed the revision plea arguing that the court had to see a prima facie evidence and not appreciate evidence. It was argued, “The suicide note of the deceased clearly mentions the name of both the petitioners and the statement of the deceased’s son is also clear and points towards the accused persons.” The counsel for Anuradha’s husband argued that she had died by suicide owing to the “harassment at the hands” of Kanda and Chaddha, and, therefore, a prima facie case was made out against both and they had been rightly summoned. Anuradha died on February 15, 2013. It came on record that Kanda and Chaddha had been in custody for six months prior to the incident and were only released on bail after about one year. The court observed, “In the entire record file, there is not even a single complaint or report regarding any threats extended by the petitioners or any person on their behalf. Even from the call data records of the deceased, nothing has been found that she was receiving calls or was threatened by the petitioners or any person on their behalf.” “The present one is not a case where the accused or petitioners had by their acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide, in which case instigation may have been inferred,” added the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/summons-to-haryana-ex-minister-scrapped/articleshow/78880621.cms||Aamir Khan
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Recoveries more than positive cases on 36 of last 37 days||NAGPUR: The number of Covid-19 recovered patients was higher than new cases on 36 of the last 37 days. Experts say this is a sign of the first wave of novel coronavirus on the verge of ending in the district. On Monday, there were 257 new positive cases in the district. It is the second consecutive day the number was below 300, with 222 on Sunday. Sunday’s figure was the lowest in last 89 days, after 151 on July 28. The number of recoveries was 412 on Sunday and 566 on Monday, which was higher than new positive cases. The recoveries have been more than new positive cases since the end of third week of September, when Covid-19 curve started plateauing in the district. On September 20, recovered patients numbered 1,610 whereas new positive cases were 1,226. The trend continued for consecutive 17 days. On a single day on October 7, new positive cases were 976 whereas recoveries were 835. Since then, new positive cases have been less than recoveries. Between September 20 and October 26, the number of recoveries was 35,817 and new positive cases were 31,372. The district’s recovery rate was 91.33% on Monday, which is the best ever. It was higher than state (86%) and India (90.23%). The administration has managed to maintain tests at around 6,000 per day. The daily average tests were 1,777 in July and increased to 5,655 in August and 6,557 in September. In last 26 days of October, daily average tests were 5,988. The difference is that new positive cases are on decline. There were 125 cases per day on average in July and increased to 779 per day in August, and surged to 1,615 per day in September. It declined to 611 per day in 26 days of October. Similarly, deaths are on steep decline in October. The district registered 567 deaths in 26 days of October whereas there were 1,465 deaths in September, 919 in August and 101 in July. The active cases too have declined to a great extent in the district, with 5,063 positive patients under treatment on Monday, which is 5.39% of total positive cases. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “It may not be wrong to say that Covid-19 is almost on the verge of ending in the district, at least temporarily. Cases will never be zero but continue in low numbers. A second wave is predicted, probably from January, but everything depends on people and administration. Cases will come down to zero only after a vaccine becomes available to all.” IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande said, “Recoveries being more than new cases on 36 of last 37 days means there is no fluctuation and pandemic is on decline steadily. Deaths reduced as people are getting tested and getting treatment in early stage now. Patients are getting their choice of hospital too with many beds vacant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recoveries-more-than-ve-cases-on-36-of-last-37-days/articleshow/78879279.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||After NEET success, NGO plans special wing for free coaching||NAGPUR: After the success in coaching tribal students from Melghat for NEET this year, Lift for Upliftment (LFU), an NGO from Pune, has decided to start a special wing to provide free training to tribals. The joint initiative of the state’s Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) and LFU, since 2017, bore fruits this month when 10 students from Amravati’s Melghat region cleared NEET. LFU founder-president Dr Atul Dhakne said, “In the last three years, we have seen how much potential these tribal kids have. Also, they have amazing survival skills which aids them in their academic journey as well. Hence, from this academic session onwards we will be starting a separate unit to provide free coaching to selected students.” Dr Dhakne prefers to handle a ‘lean and mean’ unit. “We will select only up to 25 students from across Maharashtra. Students won’t be appearing for any entrance exam since that’s not possible at the moment. So, we have decided to go for a telephonic or video call interview with the applicants,” said Dr Dhakne. He feels since students would have already cleared Std X, they will have access to communication device either of their own or at ashramshalas. LFU will leverage their contacts in the tribal department and the huge network of doctors in the state to spread the word around. “We are looking to gauge basic aptitude, emotional quotient and their financial condition. LFU will provide free online coaching till at least January, and then take a call about bringing them to Pune,” said Dr Dhakne. The NGO is also trying to reach out to donors so that devices for online coaching can be provided to the students. The special unit will be called Ulgulaan Maharashtra. Dr Dhakne said, “Ulgulaan was the freedom movement started by tribal freedom-fighter and folk hero Birsa Munda in 1890s, which means revolution or be ready for change.” Those willing to sponsor a tribal child or knowing a child with potential may contact LFU on 7720033007 or www.lfupune.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-neet-success-ngo-plans-special-wing-for-free-coaching/articleshow/78882193.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Jagan clears industrial policy for SCs, STs in AP||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday cleared the new industrial policy in the state for the SCs and the STs. The new policy, named Jagananna YSR Badugu Vikasam 2020-23, would provide 16.2% quota for the SCs and 6% for the STs in all the industrial parks in the state. The chief minister also directed officials to create awareness among the SCs and STs on establish industries, from the proposal to the launching stage, by starting a fecilitation cell. Jagan said that the government would provide Rs 1 crore incentives for the SCs and STs in the state to start industries. The government would also provide skill training for the youth from these sections on employment opportunities, besides entrepreneurship. The CM also told officials to give preference to the SC and ST entrepreneurs in land allocation by the APIIC in the state. Jagan said that his government had paid Rs 278 crore to the SC and ST industrialists under Restart One scheme, against Rs 53 crore given to the SCs and Rs 15 crore given to the STs by the previous governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagan-clears-industrial-policy-for-scs-sts-in-ap/articleshow/78880597.cms||Gopi Dara
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||NMC staffers in ‘home quarantine’ on Wed to protest over wage hike||NAGPUR: Work at Nagpur Municipal Corporation may come to a halt as nearly 9,000 employees will go on a one-day ‘home quarantine’ strike on October 28 to press for various demands including implementation of the Seventh Pay Commission wages. The employees’ union is irked at the state government's alleged dilly-dallying over implementation of 7th Pay Commission recommendations in Nagpur Municipal Corporation though it has been implemented in other corporations and government departments. Union members said the state government recently gave nod to implement the recommednations in Chandrapur municipal corporation too. In a letter to the NMC officials and employees, the Rashtriya Nagpur Corporation Employees Association (INTUC) president Surendra Thengne said due to association’s pressure, the past municipal commissioner and even general body had cleared the implementation of the 7th pay commission. Following appeal from Thengne, civic body employees have started applying for leave on October 28. However, employees from essential services departments will not participate in the day-long agitation. “On August 8 last year, after NMC general body’s nod, the civic administration sought state’s approval to implement the new wages for its staff. As asked by the urban development department, NMC had furnished details regarding establishment expenditure and its income from various sources,” Thengne said. With approximately 9,000 employees, excluding 3,500 daily wagers, NMC’s establishment expenditure is around 50% which is mugh higher than the norm of 35% set by the state. Hence, the government is withholding approval to 7th pay commission wages which would make increase the expenditure even more, said sources NMC sources. Currently, NMC’s committed expenditure is around Rs115 crore, including Rs32 crore towards salary payment and Rs10 crore pensions per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-staffers-in-home-quarantine-on-wed-to-protest-over-wage-hike/articleshow/78879323.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||12 DMK functionaries arrested for tearing posters put up by AIADMK||COIMBATORE: Twelve DMK cadres were arrested in the city on Monday for tearing posters put up by AIADMK men ‘demeaning’ DMK president M K Stalin. While DMK general secretary Duraimurugan condemned the arrest, the party’s youth wing leader Udhayanithi Stalin landed in the city in the evening to lead a protest condemning the posters and the arrest of party workers. The posters with images of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and DMK president M K Stalin purportedly comparing the two leaders, had slogans praising the former while ridiculing Stalin. “Mannin Mainthana, Mannarin Magana?’ (son of the soil or the king’s son) read one poster which had the image of Stalin caricatured with a moustache resembling actor Vadivel in the film ‘Imsai Arasan 23- aam Pulikesi.’ Another poster ridiculed Stalin’s oratorical skills while positioning EPS as leader with self-confidence. Yet another poster had the caricatures of DMK MP Kanimozhi and Udhayanithi Stalin as well to insinuate dynastic politics in DMK while EPS has come up the ladder because of his hard work. The posters did not have the name of the person or the outfit who stuck them. Enraged at the posters, DMK cadres tore them down at Gandhipuram, RS Puram and Kuniyamuthur. Based on complaints from AIADMK men, four DMK cadres from Selvapuram, seven from Kuniyamuthur and one from R S Puram were arrested. All the twelve were released on bail. The DMK cadres meanwhile had lodged complaints against those behind the posters. In a statement, Duraimurugan said that in several places across the state those who stuck the posters had themselves removed them after opposition from DMK cadres. In some places, police had torn them down. “Only in Coimbatore, police had arrested DMK workers for tearing the posters,’’ he said accusing local administration S P Velumani for the inaction of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/12-dmk-functionaries-arrested-for-tearing-posters-put-up-by-aiadmk/articleshow/78880594.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 253 new Covid-19 cases of take tally to 42,084||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 253 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 42,084. The day also saw 193 people getting discharged leaving the number of active cases at 3,753. The number of people recovered has increased to 37,793, pointing to a recovery rate of 89.8%. The district also recorded one death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 538. The victim was a 67-year-old hypertensive man who also had coronary artery disease. He died within 24 hours of hospitalization. He was admitted on Friday evening with severe breathlessness at ESI Hospital and tested positive the same day. He died on Saturday evening. The new cases included six CRPF personnel who tested positive on Sunday and Monday and admitted to the Covid care centre at CODISSIA. The CRPF quarters in the city has been reporting Covid-19 cases on and off continuously from July, a cause of worry for health department officials. The source of infection has invariably been a member who recently joined them from another state or city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/253-new-covid-cases-of-take-tally-to-42084/articleshow/78880598.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: NGOs to educate people about ill-effects of lead||COIMBATORE: Non-governmental organizations Arulagam and International Pollutants Elimination Network (IPEN) have started a campaign to create awareness among the public about the ill-effects of using paint with more than permissible level of lead. Besides starting an online campaign to mark International Lead Poisoning Prevention Week observed from October 25 to 31, the NGOs will also organize a vehicle rally from Erode to the Nilgiris via Coimbatore on Wednesday. “As a part of the rally, participants would distribute pamphlets to the people along the way and show video messages explaining ill-effects of lead to humans,” said S Bharathidasan, secretary of Arulagam. Our aim is to educate the public before demanding the government to ban lead paint, he said and added that even though the ministry of environment, forest and climate change has notified ‘the regulation on lead contents in household and decorative paint rules, 2016’ to restrict the lead content in paint to 90 ppm, it is yet to be implemented. Pointing out that pregnant women and children are highly vulnerable to lead poisoning, he said exposure to lead can cause hypertension, renal impairment, immune toxicity and reproductive toxicity as well as convulsion when a large quantity of lead is absorbed into body and at times even leading to death. A recent study titled ‘The toxic truth children’s exposure to lead pollution 2020’ by UNICEF and Pure Earth, an NGO, explained the importance of tackling lead exposure as a priority environment, health and development challenge, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ngos-to-educate-people-about-ill-effects-of-lead/articleshow/78880616.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Kadar tribe in Vazhachal invokes forest rights against power project||KOCHI: The Kadar tribe in Vazhachal has invoked community forest rights (CFR) to stop KSEB from going ahead with a small hydel project in the buffer zone of Prambikkulam Reserve, without their consent, which is mandatory under the Forest Rights Act. The 7.5MW Sholayar tail-race project at Anakkayam, which had a cost estimate of Rs 139.6 crore in 2018, requires tree felling in eight hectares and blasting rocks for a tunnel. Recently, KSEB awarded the contract for felling trees at the site to V Chandran of Chitra Enterprises based in Thiruvananthapuram at Rs 45.9 lakh. After they learned about the move, eight of the nine tribal settlements in Vazhachal division passed resolutions against the Anakkayam SHEP, for which the Centre had granted stage-II clearance in 2014. Anakkayam grama sabha is the primary holder of community forest rights title, which it enjoys along with the settlements of Sholayar, Malakkappara, Thavalakkuzhippara, Vachumaram, Peringalkuthu, Vazhachal, Mukkumpuzha and Pokalappara since 2014. VK Geetha, a chieftain of the tribal community, said all settlements except Thavalakkuzhippara have convened meetings and passed resolutions against the project. A senior forest official said the department received representations from oorrukoottams in Vazhachal and Pokalappara against the implementation of the project as their consent was not sought. Diversion of forest land for non-forest purposes cannot be carried without the consent of grama sabhas, which hold CFR. As per section 3 (1) (i) of the Act, title holders have the right to protect any community forest resource, which they have been traditionally conserving for sustainable use. “It’s Kadar community that holds the rights and for any development activity their consent is paramount,” said Geetha. The eight hectares of forest being felled in Anakkayam is part of a 400 sq km area, from which they collect forest produce. The trees numbering 1,897 with circumferences ranging from 70cm to 740cm have been marked. “They also mentioned the presence of many small trees but we don't know how many,” said Geetha. Environmental activists are worried since the site is close to a spot where a landslide occurred in 2018. “While implementing a project, KSEB will not go ahead unless it obtains all necessary sanctions. I don't think panchayats or grama sabhas play a role in it,” said KSEB CMD NS Pillai. Forest department sources said since KSEB had obtained clearance before CFR rights were conferred in 2014 there is a confusion. The collector, who heads the district-level committee, has been intimated and a decision cannot be taken with involvement of all stakeholders, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribe-invokes-forest-rights-against-power-project/articleshow/78879333.cms||Binu Karunakaran
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plasma therapy for corona to be stopped?||AHMEDABAD: Convalescent blood plasma, often administered to Covid-19 positive patients with moderate symptoms, may be discontinued from the state hospitals after changes in national Covid-19 management guidelines, indicated experts.  Experts are also keeping an eye on the final word on ivermectin and favipiravir, two of the drugs – anti-parasitic and anti-viral medicines respectively – used by some Indian states in Covid-19 treatment. While use of ivermectin is not much prevalent in Gujarat, several private hospitals administer favipiravir to the patients. “We are awaiting the new treatment guidelines by the Indian Council on Medical Research (ICMR) for the Covid-19 infection. We don’t have any state-specific protocol but there surely can be modifications based on the local conditions and requirement,” said a senior state health department official. “Decision on the convalescent blood plasma therapy is not yet taken at the state level. But if it’s discontinued at the national level, we will follow the suit.” While a section of experts has advocated use of plasma therapy on the grounds that it can show results in selective patients, a recent ICMR report based on the trials between April and July in 39 hospitals across the country showed that it doesn’t help in reducing mortality. Several hospitals in Gujarat are already providing the plasma therapy to Covid-19 patients. Dr Maharshi Desai, a city-based critical care specialist and member of the state-appointed committee on Covid-19 control, said that with lack of any specific medicines for Covid-19 treatment at the moment, the primary focus is on re-purposed medicines. “After seven months of pandemic, we have understood what works and what doesn’t – thus, the focus is on anti-virals, immuno-suppressants, anti-coagulants and steroids. I believe use of ivermectin is not much prevalent in Gujarat,” he said. “Favipiravir is used in moderate cases of infection, whereas focus is still on remdesivir and tocilizumab,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plasma-therapy-for-corona-to-be-stopped/articleshow/78880661.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Agra||72 Covid patients discharged in Agra, active cases now 375||AGRA: At least, 72 Covid-19 patients were "discharged" in Agra district on Monday. Of the 7,039 cases reported in the district, 92.6% have been declared "cured". There are now 375 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 7,039 people have recovered.” Moreover, at least 24 fresh Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 7,039. The new cases included two staffers of SN Medical College, five patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, four of influenza-like illness, three of SARI, three of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/72-covid-patients-discharged-in-agra-active-cases-now-375/articleshow/78878231.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Doctor ends life, alleges torture by top police official as reason||KANYAKUMARI: Sivarama Perumal, a doctor and a DMK functionary who runs a private hospital, has allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison at his house in Parakkai near Nagercoil in Kanyakumari district late on Monday. In a suicide note, he accused a senior police official of threats and harassment, leading him to take the extreme step. Apart from the official, he also named another person and held the duo responsible for his death. Perumal is the deputy organiser of the doctor’s wing of the DMK in Kanyakumari. His wife, Sita is a doctor at a government hospital. It is said that the doctor was driving his car home along with his wife after Covid-19 duty on July 12 when they were intercepted by the top official along with a few policemen. Perumal claims that the cop used unparliamentary words to abuse him and his wife. He claimed that he had received a series of threats from the police official thereafter for unknown reasons, which has led to him taking his life. His body was sent to the Kanyakumari Government Medical College and Hospital for autopsy. “We will meet his bereaved family in the morning and get to know the details. Police should ensure a fair probe into the matter and take stringent action on those responsible for his death,” Nagercoil MLA and DMK’s Kanyakumari east district secretary N Suresh Rajan said. Superintendent of police (SP), Kanyakumari district, V Badri Narayanan said that senior police officers – Colachel ASP Vishwesh B Shastri and Nagercoil DSP R Venugopal – are conducting inquiries to ascertain the veracity of the issue as the charges are serious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctor-ends-life-alleges-torture-by-top-police-official-as-reason/articleshow/78880607.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Kunnathur panchayat president murder solved, two held||MADURAI: The Madurai district police have solved the double murder case of Kunnathur panchayat president Krishnarajan and overhead tank operator Munusamy. The duo were murdered on October 11 night. The Karuppayurani police, who had registered a case and conducted inquiries, initially suspected that former village panchayat president Thirupathi and village secretary Palpandi were behind the murders. Villagers too suspected their role. A section of them went on the rampage and attacked their houses. However, detailed inquiries led to the arrest of K Senthil, 40, who is the younger brother of former rowdy Varichur Selvam, and his friend P Balagugu, 46. Both of them are from Kunnathur village. Police said Senthil had approached Krishnarajan before rural local body election held in December 2019 and sought his support to elect his wife, Malarvizhi, as a councillor from Kunnathur village. Krishnarajan had pledged his support. However, he helped the wife of Pandi of Kunnathur win the election. While Senthil did not pick up any quarrel with the president, he decided to eliminate him. He maintained a friendship with him and was looking for a perfect opportunity. Often Krishnarajan would be surrounded by a few other friends. On October 11 night, Senthil and Balagugu stabbed Krishnarajan and Munusamy to death. The were remanded in judicial custody. A police officer said that the duo had told during inquiry that no one else was involved. However, further inquiry will be conducted to ascertain the involvement of others. Two weapons used in the murders were also seized, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kunnathur-panchayat-prez-murder-solved-two-held/articleshow/78880628.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to build 5,000 warehouses for farmers||LUCKNOW: To allow farmers to store their produce safely and get a fair price for their efforts, UP government has planned on constructing about 5,000 warehouses across the state, with at least one for every 10 villages. Eventually, said a government official, there will be one warehouse for every single village. “The scheme is expected to cost Rs 2,500 crore and will increase the storage capacity of the state by 8.60 lakh tons. It will provide huge relief to farmers by not only helping them protect their produce during natural calamities like rain and fire, but also in getting better rates as storing foodgrains properly will prevent them from rotting,” he said. At present, the official explained, farmers are forced to sell off their produce at whatever rate they are offered as they cannot store their grains and therefore wait for a better offer. The buyers are aware of this situation and use it to exploit the farmers. “Other than helping increase the income of the farmers, the warehouses will also create employment opportunities for rural youth as there will be a requirement of caretakers, accountants, security personnel, supervisors,” the official said. In July this year, the cabinet had cleared a major change in the UP Warehousing and Logistics Policy-2018, which allowed land for warehousing and logistics to be made available at industrial rates. Earlier, one had to pay commercial charges for warehousing, which was four times the industrial charge. This would make land substantially cheaper for those planning to set up warehousing and logistics facilities in UP. In May, the warehousing and logistics sector was also accorded the status of ‘industry’ to bring down the cost of setting up units and change of land use from agricultural will now cost 35% of the circle rate as applicable for industrial uses against 150% of the circle rate applicable for commercial use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/each-up-village-to-have-warehouse-for-farmers/articleshow/78881700.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Revival plan adds more superspecialties to Indora’s two-decade-old hospital project||NAGPUR: Four years after the city got prestigious All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Mihan, another tertiary health care services and research centre on par with it as well as Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) has now been planned at Indora. The IGGMCH-administered Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and Research Centre (BAHRC) is now a Rs 1,024 crore project, with 615 beds — which can be augmented up to 900, 28 postgraduate and superspecialty departments/courses, dental OPD beside having its own BSc and MSc nursing college on another piece of 8.5 acre land near Kalamna Ring Road. The new plan is to build two 11-storey blocks at Indora. The work is likely to be completed in 3 years when started and Rs 209 crore have already been sanctioned. IGGMCH medical superintendent Dr Ravi Chouhan, who is officer on special duty (OSD) for BAHRC, told TOI, “The city has superspecialty, but those facilities are under tremendous pressure. The new state-of-the-art hospital would cater to both the rich and poor with world class amenities and services. It is necessity of the region and changing disease pattern.” On the back burner since 2014 when it had received cabinet approval for 568 beds with 17 PG and six superspecialty courses, the BAHRC’s revival comes in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. With the Covid-19 coming as a valuable lesson, all important pulmonary medicine has been incorporated in the latest six speciality studies in the pending proposal. Though the GMCH and IGGMCH have 1,400 and 883 beds, respectively, apart from several PG and superspecialty courses, the city witnessed its worst ever health care crisis in August-September after facing acute shortage of both qualified doctors and beds. Congress leader Nitin Raut, who is now district guardian minister and power minister, has been pursuing the BAHRC project for two decades. During his last stint as state minister, Raut had got his dream project cleared by the government with 568 beds and 23 PG departments in 2014. Now, the addition to the proposal would again require cabinet approval. On October 13, the state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh had okayed all the new additions in the original BAHRC plan and asked his department to table the detailed plan for cabinet nod. Sources said the approval is likely within a month or so. The project, proposed in the late ’90s, could not materialize to its full capacity till date, though it continued to get multiple additions in facilities. The project when completed would cater to mainly North Nagpur as well as an estimated 2 crore floating population from neighbouring states. Originally approved as 250-bed hospital in 1997 at Indora, 23 PG courses were envisaged on 7.17 acre land at BAHRC in 2014 at a cost of Rs209 crore. The project would be executed by Nagpur Improvement Trust. Raut’s OSD Lalit Khobragade told TOI that the project was on the back burner after then Democratic Front government was voted out of power in 2014. “There are sufficient undergraduate course seats in the city at three medical colleges — IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS. This will be a specialized PG institute, therefore more superspecialty courses have been included. This has increased the budget which will again need cabinet approval,” he said. A Rs 250 crore Sickle Cell Centre of Excellence too was proposed on the BAHRC premises, but the project has been abandoned. As per the 2014 sanctioned plan, it seems the sickle cell centre has been clubbed with superspecialty department of hematology. Of the 615 beds, 475 have already been sanctioned while 140 are from the additionally proposed departments. The state-of-the-art facility will also have blood bank, central library, staff quarters, hostels and administrative buildings etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/revival-plan-adds-more-superspecialties-to-indoras-two-decade-old-hospital-project/articleshow/78879314.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Union minister Hardeep Puri, ex-DGP Brij Lal among eight BJP candidates for Rajya Sabha||LUCKNOW: Putting speculations to rest, the BJP announced eight candidates, including former UP DGP and ex-chairman of state SC Commission Brij Lal, for the Rajya Sabha seats from UP on Monday. BJP and its allies have a strength of 313 MLAs in UP assembly which is enough to get eight candidates sail through easily. The party ranks, however, did not rule out the possibility of an additional candidate filing his papers on the last of nomination on Tuesday. The BJP repeated Union housing and urban poverty alleviation minister Hardeep Puri, party national general secretary Arun Singh and ex-PM Chandra Shekhar’s son and SP turncoat, Neeraj Shekhar. Neeraj had left the SP and joined BJP last year. Besides them, the party relied on fielding lesser known candidates who have been serving the organisation for long. Among the remaining candidates, there are two Brahmins -- Haridwar Dubey and Seema Dwivedi and two OBCs -- Geeta Shakya and BL Verma. The selection of Brij Lal is the party's bid to consolidate its position amongst the SC, especially after the raging controversy over alleged rape and murder of a dalit girl in Hathras, say political analysts. The BJP, as a matter of fact, has attempted to strike a caste balance by nominating two Brahmins, two Kshatriyas, two OBC, one SC and one from the Sikh community. Haridwar Dubey, a senior BJP leader, was a minister in the Kalyan Singh government in 1991. Hailing from Agra, Dubey had been a three-time MLA in the past. The candidature of Shakya came as a surprise to those looking for well-known names. The party however went for committed party workers. She has been a key organisational worker in UP unit and had held the charge of state secretary (organisation) in the past. Until last year, Shakya was Auraiya district president. Likewise, BL Verma, a Lodh, too has been a dedicated party worker from Badaun and held the charge of state vice-president in the past. A senior BJP leader said that Verma nomination was aimed to consolidate party’s position amongst Lodhs who form a significant portion of vote base in west UP and Braj region. Verma has been a former president of Braj region and is known to be close to Kalyan Singh. Seema Dwivedi has been a former MLA from Jaunpur. She had contested the 2017 UP assembly elections from Mungra Badshahpur in Jaunpur district but lost to Sushma Patel of the BSP by a margin of around 6000 votes. UP BJP functionary Manish Dixit said that all the candidates would be filing their nomination on Tuesday in the presence of senior UP BJP leaders, including CM Yogi Adityanath, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, both deputy CMs – Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma – and state general secretary JPS Rathore. BJP is likely to announce the ninth candidate on Tuesday, which might not be its official candidate as seeking support of others will be difficult in that case. However, BSP has already fielded its national coordinator Ramji Gautam, which makes election for one seat imminent in case BJP too fields a candidate. The candidates were announced without a meeting of the central election committee as the list was finalised through consultations. The state leadership had sent a list of probables last week. Sources said home minister Amit Shah played a crucial role in final selection of the candidates as the state leadership had left it to the party brass to take a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/union-min-hardeep-puri-ex-dgp-brij-lalamong-8-bjp-candidates-for-rajya-sabha/articleshow/78881715.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Patients adapt to limit on attenders||MADURAI: As restrictions on attenders and visitors at hospitals has become the norm as part of Covid-19 safety precautions, patients are adapting to the new normal like communicating via video calls and getting Covid-19 tests done. “Restriction of attenders is important to prevent spread of Covid-19 in hospitals. With relaxations in Covid-19 testing now, hospitals are now able to ensure safety to patients and the staff better. Hospital spaces would now be one of the safest since strict restrictions and screening is in place,” said Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Madurai chapter president. Temperature screening and wearing masks is mandatory for entering hospitals is also mandatory at all hospitals now. “It is new for us as well since for decades there was no restrictions on attenders at our hospital. It is common to see a whole group of relatives and friends visiting a patient. Naturally, there was much resistance from patients in the beginning but there is no option as safety comes first. Physical distancing is difficult to maintain in a hospital, so it is essential to restrict attenders and visitors especially since most people visiting hospitals are all vulnerable,” said J Adel, GM (operations), Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC). At the hospital, all attenders are provided with an ID card and tag so that a patient does not have more than one attender. “In our hospital, for outpatients only basic screening is done and number of attenders restricted, while for inpatients, if an attender is staying, the attender must undergo a Covid-19 test. We cannot risk the safety of other patients, especially in critical care,” said Dr Varun Ramamoorthy, ICU Head, Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute (VMCHRI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/patients-adapt-to-limit-on-attenders/articleshow/78880647.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cop suspended for threatening officer over ‘drinking’||NEW DELHI: A constable posted with the Crime Branch was suspended after he allegedly threatened a fellow officer who was on patrolling duty in Dwarka and had objected to him drinking in a car. According to police, around 4am on October 9, a car was found parked near the Dichaon bus stand. A police officer saw two men consuming liquor inside a car and asked them not to do so. Constable Sumit, posted in Dwarka Crime Branch unit, however, whipped out his service revolver and threatened the officer. “The constable was in an inebriated state. In the meantime, a police control room van passing by stopped. The officers then asked the two car occupants to visit the nearest police station but the constable kept on arguing. While the other person was arrested in possession of illegal firearms, the constable has been placed under suspension. The other person was later identified as Yogesh. He was lodged in a jail on charges of murder and was currently on parole till October 31,” said a senior police officer. Yogesh had in 2016 murdered a criminal, Kalu alias Manjar. Later, he and three of his associates, Pramod, Darshan and Shakti, were arrested and sent to jail. “A medical examination of the duo revealed that they were drunk and had high content of alcohol in their blood. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against the constable,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cop-suspended-for-threatening-officer-over-drinking/articleshow/78880675.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||No Carobar: Cops to book liquor stores to stem open drinking||NAGPUR: City police, under Zonal DCP Lohit Matani, have started a stringent drive against those engaged in consuming liquor in the open in central Nagpur, as part of measures to improve law and order. Six police stations of Central Nagpur, Lakadganj, Tehsil, Ganeshpeth, Kotwali, Shanti Nagar and Pachpaoli, have been pressed into action to tackle nuisance at public places. On Thursday, Matani issued strict instructions to owners of beer bars, country liquor and wine shops to ensure none of their customers are spotted consuming liquor in the open in the vicinity of their outlets. Addressing nearly 30 liquor traders during a meeting, Matani shared his cell number with the businessmen, asking them to alert police if any of their customers or a group engages in consuming liquor at public place after making purchases from their shops or outlets. Matani also asked liquor traders to adhere to the norms laid down in their licenses. He said preventive action under section 142 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) would be taken against the liquor traders if they are found flouting the orders. “Liquor traders are expected to follow rules regarding selling restricted quantity, keep business open only within stipulated time, and such other guidelines. They also turn blind eye to the nuisance occurring near their shops, which would not be allowed,” said the DCP. “Police can ensure outlets are shut down under section 142 of CrPC,” he said. Matani said under the guidance of city police chief Amitesh Kumar action against such illegal drinking in the open is underway on a regular basis. “Every day, we are taking action against an average of 30 people either under Maharashtra Prohibition Act or Maharashtra Police Act. Soon, liquor traders too would face the heat if they fail to comply,” he said. “The traders can be also made co-accused in the case if liquor from their shops sold in excess quantity is intercepted elsewhere with any person,” said the zonal DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-carobar-cops-to-book-liquor-stores-to-stem-open-drinking/articleshow/78879336.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Artificial tanks full, Durga idols immersed in lakes||NAGPUR: Just like Ganeshotsav, immersions of Durga idols too saw a 60-70% dip this year. However, by late evening on Monday, capacity of artificial tanks at Futala and Sonegaon lakes got full, following which idols had to be diverted to Gandhisagar lake. While the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) cordoned off Telangkhedi lake for immersions, it did not barricade other lakes. As a result, idols were found directly being immersed in lakes like Gandhisagar. At the time of Ganesh immersions, the civic body had barricaded all lakes. On Sunday and Monday, NMC had installed four tanks at Futala lake where both big and small idols were immersed. According to members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation who were volunteering at the site, the idol immersion saw a huge dip this year. “The numbers dropped by nearly 60-70%. Many people chose to install ghats this time instead of navdurga idols,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of the NGO. According to him, the number of idols that would be installed by the Bengali community also saw a decline due to Covid-19 restrictions. “Every year, there would be around 15 big community idols. This time, there were just three,” he said. Confirming the drop in idol immersion, an NMC official said, “Last year, the number of idols immersed in tanks at Futala lake had crossed 100. This time, it’s just over 50.” Despite the reduction, the capacity of tanks kept at lakeside got full by late evening. “There was no place left in any of the tanks for immersing idols,” informed Chatterjee. Around 9.30 pm, situation turned chaotic at Futala when the tanks got completely full. Senior police inspector of Ambazari Vijay Kare, alog with NMC officials decided to divert the idols. “The artificial tank at Sonegaon was also full. So we decided to divert the idols at Gandhisagar lake,” he told TOI. Raising concern over the water quality of lakes, Chatterjee said, “At places where idols have been immersed directly into the water body, NMC should ensure immediate cleaning. Otherwise, all efforts taken during Ganeshotsav will go waste.” As reported by TOI, the city witnessed a drop of 50% in immersions during Ganesh idol visarjan this year. With NMC barricading all the lakes, the water quality of most of them had improved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/artificial-tanks-full-durga-idols-immersed-in-lakes/articleshow/78882195.cms||Manka Behl
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Youth held after fist fight leads to death||COIMBATORE: The rural police on Saturday arrested a 20-year-old youth on charges of murdering his co-worker in a poultry farm at Jallipatti on the outskirts of the city. Police said the accused, P Ramar, a native of Gudalur village in Karur district, and K Arunkumar, 21, of Kavalkarapalayam in Karur district, stayed on the premises of the poultry farm after work on October 23. Arunkumar was under the influence of alcohol and tried to pick up a quarrel with Ramar. Ramar went to another shed to sleep, however Arunkumar followed him there and snatched Ramar’s pillow and stopped him from sleeping. This led to a fist fight and at a point Arunkumar punched on Ramar’s face. In a fit of rage, Ramar pushed Arunkumar down. Arunkumar suffered injuries on his head and became unconscious Other workers took Arunkumar to the Palladam government hospital where doctors declared that he was brought dead. Following the postmortem, the body of the deceased was handed over to the family members on Saturday afternoon. Negamam police inspector D Vetrivelrajan registered a case against Ramar under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him on Saturday evening. Ramar was later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youth-held-after-fist-fight-leads-to-death/articleshow/78880645.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Virus blight on Vidyarambham||COIMBATORE: Dressed in a traditional attire, three-year-old Dhivyashini waited patiently in the queue along with her parents at the Sree Ayyapan temple in Siddhapudur on the occasion of Vijayadhasami on Monday. When her turn came, Dhivyashini sat on her mother’s lap near a priest and extended her right hand. The priest held her forefinger and made her write ‘Om Hari Sri Ganapataye Namah’ on a rice plate. He then poured the rice into a paper cover, handed it over to her and blessed her. “It is believed that the ritual would make children studious. We have been following it for generations and didn’t want to break it. If my daughter doesn’t do it now, she might not be able to do it at all. She is already three years old and we can’t delay her formal education any longer. That’s why we risked doing it even during the pandemic situation,” said Dhivyashini’s mother Kavitha. Hundreds of parents had brought their children to the temple for the ritual. A member of the temple committee said that 1,500 children underwent the ritual. “As many as 4,500 devotees, mostly from the district, visited the temple. But the footfall is significantly less compared to the previous years. We used to get people from neighbouring districts including Tirupur and Erode,” he said. “Devotees were screened for fever before entry and were given hand sanitizers. All of them wore face masks.” “Priests from Kerala used to arrive on the Vijayadhasami day. But this year, many of them could not come due to the pandemic. We had only six priests to initiate children to the world of letters compared to 15 last year. To check crowding, we distributed tokens to parents three days ago,” he said. “Traditionally, Om Hari Sri Ganapataye Namah is written on the tongue of the child using a gold needle dipped in honey. But we could not do it because of the pandemic. We also had to cancel annadhanam (community feast).” Some parents chose to do the ritual at home. “We wanted to do it in a temple but later decided to do it at our house because we didn’t want to risk it,” said Kavya, a mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/virus-blight-on-vidyarambham/articleshow/78880630.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Nine held for 16-year-old girl’s rape||Vijayawada: Disha police arrested nine men for allegedly raping and forcing a minor girl into sex work at Madevapuram village of Kandukur mandal in Prakasam district on Sunday. According to cops, the case came to light on July 18, when they received a tip off about a 16-year-old girl being allegedly raped by multiple men. Officials soon raided the house and found the girl in a dire condition due to sexual assault. Upon inquiry, the cops found that her sister-in-law sold her to a woman, a resident of Vijayawada, for Rs 27,000 who then forced her into commercial sex work. The cops said that she kept sending men to the rented house in Madevapuram. The cops had first arrested four persons involved in raping the girl. The police have so far arrested 15 persons associated with the crime. Later, they also picked up the girl’s sister-in-law. The cops have sent the rescued girl to a rehabilitation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-held-for-16-year-old-girls-rape/articleshow/78880683.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Mohan Bhagwat arrives in Coimbatore to attend Kerala unit’s meet||COIMBATORE: Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in the city from Bengaluru on Monday to attend the executive committee meeting of the organization’s Kerala unit to be held on Chinmaya Mission Ashram premises at Karunya Nagar on Tuesday and Wednesday. Bhagwat visited Arya Vaidya Pharmacy at Ramanathapuram and paid tributes to its chairman PR Krishnakumar who died of Covid-19 recently. He will be in the city till October 29 morning. Around 20 office-bearers of RSS’s Kerala unit will participate in the executive committee meeting. Meanwhile, a team of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel, who were on their way from the executive committee meeting venue to receive the RSS leader at the Coimbatore international airport, suffered minor injuries when a sports utility vehicle (SUV) they were travelling in overturned at Pachapalayam near Perur on the city outskirts. The accident happened when a cop who drove the vehicle applied a sudden brake to avoid an accident. An alternative vehicle was arranged for them immediately. To provide security to the RSS chief, the rural police had selected 60 police personnel from Armed Reserve (AR) police, whose swab samples were lifted for Covid-19 test a couple of days ago. Of the 60 cops, six tested positive for Covid-19 and the results were declared on Sunday evening. The six cops were admitted at the Covid care centre at Codissia. Following the visit of Mohan Bhagwat, security has been tightened in the city on Monday. As many as 250 police personnel from Coimbatore rural police were deployed at the Chinmaya Mission ashram to provide security for Mohan Bhagwat round-the-clock. Around 15 CISF personnel and 15 personnel from Chennai security branch were also deployed at the ashram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rss-chief-arrives-in-city-to-attend-kerala-units-meet/articleshow/78880692.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Poor posture during online classes is giving kids a pain in the neck||BENGALURU: Online classes have, literally, become a pain in the neck for students, thanks to bad posture and lack of physical activity. Take Shwetha N, 14, for example. In August, she was still trying to adjust and cope with the challenges of virtual classes when she began experiencing excruciating pain in her neck and back. "My right shoulder would constantly hurt," Shwetha said. "At first my parents thought maybe it was the way I slept, but the pain remained for almost a month and we decided to consult our family doctor." Shwetha says her doctor suggested some exercises and asked her to follow a few precautions. She says she now feels much better. Dr Kiran Chouka, senior orthopaedic and joint replacement surgeon at Apollo Hospitals, Seshadripuram, Bengaluru, told TOI he now has eight and 10-year-olds approaching him with complaints of back pain. "Earlier, I would stress the need for comfortable footwear and mattresses for complete well-being and support of the body," Dr Chouka said. "But now, with the pandemic forcing people to work from home, I advise ergonomic chairs with proper elbow support for both children and adults." Dr Chouka said there is an increasing incidence of trapezitis or stiffness around the neck among children because of lack of exercise and movement. He advises body movement — short walks and stretching — at regular intervals to avoid it. Experts say there is more than a 20% increase in the number of children reaching out to doctors with complaints of neck and back pain. Dr Kumardev Arvind Rajamanya, consultant orthopaedic surgeon, Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, said, in the past, the overwhelming majority of such cases were adults in the age-group of 30-55 and senior citizens, but in the past few months, children as young as 10 years are approaching him with similar complaints. "Before the pandemic hit, only children who constantly used gadgets had such issues," Dr Kumardev said. "Spending hours together hunched over phones and tablets can lead to severe back and neck issues. I always ask my patients to lift their heads and look away for a few minutes before resuming what they are doing. Ergonomic chairs with elbow support and placing gadgets at eye-level are also helpful." He said parents must ensure their children take a break every 15 minutes. "For every 10 minutes, one must stand for a minute," he says. Dr Srinivas Chirukuri, orthopaedic surgeon and CEO, Prakriya Hospitals, said many children adopt wrong posture which leads to multiple skeletal problems. "A child’s bones and muscles need the right stimulus to grow," Dr Chirukuri said. "Bad posture and lack of physical activity leads to problems like being overweight, lack of stamina, anxiety, attention deficit disorders and poor mental functioning. Boredom has increased. The current scenario is depriving kids of enough opportunities to grow." He said addiction to social media and excess screen time is leading to depression and poor physical and mental growth. "Parents must find ways to engage their children so that they have the right balance of education and physical activity," Dr Chirukuri said. Nayeema M Herial, a homemaker and mother of two aged nine and seven years, said online classes had worried her initially, but she has dealt with her fears with effective techniques, designated spots and fixed screen time. "I make sure both my kids attend classes while sitting at their study table," she said. "I keep phones and gadgets in fixed spots and do not let them meddle with it or keep it on their laps and hunch over them. Sitting on the sofa or beds is a complete no-no, and there are fixed screen times as well. She said initially, she constantly monitored her kids but lately, they have both understood the rules and follow it to a great extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/poor-posture-during-online-classes-is-giving-kids-a-pain-in-the-neck/articleshow/78878772.cms||Farheen Hussain
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No blanket relief to MD of Unitech for mediation||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday refused to grant a blanket order to Unitech MD Sanjay Chandra to let him appear physically before a mediation centre to settle disputes with homebuyers. Chandra is currently lodged in Tihar Jail for allegedly cheating homebuyers. Justice Vibhu Bakhru said the court is of the view that “no such blanket order can be passed” in this regard but allowed him to move the trial court concerned specifying the particulars of the matters and the dates on which he wants to attend the mediation proceedings. The high court said if any such application is made before the concerned court, it may be considered in accordance with the law. Chandra had sought permission to be produced physically before the mediation centre at Patiala House Courts Complex, arguing that it would help settle his disputes with various persons as mediation proceedings in this regard were underway. The jailed businessman said mediation proceedings were suspended for a brief period on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, but have since resumed. He is lodged in jail under judicial custody since August 2017 for allegedly siphoning off homebuyers’ money. On January 20 this year, in a respite to over 12,000 hassled homebuyers of Unitech, the Supreme Court had allowed the central government to take total management control of the realty firm and appoint a new board of nominee directors. In 2018, the top court had directed a forensic audit of Unitech Ltd and its sister concerns and subsidiaries by Samir Paranjpe, Partner, Forensic and Investigation Services in M/s Grant Thornton India. The forensic auditors had submitted their report, which stated that Unitech Ltd received around Rs 14,270 crore from 29,800 homebuyers mostly between 2006 and 2014 and around Rs 1,805 crore from six financial institutions for the construction of 74 projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-blanket-relief-to-md-of-unitech-for-mediation/articleshow/78880701.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Poll violation case against Pradipsinh Jadeja quashed||AHMEDABAD: In a relief for state home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja, the Gujarat high court on Monday quashed criminal proceedings initiated by a metropolitan court against him for alleged poll code violation during 2007 assembly elections. Acting on a petition filed by Jadeja, Justice I J Vora has quashed the criminal proceedings and the summons issued by the lower court in December 2019. The HC observed, “The trial court failed to consider the facts and applicable law in its proper prospective and without any basis initiated judicial process mechanically against the applicant (Jadeja).” It said that the magistrate had not perused the material on record and applied his mind before taking cognizance of the alleged offences. The court orders were without any basis and contrary to the settled law. Criminal proceedings were initiated against Jadeja under Section 127A(1) and 127(2)B of Representation of the People Act on basis of a complaint filed by returning officer of Asarva constituency. The complaint was in response to an objection raised by the then city Congress president Prakash Shah, who had alleged that Jadeja, a BJP candidate from Asarva assembly constituency, had circulated pamphlets without the name of its printer-publisher during the 2007 assembly poll campaign, thus flouting the model code of conduct in force at the time. The high court concluded that the pamphlets were of religious nature and cannot be said to be election pamphlet at all. "The pamphlets do not contain the promotion of the election or any election agenda nor any reference to the election notified. Once it is found that the offending material – pamphlet cannot be said to be an “election pamphlet'', as defined under Section 123A(3)(b) of the Act, it could not be said that prima-facie case is made out against the applicant for the offences under Sections 127A(1), 127A(2)(a) punishable under Section 127A(4) of the Act,” the court order reads. The HC further said that no prima facie offence has been made out after a bare reading of Section 127A(1) read with two statements of witnesses in this case as well as an inquiry report before the magisterial court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/poll-violation-case-against-jadeja-quashed/articleshow/78880687.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Emergency services suspended at Kheri dist hosp after BJP MP’s kin, aides create ruckus, misbehaved with staff||BAREILLY: Emergency medical services at the district hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri were suspended after staff went on a strike protesting “police inaction” in a complaint lodged against five men, including a purported relative of a BJP MP, on Tuesday. The accused had allegedly created a ruckus at the emergency ward and misbehaved with staff members, doctors and a pharmacist late Monday night. The protesters accused police of not registering an FIR into the matter initially due to “political pressure”, but BJP district president Sunil Singh later issued a statement claiming that “the accused don’t have any connection with the party and police should take action as per law”. Following the statement, Sadar kotwali police on Tuesday evening booked Vasu, Katiyar and Vikas, along with three unidentified men, and claimed to have detained three accused, including Vikas and Vasu, for questioning. Emergency medical officer Dr DK Yadav, meanwhile, alleged that Vasu came to the hospital inebriated around 1.45am and forced staffers to treat a patient lying in the car without admitting him. “The patient was injured and we applied dressing to his wounds. Later, Vasu and his aides misbehaved with me and other staff members and broke articles at the emergency room. They also took away a pulse oximeter and a blood pressure machine, which affected the treatment of other patients. It was the third occasion when an attendant misbehaved with staffers and created ruckus at the hospital.” Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull told TOI, “We have booked five people and detained three of them. We have also arrested a relative of a BJP MP. There is no political pressure on us. We will take strict action against the accused as per law.” The emergency services were, however, not fully restored till the time of filing this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/emergency-services/articleshow/78898004.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Motorcyclist hits wild boar, injured||COIMBATORE: A 35-year-old motorcyclist suffered injuries after the vehicle hit a wild boar in Mettupalayam on Saturday. The injured person was identified as Senthil Kumar of Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam. On Saturday around 8.15pm, Kumar was on the way to the Vanabadrakaliamman temple on Sundapatti section of Mettupalayam forest range. The two-wheeler hit a wild boar which was attempting to cross the road. Kumar was thrown off from the vehicle and suffered injuries. Passersby rushed him to the Mettupalayam Government Hospital, where first aid was given. He was later shifted to a private hospital in Coimbatore city. The boar was killed on impact. The carcass was buried inside the reserve forest on Sunday. Two motorcyclists were killed in the last few months after the vehicles hit wild boars, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said. “Two people were killed after their motorcycles hit stray dogs. While passing through the reserve forest area, motorists should move slowly. They should look out for animals crossing road,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/motorcyclist-hits-wild-boar-injured/articleshow/78880677.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Pillion riders more prone to accidents||COIMBATORE: As many as 297 people lost their lives in road accidents across the district till October 25 compared to 387 during the same period last year, superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said. About 15% of accidents involved pillion riders, who fell on the road as there were no handles or sari guards on motorcycles, the officer said. “Several pillion riders, mostly women, died as new motorcycles lack seat handles. Due to this, women, who sit to one side of the vehicle, are thrown off and suffer fatal injuries. I have instructed cops involved in vehicle check to advise motorcycle owners to fix handles for pillion riders,” he said. According to rural police data, 1,317 accident cases, including non-fatal accidents, were reported till October 25. During the same period last year, 1,502 accidents were reported, and 387 people were killed. “We consider the Neelambur – Madukkarai (L&T Bypass) stretch as one of the most dangerous stretches in the district. The stretch has two-lane roads. Most of the accident were caused by speeding during the night hours. We have deployed a highway patrolling team exclusively on the stretch and have been taking many steps to check accidents. The Annur -Mettupalayam Road has become an accident blackspot. Three people lost their lives last week. Our personnel have installed warning signs on the stretch” Arularasu said. The rural police have registered 2.70 lakh cases for traffic rule violations and collected Rs 3.2 crore as fine. During the same period last year, 1.90 lakh cases were registered and Rs 1.5 crore fine was collected. “Old two-wheelers had flat seats, seat handles and sari guards. Pillion riders, mostly women, were safe on them. As pillion seats are elevated in new models, riders cannot hold onto something. The number of accidents caused by sudden braking has gone up,” said Arularasu. “Three pillion riders died after they fell on the road as the motorcycles lacked seat handles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pillion-riders-more-prone-to-accidents/articleshow/78880682.cms||A Subburaj
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Senior citizen brutally thrashed for WhatsApp post||NAGPUR: Sunil Abhichandani, 64, a contractor with the NMC, was attacked with plastic chair and iron tool by two of his acquaintances for posting objectionable messages against one of them on WhatsApp groups. Sadar police have registered offence of attempt to murder against Chandamani Yadav and his accomplice Chhatrapati Yadav, both also NMC contractors, for their role behind thrashing Abhichandani near the civic body’s headquarter at Civil Lines on Friday. Police said Chandamani and Abhichandani were part of a common WhatsApp groups meant for NMC contractors. Chandamani was removed from two groups by the admin following which Abhichandani learnt to have expressed his opinion in the same forum. It’s learnt that Chandamani was left enraged after learning about Abhichandani’s comment in the social media groups. Chandamani repeatedly made calls to Abhichandani to meet him after which he, along with Chhatrapati, cornered the senior citizen and thrashed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-citizen-brutally-thrashed-for-whatsapp-post/articleshow/78879361.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 27, 2020||Agra||Cities of western UP among most polluted in the country||MEERUT/AGRA: With the sun playing hide and seek, people living in the cities of western Uttar Pradesh spent yet another “gloomy” day breathing polluted air on Monday. Neighbouring cities of NCR like Noida and Greater Noida were also the worst affected. At 387 AQI (Air Quality Index), Moradabad was the second most polluted city in the country after Kalaburgi in Karnataka whose pollution index rose to an alarming 500 on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityMoradabad was followed by Greater Noida whose AQI stood at 384. Then came Bulandshahr with an AQI of 379. Other districts which recorded “very poor” air quality included Bulandshahr (379), Noida (376), Ghaziabad (364), Meerut (331) and Baghpat (317). An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”. It comes under the “satisfactory” category if it is between 51 and 100. Between 101 and 200 is “moderate”. Between 201 and 300 is “poor”. Something between 301 and 400 is taken as “very poor” and above 400 is “severe”. The AQI takes into account five chief pollutants, particulate matter with a diameter less than 10 micrometres (PM10), PM2.5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO). Meerut’s chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “People, especially children and elderlies, should wear N95 masks. They should avoid coming out of homes. It can have an impact on those already suffering with respiratory diseases.” Air quality index of Agra was recorded at 285 (poor category), which was a tad better than Sunday when AQI stood at 309 (very poor). (With inputs from Ishita Bhatia & Anuja Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cities-of-western-up-among-most-polluted-in-the-country-residents-gasp-for-breath/articleshow/78878281.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt to clear decks for 542 food processing projects||LUCKNOW: In a boost to food processing sector, the state government is set to execute proposals of at least 542 projects worth Rs 2,964 crore which will create over 44,000 employment opportunities. According to a state government spokesperson, out of 542 proposals, 59 are for fruit and vegetable processing, 155 for consumer products and 258 for food milling units, among others. Official sources said a state-level empowered committee (SLEC) has already given nod to 275 proposals worth Rs 810 crore which would create around 20,000 direct employment opportunities. The government has also approved Rs 56 crore for proposed food processing units. In financial year 2019-20, 134 proposals were approved and around Rs 37 crore was transferred to the units through direct benefit transfer. To reach out to the grassroots, the government has identified 50 districts where 400 food processing awareness camps of three days each are proposed to be organised at gram panchayat levels. In a statement, the food processing department said that in 2019-20, the government provided training to 2,970 beneficiaries to help them set up as many as 119 units. The government had come up with a food processing policy in 2017 that envisaged rebate while setting up new units or expanding/modernising the existing ones. The policy also provides research, quality improvement of products and patent design registration. The department said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked the officials to take decisions which are helpful for entrepreneurs seeking to establish a food processing unit in the state. Earlier, PepsiCo announced Rs 814 crore green field project for production of potato chips in Mathura. The unit is proposed to be set up in Kosi area of the district and will start commercial production by mid-2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-govt-to-clear-decks-for-542-food-processing-projects/articleshow/78881725.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu BJP leaders urge governor to okay 7.5% Neet quota bill||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu BJP leaders have joined the chorus demanding 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical admissions. However, state general secretary of the party’s education wing, K R Nandhakumar, on behalf of an association he represents, wrote a letter to TN governor Banwarilal Purohit, urging him not to give assent to the Neet quota bill. Nandhakumar sought to clarify that he had written the letter on behalf of the Tamil Nadu nursery, primary, matriculation and higher secondary and CBSE schools’ association, of which he is the general secretary. The bill would unfairly treat the students pursuing state (Samacheer Kalvi) board syllabus in private schools, he said. BJP state president L Murugan and vice-president K Annamalai have already urged the governor to give his assent to the legislation. “I urge the honourable TN governor to immediately clear the proposal of 7.5% reservation for rural students and to remove the uncertainty that’s in the mind of the students. This is a very important one and it can’t be delayed any further,” Annamalai tweeted on Monday. His tweet came a day after Murugan and party general secretary K T Raghavan expressed the same view. Murugan, in a statement, said the governor had taken adequate time to decide and requested him to give his nod fast. Party leaders are of the opinion that the BJP should support the bill to avoid being alienated from the students’ community and the people of Tamil Nadu. “As a party, we have taken the decision to support the bill. Our state president and other leaders have also expressed their views already,” Annamalai told TOI. Nandhakumar, however, has demanded that the reservation be extended to all students studying in Tamil medium (state board), irrespective of whether they are studying in government or private school. Till the bill’s scope is broadened, assent should not be given, he said. “If governor gives his nod, we will move court against it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-bjp-leaders-urge-governor-to-okay-7-5-neet-quota-bill/articleshow/78881746.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Delayed test reports big hurdle in fight to check Covid spread in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Taking a Covid-19 test is a stressful situation for most who undertake the procedure. Undertaking rapid antigen test for quick result within 30 minutes is an option. In Bhopal, only one in five people undertook this test and found out their Covid-19 status the same day. The rest of the 76% anxiously waited from one to three days to know the result. The data is for the month of September and analysed data is of those who tested negative for the infection. Out of more than 13,000 negative Covid-19 tests in September, about 500 test results were known three days after the sample was taken. 520 tests were reported after two days. About 8,500 tests were reported a day after they were undertaken by the suspected patient. About 2,800 people became aware of their Covid-19 status on the same day of testing. Rapid antigen test (RAT) was introduced in August in Bhopal. Since then, over one lakh people have been tested for Covid-19 through the mechanism. Rapid test for Covid-19 was introduced at a time when Bhopal’s testing capacity was limited to about 2,500 tests per day. Most of the four dozen fever clinics and some private labs conduct Covid-19 test through RAT. Covid-19 test and delayed reporting has been a major hurdle for the health department. Early detection and medical treatment is critical to control the spread of Covid-19. Going by ICMR-issued guidelines in June, ‘Those with negative results from an antigen test should also get a RT-PCR test if they show symptoms, to rule out a false negative’. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test is qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in the upper and lower respiratory specimens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/delayed-test-reports-major-hurdle-in-controlling-covid-spread/articleshow/78879360.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Nigerian stabbed to death by wife over suspected affair in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old man from Nigeria was allegedly murdered by his wife who suspected him of having an affair with another woman. The deceased has been identified as Emanuel, a resident of Dwarka Mor. Police received an information from Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital that a patient named Emanuel having stab injuries had been brought for treatment by his wife, but was declared dead on arrival. By the time cops reached the hospital, the woman, Abigail, had escaped. Officers, however, tracked her down and questioned her. She told police that they got married in September last year but started living separately since August this year, after differences cropped up. However, they had been meeting often even after that. On October 25, Abigail went to meet Emanuel but found another woman there. She inquired and got to know that her husband was having an affair with the other woman. The two had an altercation after which Abigail asked him for a divorce, but Emanuel did not agree. On October 26, Emanuel went to Abigail'’ house but an altercation broke out again. During the scuffle, Abigail stabbed Emanuel multiple times with a kitchen knife. Abigail was sent to Tihar Jail in judicial custody. TNN Watch Delhi: Nigerian national stabbed to death by wife over suspected affair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nigerian-stabbed-to-death-by-wife-over-suspected-affair/articleshow/78880721.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Want to take Aapli bus? Wear mask first||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to resume city bus service from Wednesday, after a gap of almost seven months. The service was stopped on March 22 after central government had imposed nationwide lockdown to contain spread of Covid-19. Against 111 routes, 90 Aapli buses will operate on 15 major routes and will make around 1,316 trips. Accordingly, the average frequency of the buses will range between 10 minutes and two hours. Wearing mask will be compulsory of the bus crew as well as passengers. The buses will be allowed to run at 100% capacity. The decision came after mayor Sandip Joshi and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B discussed the matter and reached a consensus. Following the administration nod, transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar announced resumption of the service. In the recent past, NMC’s transport department and offices of mayor and municipal commissioner had received around 15 memorandums from various organizations and individuals demanding restarting of the Aapli bus service, said a senior official. After TOI highlighted how citizens from industrial areas were facing severe hardships in the absence of the city bus service, elected representatives including West Nagpur Congress MLA Vikas Thakre, his party corporators Sandip Sahare and Darshani Dhawad, NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe and party leader Prashant Pawar had demanded resuming the bus operations. Pre-Lockdown, the NMC was plying 361 buses on 111 routes. The buses were making almost 3,551 trips and over 1.50 lakh people used to commute daily. During the lockdown — from March 23 till October 26, the NMC was using around 60 Aapli buses for various Covid-related duties like mobile testing facilities, transporting bodies, transporting people for quarantine centres etc. As the buses remained parked at the depots for such a long period, many of these are not roadworthy. Batteries of many buses too have dried up. “The Aapli bus service will resume in staggered manner only to assist the movement of people,” said the senior official. It will serve almost 30 to 35% of passengers compared to the pre-lockdown level, he said. As per plan, the NMC will be focusing on routes where demand is more. Initially, 14 buses will be deployed on Sitabuldi to Butibori MIDC gate and these will make around 186 trips, while 15 buses will make 220 trips on Sitabuldi to Hingna Rural Hospital. Ten buses on Pipla Fata to Khaparkheda will make around 137 trips. Similarly, 10 buses will make 146 trips on Pipla Fata to Hazaripahad via ST stand. The official said number of buses and routes will be increased in a staggered manner and by the end of next month, all buses will be made operational. Initially, the transport department will operate buses on revalidation routes, the official said and explained the numbers will be increased on the basis of demand. If the ridership is more, the number of buses on that particular route(s) will be increased, he said. On safety of commuters, the official said every bus will be sanitized after every shift and while there will be no restriction on the number of passengers. “Passengers will have to wear face mask failing which they won’t be allowed inside the bus,” he added. “In the absence of city bus service, autorickshaw drivers are charging exorbitant fares as a result of which travelling has become costlier,” said Neeraj Patil a daily commuter. It has also increased vehicular traffic on city roads especially on Kamptee Road, Wardha Road, Hingna Road, Pardi Road etc, admitted traffic cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/want-to-take-aapli-bus-wear-mask-first/articleshow/78879353.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||50% drop in Vidarbha’s single day Covid count, all districts report deaths||NAGPUR: Vidarbha on Monday reported 658 new cases from across 11 districts, which is nearly 50% drop as compared to the number reported on Saturday. Some districts didn’t report exact number of cases on Sunday due to Dussehra holiday. Recoveries were at 1,339 on Monday. Officials feel that the impact on overall testing due to the government holiday on Sunday will be seen in the next couple of days. There was not much relief from fatalities as 37 deaths were reported from all districts put together on Monday. Highest 13 deaths were reported from Nagpur, while Gondia reported 2, Bhandara (1), Wardha (5), Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (3), Amravati (2), Yavatmal (2), Washim (2) and Akola (4) in the last 48 hours, taking the region’s toll to 5,082. The highest 257 cases were reported from Nagpur, while Bhandara (20), Wardha (17), Gondia (38), Chandrapur (89), Gadchiroli (58), Akola (27), Amravati (20), Yavatmal (53), Buldhana (55) and Washim (24). The region’s tally has reached 1,86,485. On the recovery chart, the region did much better with Nagpur posting 566 recoveries, Bhandara (87), Wardha (54), Gondia (112), Chandrapur (206), Gadchiroli (62), Akola (25), Amravati (69), Yavatmal (58), Buldhana (64) and Washim (36). Now, 1,67,119 patients have been declared recovered while 13,897 are under treatment. Chandrapur: The district reported less than 100 new Covid cases after 20 days. The single-day cases had last dropped below 100 on October 5. The caseload increased to 14,861 with detection of 89 new cases on Monday. Two deaths were reported during the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 222. The day also witnessed discharge to 206 patients, taking the total recoveries to 11,860. Now, there are 2,779 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded two deaths in the last 48 hours. The deceased were men (55 and 65) from the city. The Covid count increased to 9,932 with addition of 53 new patients. After 58 more patients got discharge, the recoveries increased to 8,819. Now, there are 454 patients under treatment. Wardha: Five deaths, 17 new cases and 54 recoveries were registered in the district on Monday. The caseload reached 6,126. New cases came from Wardha (10), Deoli (5) and Arvi (2). The total recoveries touched 5,415 and now 510 patients are under treatment. Two men (59 and 55) from Wardha, a 67-year-old man from Arvi, a 82-year-old man from Hinganghat and a 84-year-old man from Deoli died during treatment, taking the toll to 201. Amravati: Two deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday took the district’s toll to 360 while new cases continued to drop. The district recorded 20 new cases, taking the caseload to 15,977. After 69 patients were discharged on Monday, the recoveries reached 14,753 for a recovery rate of 91.9%. Now, 864 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: On Monday, the district reported three deaths, 58 new cases and 58 recoveries. The caseload is 5,336, with 895 active cases. The deceased included a 70-year-old man with hypertension from Aheri, a 65-year-old woman with kidney ailment from Govindpur and a 68-year-old man from Murkheda. So far, 52 have succumbed to the disease while 4,389 have recovered in the district. Washim: The district’s Covid tally increased by 24 while 36 recovered from the disease on Monday. Fatalities increased to 134 after two more deaths on Monday. The new cases took the tally to 5,612, while recovery count to 4,945. Now, 532 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: One Covid patient died while 55 persons tested positive. Recoveries increased to 8,369 with discharge to 64 patients on Monday. According to official data, the district now has 9,055 cases, 121 deaths and 565 active cases. Bhandara: At 87, recoveries here were four times more than new cases which were 20 on Monday. One death was reported too, taking the toll to 202. The district has 873 active cases. Total caseload is 8,074 while 6,999 patients have recovered so far. Gondia: One death and 38 new cases were detected while 112 patients were discharged on Wednesday. The caseload is 9,342 and toll 120. After 8,354 recoveries, there are 868 active cases. Akola: The district reported four deaths, 27 new cases and 25 recoveries on Monday. The caseload is 8,267 while 274 patients have died so far. With new recoveries, the tally touched 7,499. Now, 494 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/50-drop-in-vidarbhas-single-day-covid-count-all-dists-report-deaths/articleshow/78882209.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Man arrested for harassing women with obscene calls||LUCKNOW: A 25-year-old Unnao resident was arrested for harassing more than 23 women in 11 districts over phone through indecent conversations and also threatening them with ‘acid attacks’. Rohit Singh, who works in a leather factory, was traced through electronic surveillance and arrested by a team of women power line (WPL) 1090 from Akrampur in Unnao. A class X pass out, he has 23 complaints registered against him in 11 districts. A senior officer at WPL 1090 said Singh used two mobile phones. “One SIM was in his name and the second in the name of one Sumit Singh of Kanpur. This number used to remain switched off from 9am to 6pm daily,” he said. He used to call random numbers at night. If a man answered, he would say wrong number but if a female answered, he started talking and soon switched to onscene talk. “He would redial if women snapped the call and threatened acid attack if a nyone warned of police complaint,” said the officer. The first complaint against Singh was received from Lucknow during lockdown and thereafter from other districts. “Singh was also counselled by WPL many times but he did not mend ways and was arrested,” said the officer. Singh has been booked for obscenity, dishonesty, forgery and criminal intimidation, among other charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-arrested-for-harassing-women-with-obscene-calls/articleshow/78881736.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
October 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Now, an app to alert you of potholes||COIMBATORE: Dread to tread the pothole-ridden city roads? Fear not, a Gurugram-based software firm, which set up shop here in August, has developed an app to warn of bad roads. Intents Go - Navigation with Pothole Alerts, developed by Intents Mobi Private Limited, collects data about potholes and other barriers on roads from users of Intents Truck Driver, to alert motorists. “Intents Truck Driver application collects data about potholes and speed breakers by detecting vibrations. The data is stored in a centralized database and is used to alert other users when they pass through the particular stretch,” chief strategy officer Akshay Mani said. “Users need not even open the application when they are driving as it would be running in the background all the time. It will issue alerts 200m ahead of a pothole,” he told TOI. The firm has collected data from roads in areas including Kurudampalayam, Peelamedu and SS Kulam in Coimbatore. “We aim to increase road safety and prevent accidents. We also have plans to develop applications to recommend routes that have functioning street lights and are wide.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/now-an-app-to-alert-you-of-potholes/articleshow/78880720.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Bizman in police custody for offensive tweets against CM, others||NAGPUR: Arrested for alleged objectionable tweets against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other Maharashtra ministers, city transporter Sameet Thakkar was on Monday remanded in police custody till October 30 by a judicial magistrate first class (JMFC). Sitabuldi police team of assistant PI Kishor Shirke had arrested Thakkar from Rajkot in Gujarat on October 25 and brought him to the city on transit remand. Sources said at least four offences were registered against Thakkar at different police stations in Maharashtra, including two in Mumbai. An offence was registered against Thakkar, a resident of Wathoda, at Sitabuldi police station last month. Zonal DCP Vinita S was present in the court during hearing of the remand plea. Prosecution was represented by district government pleader Nitin Telgote, while a battery of lawyers, including former District Bar Association president Prakash Jaiswal, represented Thakkar. Police had sought 14 days PCR on various grounds including to find his links in different parts of the country and seize the electronic gadgets used by him. In July, an FIR was filed against Thakkar at VP Road police station in Mumbai for his objectionable tweets. He was initially asked by the high court to register his presence at police station. His petition for quashing the FIR was dismissed after he had failed to comply with the directions issued to him by the judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bizman-in-police-custody-for-offensive-tweets-against-cm-others/articleshow/78879384.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Squad rescues cattle crammed in vehicle||MANGALURU: Cattle theft and illegal transport detection squad constituted by Mangaluru City Police on October 5 made its first major publicised bust on Sunday. Based on a tip-off about cattle being illegally transported in a pick-up vehicle from Bantwal to the city, the squad with personnel of Kankanady Town police station intercepted the vehicle at Ujjodi near Mahavir (Pumpwell) circle and thwarted an attempt at illegal transportation of cattle. Vikash Kumar Vikash, city police commissioner in a communiqué on Monday stated that the cattle traffickers abandoned the vehicle on spotting the police team and fled the scene. Police rescued six cows, a bull and five calves that were being transported in a cruel manner. A case has been registered in the jurisdictional Kankanady town police station and hunt is on for the traffickers. They will be nabbed at the earliest, Vikash Kumar said. Police have handed over the rescued cattle to the gaushala at Pajeer on direction from the jurisdictional court. The squad consisting of personnel and officers from the city crime branch has been working since October 5 to stop instances of cattle theft, illegal cattle transportation and slaughter. City police have already set up 32 checkpoints at various entry points to the city to check for such incidents and tabs are being kept on known cattle traffickers. While intensifying night rounds, Vikash Kumar said special rounds have also been initiated in the wee hours, a time when cattle traffickers prefer to make their move of transporting cattle illegally into the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/squad-rescues-12-heads-of-cattle-being-transported-cruelly/articleshow/78879236.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Hardeep Puri and Neeraj Shekhar in BJP list for UP Rajya Sabha poll||LUCKNOW: Putting speculations to rest, the BJP announced eight candidates, including former UP DGP and ex-chairman of state SC Commission Brij Lal, for the Rajya Sabha seats from UP on Monday. BJP and its allies have a strength of 313 MLAs in UP assembly which is enough to get eight candidates sail through easily. The party ranks, however, did not rule out the possibility of an additional candidate filing his papers on the last of nomination on Tuesday. The BJP repeated Union housing and urban poverty alleviation minister Hardeep Puri, party national general secretary Arun Singh and ex-PM Chandra Shekhar’s son and SP turncoat, Neeraj Shekhar. Neeraj had left the SP and joined BJP last year. Besides them, the party relied on fielding lesser known candidates who have been serving the organisation for long. Among the remaining candidates, there are two Brahmins — Haridwar Dubey and Seema Dwivedi and two OBCs — Geeta Shakya and BL Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hardeep-puri-and-neeraj-shekhar-in-bjp-list-for-up-rajya-sabha-poll/articleshow/78882490.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Corona caution goes for a toss at Bhopal & Habibganj railway stations||BHOPAL: Covid infection cases are still rising, but people at both Bhopal and Habibganj stations seem to have stopped following social distancing norms. District administration officials said that a team is available at the stations and anyone who feels he/she needs to get checked can use the facility. Mandatory thermal screening has been withdrawn from the stations recently. With the resumption of special train services from June 1, the district administration had launched strict thermal checks and other norms. Such was the strictness that even every passenger detail was recorded. They were even asked to provide the reason for visiting the station. Gradually, the restrictions were stopped so much so that now visiting both Bhopal and Habibganj stations is like taking a stroll in the park. A visit to Habibganj station was an eye-opener. On entry, there was no sign of the medical team. People were loitering about like it was a normal pre-lockdown situation. It was a similar situation at the Bhopal station except that only train ticket holders were allowed to enter the station. “This is strange that the authorities have become so casual. What happened suddenly that the restrictions have been lifted? Just a couple of months back, the situation was such that even relatives of the passengers were not allowed to enter the station premises. Now, the situation has completely changed, which is a matter of concern for a citizen like me who have been following the Covid norms religiously,” said retired engineer Ved Prakash. Passengers who follow Covid norms said that the concern is about children and old people. “We are in the Unlock process. We should not forget that the lockdown is not completely put off. On one side, the government is appealing to not be casual as Covid is still very much around and, on the other side, it is turning a blind eye to violations right under its nose,” said retired government employee Vikash Sharma. Norms are not being followed even when the Railways has only allowed special trains to run. Regular trains are yet to resume their services. As per the official record, around 200 trains pass both Bhopal and Habibganj stations but only 60 trains are running at the moment. Even passengers have turned casual. “Authorities have withdrawn the paramedical staff and made it free for all. Why would I give myself pain when unlocking is being done everywhere?” he said, refusing to divulge his name. When contacted, PRO, Bhopal collectorate, Arun Rathore, said that it was not possible to handle such a large crowd after the Railways has resumed so many trains. “Medical team is still available and whoever wants to get himself checked can do it,” said Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-caution-goes-for-a-toss-at-rly-stations/articleshow/78879435.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||23,000 booked in Uttar Pradesh for crime against women over a week||LUCKNOW: As many as 23,078 people accused of harassing women were booked across the state in the past week of Mission Shakti. While reviewing one week of Mission Shakti, senior officials said that police wings WPL 1090, UP 112 and anti-Romeo squads have worked extensively in the past week under the mission. In the past 24 hours itself, WPL 1090 has received 933 complaints from women. Of this, 543 complaints were taken up by WPL itself and 468 transferred to other departments. “Among these, 303 were taken up by UP 112 and 165 sent to police department,” said an official from the home department. In six of these complaints, FIRs were registered by police. On UP 112, of the 6,932 complaints received in the past week, 5,994 were regarding domestic violence and 938 of sexual harassment. Likewise, to make districts safer for women and girls, 1,574 anti-Romeo squads were activated, which checked 2.3 lakh people in one week. Besides, of the total accused of crimes against women, 1,524 were booked under Goonda Act. “In Lucknow, 25 pink booths have been activated at crossings for use by women and girls under distress. Further, 80 terminals have been added at WPL 1090 to handle more calls,” said a home department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/23000-booked-in-up-for-crime-against-women-over-a-week/articleshow/78881757.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal’s Covid count drops below 100 for first time in three months||BHOPAL: For the first time in three months, the daily Covid-19 infections in Bhopal dipped to below triple digit figure. Only 87 people were diagnosed with the infection on Monday, according to health department reporting. Over 23,800 people have been diagnosed with the infection in Bhopal so far, resulting in 468 deaths. Fifty seven of the cases were diagnosed through the rapid antigen test (RAT). Thirty seven of the new cases are under home isolation, 26 are hospitalised and the status of 24 was unknown. While 1,636 people were told to take Covid-19 tests. Of them, 1,532 were diagnosed negative for the infection. A total 1,077 people were tested through RAT. Ten of the 27 labs authorised for Covid-19 testing reported zero testing in the report released on Monday. Only seven of the labs reported positive cases of the infection. AIIMS Bhopal conducted 141 tests and only four tested positive while BMHRC conducted 110 tests of which two were positive. RKDF conducted 32 tests of which 10 were positive. BMHRC conducted 111 tests with only 1.8% or 2 people being diagnosed with the infection. Chirayu conducted 20 tests and none was diagnosed with the infection. Five people amongst the infected are government employees. Two people diagnosed with the infection are working for the health department while one is from the police department. Ten housewives were also diagnosed with the infection. Two of them are hospitalised. Two girls from Saket Nagar were also diagnosed with the contagion. The mother of the children also tested positive. All three family members are under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/citys-covid-count-drops-below-100-for-first-time-in-three-months/articleshow/78879418.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Amt varsity VC disqualifies Prof probing his conduct||Amravati: The university circles were on Monday shocked by Sant Gadge Baba Amravati University vice-chancellor Dr Murlidhar Chandekar’s decision to disqualify Prof. Dinesh Suryavanshi, a chancellor’s nominee on the management council, holding him guilty of wilful negligence and breach of confidentiality. Shocked and surprised by the VC’s action, academics termed it as “revengeful”. “The vice-chancellor has disqualified me on the grounds of wilful negligence in doing a committee work and breach of confidentiality while raising the students issues relating to exams on various media platforms,” Suryavanshi told TOI this evening. “The VC has acted against me because I wanted to record his statement in connection with an enquiry into Rs90 lakh contact awarded to Dot Com Infotech Pvt Ltd for preparing 28 modules to ensure complete computerization of university work,” claimed Suryavanshi. He also alleged that the said company was contracted even though it was not qualified on turnover ground. “When I raised the matter in the management council, an inquiry committee under my chairmanship was constituted. Since the issue involved the VC, the pro VC and the registrar, I sought to record their statements by issuing them notices, but they took it as an affront,” said Suryavanshi. “When I tried to complete the enquiry through zoom meetings during the lockdown, I was asked to suspend it. The VC, who released Rs22 lakh to Dot Com Infotech under his powers but did not put this for the management council’s approval, made all out efforts to ensure that no officer cooperated with me during the inquiry. And now he has held me guilty of wilful negligence and disqualified me under Section 64 (f)(h) of Maharashtra Public Universities Act 2016,” Suryawanshi told TOI. As regards the charge of breach of confidentiality, Suryawanshi said he is neither a member of Board of Examinations and Evaluation nor connected with exam work in any way. So the question of breach of confidentiality does not arise. “I did not make public any matter that was confidential. I only pointed out the follies in exam work and demanded rectification,” said Suryawanshi. Nagpur University Teachers Association (NUTA) president Dr Pravin Raghuwanshi described the action as revengeful and opined that it was not proper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amt-varsity-vc-disqualifies-prof-probing-his-conduct/articleshow/78882211.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man attacks wife with acid in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Vejalpur, Babu Thakor, 50, threw acid on his wife, Sharda Thakor, 48 on Sunday evening in her home. Sharda, a resident of Ekaldevnagar, had separated from Babu about six months ago. She was admitted to Civil Hospital, Asarwa, in a critical condition. Sharda stayed near her husband’s house in Vejalpur with her two sons and a daughter. Her daughter, Jaya Thakor, 21, had separated from her husband three months ago. Jaya filed the FIR against her father at Vejalpur police station over Sunday’s incident. According to FIR details, on Sunday afternoon, Babu had come to Sharda’s house and began abusing her. Then he began beating her. Jaya called up police control room and a team of Vejalpur police reached there. However, Sharda didn’t file any FIR over the afternoon incident,and Babu went home. At about 7pm, Babu again came to Sharda’s house and threw a bottle of acid on her while she was asleep. Sharda suffered burns on her face, neck, breasts and other body parts. Babu immediately fled from the scene, while Sharda’s children took her to Civil Hospital. Inspector L D Odedara of Vejalpur said Babu is on the run and police are trying to nab him. In the FIR, the victim’s daughter also alleged that since her childhood, she had been seeing her father abusing and beating her mother regularly and over petty issues. He also cast blame upon his wife and said she had affairs with other men. Fed up with his behaviour, Sharda had finally left his home with her children and moved to a nearby society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-attacks-wife-with-acid/articleshow/78880815.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Sanitised sindoor khela with masks: Bidding adieu to Maa with new normal||BHOPAL: Bijoya or Dussehra festivities were celebrated on Monday by most of the Bengalis across the country. As a part of these celebrations, Bengali women essentially play sindoor khela with Goddess Durga and then smear each other with vermilion. This ritual adds a lot of colour, gaiety and grandeur to the grand finale of Pujo festival, but this year Bhopali women played a highly sanitised sindoor khela while ensuring that merriment quotient of the ritual didn’t diminish a bit. General secretary of Bengali Association TT Nagar, Salil Chatterjee, said, “Only a few committee members were a part of sindoor khela this time because one has to be cautious during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Since we only did ghat sthapana this year, they did parikrama of the ghat in place of Durga’s idol. And mirror ritual, where Goddess’ feet are seen in a mirror, was also replicated with the ghat. Later, they applied sindoor on the ghat before the symbolic visarjan in a thali.” Kalibari Kolar, however, saw women enjoying sindoor khela with Ma Durga’s idol, before they played cautiously with their friends and family members. Founder member of Kalibari, Kolar, Niloy Ghosh said, “We used several bottles of sanitisers to ensure that surroundings and revellers were totally safe. And women played only with their close friends and family members and not with unknown people, like earlier times. So, it was a sanitised khela for sure.” “After months of staying indoors, it was such a relief to be able to meet some close friends and enjoy some adda with them. The cherry on the cake for me was playing sindoor khela with Ma. Now that She has departed symbolically, I’m already waiting for Her to return next year,” said Madhureeta Das, a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sanitised-sindoor-khela-with-masks-bidding-adieu-to-maa-with-new-normal/articleshow/78879465.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Physiotherapist beats wife, booked||AHMEDABAD: A Zundal woman who works in an IT firm in Shahibaug on Sunday filed a complaint with Adalaj police of Gandhinagar alleging that her husband, a physiotherapist, regularly beats her. She said he has been thrashing her over petty issues since their marriage in February 2017. In her FIR, the 29-year-old woman who has a two-year-old girl, stated that her husband, who works at a hospital on New CG Road, tortures her in such a way that bruises don’t show. Her ordeal became known only when her brother spotted a head injury. She told cops that she had to marry the accused according to her family’s wishes. She said that she did not speak up about her torment earlier to avoid being defamed in society. On Sunday morning, her husband was angered when she was getting her daughter ready for an outing. He pushed the woman, and her head banged against a wall. After a while, her brother visited her and found that she was injured. Her brother took her to police and filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/physiotherapist-beats-wife-booked/articleshow/78880859.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh 112 catered to 56 Lakh people in distress||LUCKNOW: UP 112, the emergency response unit of Uttar Pradesh police which completed one year on Monday, has so far helped 56 lakh people under different categories. On October 26 last year, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had announced the change in emergency service from 100 to 112 as the number is active in most developed and developing countries across the globe. ADG, UP 112, Asim Arun said, “The service has upheld the tradition of providing emergency response to people in need across the state. Efforts are being made to strengthen the system further. A total of 56,36,681 people across UP were provided help by Dial 112 in a year making it one of the most effective services.” “UP 112 also provided relief to at least 6.5 lakh people during lockdown,” he said. The ADG said UP 112 was also linked with other existing services like Women Power Line (1090) and ambulance services so that it could cater to more people. Over 300 police response vehicles (PRV) vehicles of UP 112 have been allotted exclusively to assist stranded women between 10pm and 6am. “A drive is underway to register the elderly who live alone so that help could be provided to them. UP 112 will also be linked with 1070, which is a natural calamity helpline,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-112-catered-to-56l-people-in-distress/articleshow/78881774.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||UK varsities offer top services to attract students||Pune: A one-stop shop for immigration services, reduced visa costs, formation of a new global prestige research fund to attract and retain global talent are among the many services that aspiring students willing to apply to foreign universities are being offered by the British universities. Some American universities are considering extending the deadline to February for application for courses. These universities are welcoming and supporting Indian students, and listening carefully to their concerns, needs and ambitions, and responding in ways which support them during the pandemic. Dilip Oak, who coaches students for GATE and GRE exams, a gateway to admissions to universities in the US, said the admission scene has picked up slowly and since August they have made 100 applications to US universities. “There are universities now offering admissions without GRE and GATE. They are considering academic scores and work experience, but these are tier-III universities. Many universities are taking decisions to extend their application deadline to February so that students are able to apply patiently and take their time.” Tier-III universities are low-cost public research varsities. Oak said by December, it is expected that the overseas education sector would open up considerably, and admissions will pick up. Sanam Arora, chair of the National Indian Students and Alumni Union UK, said Indian students have a crucial role to play as students and graduates in this technological future, providing a win-win situation for the UK and India, along with professional opportunities for young Indian graduates. Arora said the UK’s economic future lies in high-value, knowledge-intensive activities. “Severe skill shortages, however, are a limiting factor as half of British vacancies in STEM areas are hard to fill. Indians could have a similar impact on the UK as they have had on the US, where their contribution has been integral to making Silicon Valley the technological hub of the world. At the same time, the bilateral relationship will flourish as people-to-people ties are enhanced and money flows to India via remittances to families home.” Vidya Ram, an aspirant who is currently working with an IT firm, and waiting to apply to a university abroad, said she waited for the application process to open up completely to make a good choice for her higher studies. “I have written to three to four shortlisted universities, and I am getting great assistance from them with respect immigration queries, stay, situation update in the area and other aspects. My application process will continue and as soon as I get a positive response from the university of my choice, I will prepare for my admission,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uk-varsities-offer-top-services-to-attract-students/articleshow/78881761.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK launches election campaign ‘Manasellam EPS’||CHENNAI: With almost seven months away for the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, the ruling AIADMK has launched its  campaign on Monday, on the auspicious Vijayadasami. The IT wing launched the ‘Manasellam EPS, Makkalukkaga EPS’ (EPS in our hearts, EPS is for people) by projecting chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 assembly elections, as proposed by deputy chief minister and AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam on October 7, sources in the party said. The five-week blended campaign, comprising both online and offline initiatives, will be run based on one theme per week. In the first phase, the party has put up posters and light hoardings on lamp posts across Chennai. The first week’s campaign has been spun around ‘He cares for us; We love him’ theme, depicting people from various segments expressing it. The campaign aims to highlight the achievements of the AIADMK government under the leadership of Palaniswami and how the initiatives undertaken by this government endeared him to the people. “We will ensure that the government’s achievements are propagated up to the grassroot level and why this AIADMK government, headed by our chief minister, should come back to power for the welfare of the state and its people,” AIADMK IT wing’s Chennai zone secretary Aspire K Swaminathan told TOI. Earlier too, the party’s IT wing had chosen the auspicious Vijayadasami day to launch its campaigns for the 2014 parliamentary elections as well as for the 2016 assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-launches-election-campaign-manasellam-eps/articleshow/78881769.cms||D Govardan
October 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: IPB clears projects worth Rs 2,200 crore, may create 5,800 jobs||PANAJI: After a long hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Goa investment promotion board on Monday met and approved seven investment projects and three proposals for expansion in the state, that it said would bring Rs 2,228 crore in investment and create direct employment for 5,827 people in Goa. Among the projects is a joint venture between an Indian company and a South Korean firm to make FRP (fibreglass reinforced plastic) doors for the maritime sector. The investment, partially through the foreign direct investment (FDI) route, has got in-principle approval from IPB. While the cleared investment proposals include companies from the manufacturing, service, food processing and hospitality sectors, IPB also cleared IFB Industries Ltd’s proposal to set up a manufacturing unit for air conditioners and Unichem Laboratories’ proposal to set up a pharmaceutical unit in Goa. “Seven new projects were approved, and a few projects that were cleared at the earlier meeting were taken for discussion,” said CM Pramod Sawant, who heads the board. During the meeting, the board also discussed the reasons behind the lack of interest in certain industrial estates, particularly in the hinterland and remote parts of the state, such as Sanguem and Canacona. “The board approved a number of projects and several crucial decisions have been taken keeping in mind the state’s policy. The meeting also discussed which industrial estate to promote and how,” said chief executive officer, Goa IPB, Vandana Rao. Coordination between the Goa Industrial Development Corporation and Goa IPB was also discussed, as it was found that several projects that were granted in-principle approval are stalled. Sawant said that the government is working on amending the IPB Act and the IPB rules. “IPB rule amendments were taken for discussion, and we will make sure they are notified soon. We will fast-track them. We want to fast-track projects, for which we need to bring in amendments,” said Sawant. Industries minister Vishwajit Rane said that the functioning of GIDC and Goa IPB needs to be “synchronised” so that the investment projects can be fast-tracked. The two-hour meeting was held at Paryatan Bhavan. Aside from the projects that were cleared, around 10-15 more companies have submitted investment proposals, which are being evaluated by IPB and the satellite consultant. The projects are likely to be taken up next month at the IPB meeting. “Investor response is very positive as many companies are interested in investing in Goa. Now it is for Goa IPB to deliver and send the right message,” said GCCI president Manoj Caculo, a member of the board. Sawant also directed Goa IPB to hold board meetings every month, so that he can meet the promise to grant clearances within 30 days. “It has been decided by the board to have meetings at a greater frequency,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ipb-clears-projects-worth-rs-2-2k-cr-may-create-5-8k-jobs/articleshow/78880868.cms||Newton Sequeira
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Debt caused mysterious disappearance||AHMEDABAD: Asad Memon, 22, of Shah-e-Alam who had disappeared from Narol in mysterious circumstances last Friday was found on Sunday in Vapi and has returned to Ahmedabad.  Memon makes tin sheets and was reportedly depressed because some traders were not paying the money they owed him. In turn, he was not able to pay his own dues. Feeling upset, he boarded a bus to Vapi. Memon had left his office in Narol with Rs 10 lakh for a business associate. “When his scooter and boots were found near Cozy Hotel on the Narol-Vishala Road on Saturday, a sense of mystery shrouded the case,” said a police source. “Crime branch sleuths were called in and all angles of investigation were considered.” Assistant commissioner of police, K Division, Milap Patel said that after staying in Vapi for a day, Memon called his friend to inform him about his whereabouts. “His friend in turn informed his family members who called the Narol police,” said ACP Patel. The inspector of the Narol police station, S A Gohil, said that his team contacted Memon and asked him to report to the Valsad police station. “We apprised the Valsad police of the situation,” Gohil said. “Valsad cops helped Memon take a bus to Ahmedabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/debt-caused-mysterious-disappearance/articleshow/78880879.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||DD Sahyadri to host lessons for SSC, HSC students||Pune: The state board students from standards X and XII will now get lessons on Doordarshan Sahyadri channel as they prepare for the board examinations from home. The classes will be conducted in the morning hours under the 'Dnyanganga' series aired on the national television channel. The same service will begin for standards IX and XI students of the state board, soon. The education department has kept in view the board exams for secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) exams. The Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training (MSCERT) has designed the lessons and recorded them to be aired on the channel for students. Vikas Garad, a member of the council, said, “We have made available the lecture schedule on the website, subjectwise starting from Tuesday. All sessions will begin at 7.30am and go one for one to two hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dd-sahyadri-to-host-lessons-for-ssc-hsc-students/articleshow/78881771.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||SPPU may roll out re-exams from Nov 2||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will permit final-year re-examinations for interested students. Director of examination and evaluation Mahesh Kakade said they are planning to hold the re-examination in November for those students who wish to appear. “The modalities are being worked out. We plan to conduct the re-examination from November 2, but the final date-sheet will be communicated shortly,” he added. Online examinations conducted for the final-year students across the state universities have had problems. The university, after receiving complaints from the students, had uploaded a Google Form, urging students to give information about issues they faced during the examination. A committee was set up by the examination department to look into these complaints and find appropriate solutions. Kakade said around 8,000 students have said that they were unable to submit their online examination answer sheets despite attempting the questions. “There were many other problems raised by the students and we are in the process of analysing these complaints. All the stakeholders met on Monday at the university,” he added. Over 13,500 Plaints After the Google Form was uploaded, over 13,500 complaints were submitted by students regarding the online examination. The online, as well as offline examinations for students in their final year, were started by the university from October 12. The responsibility to conduct these examinations were given to an external vendor after a tendering process. The Issues Despite all the checks and balances, the students complained of wrong medium of question paper being assigned to them, missing questions during the examination, the answer sheet not getting submitted and not being able to login.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-may-roll-out-re-exams-from-nov-2/articleshow/78881785.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||After two months, ammonium nitrate vessels get nod to unload||VISAKHAPATNAM: Ships waiting at sea with over 60,000 tonnes of ammonium nitrate have got clearance to unload after almost two months with the Andhra Pradesh high court ordering authorities concerned to allow the process. The chief controller of explosives at Nagpur has also given his no-objection nod to transfer the ammonium nitrate in four vessels at Vizag Port to the transit house and to dispatch the same to customers possessing valid import licences for the consignment. The four vessels — MV Kraszewski, MV East Ayutthaya, MV Diana and MV Global Diamond — had been at sea, awaiting clearance for the past two months to unload their ammonium nitrate cargo at Vizag Port after the no-objection-certificate (NOC) and licenses to cargo handler Sravan Shipping Company were cancelled. The court ordered that the material be transferred under the supervision of the deputy chief controller of explosives at Vizag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-two-months-ammonium-nitrate-vessels-get-nod-to-unload/articleshow/78880887.cms||Siva G
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man ingests poison to save trees from being cut||Ahmedabad: A 63-year-old resident of Jay Surya Nagar Society in Nikol, Krishnakant Verma, ingested poison as two other members of the housing society, Lalsinh Rajput and Keyurdas Rajput, threatened him to cut down the tress he had planted in the society premises just in front of his house. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ramsinh Keharsinh, who is investigating the case, said Verma has been admitted to Shardaben Hospital. “We have taken his dying declaration in front of a magistrate, in which he has named two persons, Lalsinh Rajput and and Keyurdas Rajput, residents of his society, for threatening to cut down the tree he had planted in the society margin space and demolish a shack he had built there. “The accused have not yet been arrested,” Keharsinh said. According to the complainant, he is a retired journalist and lives in the society with his wife Premvanti, son Arvind and daughter Seema. “The complainant stated that he had planted trees in the margin space of the society in front of his house. The accused often told him not use the margin space or plant trees there,” said a police official. The complainant stated that on Saturday the two accused persons approached him and threatened him, saying he should cut down the trees he had planted there or they would kill him. “The complainant said that on Sunday, the accused again approached him, with five or seven other residents of the society, and said they would cut down the trees themselves. The complainant stated that because of the threats of the accused, he ingested mosquito repellent that he had at home. Members of his family rushed him to Shardaben Hospital and from where he lodged a complaint against the two accused,” said Keharsinh. Keharsinh added that they are investigating who the land belongs to and whether the complainant can use it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-ingests-poison-to-save-trees-from-being-cut/articleshow/78880893.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘Cremation, burial area as per population size’||Lucknow: A week ahead of polling for byelections in seven assembly seats in UP, BJP MP from Unnao Sakshi Maharaj on Monday kicked up a controversy by saying that large burial grounds for Muslims and limited space for cremation of Hindus is “discriminatory”. Speaking at a public meeting in Unnao in support of BJP candidate Srikant Katiyar from Bangermau seat, Sakshi Maharaj said burial and cremation grounds should be allocated as per the population. “Agar ek bhi musalmaan hai gaon mein to kabristan bahut bada hai…aur aap apne khet ki medh par daah sanskar karte hain, Ghor anyay nahi hai kya? (Even if there is only one Muslim, the burial ground is large. And you (Hindus) cremate your loved ones on the sides of farm fields. Isn’t this injustice,” he questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cremation-burial-area-as-per-population-size/articleshow/78881789.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mysuru||Scaled down celebrations in Madikeri as well||MADIKERI: Although not as ancient as the Naada Habba in Mysuru, the Madikeri Dasara, nevertheless, has more than a century-old history, while the four karagas that are emblematic of the festivities in the hilly district of Kodagu are part of a tradition dating back more than 150 years. It is thus understandable that the people of Madikeri are more than a little disappointed with the scaling down of the Madikeri Dasara fete this year, only the second occasion in its history; the first having been in 1962, in the aftermath of the Indo-China War. The hilly district of Kodagu has had a bleak year, beginning with the downturn in tourist activities, which it relies on heavily for economy, owing to the restrictions imposed owing to the Covid-19 crisis, and the torrential rain that followed in several parts, which compounded the misery of the residents. At this year’s Dasara procession, the district administration capped the number of volunteers at each mantap to 20, all of whom should have tested negative for the novel coronavirus. At a meeting held on Monday, Kodagu deputy superintendent of police asked the mantap committees not to have electric decorating boards and to do away with the tableau this year. President of the Mantap Committee Gururaj, after a meeting with members of all the groups, said that the decorations they had made were on a medium-scale, which entailed not too large figures of the Gods, which would be lit with electric lights. Although the mantap committees were not too happy with the stipulation that all pujas end by 10.30pm, the members agreed to it, nevertheless. The procession of the small mantaps began around 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/scaled-down-celebrations-in-madikeri-as-well/articleshow/78877884.cms||G RAJENDRA
October 27, 2020||Pune||VPM School unveils its e-magazine, ‘Crescendo’||Pune: The Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Pune, recently unveiled its annual e-magazine, ‘Crescendo’, in the presence of Ashok Vikhe Patil, chairman of the Vikhe Patil Foundation, in a virtual ceremony. As the print edition of the annual school magazine could not be published this year due to the Covid-19, the managing director of the Brisingr Gametec, Sanand Mitra, who is the website designer and technical support specialist for the school, decided to convert the publication into a digital one. The digital magazine is in a flip-book format with 365 pages. The core editorial team, comprising staff members, Bharati Kudchadker, Anjali Naik, Aindrila Sinha, Shaheen Chaiwala, Nandita Kusurkar and Pournima Dharap, had compiled the articles, reports, stories, poems, illustrations and artwork contributed by the students and teachers. The team was working under the guidance of the principal, B Mrinalini and Mitra. The layout of the e-magazine was prepared and presented by Mitra. City Pride hosts a virtual radio show The students of Standard X of the City Pride School recently hosted a radio show through an online platform on Microsoft Teams. The student radio jockeys put up an informative and entertaining show, covering the latest updates from the city and the school. Through the talk show, titled, ‘Pride Samachar’, the students informed the audience of the rising cases of Covid-19 in Pune and the precautions to be taken. This was followed by the school news covering achievements of the students in various competitions. The students also put up humorous acts, interviews and showcased their acting and singing talent in different segments of the show. The technical director, Deepali Sawai, shared her views. The radio show was started last year by the school with channel frequency 126.03, signifying the foundation date of the school, June 12, 2003. The students were trained by the journalism committee members of the school. The show was hosted by secondary school radio jockeys — Arnav Oruganty and Sanika Narke. Shreya Gaikwad played the iconic character of ‘Ajjibai’; while Shreya Sansare and Jiya Chorbele were the interviewers in the show. The technical support was provided by Tanish Patni. PPS introduces ‘Gratitude Journal’ An unique initiative of ‘Gratitude Journal’ was recently introduced at the Pawar Public School, Nanded City, by principal Anjali Gurjar. The students and teachers were told to maintain a ‘Gratitude Journal’, wherein they would express their gratitude for the smallest things that hold great importance in their life. The activity made students realize the many things they were most grateful for. The younger ones were thankful for their healthy lifestyle, parents, friends, and even to the five sensory organs. Many were thankful to technology for keeping them connected with their friends and family and for facilitating learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vpm-school-unveils-its-e-magazine-crescendo/articleshow/78881790.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Next ‘Blue Moon’ in 30 days after this Saturday’s to rise in 2050||PUNE: The second full moon in a month, a ‘Blue Moon’, will be visible on October 31. The previous full moon was seen on October 2. Unlike a blood moon based on its red glow, a ‘Blue Moon’ has nothing to do with the colour. It is an infrequent phenomenon involving the appearance of an additional full moon within a given period. The last time there were two full moons in a month in 30 days was in June 2007, and the next one will appear in September 2050. A ‘Blue Moon’ in a month with 31 days was on January 31, 2018 and the next one will be on August 31, 2023. Director of Nehru Planetarium, Arvind Paranjpye, said there is a bit of mathematics in play. “The duration of a lunar month is 29.531 days or 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes and 38 seconds. Therefore, to have two full moons in a month, the first full moon should take place on the first or second of the month. This year, there will be a 'Blue Moon' on October 31. That particular calendar year will have 13 full moons instead of the normal 12,” he added. A solar year has 365.2422 days or 365 days, 5 hours, 19 minutes and 30 seconds. Therefore, there are 12.3681 lunar months in one solar year. It means a normal solar year has 12 full lunar months, with an extra 0.3681 months or 10 days, 20.9 hours. This extra time accumulates and after about 30 months, there will be one extra full moon in the year. This implies that one of the four seasons will have four full moons instead of the normal three full moons. When this happens, the third full moon of that season is called a ‘blue moon’. Paranjpye said, “The phrase 'once in a Blue Moon' is used to describe a rare occurrence. It was first used in the early 16th century to indicate something absurd. Its present form was first used in the 17th century. The ‘Blue Moon’ was defined as 'the third full moon in a season of four full moons'.” The earliest reference to this definition is found in the Maine Farmer’s Almanac, published in the late 1930s. The almanac is published annually as a reference book for farmers. It carries information for farmers, such as weather forecasts, planting charts and some other articles of popular interest, he added. Graphic: February Is The Exception A ‘Blue Moon’ has nothing to do with the colour February will never have a ‘Blue Moon’ as it is 12 hours short of a lunar month It is not too common to have a ‘Blue Moon’ in a month with 30 days The last ‘Blue Moon’ in a month with 30 days was on June 30, 2007, and the next one will be on September 30, 2050 There were two ‘Blue Moons’ in 2018, on January 31, and on March 31 The next ‘Blue Moon’ will be on August 31, 2023||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/next-blue-moon-in-30-days-after-this-saturdays-to-rise-in-2050/articleshow/78881787.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Notice to Haryana against mention of caste in seniority list of cops||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana police’s practice of mentioning the scaste of its employees in the proforma prescribed to prepare their seniority list has come under the scanner of the Punjab and Haryana high court, which on Monday issued notice to the state government. The high court has directed Haryana home secretary, Haryana police chief and concerned officials of the state police to file reply on the issue by April 12, 2021. Justice Girish Agnihotri passed the order while hearing a petition filed by sub-inspector Mohinder Singh and 15 other police officers of the same rank posted in various police ranges of the state. The petitioners have sought directions to quash the column of caste from the seniority list dated May 21, 2020 and to restrain the state police authorities and the home department from mentioning caste of employee in the seniority list. The petitioners have submitted that the column of caste mentioned in the seniority list of police officials is not only unconstitutional but also totally irrelevant. According to the petitioners, in the seniority list the caste of employees is mentioned by the state police authorities which is in violation of the Constitution of India as the column of caste has no relevance in the seniority list as on the basis of the caste column people mentioned in the seniority list can face discrimination. As the right to dignity is a fundamental right and basic human right, human dignity is one of the basic features of the Constitution, they contended. “The constitution also guarantees a caste-less society. The division bench of the HC in a case titled Rakesh Kumar and others versus state of Haryana and others, had restrained the Investigating officers (IOs) from mentioning caste of the accused, complainant and witnesses in recovery memos, FIRs and other related documents,” the petitioners submitted while questioning the practice by state’s police authorities of mentioning the caste in the seniority list of its employees. The petitioners have also sought directions for quashing the reconfirmation order dated October 25, 2019 vide which the date of confirmation as head constable of the juniors of the petitioners has been changed after more than 10-years of confirmation in an illegal manner and impugned promotion order dated March 17 vide which the juniors promoted as sub-inspectors by giving antedated promotion and seniority list dated May 21, 2020. According to the petitioners, before passing the re-confirmation orders, no show-cause notice was issued and no opportunity of hearing was provided to the petitioners by the state authorities. It is against the principle of natural justice as the confirmation orders have been changed after more than 10 years and after the promotions to the highest ranks by the department, they argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notice-to-state-against-mention-of-caste-in-seniority-list-of-cops/articleshow/78880896.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Frozen jackfruit finds flavour in coastal districts||MANGALURU: A group of like-minded people from the south Indian states of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, led by Shree Padre, global ambassador for jackfruits in India, and Shrikant Shenoy, co-founder, IDF, a Bengaluru-based NGO, working for rural development, are trying to promote frozen jackfruit in a big way. They have formed a 120-member WhatsApp group — Frozen Jackfruit to Market, comprising mostly farmers and experts where they only discuss and plan measures to popularise frozen jackfruit. Countries such as Vietnam, Indonesia, Philippines, Malaysia and Thailand have mastered the segment of marketing for jackfruit-frozen in a big way, Shree Padre told TOI. “Several small attempts are being made mostly in Kerala, but this has to be more systematic and organised to reach out globally. For instance, at a new sales counter of Ernakulam Krishi Vigyan Kendra, frozen ripe jackfruit, raw jackfruit and jackfruit seeds are available throughout the seasons. In Mangaluru too, farmers Jagadesh Ujire and Gabriel Stany Vegas are expected to begin sale of frozen jackfruit soon. Use of simple technology and innovation will help in the production heat and eat products. A homemaker in Kerala has already launched ready to cook jack payasam. One of the biggest advantages of frozen jackfruit is that it can be available round the year,” he said. GOOD DEMAND FOR FROZEN JACKFLAKES, SEEDS Thankachan Chempotty, 57, working for an MNC in Bengaluru as well as an organic farmer has managed to sell a good amount frozen jackflakes and jack seeds this year. Chempotty who spent most of his life in metros, hails from Thekkumkutty in Calicut — where jackfruit used to be the staple food for at least 4-5 months. “With the support from my wife Jessy Thankachan, we hope to increase the sale of frozen flakes and seeds this year. Currently, our certified organic farm in Mysuru has about four varieties of jackfruit trees and we hope to plant an additional 100 saplings soon,” he said. The matured jackfruit flakes which are frozen as soon as they are harvested is a boon to Keralites as they can enjoy Çhakka Puzhukku round the year. The frozen jack seeds are also recording a good demand. The scope for export is high in jackfruit, but has to be taken up in an organised way, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/frozen-jackfruit-finds-flavour-in-coastal-districts/articleshow/78879161.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC seals multiple blocks in New Ranip society||AHMEDABAD: In major move, several blocks of a new residential scheme in New Ranip area, Ashray 9-10, were sealed by the Ahmedabad municipal corporation (AMC) on Monday over illegalities. According to AMC officials, the developer continued to give possession to buyers even though many blocks in the scheme did not have ‘Building Use’ (BU) permission. Of the total 52 blocks, BU permission was given to just 13 blocks in September last year, on the condition that the developer will make an in-house sewage treatment plant (STP) and procure environmental clearance certificate for the entire project. The residential scheme is a little ahead of Sanidhya Flora and just opposite Khodiyar temple in New Ranip area. More than 150 houses were sealed on Monday, those that the AMC had found locked. “We were cautious of not asking any residents living in the flats to vacate,” said a senior AMC estate official. “Our problem was that the developer who was faltering on his commitment of getting an environment clearance for his project and constructing an STP plant for the scheme,” added the AMC official. The AMC opened nearly 38 sealed building units after occupants of these houses came back and said they were unaware of the BU sealing process. “We have opened the seals for these owners and if more occupants approach us with genuine reasons and were living there, we will open the flats for them too,” added the AMC official. The developer had earlier informed the AMC that the environment clearance for which they had applied for was for a little above 1.6 lakh square metres, but an on-site inspection of the AMC revealed that the development had spread over 1.79 lakh square metres. Meanwhile, many residents who were not living in these apartments rushed to spot after they heard of the AMC’s sealing drive. “I was planning to approach Gujarat-RERA had the AMC not opened the flat for me. The developer was giving us possession of these flats, but we were not aware of his commitments to the AMC,” said a house owner whose house was unsealed by the AMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-multiple-blocks-in-new-ranip-society/articleshow/78880922.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Help us revive our businesses, catering industry tells Karnataka government||BENGALURU: While Unlock measures have stirred hope of revival in many sectors, the catering industry is finding it hard to get back on its feet and is desperately hoping for a government-mediated solution. The Federation of Karnataka Caterers has written to the chief minister seeking his intervention to revive the industry. The federation says about 20,000 people including employees and employers have lost their jobs following the nationwide lockdown. Corporates, marriages, conferences and events, their major source of income, have almost come to a standstill. “The total turnover of the industry in Karnataka is about Rs 650 crore and about 5,000 caterers operate in the state,” said GK Shetty, president of the federation. “On an average, a caterer pays his employee a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 and without any orders in the last six months the total loss in salary alone runs up to Rs 135 crore.” The federation said the industry did not receive any kind of support from the government. “Just as the government has allowed theatres and restaurants and other places to open with 50% attendance, the government must also allow wedding halls to do the same. It will help revive the industry,” Shetty said. Pankaj Kothari, a senior member of the federation, said he used to employ about 340 workers, but now employs only about 40 people. “We are hoping our business would bounce back when a vaccine is out,” Kothari said. Ravindra Kumar, secretary of the Federation of Karnataka Caterers, said they do get food orders but a majority of them are opting to hold events in hotels. “We get orders, but it varies from 100 to 250 people. We expect it to increase in the coming days. The bright side is that people have booked till April and we are hoping business will bounce back by then,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/help-us-revive-our-businesses-catering-industry-tells-government/articleshow/78878723.cms||Kiran Parashar
October 27, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: In these villages, hair either sold for money or bartered for household items||BELAGAVI: Although it is agonising for people to witness daily the gradual loss of their once thick manes, villagers in North Karnataka have found a way to turn this depletion into a source of profit. Instead of discarding hair that is lost while coming and washing, residents of villages – more women than men – of Gadag, Bagalkot, Chitradurga and Chikkamagaluru are either selling it for money or exchanging it for other goods, very much like the barter system that existed in the past. Those either buying or exchanging hair for other goods generally make their visit to the homes of the villagers in the morning before the residents leave for their work on the fields. Maheshwaramma, 45, a resident of Garagadahalli, a village in Chikkamagaluru on the border of Chitradurga, collects hair from the residents twice daily – in the morning and evening. The mane of hair thus collected she exchanges for a wide assortment of household items once a month. A week ago, Maheshwaramma sold nearly 100g of hair for a plastic tumbler that she was looking for. “A kilo of hair will fetch up to Rs 4,000 here,” Maheshwaramma said. A woman in Chitradurga village, who is recovering from cancer, sold the hair that fell in veritable heaps while she underwent chemotherapy for money. She sold her long hair that she lost during treatment, around 200g for Rs 800. “Some of the buyers are very particular about the colour of the hair, and do not purchase grey hair. But we can exchange even grey hair for other items though we may not get money for it,” she said. Umesh Doddimani, a resident of Naragund in Gadag district, has members of the community that trades hair for money and goods for neighbours. “Some of the women who buy hair give articles such as jug, tumbler, plastic buckets, et al. The men trade Bombay Mittai, a type of candy, among other things for hair. These local traders collect up to 1kg of hair, which they then sell to a wholesale trader within their community, who, in their turn sell it to larger buyers. The hair goes into the making of wigs,” Doddimani said. The hair that the villagers trade is made into wigs and sold to Burma, Sri Lanka and China. Manjunath Jamkhandi, a wholesale agent in Gadag, said that there were at least 30 merchants like himself in all those districts where this practice was prevalent. “They collect hair from the local traders, and sell it in bulk to merchants in Mumbai, who in turn, sell it to foreign countries where the hair is used in the making of dolls, mats and other such products,” Manjunath told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-these-villages-hair-either-sold-for-money-or-bartered-for-household-items/articleshow/78879377.cms||Shreyas HS
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Special meeting of Karnataka BJP executive committee on November 5||MANGALURU: State BJP chief State BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel is expected to showcase his organisational prowess at the special executive committee meeting of the party scheduled to be held in his home town here on November 5. This will be the first such meet that the Dakshina Kannada district unit of BJP will host in its stronghold, nearly a year after Nalin was appointed as state BJP president and within three months of him revamping the state team. Confirming the special EC meet in his home town, Nalin, also Dakshina Kannada MP told TOI on Sunday that the daylong meeting will see the executive committee adopt two special resolutions — one pertaining to the state and other pertaining to the nation. “The EC meets every month in one district of the state and the party office bearers meet every fortnight,” Nalin said, adding the full EC meets once every three months. Given the constraints posed by Covid-19, the special EC will see the core committee members including the chief minister B S Yediyurappa, party office bearers, presidents and secretaries of various morchas, convenors and co-convenors of various cells, heads of various zones and organisational secretaries participate. “We expect around 150 important functionaries of the party and the party led state government to be in attendance,” Nalin said. The party has already sent invitations to the CM, members of the core committee and to the permanent and special invitees to the EC to attend the meeting, Nalin said. “Two union ministers too will be part of this meeting,” Nalin said. The special EC will convene in the backdrop of by-polls to two assembly seats in Karnataka — Sira in Tumakuru district and Raja Rajeshwari Nagar in Bengaluru scheduled for November 3. “The focus of this special EC will be organisation and future plans of the party to further its base in the state,” Nalin said. “We will also focus on elections to the panchayati raj bodies including zilla, taluk and gram panchayats and work out our strategy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/special-meeting-of-state-bjp-executive-committee-on-nov-5/articleshow/78879264.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||With new-normal plan in hand, coastal Karnataka gears up for wedding season||MANGALURU: Following a seven-month lull induced by the pandemic, things are finally looking up for wedding planners, photographers and caterers in coastal Karnataka and they are hoping to make the best of it. While orders are beginning to flow for the season, which generally begins in the last week of October, one big letdown is that weddings are no longer ‘big and fat’. "I have already received several orders for the next three months," said wedding photographer Prajwal Ukkuda of ‘Prajwal’s trupics’. He said all his orders scheduled in April and May were cancelled and only a few were postponed. "Since there are restrictions on the number of people who can attend, the photography budget has been cut by 50%," he said. Primus D’Souza of Prince Caterers says they have had to adapt due to the limited number of guests for weddings and other functions. "We never took small orders [below 100], but the pandemic has forced us to change," D’Souza said. "However, the silver lining is that the season is picking up." Raj Deepak Shetty, a multi-lingual actor who married Sonia Rodrigues, an event planner and model, five days ago said the ceremony was one "big challenge". "The wedding was originally scheduled for May and we had planned to invite 600 guests," Shetty said. "Cutting down the guest list to 250 was a big task, as was ensuring social distancing and taking care of elderly guests. The toughest task was who to invite and who to leave out. There were also a lot of uncertainties and even the wedding day was a question mark until the very last moment." With the number of guests limited, hosts are now making wedding parties safer, intimate and grandeur. "Hosts, especially the middle-class, are ditching wedding halls and instead moving ceremonies to resorts and homestays," said an event organiser. "It helps them spend quality time with relatives and friends and there is more fun involved."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-new-normal-plan-in-hand-coast-gears-up-for-wedding-season/articleshow/78878870.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers don’t deserve sympathy: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court made it clear that any sympathy towards snatchers would encourage potential criminals. The observation was made during hearing on the bail plea of two persons who snatched gold earrings from an elderly woman. “I find that the allegations against both petitioners are very grave and serious of snatching an earring from an old woman. Incidents of snatching are increasing day by day putting fear and apprehension in the minds of common people, especially the old persons and womenfolk. Such type of snatchers and criminals need to be dealt with firmly and sternly and showing any sympathy to them would rather encourage the potential criminals to tread path of crime,” the HC held while dismissing the bail plea of the two snatchers, who belong to Gurdaspur district of Punjab. Justice H S Madaan of the HC passed these orders while dismissing the bail plea of the two accused, Sarabjit Singh alias Saba and Balwinder Kumar of Gurdaspur. According to the prosecution, on May 19 at around 5.45am, three youths on a motorcycle drove up while the complainant, Ratno Devi, was in her shop. One of the youths asked the complainant to give him kheer/lassi while the other alighted from the motorcycle and asked for a biscuit packet. As the complainant turned to pick up the biscuit pack, the second youth snatched her gold earring weighing two to three grams. Thereafter, all the three youths left the spot on their motorcycle. Stressed by this, the complainant suffered ill health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-snatchers-dont-deserve-sympathy/articleshow/78880944.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Poor connectivity, smartphones take toll on studies of pre-primary students||LUDHIANA: Lack of connectivity, unavailability of smartphones and inability of parents to help their wards in completing the online assignments were some of the key issues which were highlighted by the parents from the poor economic background whose children were studying in the pre-primary classes in government schools of the district. These issues came to the fore during an interaction with the parents of 35,728 students who held discussions with their teachers during the parent-teacher interaction held recently. The exercise was conducted online through video calls and also direct phone to parents. Certain parents were allowed direct contact with teachers, but only keeping in mind the government’s Covid-care instructions. Primary teacher Baljeet Kaur from government primary school, Pandori, said, “There are 35 students who are studying in my school. They always keep on raising their concern about network issue and as most of the parents could not afford the expensive net pack, so they do not get access to internet. Besides, as their parents are not well educated, therefore, they are unable to make their ward do the specific activity which teachers can teach them effectively.” “Then, we visit their house and teach them by keeping in mind all Covid precautions,” she said. Lalita, a daily wager whose ward is studying in a government school at Meharban, said, “I am not able to afford the net pack and do not have a good smartphone. Thus, it’s not possible for me to make my ward perform any activity. The only tension we have is to have two meals a day.” Another primary teacher Manvinder Singh, who is teaching over 20 students at government primary school, Roshiyana block II, said, “I am also the pre-primary resource person and we have divided it into two parts. In pre-primary one and two, we are circulating the slides for their capacity building programmes. Most of the students are enrolled early in government schools as parents have to go to work and hence they are not able to do study. Besides, in a few cases, parents are not well educated, thus students do not understand the activities.” Half of the parents are daily wagers and thus carry their phones with them. They go to work in the morning and then come back late. When the previous work is not done, it is not possible for us to make the students do anything further,” adds a pre-primary resource person. Sanjeev, district coordinator, Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab, said, “Teachers conducted the parents-teachers meeting on Zoom app and telephonically as well. We are sending the activity-based slides on daily basis on their WhatsApp groups at 9am. The material related to the activity is also served for online study. Everything is mentioned in the schedule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/poor-connectivity-smartphones-take-toll-on-studies-of-pre-primary-students/articleshow/78879529.cms||Mehak Jain
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||BJP trying to lure more MP Congress MLAs: Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: A day after the shock resignation of Congress MLA Rahul Lodhi, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said BJP is trying to lure away more legislators with money because it knows the situation on the ground is not in its favour in the bypolls. The former CM pointed out BJP’s claim that ‘a few more Congress MLAs’ are in touch with them and could switch sides. “Are these MLAs joining BJP without any deals?” Nath asked. “A number of my MLAs are calling me, saying that BJP is enticing them with offers of money and even promising advance payment,” the veteran Congress leader said. “I don’t believe in the politics of bargaining. If I wanted, I could have done the same, but I don’t want MP to be disgraced. I will never do politics of bargaining. We will set an example by saying no to politics of purchase and sale,” he said. Congress will benefit from BJP’s “wheeling-dealing”, the PCC chief said. “Once again, the party has revealed its true image before people of the state. If they (BJP) were confident of getting the required number of seats to save their government, they would not have needed another deal. But I have full faith in the people of MP. Voters of this state are aware and sensible,” Nath told reporters on Monday. Elections have been turned into a “bargaining procedure, an auction, a grand sale” in MP, the PCC chief alleged. “In the past seven months, we are not in government, and people are seeing BJP’s activities with eyes wide open. Let BJP engage in as much bargaining politics as they wish, entice and allure as much as they want but Congress will stay away from such activities. Madhya Pradesh is being humiliated. A man from a village can understand why the bypolls are occurring in the state, so can the rest of the country not understand it?” he asked. “On November 10, when the results are out, BJP will be routed, and that is why they continue to get MLAs to resign,” Nath said, adding that BJP wants a system where even local body elections are not held. “BJP wants elections in which panchayat elections are not required, corporators are not elected for civic bodies. They can be nominated through auctions.” Reacting to the former CM, BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said, “Since the Kamal Nath government was formed, Congress has been misleading people by making statements that BJP MLAs are in touch with their leader. Former cabinet ministers Tarun Bhanot, P C Sharma, Jitu Patwari and Jaivardhan Singh have said that BJP legislators will join Congress. But what happened? Their government fell and no one from BP joined them. Now, Kamal Nath is both PCC president and leader of opposition. It is his incompetence if MLAs are leaving the party and he is trying to pass the buck to BJP. We only need eight seats to retain our government and Congress needs all 28 to return to power.” After Rahul Lodhi’s resignation from the assembly, Congress has 87 MLAs. BJP has 107, and there are 28 seats up for grabs in the bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-bjp-trying-to-lure-more-cong-mlas/articleshow/78879517.cms||Suchandana Gupta
October 27, 2020||Pune||Loni Kand, Loni Kalbhor police stations merged into Pune police commissionerate||Pune: The state home department on Monday issued a notification affecting the merger of the Loni Kand and Loni Kalbhor police stations from rural Pune into the Pune police commissionerate.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI, “We will takeover the functioning of the two new police stations on Tuesday.” The Loni Kand police station is located on the Ahmednagar highway and covers developed areas of Wagholi and others nearby villages. The Loni Kalbhor police station located on the Solapur highway and its jurisdiction includes developed areas of Phursungi and Loni Kalbhor. Gupta said, “Pune city shares its border with villages in Loni Kand and Loni Kalbhor police areas. It was observed that criminals from Pune city would flee to these villages for shelter after committing crimes in the city. Now, movement of criminals can be restricted.” With the merger, the number of police stations under Pune city police jurisdiction has now gone up to 32 from 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/loni-kand-loni-kalbhor-police-stations-merged-into-pune-police-commissionerate/articleshow/78881823.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 27, 2020||Goa||Goa: 95% of schools surveyed don’t favour reopening, says headmasters’ body||PANAJI: The Goa headmasters’ association has said that 198 of the 209 government-aided schools it surveyed are not in favour of reopening yet, president Mariano Valadares said. The parents-teacher associations (PTAs) in these schools want reopening plans on hold till the Covid-19 situation stabilises further, he said. “The association is also for reopening of schools, but the situation is not conducive at the moment,” said Valadares. “Most parents are not in favour of it as of now. We know that Class X students will be facing their board exams this year, and these students can be allowed to come to school after Diwali to seek guidance from teachers. Class X students are already coming to school for one-on-one guidance with teachers.” Valadares said that teachers are doing everything in their capacity to reach out to students, but lack of internet connectivity means that access to online classes for students is not so smooth in many areas. “Forget students, many schools do not have good enough connectivity,” he said. “In many families, two to three siblings are sharing one smartphone to attend their online classes, as parents cannot afford a smartphone for each child.” “ But still, given the Covid situation, it is better to wait and watch for a while before reopening schools.” He said that although schools will put SOPs in place, it is difficult to control interaction amongst students. “It is difficult to ensure that students will wear masks at all times, for such a long period,” he said. “They are children, and it will be difficult to ensure that they do not touch each other. They will be meeting after so long that some may even hug each other.” He also said that government-aided schools have also not yet received maintenance grants for the last academic year, and the schools are in need of funds for sanitisation of their premises before schools reopen. “We have not received part of the maintenance grants even for the last year. We have requested the state government to release them as we need funds to spend on sanitisation,” said Valadares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/95-of-schools-surveyed-dont-favour-reopening-says-headmasters-body/articleshow/78880956.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||New accident relief train arrives at Pune rail division||PUNE: The Pune rail division has received a new self-propelled accident relief train (SPART), which will enable the division to carry out rescue and relief work during medical emergencies in case of an accident. “We had a SPART, but it was old. Now that a new one has been allotted to the division, rescue work can be carried out faster,” an official said. The new train comprises three compartments and has inbuilt engines at both ends. “As it is self-propelled, there is no need to attach any engine to it, which was the case with the old unit. The new unit can be immediately dispatched in case of an emergency,” the official said. Officials said that one of the compartments has been converted into an operation theatre, while there is also a tool van, space for medical staff and paramedics to travel as well as space for patients. “Some beds have been created in one of the compartments for those in need. The train has got space to carry different medical equipment and oxygen cylinders. The ghat section has been prone to accidents. This train will be of help during such incidents,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-accident-relief-train-arrives-at-pune-rail-division/articleshow/78881804.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||V Umashankar now personal secretary to Haryana CM||CHANDIGARH: Within a week of the appointment of former chief secretary D S Dhesi as chief principal secretary to chief minister, the Haryana government on Monday elevated V Umashankar as principal secretary to chief minister. Umashankar was deputy principal secretary. Now, Amit Aggarwal has been appointed as deputy principal secretary to chief minister. There has been other major changes in chief minister’s office. Yogender Chaudahry, a 1989 batch IRS officer and addition principal secretary to CM, has been appointed as advisor in the CM’s resource mobilisation cell. He will continue to hold charge of sports and youth welfare department and foreign cooperation department. These were carried out during a major bureaucratic shuffle which saw nearly 37 officers getting new postings. Other significant postings included that of Dheera Khandelwal as additional chief secretary of information and public relations department and appointment of Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor, a senior IPS officer, as principal secretary and financial commission in the transport department. Notably, Kapoor’s appointment has come after the Haryana government had decided to post both the HPS officers and IFS state forest services officers as the district transport officers to check pilferage of tax as well as wrongs in the transport department. Meanwhile, Shashank Anand, a 2006 batch IPS officer, is the latest entry to no cadre post. Anand has been appointed as the managing director of Uttari Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam after the new posting of Kapoor. Till now, Kapoor had been holding the charge of MD of electricity distribution companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/major-bureaucratic-reshuffle-in-hry-umashankar-becomes-ps-to-cm/articleshow/78880924.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 scare grips Adyar Metropolitan Transport Corporation staff||Chennai: Covid-19 scare has hit employees of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) at its Adyar depot after reports claiming three deaths went viral on social media. While the MTC administration has categorically denied that the deceased employees were affected by Covid-19, unions have alleged that the authorities are trying to hide facts. Obituary posters in memory of the deceased staff were put up in and around Adyar and T Nagar depots on Sunday. A senior MTC official said, “One of them turned negative before dying and the other two were on sick leave for long. Preliminary findings suggest that they were not infected by Covid. We have sought a detailed report from the concerned branch managers”. However, an MTC employee from Adyar said the state-run corporation is trying to cover up the truth. “This is not the first time that the transport corporation is trying to hide Covid-related conditions. Earlier this month, a 42-year-old conductor from Tiruttani and another from Anna Nagar died. Though their families have necessary medical certificates, MTC branch managers refused to accept.” K Natarajan, from DMK-affiliated Labour Progressive Front, said approximately 3,000 employees of MTC have been infected with Covid-19 so far, and at least 200 have died across the state, as per the union. “Not even one-third of instructions mentioned in standard operating procedure (SOP) about sanitisation at the end of every trip or masks were followed. We can deny entry of passengers, who cite personal reasons for urgent travel, and only advise them. We have no other option but to continue work, with fear looming,” he added. Reports of the three deaths of MTC staffers from Covid-19 in Adyar created panic among MTC conductors and drivers on Monday, with some of them trying to be strict in asking passengers not to crowd buses. A commuter in Adyar said that the only way out of the crowd in buses was to operate 100% of MTC’s available fleet, but the corporation still keeps about 1,000 buses idle. On Monday, when TOI visited the Adyar depot of the transport corporatio, at least 80 buses could be seen parked idle during peak hours, while those on the roads were overflowing with passengers, with concern writ large on the faces of sconductors and drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-scare-grips-adyar-mtc-staff/articleshow/78880979.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 27, 2020||Goa||Goa readies for a tourism season without foreign charters||PANAJI: The state’s tourism industry, which relies substantially on charters and foreign tourists, is bracing for a season completely bereft of international visitors. Stakeholders say they’ve given up hope for the season after the Centre’s decision last week not to restore tourist visas. “I still don’t want to believe that we will not have a charter season,” said Ernest Dias of Sita, a travel company that handles charter tourists from Europe and Russia. “It will be a disaster for the industry if we do not have charters and foreign tourists. (But) in all likelihood, we may not have a charter season.” The charter season in Goa starts by mid-October and concludes by April-May. It receives around 2-2.5 lakh tourists via this mode, including Russians, British and European travellers. The state’s total international footfall is pegged at about 8 lakh, while the number for domestic tourists is around 80 lakh. Over the past two months, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), a trade body of hotels and tour operators, has been pursuing “bubble transport arrangements” with the UK, Russia and Poland, Goa’s source markets, to enable tourists from the three countries to visit Goa. In September, chief minister Pramod Sawant wrote to the Union home ministry to grant relaxation to Goa, since the state’s tourism industry is highly dependent on international tourists. Tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar said that given the high stakes, the state government has made all efforts. “As of now, the government of India has not relaxed norms to allow international tourists. We have taken up the matter with the government and have consistently been following up,” he said. With many countries in Europe, including the UK, going through the second wave of pandemic, industry stakeholders feel that Goa will have to be prepared for a season with no international tourists. “With cases on the rise in Europe, are we ready to fight it,” said a senior official at a travel company. “Again, the virus strain found in Europe is said to be more virulent than the one in India. That’s what I have read, I’m not a scientist, but the decision of the government is right. Most of our foreign tourists are from the UK and European countries. I doubt we will have charters at all this season.” Dias, of Sita, said it’s a worrying trend. “I don’t think we will have any foreign tourists till December,” he said. If things improve, perhaps in January we may have some travellers, but that too looks doubtful. If the announcement lifting restrictions doesn’t happen before the first week of January, I don’t think any charter operators will want to come to Goa for just two months.” British tourists are known to plan their holidays in advance. They plan their long stay in Goa from November to March-April, to get away from their severe winter. Russian tourists, meanwhile, are more “impromptu” in their holiday plans. An operator said that there is no scope for either segment to travel with no signs that travel restrictions would be lifted. TTAG president Nilesh Shah said with source markets witnessing a spike, the situation is not favourable for Goa’s tourism industry. The least we can hope for is that the government makes an announcement restoring tourist visas in advance, so that marketing and bookings can start. “Unless the announcement happens, we cannot start taking bookings, as we need time to market the product,” Shah said. “It is going to be a challenging time. The small operators — shacks and small hotels — that depend on repeat charter tourists will suffer a blow. International tourists have a long stay of minimum 15 days, whereas the standard stay for domestic tourists is three to four days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-readies-for-a-tourism-season-without-foreign-charters/articleshow/78880983.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||More fatalities on under construction Ludhiana roads in 2019: Report||LUDHIANA: The highest number of persons killed in road accidents in Ludhiana in 2019 were on the under construction roads as per the latest report on ‘Road Accidents in India-2019’ of the transport research wing of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Also interestingly, more people have died on straight roads than curved ones. As per the latest report, among the accidents classified according to road features in million-plus cities during 2019, of the 513 accidents that resulted in 264 deaths and 289 injuries in Ludhiana, 50 accidents had occurred on the roads where ongoing road work/under construction work was going on and this resulted in 28 deaths. In such accidents, 19 persons received grievous injuries and three others suffer minor injuries. The report suggests that 42 persons lost their lives, 39 persons were grievously injured whereas two others received minor injuries in the road accidents on straight roads. Interestingly, the number of accidents on curved roads were less as compared to straight ones where 34 accidents took place, killing 13 persons, while 19 suffered grievous injuries and two persons had minor injuries. The latest report suggests that seven persons died and five suffered grievous injuries in 12 accidents on the bridges on various roads. The report also suggests that there were no accidents on roads with steep grade whereas 374 accidents occurred on other road features, resulting in 174 deaths and injuries to 200 persons, 191 of which were grievous ones. A road safety expert says that there are various reasons for accidents on such road features. “On straight roads more accidents happen as compared to curved roads as on the latter a driver is more attentive and speed is less, so chances of accidents are less. Also more accidents happen on the under construction roads as debris is strewn on such roads and there are not many caution signs,” said Kamaljit Soi, international road safety expert and member of National Road Safety Council. He added that there was a need for adequate road safety measures on roads so that accidents were checked and precious lives were saved. Many residents say that the agencies concerned must wrap up road construction projects on time so that accidents are checked. “On many occasions I have witnessed that it is dangerous to drive on under construction roads because of diversions from broad to narrow roads and sudden cuts. There are also vehicles coming on wrong side of road due to construction activity. All this needs to be checked and it will happen only after such projects are completed on time instead of being delayed. Also, there is a need for effective management of traffic on such roads and necessary signage should be put up wherever required,” said Narinder Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/more-fatalities-on-under-construction-city-roads-in-2019-report/articleshow/78879534.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Rahul Lodhi had called Kamal Nath ‘Bhagwan’ before joining BJP||BHOPAL: Three months before he joined the BJP on Sunday, Congress MLA Rahul Singh Lodhi had called Kamal Nath ‘Bhagwan’ (God) saying when no one was willing to consider my candidature in 2018 assembly elections, it was Kamal Nath ji who backed me. “Kamal Nath ji Bhagwan k roop mein utre aur mujhe ticket diya," he had said. Lodhi had to cut a sorry figure when he was reminded by reporters about his interview and that he was eulogising Kamal Nath till a day ago. Rubbishing rumours about he selling himself off to the BJP, he only said, “I joined BJP for the development of my constituency.” Talking to a regional TV channel in July, Rahul Lodhi who joined BJP on Sunday had also reiterated,"Rahul Singh mein ek quality hai, ye na dabega, aur na bikega. Keval ladega (there is a quality in Rahul Singh, he won’t bow down to pressure or won’t be sold out. He will fight). The interview was aired on July 19. Till October 23, he was addressing public rallies in favour of Congress candidates condemning and ridiculing the BJP. After joining the BJP, Lodhi had criticised Nath. He said that he was joining the BJP as his constituency was ignored. He said development means BJP. “In the 14 months, I had written many times to Kamal Nath for medical college in Damoh but nothing happened. He would only consider demands for Chhindwara,” he alleged. Referring to his victory from Damoh where he had defeated former finance minister Jayant Malaiya , Rahul said, “when everybody was opposing my candidature, Kamal Nath reposed faith in me and like a father he blessed me.) He had also advised the youth leaders in Congress to have “dharya and dheeraj” (patience) and said,” you get success only through these virtues.” Not stopping here Rahul said, “Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have started a new trend in politics. Whosoever forms government, we will make the BJP government by hook or by crook”. When Rahul was reminded all this by a group of news reporters after he joined the BJP on Sunday, Rahul denied the allegations of “bikau” and said “it is development of my constituency that made me join the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rahul-lodhi-had-called-nath-bhagwan-before-joining-bjp/articleshow/78879533.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Hooda loyalists switch sides to saffron party||CHANDIGARH: In a setback to the Congress and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, two senior leaders of the Malik community joined the BJP on Monday in the presence of Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar. Former Congress MLA Kitab Singh Malik and a close confidant of the Hooda family, Jagbir Singh Malik joined the saffron party. Jagbir is said to have turned against the Hoodas alleging that he was deceived by them ahead of the Baroda byelection. Malik was one of the frontrunners for the Congress ticket. Despite being in government service, he was said to have been associated with the Hoodas and was assured of party candidature by them. Getting Kitab Singh and Jagbir into their fold is a major achievement for the BJP. Prior to this, Bhupender Malik and Mahender Singh Malik also joined the BJP. With this, the BJP has been able to make inroads into Baroda’s Malik community. “I have spent more than half of my life serving the Hoodas. During Baroda election, even up to the last moment, Hooda had been assuring me of the party candidature. I am hurt with this treatment by the Hoodas. Therefore, I have decided to come out in the open to support the BJP and its candidate,’ said Jagbir Malik. He also said he was impressed by the development work conducted in the constituency over the past two months. Welcoming the Maliks into the party, the CM said the BJP is always on the lookout for sincere workers. He assured that Jagbir Malik would get adequate regard in the BJP. Khattar reiterated that BJP-JJP candidate Yogeshwar Dutt would have a decisive victory. Agriculture minister J P Dalal and Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia were among those present on the occasion. Door-to-door campaign Intensifying the campaigning in Baroda, Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar formally launched the Har Ghar ko Ram Ram, the door-to-door campaign of the BJP. Under this programme, all the ranks and cadre of the BJP will reach out to each and every voter of the constituency at their houses or fields. Meanwhile, Bhiwani MP Dharamvir Singh also joined the campaigning and held a media interaction during which he expressed confidence about BJP victory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooda-loyalists-switch-sides-join-bjp/articleshow/78880972.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||PMC to pay Diwali bonus to staff||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to pay Diwali bonus to its employees. A special provision of Rs 80 crore will be made by the accounts department for the purpose. “Though the financial condition of the civic body is weak compared to previous years, there will be no cut in bonus. The decision to pay bonus has been taken to acknowledge the work done by the staff during the pandemic,” said a senior official of the civic body. As per the PMC officials, employees working in various departments at the civic headquarters, ward offices, municipal schools and infrastructure offices will receive bonus. “Funds have been sanctioned in the budget and the commissioner’s office has given approval to make the payment to nearly 18,000 employees,” said Ulka Kalskar, head of the PMC’s accounts department. Bonus, also known as ex gratia, is disbursed to the civic employees ahead of Diwali every year and is equal to one month’s salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-pay-diwali-bonus-to-staff/articleshow/78881829.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||No physical verification for candidates||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Monday announced that candidates who wished to apply for the renewal for availing benefits under the Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavlamban Yojana (MYSY) could apply for the registration process online and that they would be exempted from undergoing physical verification process at the help centres. The decision has been taken keeping in view the Covid-19 situation, according to a press statement. The state government had earlier announced that those willing to continue under MYSY would be able to register themselves from October 1 to December 31, the statement clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-physical-verification-for-candidates/articleshow/78880997.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Kidnapping case mastermind arrested||NAGPUR: Gittikhadan police team arrested Sultan Khan, a vegetable vendor, from Ganeshpeth bus stand on Monday for allegedly abducting 12-year-old son of a cop and demanding Rs10 lakh ransom. The boy who was abducted last week had returned home within a few hours after giving the abductors a slip. Khan, close to the boy’s parents, had picked him up from the police headquarters premises. The boy had later managed to flee from Ganeshpeth before reaching his relative’s place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kidnapping-case-mastermind-arrested/articleshow/78882218.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Thief flees with train guard’s walkie talkie||Pune: An unidentified man stole a bag, containing a walkie talkie set and other articles, of a central railway goods train guard from his motorcycle parked near the Ghorpadi rail crossing gate on Saturday evening. In his complaint lodged with the Mundhwa police, railway goods train guard and Hadapsar resident Sameer Bhujbal (31) on Sunday said he was on way to report for duty when he stopped near the Hanuman temple for quenching his thirst and visiting a pan shop around 6.50pm on Saturday. At this point, the suspect, believed to be in an autorickshaw, stole his bag from the bike handle and sped away, he said. The complaint read that the bag also contained a green flag, torch, yellow tail lamp, railway inspection register, performance book, guard notebook, identity card and other articles. The police said Bhujbal had received a telephone call from his superior around 5pm asking him to report for duty on the trail compartment of goods train by 7pm. Assistant inspector Pandit Rejitwad from the Mundhwa police said, “The incident happened because of Bhujbal’s negligence. He should have carried the bag with him after parking the motorcycle.” Rejitwad said, “We don’t know who has stolen the bag, but the guard in his complainant said that he had conducted an inquiry with the pan stall owner and others in the locality. But they did not see any person stealing his bag.” He added, “The guard suspected the involvement of an autorickshaw driver or passenger because there was no other vehicle parked next to his bike. A police team is working on certain clues.” An offence under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thief-flees-with-train-guards-walkie-talkie/articleshow/78881826.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Two government high schools in rural Goa to get virtual labs||PANAJI: Students studying at the two government high schools in Balli in South Goa and Honda in North Goa may soon be able to experience the workings of a virtual laboratory. The Union education ministry has approved Rs 7.6 lakh each to the two schools for 2020-21 to set up the labs. The labs are expected to be established with assistance from experts from different IITs and NITs across the country, who have come together recently under the ministry’s virtual lab initiative. “Once the labs are set up at the schools, other schools in the neighbourhood will be given access to them. The virtual labs will help students from these rural schools get exposure to digital tools, as we enter a period where teaching will increasingly involve the use of technology and will become experience based,” a state official said. Officials said that under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, Goa itself had proposed setting up of the labs, which was approved by Centre’s department of school education in August this year. The labs will include tools like 3D learning environments, virtual reality, augmented reality and mixed reality. By making teaching more immersive and innovative, the initiative is expected to help reduce drop-out rate at the institutes, an issue often faced in government schools. “It can also enable problem-solving and critical thinking, provide distraction-free and increased engagement for students, while also reducing drop-out rates and helping increase enrolment in government schools,” the official said. “It is hoped that when tools like 3D learning, virtual and augmented reality are used in teaching, it will help students to grasp theoretical concepts faster and better,” the official said. He said the idea of a virtual lab also emerged because it requires minimal infrastructure to set it up, if access to already available tools are provided from the Centre’s virtual lab initiative. “With little investment, students can get improved learning experience, quality learning content and it will also help teachers in effective assessment,” the official said. While traditional teaching will largely continue, the proposal is to use the futuristic technologies of the lab only to enhance this teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-govt-high-schools-in-rural-goa-to-get-virtual-labs/articleshow/78881007.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Car thief caught at service station in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 28-year-old man, Mahesh Rajput, tried using a unique modus operandi to steal a car from a service station in Ramol, but was caught by a vigilant security guard as he did not have the gate pass for the vehicle. He was handed over to Ramol police station. According to the FIR lodged by Vivek Rajput, 27, the supervisor of the service station, on Sunday when he was on duty the security guard, Kanu Vanand, called him at about 5pm and said that a man was trying to leave the service station without a gate pass. “The FIR further says Vanand and other employees then went to the gate to ask the man, who was later identified as Mahesh Rajput, about the gate pass. Rajput had no answer. Vanand then pulled out the job card of the car Rajput was trying to drive out, and called its owner, Ramji Desai. Desai said he had not sent anyone to pick up his car. Rajput then confessed that was trying to steal the car,” said a police official. Ramol police sources said Rajput had sneaked into the service station saying he needed to use the toilet. “He then went to the back of the service station and saw a car with the keys in the ignition. He started it and tried to drive out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/car-thief-caught-at-service-station/articleshow/78881039.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Consumer panel finds hospital, doctor negligent; upholds order on relief||LUDHIANA: Upholding the verdict of the state commission of Punjab, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has imposed a penalty on a city-based hospital and a doctor for negligence in the treatment of a road accident victim who died later. The presiding member, Justice V K Jain, ordered that of the Rs 15 lakh compensation, Rs 10 lakh will be paid by the private hospital, while the remaining amount will be paid by the doctor. The city-based hospital and the doctor had moved the National Consumer Forum after the state commission held them guilty of negligence in treatment. After going through evidence on the record, the forum held that it had no hesitation in holding the finding of the state commission that despite haemoperitoneum having been confirmed, no attempt was made by the hospital and the treating doctor to undertake laparotomy even till the time the patient was discharged around 11.30 pm. “There was a time lag of about one hour between confirmation of haemoperitoneum through ultrasound report and the discharge of the patient from the hospital on the responsibility of his family members. Every minute is important in the case of such a critically injured person. Therefore, the appellants were clearly negligent in the treatment of the deceased by not undertaking laparotomy even till the time he was discharged at about 11.30 pm,” the forum held. Anshu Bhandari had met with a road accident at 7pm on April 17, 2009, and was taken to civil hospital, Jagraon. After giving first-aid to him, he was advised to be taken to a well-equipped hospital for further management. Anshu was accompanied by his wife Simple Bhandari at the time he met with the accident and she had also sustained some injuries. Both were brought to the emergency department of a private hospital around 9pm. Anshu was in a critical condition and the ultrasound had indicated haemoperitoneum and pelvic hematoma. He was discharged from the hospital (Medicity, Ludhiana) at the responsibility of his family members around 11.30pm and was taken to CMC Hospital, where he expired at 1.45am on April 18, 2009. Alleging negligence in the treatment, the complainants approached the state commission by way of a consumer complaint filed on December 9, 2009. Later, challenging the order the hospital and the doctors concerned, who were found negligent by the consumer forum, claimed that there was no negligence in the treatment of the deceased at the private hospital and the treating doctors had planned a laparotomy for the treatment of haemoperitoneum but the family members of the deceased refused the give a consent required for the said procedure. They got the patient discharged at their own responsibility when the patient was in a critical condition and was not in a position to travel to CMC Hospital, they said. The state commission in it’s order on May 22, 2014, had awarded compensation of Rs 16 lakh of which Rs 2 lakh was to be awarded on account of pain and suffering and Rs 21,000 as litigation expenses. Being aggrieved with the order passed by the state commission, the private hospital and doctor had filed an appeal before the national commission. The forum said that a perusal of the impugned order had shown that the state commission found negligence on the part of the doctor and the hospital, primarily on the ground that no treatment to the deceased was given for haemoperitoneum and pneumothorax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/consumer-panel-finds-hospital-doc-negligent-upholds-order-on-relief/articleshow/78879540.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||63 of 355 candidates in MP have criminal records||BHOPAL: Of the 28 assembly constituencies that are going to by-elections on November 3, about 35% of them have at least three candidates with criminal records. The ruling BJP and opposition Congress both are equally responsible in fielding candidates with criminal records. In these 10 constituencies, there are three to nine candidates who are in fray and have criminal records, says the analysis done by the association for democratic reforms (ADR) a non-government body working for electoral reforms. In 7 of the 10 constituencies, both the leading parties BJP and Congress have fielded candidates with criminal records, and of the remaining three seats, Congress had fielded candidates with criminal records in two constituencies while in one BJP which has fielded a candidate with criminal record. Among the constituencies where maximum candidates with criminal records are contesting includes Mehgaon where 9 candidates with criminal records are in the fray. In Karera, 5 candidates with criminal records are in the fray, and in each of Gohad, Biaora, Morena and Sumaoli constituencies 4 candiates with criminal records are in the fray says the analysis done by ADR. Overall a total of 63 out of the 355 candidates who are in the fray have criminal cases against them. And 39 of these 63 candidates have serious criminal cases against them, the analysis of the affidavits of the candidates done by ADR says. Among the 63 candidates with criminal cases, 12 have been fielded by BJP, 14 have been fielded by Congress. Eight of BJP have serious criminal cases, 6 candidates fielded by Congress have serious criminal cases. Few of these candidates have cases of murder attempt to murder and even rape charges against them, the analysis said. Overall one candidate has declared charge of murder against him, while 7 have declared charge of attempt to murder, the analysis says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/63-of-355-candidates-in-mp-have-criminal-records/articleshow/78879546.cms||Amarjeet Singh
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Baroda bypoll: Dushyant to start campaigning from Oct 30||Chandigarh: Deputy chief minister (CM) Dushyant Chautala would be joining the election campaign to support BJP-JJP alliance candidate Yogeshwar Dutt for the Baroda by-election from October 30. Chautala along with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and JJP national president Ajay Singh Chautala, minister of state Anoop Dhanak will be visiting several villages. The deputy CM said he would hold several programmes in Gangana, Bhawar, Madeena, Rukhi and Rabhra villages on October 30 and on October 31. Thereafter, he along with CM will canvas in Valmiki Ashram, Mundlana, Shamdi, Bhainswal and Jasrana. According to the programme CM and Anoop Dhanak will begin their campaigning on October 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/baroda-bypoll-dushyant-to-start-campaigning-from-oct-30/articleshow/78881005.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP ‘robbed’ Rs 12 lakh from cash seized in Dubbak, say cops||HYDERABAD: High drama unfolded in Siddipet on Monday ahead of the November 3 Dubbak assembly by-election with police accusing BJP men of robbing cash that was seized from the house of a relative of the saffron party’s candidate, M Raghunandan Rao. BJP cadres, however, alleged that police tried to plant the money in the house of Raghunandan’s father-in-law Gopal Rao. By late evening, Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis issued a statement saying that of the Rs 18.67 lakh seized, BJP workers had ‘robbed’ Rs 12.80 lakh. “We have videos and those who stole the money will be arrested,” Davis said. “We will file criminal cases against them. Cases will also be filed for violation of model code of conduct.” Searches were carried out at three places and the money was found in Surabhi Anjan Rao’s house. The house of Siddipet municipal chairman Raja Narsu was also searched but no money was found. BJP workers, on the other hand, allege that they have video footage of a constable carrying a bag into Gopal Rao’s house at Lecturer’s Colony in Siddipet. The workers snatched the bag, forcibly opened it and alleged that they had found currency notes in them that were meant to be planted in the house. With serious allegations flying on both sides, Union minister of state for home and BJP’s Secunderabad MP, G Kishan Reddy, rushed from Hyderabad to Siddipet. BJP state president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay, who was also on his way to Siddipet, was taken into custody. Davis told TOI that Raghunandan had come to the place with 250 of his supporters and nearly 20 of them had snatched the money which had been legally seized by the executive magistrate. He said ACP Siddipet and other official sustained injuries in the attack. The executive magistrate and tahsidar of Siddipet Vijay Sagar lodged a complaint with the Siddipet-1 town police blaming Raghunandan and his supporters. According to the cops, the cash was held by a head constable, Balaraju, after it had been seized and that Raghunandan jumped the compound wall and attacked him. Finance minister T Harish Rao addressing party workers late in the evening alleged that the police had caught the BJP trying to use money power. “Instead of cooperating with the police, allegations are being levelled against them. BJP is trying to gain some sympathy by enacting such dramas,” he said. Raghunandan’s wife Manjula, who had come to visit her parents, took strong objection to police entering the house to carry out searches. “They searched the house for three hours and found nothing,” she said. Those who came in did not even wear masks and instead covered their faces with handkerchiefs. They literally terrorised all of us for three hours,” Manjula said. “This is nothing but police raj,” Raghunandan said, alleging that the ruling TRS was making use of police against him. TRS MP Kothakota Prabhakar Reddy said the party would apprise the Election Commission about the behaviour of the BJP. Earlier this month police seized Rs 40 lakh from a vehicle at Shamirpet and those who were carrying it allegedly informed the police that it was meant for a relative of Raghunandan Rao. Watch On cam: Telangana BJP workers clash with cops during raid, 'rob' seized cash||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-robbed-rs-12l-from-cash-seized-in-dubbak-say-cops/articleshow/78882223.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 27, 2020||Pune||RTO registers 2.4k cars this Dasara, 17% higher than last year||Pune: This Dasara, 17% more cars were registered at the Pune road transport office (RTO) compared to last year — a surprising uptick in a year ravaged by the pandemic. According to RTO, 2,338 cars were registered this year, while 2,000 were registered last year. “The 17% increase is a healthy sign,” an RTO official said. “Though it is a small increase, it is satisfying and shows that the people are slowly starting to purchase,” another official said, adding, “The revenue we collected from registrations too has increased — Rs. 31.97 crore as against Rs30.63 crore last year,” the official said. Fewer two-wheelers too were registered this year, but the 24% decrease was not very drastic — 3,794 vehicles were registered this year, while 4,969 were registered in 2019. “With Diwali around the corner, we hope for the situation to improve,” another official said. The numbers for commercial and transport vehicles were especially disappointing — 36 buses and 321 autorickshaws were registered at the RTO for 2019 Dasara. This year, only three buses and 43 autorickshaws were registered, a fall of 92% and 87%, respectively. “In the current scenario, which is likely to continue for the foreseeable future, few will buy an autorickshaw. The lower purchasing power and the fewer number of passengers has affected this decision. The situation is improving, albeit slowly,” said Nitin Pawar, convener of Rickshaw Panchayat, said. Taxis too bore the worst of it this year: 161 cabs were registered last year, while just eight were registered this year — a 95% plunge. “For many, business is at a standstill. A majority don’t have money and those who do are being very careful. Of the 1.25 lakh cabs registered cabs in Pune district, not more than 30-35% are operational,” said Guru Katti, president of Swarajya Vahan Chalak Sanghatna, an association of cab drivers., said. Many people have had to tighten their belts during the pandemic, which was one of the reasons not many two-wheelers were sold. Atul Nagarkar, who is in his early twenties, dropped the idea of buying a new bike this year. “My father had promised to buy me a bike, but he had a pay cut. He was still willing, but I dropped the idea,” Nagarkar, a Vishrantwadi resident, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-registers-2-4k-cars-this-dasara-17-higher-than-last-year/articleshow/78881833.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 27, 2020||India||SC rejects Tamil Nadu plea on OBC quota||NEW DELHI:The Supreme Court on Monday rejected the interim plea of Tamil Nadu and AIADMK for implementation of 50% reservation for OBCs in Tamil Nadu medical colleges on seats contributed to the All-India Quota (AIQ) by the state. The state government and AIADMK had sought implementation of the quota in lieu of medical seats surrendered for UG, PG and dental courses for the 2020-21 academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-rejects-tamil-nadu-plea-on-obc-quota/articleshow/78882508.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Dhull to campaign for Congress candidate in Baroda||Chandigarh: Four days after resigning from primary membership of BJP, former MLA Parminder Singh Dhull, on Sunday, announced that he would campaign for Congress candidate Induraj Narwal in the Baroda byelection. The current development is consequent to the close-door meeting of Dhull and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda at Dhull’s Jind residence. The two leaders had a long meeting, following which Dhull made the formal announcement on Sunday morning. “As of now, I have just decided to support the candidate of the Congress in Baroda byelection and there is no decision of joining any party. We shall certainly consult our workers before taking any such major decision,’’ said Dhull while interacting with media persons in Jind. Dhull resigned from the BJP citing the farm bills passed this month. Putting in his papers, Dhull said that he, along with other leaders, had waited for the response of state government on the farm bills. Dhull’s son, who was a panellist of BJP on various TV news channels, had also resigned from the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhull-to-campaign-for-congress-candidate-in-baroda/articleshow/78881034.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||With Covid deaths seeing down trend, Ludhiana’s CFR falls slightly||LUDHIANA: As the number of Covid-19 deaths is witnessing a fall in Ludhiana, the district has recorded slight fall in the case fatality rate (CFR) recently. This rate is the proportion of deaths from a certain disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with the disease during a particular period. As per the recent state media bulletins, the CFR for Ludhiana district has been 4.1% for the last two days, which is 0.1% lower as compared to CFR for 20 days before that. The data suggests that the CFR had reached the highest value of 4.3% on September 10 and had remained the same till September 15 before witnessing a fall. The analysis of the data of CFR since August 1 suggests that on that date, such rate in Ludhiana district was 3%, which increased to 3.5% till August 16 before rising further to 3.8% till August 31. While the CFR for Ludhiana district on September 1 was 3.9%, it reached 4% the next day before rising to 4.3% on September 10 and then dropping to 4.1% by September 18 and remaining same till October 3. The CFR had then increased to 4.2% on October 4 and remained the same till October 23 before registering a fall to the current value. Meanwhile, the latest media bulletin of the state government containing data till Sunday evening suggests that Ludhiana district shared third spot with Kapurthala as far as CFR (at 4.1%) is concerned. The bulletin indicates that Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar had the highest CFR percentage in the state at 4.6%, whereas Sangrur and Tarn Taran shared second spot with a CFR of 4.2%. Fazilka had the lowest CFR among the districts of the state at 1.6%. With CFR of 4.1%, Ludhiana’s percentage is still higher than that of state, which is 3.1%. As the CFR percentage has witnessed a decrease in Ludhiana, health authorities expect that the rate will decrease further. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said that as the number of deaths and positive cases had witnessed a decrease, so the CFR had come down automatically and would decrease further in the coming times. He added that they had been making people aware about the norms related to Covid-19 prevention, including wearing of masks, adopting social distancing and maintaining hand hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-covid-deaths-seeing-down-trend-citys-cfr-falls-slightly/articleshow/78879547.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 27, 2020||Pune||Lohegaon airport: 12-hour cap on flight operation timing comes into effect for runway re-carpeting work||PUNE: The window of flight operations was reduced to 12 hours from Monday at the Lohegaon airport for the runway re-carpeting work. The flights will now operate from 8am to 8pm. “The Indian Air Force (IAF) started the 12-hour night-time runway closure from October 26, which will go on for almost one year,” an airport official said. The official said there would be 60 flight movements (departures and arrivals) in the weekends. It would increase to anything between 65 and 70 in weekdays. Sources stressed that the airport could handle 48 departures and the same number of arrivals even with the limited time slot for flight operations. “There are 30 to 35 daily departures as of now and there is room for more flights that we can handle between 8am and 8pm. Altogether, around 26 flight movements (arrivals and departures), which used to happen in the evening and night time, have been shifted to the daytime slots,” another airport official said. The winter schedule of the Directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) came into effect from October 25. “It will continue till the end of March next year. Some additional flights may be approved for the Pune airport based on airlines filing for slots,” the official said. Low-cost carrier SpiceJet has announced a new tri-weekly flight from Pune to Chennai during the winter schedule. It will take-off from Pune at 12.30pm. A source at the airport said, “Winter is approaching and there will be problems related to poor visibility. Pressure may mount in case of flight delays. So, it is better not to push hard for new flights.” The airport authorities have urged flyers to contact the respective airlines to know about their scheduled flights and changed timings. Flight from Dubai A special flight from Dubai will land in Pune every Thursday till the end of December. “Air India will be operating the evacuation flights under Vande Bharat Mission,” an airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-hour-cap-on-flight-operation-timing-comes-into-effect-for-runway-re-carpeting-work/articleshow/78881834.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 27, 2020||Pune||Man driving on wrong side abuses cop, in net||Pune: The Bhosari police on Sunday arrested a 28-year-old Pimpri resident for abusing and threatening a traffic constable, who had stopped him for riding his motorcycle on the wrong side of the road. On Sunday evening, Vishnu Nagare was managing traffic under the JRD Tata flyover in Nashik Phata, when he noticed a motorcycle coming in the wrong direction towards Bhosari from Kasarwadi. Nagare stopped the rider, Ganesh Chavan. “When Nagare asked Chavan for his name and address, he got aggressive and hurled abuses at Nagare,” an officer from the Bhosari police said. The officer said Chavan also grabbed Nagare by his collar and claimed to be the “bhai” of the area. “Chavan bragged that he would be out of jail ion two days after which Nagare would face the consequences,” the officer said. Nagare, lodged a complaint with the police, following which Chavan was arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-driving-on-wrong-side-abuses-cop-in-net/articleshow/78881835.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cracker sale likely to reduce by half||CHENNAI: Cracker prices are likely to drop by 15% to 20% in the city and its sale is expected to plunge at least by half as the pandemic has hit the firework business. This year, the annual cracker fair orgnised at the Island Grounds will have only 40 shops, which is down by 30 vis-a-vis last year. Wholesale cracker traders at George Town and retail traders in the rest of Chennai are keeping their fingers crossed, while traders planning to set up stalls at Island Grounds have reduced their orders from Sivakasi. Chennai accounts for the sale of 10% of the total production of fire crackers at Sivakasi. R Abdul Rahman, joint secretary, Chennai Fireworks Welfare Association, said prices would fall by 15% to 20% this year because of the outbreak of Covid-10.  “But the charges for the stalls at Island Grounds will be on par with last year because the government has fixed a bidding price of Rs 90 lakh to rent out one lakh square foot. Sheds must be erected separately, which is an additional cost,” he said. Kondasami of Sri Sapthagiri Pyro Works at Sivakasi said that manufacturers are giving fireworks at 10% lesser price so that their stocks are not left unsold this year.  “Amid the pandemic situation, we do not want our goods to remain unsold because manufacturers have to wait for one more year to market our products,” he said. According to sources, the number of stalls for selling fireworks in different parts of the city have also reduced. S Ganesh, secretary of a newly-formed Chennai Crackers Traders Welfare Association, said that the state government should organise the annual fireworks fair at Island Grounds so that the benefits of less rent can be passed on to consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cracker-sales-likely-to-reduce-by-half-compared-to-2019/articleshow/78881052.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||ACB traps dy treasury officer and forest guard||YAVATMAL: The sleuths of Yavatmal Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) have on Monday trapped two government employees while accepting bribe of Rs6,000 from a retired range forest officer. According to ACB inspector Rajendra Kshirsagar, salary for four months was not released to the complainant retired RFO, a resident of Tornala tehsil of Washim district, despite his superannuation. He approached deputy treasury officer of Umarkhed Ambadas Mesare to get his dues released. Mesare demanded Rs7,000 as bribe from the retired RFO. After bargaining, the complainant agreed to pay Rs6,000. Thereafter, the retired staffer filed a complaint with Yavatmal ACB. ACB sleuths laid a trap in Umarkhed treasury office and sent the complainant with marked currency notes. Mesare was caught red-handed on Monday in his office while accepting the bribe amount. On interrogation, Mesare revealed the role of a forest guard posted at Bittergaon forest range Govind Fulware leading to his arrest under relevant sections of Prevention of Corruption Act. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acb-traps-dy-treasury-officer-and-forest-guard/articleshow/78882226.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hyderabad||As air pollution spikes in Hyderabad, experts blame it on the flood||HYDERABAD: Experts have raised a red flag over the spike in air pollution levels in Hyderabad over the past week. They are blaming the recent floods in the city for the spike. In the past week, particulate matter 2.5 (PM2.5), which are extremely fine particles in the air, has risen substantially. Data accessed from the Telangana State Pollution Control Board’s (TSPCB) online monitoring system shows that some areas have even seen a spike of over 90 milligrams per cubic meter (ug/m3) of air when 60ug/m3 is the acceptable standard. All the six continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations that TSPCB has in the city had levels over 60ug/m3 since October 21. The data was taken by TOI for a 24x7 average measured at 7pm each day. The stations are at Bollarum, University of Hyderabad, ICRISAT, IDA Pashamylaram, Sanathnagar and Zoo park. Dasari Prasad, who heads the air lab of the TSPCB, said, “The recent rains and resulting floods have caused silt from waterbodies to deposit on the roads which has dried up and may be a reason for the rise in PM2.5 pollution recently.” “In addition to this, more vehicular traffic in light of the festive season on such silted and damaged roads could be aggravating the situation,” Prasad added Hyderabad also recorded double the air quality index (AQI) – a measure used to judge pollution at the central level – than other southern cities such as Bengaluru and Chennai in the past few days. The worst was on Friday, when it had an AQI of 168, while Bengaluru was at 50 and Chennai 68. Lesser dispersion owing to weather conditions means the polluted air isn’t moving away fast either. Environmentalist Purushotham Reddy said, “What flooded the city’s streets was the worst kind of cocktail that included silt, sewage and industrial pollutants. As vehicles pass over this, there is a toxic mix of pollutants in the air.” He said the government needs to find a solution to how the silt would be handled now and during future floods. PM2.5 refers to atmospheric particulate matter that has a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometers, which is about 3% the diameter of a human hair. It is dangerous to a person’s health because it can get deep into the lungs and even enter the bloodstream. Prolonged exposure can trigger lung and heart conditions. In a sign that the situation may not improve soon, experts said that the onset of winter could ensure that residents continue to see slightly elevated PM.25 for the remaining part of the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-air-pollution-spikes-in-city-experts-blame-it-on-the-flood/articleshow/78882233.cms||Uttara Varma
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,473 candidates register in second round of pharmacy intake||AHMEDABAD: The second round of admission process for degree and diploma pharmacy courses has seen registration from 1,473 aspirants. The merit list for the same will be announced on October 28, said sources in the admission committee. The colleges haven’t been allocated to 350 candidates who could not participate in the first round as their NEET exam score had not reached to the admission committee, said sources. A similar situation is likely to arise in the second round, sources added. There were 242 seats vacant at the end of the first round of admission. Candidates who cleared their class XII supplementary exams recently were allowed take part in the registration process in the second round of admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1473-candidates-register-in-2nd-round-of-pharmacy-intake/articleshow/78881054.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Two arrested in connection with Tulu actor’s murder||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district police on Monday arrested two men in connection with the recent murder of Coastalwood actor and rowdy-sheeter Surendra Bantwal. The accused are Sathish Kulal, 39, of Bantwal, and Girish, 28, of Neermarga. The duo was picked from a place near the Karnataka-Kerala border. It is said Sathish had met Surendra at his apartment before the murder. A day after the murder, an audio clip, purportedly by Sathish Kulal owning the responsibility for the murder, had gone viral. He had also claimed that it was a “revenge murder”, an act in retaliation to the murder of Kishan Hegde. Five teams are investigating the case. Inspector T D Nagaraj, the investigating officer, said that it is too early to ascertain the motive. The audio clip is being verified. “We suspect many other motives behind the murder. Investigation is on to pinpoint it,” he said. Police will seek the custody of the accused from the court on Tuesday. Surendra was brutally murdered inside his apartment at Bantwal taluk, and the incident came to light on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-arrested-in-connection-with-tulu-actors-murder/articleshow/78879349.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Candidates in Gwalior East stand evenly matched...on assets at least||Bhopal: In assembly elections of 2018 both Munnalal Goel and Satish Sikarwar contested against each other from Gwalior East constituency. Two years down the line, the then rivals are still rivals but on opposite sides.The then INC candidate Munna Lal Goyal had defeated the then BJP candidate Satish Singh Sikarwar, now the things have changed, now Munna Lal Goyal had joined BJP along with 22 rebel MLAs of INC who led to the fall of the INC government and Satish Singh Sikarwar had joined INC. In the previous polls, Goel had defeated Sikarwar by 17819 votes.As per the affidavits submitted by these candidates before EC, both are crorepatis and have nearly same net worth. While the total assets of Munnalal Goel along with his spouse’s assets are worth around Rs 1.11 crores, the total assets of Sikarwar along with his spouse’s assets are worth Rs 1.22 crore as per the affidavits filed by both the candidates.While Munnalal Goel has no weapons, Sikarwar has informed in the affidavit that he owns two rifles and one revolver. When it comes to annual income, Goel seems to have an edge over Sikarwar as he has informed that his annual income is over Rs 14 lakh for 2019-20 and that of Sikarwar’s is Rs 3.47 lakh for the same financial year.In terms of love for gold, Goel has claimed that he does not have any gold jewellery while Sikarwar has informed that he owns Rs 4.5 lakh worth gold jewellery.Apart from having similar net worth, there is one more similarity in both the candidates, as they have claimed that their source of earning is rent from properties. Goel also has 7 criminal cases against him, while Sikarwar does not have any criminal case against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/candidates-in-gwalior-east-stand-evenly-matched-on-assets-at-least/articleshow/78879622.cms||Amarjeet Singh
October 27, 2020||Mysuru||22-minute Jamboo Savari marks Mysuru Dasara finale||MYSURU: The 10-day Dasara festivities ended in a traditional and brief Jamboo Savari on Monday, lasting 22 minutes and witnessed by a designate gathering in the palace and some crowds outside that managed to catch a glimpse before cops dispersed them. Tusker Abhimanyu pulled off his maiden assignment of carrying the 750kg golden howdah, in keeping with a tradition of 400 years. At 3.53pm (Kumbha Lagna), chief minister BS Yediyurappa showered flower petals on the idol of Chamundeshwari placed inside the golden howdah. “I have prayed to the goddess to save people from the Covid-19 pandemic and floods. Next year, Dasara will be celebrated in all its glory,” he said. The jamboree marking Vijaya Dashami passed for 270m within the palace premises, unlike earlier when the procession would roll through a sea of people along the 5km stretch from the palace to Banni Mantap grounds. The torchlight parade at the grounds, which used to mark the end of celebrations, was cancelled due to the pandemic. To prevent crowing outside the palace, police barricaded the approach points and restricted vehicular movement. Nonetheless, a small crowd managed to see the elephants from Town Hall before they were dispersed. The carnival float by the department of health and family welfare highlighted the importance of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It featured Covid warriors in PPE suits. Artistes on stilts demonstrated the Mahisha Mardhini sequences depicting the killing of mythical demon king Mahishasura by goddess Chamundeshwari. Earlier in the evening, at 3.05pm, Yediyurappa performed Nandi Dhwaja Puja at the north gate of the palace, which is a precursor for the launch of the procession. Mysuru royal family titular head Yaduveer, district minister ST Somashekar, mayor Tasneem, police commissioner Chandragupta and DC Rohini Sindhuri Dasari joined the CM on the elevated podium at the launch of the procession. The palace wore a deserted look with the presence of only artistes, select invitees, district officials, and officials from the police and forest departments, besides mediapersons. Successfull debut by Abhimanyu-Vasantha Abhimanyu and its 32-year-old mahout Vasantha, who have helped the forest department in many rescue operations to catch elephants and tigers across India, successfully performed their maiden assignment of carrying the golden howdah on Monday. As the Supreme Court directed that no elephant beyond 60 years be given a nerve-racking assignment, Abhimanyu got the opportunity to do the honours. The 54-year-old tukser has been participating in Dasara for 15 years now. All through the procession, Abhimanyu remained calm and composed. The 750kg howdah was tied on his back at 3.13pm, and he carried it for nearly two hours till the celebration was over. Abhimanyu was flanked by Vijaya, Kaveri (kumki elephants), Gopi and Vikrama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/22-minute-jamboo-savari-marks-mysuru-dasara-finale/articleshow/78878924.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Five-year-old student raped by tutor in Pilibhit; accused booked & arrested||PILIBHIT: A five-year-old student of a government primary school was allegedly raped by her 30-year-old tutor in a village under Jahanabad police station on Monday. The girl, along with another student, 8, had gone to the tutor’s house for tuition when he made a rape bid on the latter, but as she managed to escape from his clutches, he raped the former, said police. The girl’s father, a marginal farmer, said when his daughter returned home, she was bleeding profusely and narrated her ordeal. The girl is undergoing treatment at the district women hospital in Pilibhit. According to chief medical officer Dr Anita Churasiya, the girl is out of danger. Senior police officers, including superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav, visited the hospital to take stock of the girl’s condition. Jahanabad station house officer Harsh Vardhan Singh said the tutor — a bachelor — was arrested and booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso Act). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-year-old-student-raped-by-tutor-in-pilibhit-accused-booked-arrested/articleshow/78878452.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Post-split, BJP tries to claim Ambedkar legacy in Punjab||JALANDHAR: In the last week of October 1951, B R Ambedkar’s visit to Punjab was the biggest political event in the state. A large number of people gathered for his three public meetings, which made headlines. The current competitive politics around Ambedkar’s statues coincides with the 69th anniversary of that visit and is replete with symbolism. The BJP is garlanding statues to appropriate his legacy and woo Dalit voters in Punjab in the wake of breaking of alliance with SAD while Dalit groups, including BSP, are washing the statues in show of opposition. In 1951, a big public meeting was held in Jalandhar on October 27. Ambedkar addressed rallies in Jalandhar and Patiala on October 28 and 29 respectively. This year, the BJP decided to organise the Dalit Insaaf Yatra on October 22. After the police foiled the yatra at source, BJP announced that it would garland its statues across Punjab. This led to friction between the saffron party and Dalit groups, including the BSP. The BJP’s desperation to woo Dalits is understandable, given the fact that scheduled castes constitute around 32% of the population in the state. Another crucial factor is that Dalits in the state don’t have a monolithic identity. Two of the biggest SC communities – Adidharmi/Ravidassia and Valmiki/Mazhabis remain sharply divided. However, they unite on major Dalit issues. The unity is also evident in their opposition of the BJP. People of both communities united for the Bharat Bandh of April 2, 2018 despite bitterness over the ticket distribution for 2017 assembly elections. Both communities staged concerted protests across Punjab over the Hathras incident too. K C Sulekh (94), who was general secretary of Punjab Scheduled Caste Federation, which had organised Ambedkar’s visit, said he conducted stage on that day too. “He spoke very passionately and the biggest thrust of his speech in Jalandhar was unity among Dalits to get their rights. At that time, the two biggest SC communities appeared to be united as people from both turned up in big numbers,” he recalled. Asked when unity among SC communities started fragmenting, he said, “It started soon after the dominant political party ensured that they remained divided.” BSP founder Kanshi Ram also tried to bring Dalits together on one political platform but the party ended up remaining that of Ravidassia/Adi-dharmi community for the most part. Darshan Ratan Rawan, who founded Adi Dharam Samaj (ADS) -a major organisation of the Valmikis, admitted that there was a sharp divide in both the communities. “Ours is the most deprived community while Adi-dharmis have become a forward community among SCs. Our community feels that Adi-dharmis are dominating,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/post-split-bjp-tries-to-claim-ambedkar-legacy-in-punjab/articleshow/78881058.cms||IP Singh
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: SIT questions Sumedh Singh Saini for more than 2 hours||MOHALI: Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on Monday appeared before the Punjab Police SIT in connection with the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani case. He remained at the Mataur police station for over two hours, arriving at 11.10am and leaving at 1.32pm. Saini was summoned to join the investigation at the Mataur police station in Mohali. He reached the police station at around 11 am to appear before the Special Investigation Team and came out at around 1:30 pm. He did not speak to the media on arrival, but said “will talk to you at the right time” while leaving the police station. He was accompanied by his counsel and another person, but they were not allowed to stay in the main room where SIT questioned Saini. SIT headed by SP Harmandeep Singh Hans said, “We asked Saini around 100 questions, but he did not give satisfactory replies. We will summon him again.” He did not reveal the nature of questions put to Saini. Sources in Punjab Police said SIT had asked Saini many questions during his earlier appearance also, like how did Multani die and how was his disposed of. Sources said the former DGP was also questioned about the revelations made by the two co-accused UT cops who turned approvers and the other three eyewitnesses, but he refuted all the allegations. SIT also questioned him about the orders given to then Sector 17 SHO KIP Singh, who is now in Canada and against whom a local court has issued arrest warrants. SC on September 15 had ordered interim stay on his arrest by the Punjab Police and directed him to join SIT investigations. Saini is prime accused in abduction, disappearance and elimination of Multani 1991. Multani, a junior engineer with CITCO, was allegedly picked up by the police in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-questions-saini-for-more-than-2-hrs/articleshow/78881076.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Deoria Sadar testing ground for parties’ woo-Brahmin gambit?||GORAKHPUR: It cannot be mere coincidence that for the first time in the history of Deoria Sadar assembly seat, all four major political parties have fielded Brahmins, given the fact that no candidate from the caste has won the election here since 1989. Even the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has preferred to field a Brahmin, denying ticket to Ajay Singh aka Pintu Singh, son of two-time party MLA Janmejay Singh whose demise in August this year necessitated byelection in the constituency. Now, Ajay Singh has rebelled against the BJP and jumped into the fray as an Independent candidate making the poll battle even more curious. Though Brahmins constitute the biggest chunk of voters in Deoria Sadar, Ram Chhabila Mishra was the last from the community to win the seat on a Janata Dal ticket way back in 1989. According to Election Commission’s data, Deoria assembly constituency has 3,24,208 registered voters. According to estimates, there are 50,000-55,000 Brahmin voters in the constituency followed by Vaishyas (45,000-50,000), Yadavs (25,000-30,000), Muslims (20,000-25,000), Nishads (20,000-22,000), Kshatriyas (18,000-20,000), Mauryas-Kushwahas (15,000-16,000), Sainthwar (12,000-13,000), Rajbhars (8,000-10,000) and Chaurasias (8,000-10,000). Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) was the first to declare its candidate, Abhay Nath Tripathi, followed by Congress (Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi), Samajwadi Party (Brahmshankar Tripathi) and BJP (Satya Prakash Tripathi). Kaushal Kishore Tripathi, a local educationist, says: “It has been the history of Deoria Sadar seat that people vote for parties and not candidates. In 2017, Janmejay Singh got 88,030 votes defeating his nearest rival and joint candidate of Congress and Samajwadi Party, JP Jaiswal, who secured 41,794 votes. Abhay Nath Tripathi of BSP finished third with 29,218 votes.” People, however, rue that all prominent parties and candidates are not focusing on issues related to the development of the constituency. They say that the ruling BJP is highlighting its national level achievements like Ram Temple construction and abrogation of Article 370 in J&K which are of lesser importance to voters. “Deoria was once home to 14 sugar mills but currently all the units are either closed or have been sold. Only one private sugar mill is running on the Deoria-Bihar border. People want more sugar mills in Deoria. They are mainly dependent on farming and cattle-rearing and have been demanding that BRD PG College be upgraded as an agriculture university. Better drainage system and solution to waterlogging are other issues which should be dealt at the earliest. Traffic jams are common and people want overbridges and ring roads,” Kaushal Kishore Tripathi says. Rajnish Shukla, a local school teacher, says: “People have been demanding that Gorakhpur-Lucknow intercity train should run from Bhatni station in Deoria but no one is paying heed to it.” In The Fray Dr Satya Prakash Tripathi, 51, BJP He is the head of the department of political science at Sant Vinoba PG College in Deoria. He has served as zila panchayat member from 2000 to 2005 and zonal convener (Kshetriya Sanyojak) of BJP’s Prabuddh Prakoshth. He is a native of Udopur village in Baitalpur. In 2002, he contested assembly election from Gauri Bazar seat as an Independent candidate. His elder brother, Dr Sriprakash Mani Tripathi, is the VC of Amarkantak University. Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi, 44, Congress A post-graduate in Sociology and PG diploma holder in mass communication, he is contesting assembly elections for the first time. He has served as state general secretary of the Youth Congress and district vice-president of the party. Currently, he is a member of the UP Congress Committee. Brahm Shankar Tripathi, 71, SP He has been contesting from Kushinagar in the past and this is the first time he has been fielded from Deoria. He served as cabinet minister in the Samajwadi Party government in 2004 and 2012. In 2017 assembly election, BJP’s Rajnikant Mani Tripathi defeated him from Kasya constituency of Kushinagar. A five-time MLA, he was won elections twice on Janata Dal ticket and thrice as an SP candidate. He is a postgraduate as well as a law graduate. Abhay Nath Tripathi, 51, BSP He hails from Dumvalia village of Deoria. Tripathi joined BSP in 2017 after leaving his job as a lekhpal and contested assembly election from Deoria Sadar. He is BSc, MA and LLB from Allahabad University. He is a post-graduate in mathematics from Kanpur University and LLB from Allahabad University. Ajay Pratap Singh aka Pintu Singh, 45, Independent He is the son of former BJP MLA Janmejay Singh. When BJP gave ticket to Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi after his father’s death, he decided to contest election as an Independent candidate. He was not in politics earlier and worked as a contractor. Om Prakash Rajbhar and Babu Singh Kushwaha have extended support to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deoria-testing-ground-for-parties-woo-brahmin-gambit/articleshow/78881866.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 27, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Dasara: Yaduveer performs Vijaya Yatre||MYSURU: As part of Vijayadashami celebrations, Mysuru royal family titular head Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar performed Vijaya Yatre inside the Mysuru Palace premises on Monday. The traditional event started at 9.30am when the royal Pattada Aane, Pattada Kudure and Pattada Hasu were brought to Ane Bagilu (elephant gate), the main entrance of the palace. After Yaduveer performed Uttara puja to Khas Ayudhas (weapons) at Kalyan Mantap at 9.45am, the ayudhas were sent to Sri Bhuvaneshwari Temple at 10.20am. Yaduveer was dressed in traditional royal attire and sported a sword. Due to the pandemic, Yaduveer did not sit in the silver chariot drawn by cattle to go around as part of the ritual. However, he travelled in the royal family’s luxury car from the entrance of Mysuru Palace to reach the temple. The royal sword was carried in the chariot till the temple. Royal staff, mangala vadya and nadaswara troupes walked in front of the car. After Vijaya Yatre reached the temple, Yaduveer performed Shami puja (worshipping the Banni tree). Later, the idol of goddess Sri Chamundeshwari was carried in procession from Kannadi Thotti (the courtyard of mirrors which is used for ceremonies) to Chamundi Thotti (where the palace rituals are held) to mark the end of the royal family’s rituals during the Navaratri. Royal family matriarch Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, Yaduveer’s wife Trishika Kumari and son Aadyaveer Narashimaraja Wadiyar witnessed the rituals from the balcony of the palace. Palace source told TOI that the dismantling of the golden throne to keep it back in the throne strongroom will be done between 9.30am to 10am on November 5. Owing to the pandemic, the royal family — for the first time — had cancelled Vajramusti Kalaga, the bout of jattis (wrestlers) at Karikallu Thotti near Kalyana Mantap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dasara-yaduveer-performs-vijaya-yatre/articleshow/78878753.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Kudla cyclist makes it to Trek Century Challenge||Mangaluru: Cyclist Joseph Pereira, 61, is among the top three cyclists who participated in Trek Century Challenge-2020. The event saw over 3,400 participants challenging their limits. Trek Bicycle India had launched India’s first-ever Trek Century Challenge in August. The challenge was to test the limits of cyclists from across the country. It was spread across 50 days spanning four alternate weeks with a target of riding a total of 100, 200, 300, or 500km for a chance to win Bontrager accessories and riding gear. The event concluded on September 30. Joseph Pereira, member of Mangalore Bicycle Club, has been a consistent performer in the challenge. He emerged one of the top 10 winners in the first leg and top 3 winners across the country in the second, third and fourth legs of the challenge. “By winning the last leg, he has become the only cyclist to have won all four legs in the challenge,” stated Ganesh Nayak, partner of Jyoti Cycle and Fitness. “His determination and dedication have earned him deserving accolades at the national level. Joseph has always been a fitness enthusiast and cycling is his passion to keep his healthy lifestyle active. Despite the current set of challenges around, his zeal towards cycling kept him on his pedals and has become an inspiration for many on their path to a healthy and fitter life,” Ganesh added. His wife Violet said: “Bad weather, pandemic and his age — nothing stopped him from achieving his dream.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kudla-cyclist-makes-it-to-trek-century-challenge/articleshow/78872428.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||3 booked for sexually harassing woman, minor girl||Pune: The Wanowrie police have booked three men for sexually harassing a woman and a 17-year-old minor girl at Ramtekdi in Hadapsar between 7.30pm and 8pm on Sunday. Police said the suspects accosted a 24-year-old homemaker, who was on the way to a nearby chicken shop, and abused her. After the woman sought an explanation from them, they snatched her dupatta, eve teased and misbehaved with her. The suspects later harassed a minor girl by touching her inappropriately and misbehaving with her, police said. Inspector Salim Chaus (crime) from Wanowrie police said on Monday, “Preliminary investigations revealed that the trio randomly targeted the woman and the minor girl without any reason. There is no dispute between them and the suspects.” Assistant inspector Vishwajeet Jagtap, who is investigating the case, said, “The victims and suspects are known to each other because they reside in the same locality. The minor girl is a school dropout, while the suspects are jobless. We registered an FIR after the two approached us with complaints.” A police team visited the residence of the suspects, but they were not found. “We have launched a search for them,” he added. Offences under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-booked-for-sexually-harassing-woman-minor-girl/articleshow/78881838.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Mill owner, paddy broker booked, rice mill blacklisted||PILIBHIT: The district administration has taken punitive action against an eminent rice mill owner and a broker for involvement in forgery and violation of assigned norms to serve their own vested financial interests in paddy procurement. Following two separate complaints, police have booked both persons in separate FIRs. According to DM Pulkit Khare, the rice mill in question — Om Rice Mill — on the outskirts of Pilibhit city, has been permanently blacklisted, while its attachment with government procurement centres to hull paddy has been cancelled. “Action is also being taken to cancel the rice mill’s registration with the commercial tax department, as well as the character certificate of the mill’s owner, in view of the seriousness of the matter,” the DM said. Prior to this on Sunday night, Sungarhi police station had booked the owner of Om Rice Mill under Section 420 (cheating), following a written complaint filed by the area marketing officer, Bhupendra Kumar. The complainant, Kumar, said punitive action was taken after an audio clip of the miller had gone viral on social media, in which the miller could be heard speaking with a farmer, Satyendra Singh, agreeing to buy his good quality dry paddy for Rs 1,300 per quintal, against the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal. Kumar said the miller, in collusion with the centre in-charge, had also offered the farmer a bonus of Rs 100 per quintal, if he succeeded in selling his paddy at MSP to the government procurement centre on the basis of his land documents. The DM said the alleged act was a criminal conspiracy to spoil the state government’s intent to procure the farmers’ produce at MSP. In another matter, the same police station on Sunday night, booked a broker, identified as Mohammad Javed of village Nisra under Jahanabad police station, for impersonating a farmer to sell paddy to the agriculture produce marketing committee at Pilibhit city. This FIR too was registered under Section 420 of IPC, said SHO Atar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mill-owner-paddy-broker-booked-rice-mill-blacklisted/articleshow/78878445.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bhopal||Congress unlikely to return to power in coming 15-20 years: Former MP CM||BHOPAL: Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Uma Bharti said on Monday that Congress is unlikely to return to power in Madhya Pradesh and at the Centre for the coming 15 to 20 years. Bharti said that the previous Congress government in MP was toppled by its own MLAs and not the BJP. She said the Congress had not expected that its government would be formed in Madhya Pradesh and committed big promises to the public which the party could never fulfil.  “Congress has lost public confidence and failed to fulfill promises made to farmers and the poor. The Congress leadership failed to prevent its flock from escaping as most of the MLAs, who had made tall promises to the public, could not fulfill a single one. Congress is unlikely to return to power in Madhya Pradesh and at the Centre for the coming 15 to 20 years,” said Bharti addressing a poll rally in Surkhi assembly constituency of Sagar district. The BJP leader also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his firm decisions. “Nobody had ever thought that PM Modi would return with a thumping majority at the Centre. All opposition leaders were wiped out during the elections. The country is safe in the hands of Modi; there is no danger to the country inside and outside,” she said. The BJP leader further said that it was not the saffron party but Congress’ MLAs who toppled the previous government. “Those who think that BJP has toppled the Congress government in MP are wrong. BJP never tried to pull the government down. It was Congress MLAs who toppled the government. The Congress had never thought of forming a government in MP and made tall promises. Congress leaders had thought that Shivraj Singh Chouhan would retain power so there is nothing wrong in talking big. But, BJP lost the government despite receiving the maximum vote share,” said Bharti addressing a poll rally in village Bilhara of Surkhi assembly area of Sagar district. Bharti also addressed poll rallies in Sanchi and Bada Malhera assembly seats on Monday and hit out at Congress for its failures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/uma-cong-unlikely-to-return-to-power-in-coming-15-20-yrs/articleshow/78879567.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mangaluru||NSUI opposes 30% cut in PU syllabus||MANGALURU: The 30% cut in PUC syllabus in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in the removal of most prominent chapters in textbooks, said National Students Union of India (NSUI) Dakshina Kannada district president Sawad Sullia. “They have cut most of the prominent chapters in the textbooks in a hurry. They have cut financial marketing, marketing and other topics from business subject. Meanwhile, in II PU history, a chapter on the first war for Indian independence has been cut. Similarly, many chapters on politics including ‘youth against corruption’ in Political Science have been removed,” he said, adding they oppose the chopping of such prominent topics from textbooks. “Students and parents too have opposed the chopping of chapters in textbooks, which are considered valuable topics. Moreover, the government has taken a decision after most of the chapters have already been taught by teachers through online classes. The government’s decision will affect the future of students,” he said and urged the government to review its decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nsui-opposes-30-cut-in-pu-syllabus/articleshow/78879283.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Ignorance is cause of racism, bigotry: Nobel laureate||CHENNAI: Drawing attention to racism, bigotry and fundamentalism, theoretical physicist David J Gross, who won the Nobel prize in physics in 2004, said on Sunday that the cause for many of these problems is sheer ignorance. While speaking from the US at the 57th convocation of IIT-Madras held virtually, Gross said, “The ignorance of basic facts make racism and bigotry possible. The ignorance of other cultures promotes radical nationalism.” He pointed out that the graduating students have the responsibility to be the forces of enlightenment and asked them to strive to dispel ignorance. “The reason that fundamentalists are so dangerous is not that they are so dangerous, but they are so certain that they possess the absolute truth. It is this certainty that can lead to oppression, bigotry, racism and fanaticism. The main lessons of science are not partial truths that we labour to reveal. But, an attitude of scepticism towards these truths. We must always remain sceptical, always question our beliefs and confront them with nature,” he told the graduating students. On the Covid-19 pandemic, he said many scientists predicted that such a pandemic would inevitably arrive and yet their warnings were largely ignored. David Gross was awarded the 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics along with H David Politzer and Frank Wilczek for the discovery of asymptotic freedom. He has been a central figure in particle physics and string theory. Pawan Goenka, chairman, Board of Governors, IIT-Madras, said, “Covid has accelerated the rate of technological adoption across streams of life. Changes which would have taken 5-6 years have happened in just about 3-4 months." While presenting a report about the academic performance of last academic year, IIT-Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said the institute had filed for 191 patents and had been granted 58.  As many as 1,909 students, including 353 PhD scholars, were awarded degrees on Sunday. Rajat Vadiraj Dwaraknath from electrical engineering branch got President of India price for higher CGPA in B Tech and Dual Degree and Bharat Ratna M Visvesvaraya memorial prize for the highest CGPA in B Tech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ignorance-is-cause-of-racism-bigotry-nobel-laureate/articleshow/78881111.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Do those who have recovered from Covid-19 need the vaccine?||BELAGAVI: With a Covid-19 vaccine appearing imminent and with the Centre and some state governments suggesting free doses for the masses, the question being asked is whether those who have recovered from an infection need vaccination. Experts are divided on the issue. Dr Debprasad Chattopadhyay, virologist and director, ICMR-NITM, said scientifically, those who have recovered from Covid do not need to be vaccinated since they have already developed antibodies to fight the disease. "In bald terms, vaccinating means administering the virus or parts of the virus to boost immunity," he said. "Those who have recovered are already immune. Scientifically speaking, vaccination is not necessary for them." However, Dr Ramesh, an epidemiologist, said since there have been examples of reinfection, a vaccine is a must for all, while Dr Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist and member of the state advisory committee, said it is premature to talk about the issue now. "Although there is no evidence to suggest that the virus has mutated in India, there isn’t sufficient data on how long antibodies remain in the body of recovered patients," Dr Babu said. "There are two extreme examples before the scientific community. For example if a person has recovered from chickenpox, then administering a vaccine is unnecessary, but for flu, people have to take booster shots regularly. The novel coronavirus could go in any direction or stay between these two extremes. The dosage of the vaccine has also not been decided yet." Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, general physician who has also co-authored a book on Covid-19, differed with Babu. Kakkilaya said for the first time in history, the scientific community knows so much about a new virus in such a short span. "A study on the response of memory T cells to the virus showed a robust response from the T cells. This means even though antibodies do not last long, the T cell will help generate antibodies to stop the virus from binding to the cell." He said there is "absolutely no necessity" to vaccinate people who have recovered and the government will "save a lot". "Many would not need the vaccine at all," he said. "We may not know how long antibodies remain in the body, but we also do not know how long immunity provided by a vaccine would last. T cells then come into play." However, Amith S Bhate, director, Jeevan Rekha hospital, which is conducting human clinical trials of several vaccines, was of the opposite view, saying those who have recovered from Covid-19 would also need to be vaccinated. On the dosage, he said in the first and second phases of Covaxin trials, two shots were administered. If the same dosage continues for the third phase, then everyone above the age of 18 would require two doses when the vaccine enters public domain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/do-those-who-have-recovered-from-covid-19-need-the-vaccine/articleshow/78878792.cms||Shreyas HS
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||11 days on, no leads in Shaurya Chakra awardee murder case||TARN TARAN: It’s been 11 days since Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh, 62, was shot to death here, yet police are still clueless about the identity of the two assailants or the motive behind the killing. Comrade Balwinder Singh had been attacked 42 times since the beginning of terrorism era in Punjab. His deaths is rumoured to be associated with attempts of the revival of Khalistan movement in Punjab and the US-based Sikh for Justice (SFJ) campaign ‘Referendum 2020’ since he had always been openly opposed to such anti-national elements and drives. However, police have not been able to find any credible evidence in any direction. Balwinder was shot by two assailants while he was opening the gate of his residence-cum-school to answer the doorbell on October 16. Because of being on the terrorists’ hit list, Bhikhiwind resident Balwinder, his wife Jagdish Kaur, brother Ranjit Singh and his wife Balraj Kaur were given security cover. The same was withdrawn by the state government in March 2020. Sources told TOI that the police were also actively pursuing leads received on personal enmity, criminal background of some of the family members and their illegal activities. “One of the close relatives of Balwinder was facing five criminal cases and was knee-deep in illegal activities with other gangsters,” said sources, adding that about two weeks before the murderous attack on Balwinder, the relative was involved in a skirmish with a gangster at Ranjit Avenue area of Amritsar and fled when police arrived on the spot. After the attack, not only the family members of Balwinder rued the withdrawal of security cover but also senior politicians, including MP Partap Singh Bajwa, sought high-level probe into the police processes of determining threat perception for persons receiving government security. In 1993, Balwinder, his wife Jagdish Kaur, brother Ranjit Singh and his wife Balraj Kaur was awarded the Shaurya Chakra for showing courage and bravery in facing the terrorist attacks and foiling their repeated murderous attempts. Sources said that the last security review of the family was done in March 2017 by the security wing of the police department. After the pandemic, security cover of several persons, including the family, was withdrawn. Police have now provided three security officers to the family. When contacted, senior superintendent of police Dhruman Nimbale said they were close to identifying the culprits and were probing the case from different angles. He, however, refused to share any details of the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-days-on-no-leads-in-shaurya-chakra-awardee-murder-case/articleshow/78881099.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Man kills mother with help of cousin for property in Sambhal||Bareilly: A month after a 60-year-old woman's body was found in Sambhal's Haripur Milak village, police arrested her son and a nephew for the murder allegedly committed to grab her property.Giving details, additional SP Alok Jaiswal claimed that victim's son, Irfan alias Guddu, with the help of a cousin, killed his mother. Then he lodged an FIR against unidentified persons for the murder. However, during investigation, police found that Irfan was heavily in debt. He had sold a part of an ancestral property. His mother used to question him regularly regarding money received from selling the property.“We found that after the death of his younger brother, Saddam, Irfan had sold a property and given a share to the former's widow while keeping the rest with himself. Irfan thought that he would easily acquire the remaining property after his mother's death. We have sent both accused to jail."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kills-mother-with-help-of-cousin-for-property-in-sambhal/articleshow/78877337.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 27, 2020||Pune||Minimum temp likely to be below 18°C in October-end||Pune: The city’s minimum temperature has started dipping below 20°C and is likely to slide below the 18°C-mark by October 30-31, signalling the late arrival of the post-monsoon season — technically set to begin from October 1.The city’s minimum temperature has been on the higher side (above 20°C) on most nights this October because of a lingering monsoon and cloudy skies. The city’s normal minimum temperature should be ideally around 18°C during the month.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI, “As per IMD, the winter season begins in December. So, the falling night temperature currently would mean the transition from monsoon to post-monsoon season. As monsoon may exit from Pune on Tuesday or Wednesday, we expect clear skies during the night thereafter. Cloudless skies in the night ensure maximum escape of the warm outgoing long-wave radiation from the earth’s surface into the atmosphere, which causes the night temperature to plunge.”Kashyapi said Pune’s day temperature would be slightly higher, marginally above 30°C, in the next few days because of clear skies.“As monsoon has lingered on in Pune and the rest of the state, cloudy skies have prevented the night temperature from falling during October, when minimums normally fall below 20°C. Conditions have become favourable for monsoon to withdraw from Pune in one or two days. We can already see a reduction in rainfall and change in wind direction to partly north-easterly. The moisture incursion into Pune, which was causing cloud development, has reduced primarily because the cyclonic circulation over the east-central Arabian Sea along and off the Goa-Karnataka coast has shifted partially westward, becoming less important for Pune district and the city,” he said.So far, the lowest minimum temperature since October 1 this year, has been 19.3°C on October 24, and the second lowest was 19.9°C, recorded in Shivajinagar on October 6, 19 and 25.A similar trend was witnessed last year in October in Pune. Light rain and cloudy skies in October ensured minimum temperature to be above-normal in the city.On Monday, the minimum temperature in Shivajinagar was 20.7°C, around 3.3 degrees above normal. In Lohegaon, it was 21.4°C, about 3.4 degrees above normal.“By the end of first fortnight in November, the minimum temperature in Shivajinagar may fall below 18°C, and lower than 17°C in Pashan,” said Kashyapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minimum-temp-likely-to-be-below-18c-in-october-end/articleshow/78881872.cms||Neha Madaan
October 27, 2020||Pune||Woman steals nose rings worth Rs 98k, search on||Pune: The Chinchwad police on Saturday launched a search for a woman on the run after stealing 55 nose rings made of gold, worth Rs98,000, from a jewellery shop on October 3. An officer from the Chinchwad police said the woman went to the jewellery shop for purchasing a gold nose ring around 11.30am on October 3. “She was in the shop for only 10 minutes and left without purchasing anything,” the officer said. He said the jeweller recently noticed that 55 nose rings were missing from the tray. “When he checked the CCTV footage, he found that the woman who had come to his shop on October 3 had stolen the nose rings,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-steals-nose-rings-worth-rs-98k-search-on/articleshow/78881843.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Intense spells of rain takes stock in 4 dams to 99.9%||Pune: Heavy spells of rain in the catchment areas of four dams which provide water to the city increased the storage in these reservoirs.The rainfall in the Khadakwasla catchments was the highest among the four dams — Khadakwasla, Panshet, Varasgaon and Temghar — supplying water to Pune during the period. The state irrigation department initiated water discharge from Khadakwasla dam at the rate of 4,200 cusecs into the Mutha river after its catchment areas recorded 52mm rainfall in the 24-hour period till Monday morning. The discharge was stopped in the afternoon after the intensity of the rainfall declined in the catchments. The catchment areas of Temghar recorded around 45mm rainfall, thereby pushing the season’s total rain tally to 3,080mm. Panshet and Varasgaon reported around 15mm rainfall each. The catchment areas of Pavana dam, which supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad, received around 30mm rain.The irrigation department has so far released over 12.5 TMC water from Khadakwasla irrigation department into the Mutha river, which is more than annual quota of water approved for the city. “Collective storage of water in the four dams is at 99.9%. The water would have to be released if the inflow of rainwater goes up,” a senior irrigation department official said. The irrigation department officials said they were yet to decide the schedule of the canal committee meeting to discuss the release of water for winter and summer for the urban and rural areas. The officials said the delay in monsoon withdrawal is likely to push the meeting to the second week of November from mid-October. Sources from the Pune Municipal Corporation said they were not expecting any cut this year in water supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/intense-spells-of-rain-takes-stock-in-4-dams-to-99-9/articleshow/78881874.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 27, 2020||Bareilly||Eight booked for ‘kidnapping’ after girl elopes with lover||BAREILLY: A day after police registered an FIR against a youth and his kin for allegedly abducting a 17-year-old girl in Bahedi area of Bareilly, the girl approached the cops through a video message, in which, she could be purportedly seen claiming that "she is not a minor and has married the youth and wants to live with him". After the girl's "message", Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said that if the girl is a major then she has the "freedom of choice". The couple belongs to the same community and lives in the same village. Earlier, the girl's father had named eight individuals, including the youth, in his complaint. In the complaint, the girl's father said that the youth had been following his girl for some time and the matter was raised at several community meetings. On October 24, his daughter went shopping with her mother when the accused took her along on his bike. About Rs 34,000 cash and some jewellery were also missing from the house, he alleged. The father also claimed that seven relatives of the youth had supported the act. After the FIR on October 25, police detained a few suspects and started looking for the girl. But, soon a video of the girl surfaced which changed the course of their investigation. On Monday, Sajwan told TOI, “An FIR was registered under IPC sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (inducing woman to compel her marriage) after receiving the complaint. During the investigation, we received a video clip shared by the girl where she claimed that she is a major and sought police security. We formed multiple teams to rescue the couple. The girl will be presented before the court to record her statement in front of a magistrate. The court will take a decision.” This is the second such incident in eight days where a young couple had eloped after their families opposed their marriage and the girl’s kin had registered an FIR under the sections of abduction by claiming that she was a minor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/eight-booked-for-kidnapping-after-girl-elopes-with-lover/articleshow/78877367.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Gurdaspur: 3 smugglers held for Rs 5.5 lakh bank heist||GURDASPUR: Police have arrested three cross-border smugglers for a Rs 5.5 lakh robbery at Cooperative Bank at Rudiana on July 29. IG, Border Range, S P S Parmar said police arrested Sukhdeep Singh alias Gudha, Harvinder Singh Dhodhi and Harjit Singh alias Jeeta on Sunday following a tip-off that they were travelling in a white car. He said Gudha and Harvinder were nabbed after their vehicle was intercepted at a checkpost, while Jeeta was arrested from Dorangla. They also seized three pistols, two vehicles, including the one used in bank robbery, live cartridges and stolen cash from their possession. According to Parmar, during initial interrogation, the accused confessed to have demanded 22 packets of heroin from Pakistan-based drug lords. He also said Jeeta was involved in the operation. On January 17, 2020, 22 packets of heroin and some weapons were smuggled into India from Pakistan. The consignment was caught by the BSF near Chontra Border Outpost. Gudha was the mastermind of the cross border smuggling operation, the IG said. SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said Gudha used to smuggle the contraband from Pakistan through his handler, identified only as Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-smugglers-held-for-rs-5-5l-bank-heist/articleshow/78881118.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai woman awarded Rs 1.6 Lakh payout for botched surgery||CHENNAI: A consumer forum has levied a penalty of Rs 1.6 lakh on Government Peripheral Hospital in Tondiarpet for medical negligence during a sterilization procedure. In 2001, Jhansi Rani, a resident of New Washermenpet, underwent a sterilization surgery at the hospital in Tondiarpet after giving birth to two children. After her surgery, she continued with her normal matrimonial life but suffered from severe abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite and subsequently a nervous disorder, she said in her complaint. In February 2017, when her pain became unbearable and she fainted, she got admitted to the emergency care unit (ECU) of Government Stanley Hospital. Doctors there diagnosed that she had a ruptured ectopic pregnancy at the bladder. From Stanley, she was shifted to Government RSRM Hospital in Royapuram for further treatment. RSRM doctors informed her husband, a daily-wage labourer and a heart patient, that Rani’s life could be at threat anytime as due to the ectopic pregnancy. So they recommended an emergency surgery. At the end of the critical surgery, doctors removed the ruptured ectopic foetus, and informed Rani that a sterilization surgery failure could be the reason behind her pregnancy.  Rani then filed a complaint against Tondiarpet hospital with the Chief Minister Special Cell, which in turn forwarded it to the Directorate of Family Welfare for further action. When she approached Greater Chennai Corporation seeking help, the civic body told her in a letter that she was eligible for compensation for the failure of sterilization surgery. She approached the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Chennai (South) in March 2020 seeking relief, which awarded her the compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-woman-awarded-rs-1-6l-payout-for-botched-surgery/articleshow/78881135.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Kidney patients may not show classical symptoms of Covid: Bengaluru doctors||BENGALURU: Besides people with comorbidities such as heart and lung disease, diabetes or conditions that affect the immune system, doctors in Bengaluru have found an unusually high incidence of those with kidney complications and some recipients of kidneys being infected by Covid-19. With the number high, city-based nephrologists decided to conduct a study. The findings, published in a review article ‘Covid-19 and Kidney’ state, "These patients may not have fever or other classical symptoms of Covid-19 as compared to the general population." The article, published in Journal of Internal medicine, an official Publication of Association of Physicians of India, Karnataka chapter, reviews the effects of Covid-19 on kidneys and its management in chronic kidney disease (CKD), dialysis, and kidney transplant individuals. The article was compiled by doctors Ravi Jangamani, Chakravarthy Thirumal and Sankaran Sundar from the department of nephrology, Manipal Hospitals, Bengaluru. Besides their own findings, the trio has put together global observations on the effect the virus has on the kidneys of patients. "Having seen a big number of kidney patients being infected with Covid-19 we thought it was essential to document the impact the virus has on kidneys and the pattern of renal patients testing positive for Covid-19," said Dr Jangamani. The article states patients with chronic kidney diseases (CKD) and immune-mediated kidney diseases are at risk of experiencing a more severe form of Covid-19 due to impaired host defences and use of immunosuppression drugs. Kidney patients have been among the most vulnerable group since the pandemic hit, Dr Jangamani said. "During the lockdown, when the government ordered everybody to stay at home, patients who were on dialysis had no choice but to frequent hospitals," he said. "It exposed them to the virus. Over 20 % of patients who seek dialysis at Manipal hospitals were infected with Covid. We also noticed that globally, kidney involvement among Covid patients varies from 10%-30 %. That’s despite patients having no renal issues prior to the infection." About 40 kidney recipients at the hospital were infected with Covid since the pandemic hit and of them one died. Covid patients can have sudden onset of acute kidney injury which can even progress to end stage kidney disorder, doctors said. "Many Kidney transplant recipients are among the fatalities," Dr Sundar said. "However, most patients have done well on remdesivir and by adjusting immunosuppressive drugs, increasing steroid dosage and drug level monitoring."  The doctors say individuals with CKD and kidney transplantation are at a higher risk of Covid‐19. “Dialysis of those suspected with Covid-19, should be carried out according to strict protocols to minimize risk to other patients and healthcare personnel. Containment and prevention are the best options available,” the article concludes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kidney-patients-may-not-show-classical-symptoms-of-covid-docs/articleshow/78878836.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 27, 2020||Goa||Dog with porcupine quill piercing rescued in Goa||PANAJI: A stray dog found in distressed after a porcupine quill pierced through its jaw was recently rescued from his misery, at Verem, Bardez. The dog had been evading people for a while. Despite attempts by animal lovers to lure the canine it remained unattainable. The quill was later yanked out by retired officer of the department of information & publicity, John Aguiar, who gained the animal’s trust by calling out to it. Rakhi Puri saw that one of the stray fur buddies she often feeds had landed itself in the unfortunate situation. In a now viral post on social media, she shared how the dog could not pick up the food laid out for him as “the quill end would hit the ground first and drive itself deeper into the other side” of the dog’s jaw. In a bid to rescue the animal, Puri and her friends set up a trap cage laden with food inside it and set up a trail of canned meat to lure the dog into it. While they waited for the dog to take the bait, Aguiar who was on his evening walk saw him distressed and decided to help. After some coaxing, the dog dropped its defensive guard and let Aguiar approach him. While he petted the dog with one hand, he cautiously moved the other to pull the quill out of the animal’s mouth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dog-with-porcupine-quill-piercing-rescued/articleshow/78881137.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: 84% beds vacant in PCMC limits, 66% in PMC areas||PUNE: Hospitals in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits now have more vacant beds following the recent drop in coronavirus cases, encouraging the two civic bodies to shift focus on resuming facilities for the treatment of non-Covid patients. Officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) stated that 18 of their Covid care centres were closed in the absence of any patient. The Pune divisional commissioner dashboard data revealed that 7,731 (66%) of the total 11,569 beds were vacant in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits on Monday evening. In the PCMC limits, 4,484 (84%) of the 5,327 beds were vacant. PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “The private hospitals should send us the ‘step-down’ proposals on turning the existing Covid care facilities into non-Covid treatment hubs. A call will be taken on this depending upon the administration’s readiness and the Covid-19 situation. The administration is prepared to tackle any surge.” PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said the administration was positive about resuming non-Covid treatment at the earliest. “We had a meeting on the situation with the top authorities on Monday. We are getting reports that the Covid-19 cases are increasing in other parts of the country. But if the decline continues in our region, we can take a call within the next one or two weeks,” he said. Patients from the economically challenged section suffering from ailments other than Covid-19 have suffered a lot because of the pandemic and the lockdown, social activist Maruti Bhapkar said. The administration should resume the non-Covid wards at the major hospitals, such as Sassoon General Hospital and Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, for their benefit. Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra president Avinash Bhondwe said, “With the jumbo facilities being fully functional, the private hospitals should be allowed to resume non-Covid operations at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/84-beds-vacant-in-pcmc-limits-66-in-pmc-areas/articleshow/78881167.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||BMC plea on demolitions in gaothans opposed||MUMBAI: Bombay East Indian Association opposed BMC’s plea to lift a stay on demolition in gaothans and koliwadas. BMC had filed an application before Bombay HC to lift the stay on demolition of structures in Sion Koliwada as they were obstructing completion of a slum redevelopment project it had approved. The association said development was being pushed with mala fide intentions. They said they filed the PIL to prevent classification of urban villages as slums, adding that the HC order not bar redevelopment under commercial projects, where residents can opt for redevelopment on favourable terms. “The order protects gaothans and residents from unscrupulous acquisition by BMC under the premise of them being slums,” said the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-plea-on-demolitions-in-gaothans-opposed/articleshow/78879945.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Youth murdered in Belagavi; two held||BELAGAVI: A 26-year-old youth was murdered, apparently over an old rivalry, in Belagavi city in the wee hours of Monday. The premises of Belagavi Institute of Medical Science (BIMS), where the victim was rushed to for treatment, witnessed moments of tension after he succumbed to injuries there. The deceased is Shabaz Patan from Azam Nagar the city. Citing rivalry as the motive for the murder, Shbaz’s father Sherakhan Patan registered a case at Malamaruti police station. Police arrested two persons within two hours of the crime. DCP (law and order) Vikram Amte said preliminary investigation indicates old rivalry may have resulted in the murder. “Cases of a murder and attempt-to-murder had been filed against Shabaz Patan. Maybe a gang has killed him to avenge his acts. Based on this, we have arrested two men — Basavaraj Nayak, 32, and Basappa Daddi,34, from Muttanhatti in Kakati police limits,” the DCP said, adding they are interrogating the duo to get more information on the case. According to the DCP, the incident took place when Shabaz went to a resort, the venue for the birthday of a friend, on the city’s outskirts. “The gang, having known the presence of Shabaz at the resort, went there and attacked him using lethal weapons. When Shabaz escaped on his bike from there, the gang members chased him down at Shivabasava Nagar, severed his hands and fled,” he explained. Though Shabaz was rushed to BIMS with help from locals, he did not respond to treatment. When the news of the murder spread in the city, a mob gathered at the hospital premises, triggering tension. Police resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd. Police are expected make a headway into the case with the help of a CCTV footage which shows the chase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/youth-murdered-in-belagavi-two-held/articleshow/78879484.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two jobless youth held for bike theft||CHENNAI: Two youngsters landed behind bars for stealing a bike from Perungudi. The accused, identified as Augustine, 23, of Mannivakkam near Tambaram and Hari, 22, a native of Karaikudi, stole the bike to retrieve their pledged two-wheeler which they had pawned to buy marijuana. Police said Vivek, 32, a resident of Thirumalai Nagar in Perungudi, lodged a complaint that his two-wheeler parked in front of his house went missing on October 9. A special team of police combed CCTV footage and found Augustine and Hari had stolen the bike. The duo were seen breaking open the bike’s sidelock and towing it away with the help of another two-wheeler. During interrogation, they admitted that they had stolen the bike and sent it to Pattukottai to be sold through a mechanic. They also confessed that they had learnt the nitty-gritty of bike theft from the internet. Based on their confession, a police team retrieved the stolen bike and handed it to its owner. The two accused worked as CNC machine operators and had got hooked to marijuana after losing their jobs recently. Since they ran out of money to buy ganja, they pledged Hari's bike. Later, they decided to get his bike back by stealing another two-wheeler and selling it.  The duo was remanded in judicial custody after being produced before a magistrate court in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-jobless-youth-held-for-bike-theft/articleshow/78881163.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm fires: Haryana records highest single day surge with 426 cases||Karnal: The number of farm fire cases in Haryana is on the rise, as farmers continue to defy the ban. Haryana Space Applications Centre (Harsac) spotted 426 fresh cases of farm fire on Sunday — highest single day surge that pushed the count to 4,199. The numbers are comparatively higher than the last year’s figure in the corresponding period. Even in 2018, 3,106 cases of stubble-burning were recorded till October 25. The state recorded 1,893 incidents of stubble burning last week (October 18-25), which is around 44% of the total incidents. According to the data compiled by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the maximum (803) active fire locations were reported from Karnal district, followed by Kaithal (730), Kurukshetra (712), Ambala (549), Fatehabad (362), Yamunanagar (305), Jind (273), Sirsa (128), Hisar (112), Palwal (67), Sonepat (53), Panipat (33), Panchkula (28), Rohtak (8), Jhajjar (10) Bhiwani (10), Mahendergarh (4), Rewari (4), Faridabad (3), Gurugram (2) and Nuh (1). A small farmer said the window between harvesting paddy and sowing of wheat is very short and burning the paddy stubble is the easiest and fastest way to prepare the fields for the next crop. Karnal deputy director agriculture Aditya Dabas said the government is taking several initiatives to curb the stubble burning menace. As many as 15 happy seeders have been provided to farmers of all six blocks of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-fires-haryana-records-highest-single-day-surge-with-426-cases/articleshow/78881883.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs fewest (3,645) cases in 124 days, least deaths (84) in 146 days||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai reported astronomical drops in Covid cases and deaths on Monday, although it was largely attributed to the weekend dip in testing. The state on Monday reported a total of 3,645 cases and 84 deaths, its lowest in 124 days and 146 days, respectively. The fall was 40% and 25% over the Sunday figures. With this, the total caseload of the state touched 16,48,665, and the fatalities rose to 43,348. The lowest number of cases recorded by the state before Monday was on June 23 (3,214) and the last time Maharashtra had reported fewer than 84 deaths was on June 1 (76). In Mumbai too, the daily addition of new cases saw a record low. The city added 804 cases, the lowest seen in the last two months. The last time Mumbai had fewer cases was on August 25 (587). Deaths too showed a decline with 37 fatalities reported on Sunday, lowest in the last 10 days. The city’s overall caseload has now reached 2,52,085 and deaths 10,142. State officials said that the fall in cases may be due to the dip in the testing numbers usually seen during the weekend and also due to the shortage of manpower to upload the data. Sunday saw one of the lowest testing averages—merely 36,267 tests were carried out which is less than half of the daily average of 72,000. Many of the reports that are yet to be uploaded will reflect over the next few days, said an official. Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner, said that the drop in numbers was purely due to low testing. “Weekend, combined with festivities, was the reason for lesser tests being carried out. In fact, with Diwali approaching and many more people stepping out on the streets and markets, we are expecting a surge in cases,” he said, adding that the whole of November was crucial for Mumbai. “It’s therefore imperative for people to wear masks and maintain distancing,” he advised. The total number of discharges was three times the daily case additions on Monday. As many as 9,905 patients were discharged on Monday taking the total discharges to 14.7 lakh, and the rate of recovery was 89.2%. With this, the active cases in the state too are on the decline. There are over 1.3 lakh active cases in Maharashtra, of which 17,860 are in Mumbai. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported 1,483 cases and 52 deaths on Monday, taking the total cases to 5.7 lakh and the total deaths to 17,765. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 109 cases and 2 deaths taking the tally of patients to 49,291, including 996 deaths. As many as 289 patients also got discharged taking the total discharges to 46,269; 2,026 active patients are still undergoing treatment. Thane city reported 130 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, taking the tally of infected people to 45,541, while three deaths were reported taking the virus toll to 1,133.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-logs-fewest-3645-cases-in-124-days-least-deaths-84-in-146-days/articleshow/78881885.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 27, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab government efforts fail to douse farm fires||AMRITSAR/TARN TARAN: Despite several measures taken by the government, cases of stubble burning have not subsided. Going by reports of Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, Amritsar and Tarn Taran have maximum cases of stubble burning in Punjab. Incentives, including subsidies on stubble management equipment given by the government have failed to achieve desired results. Narinderpal Singh, district extension specialist, Farm Advisory Service Scheme, Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) said they have been advising the departments of agriculture and horticulture as well as farmers about farm machinery and technology that could provide an alternative to stubble burning. “Most farmers are keen to grow three crops in one year. To do this, they sow short duration crops, giving much lesser time to prepare the field for next sowing and are prompted to burn stubble,” he said. Citing an example, he said due to early sowing of 1509 variety of paddy, its harvesting began in September and farmers were in a rush to prepare their fields for sowing of peas or potato. Therefore, most of them opted to burn stubble rather than managing it with farm machinery. Narinderpal Singh said the three main stubble management options available to farmers are incorporating stubble in the soil, mulching and removal of stubble. “Since all of them incur costs, farmers prefer to burn stubble,” he said, adding that subsidies on stubble management machinery and providing them on rent had not yielded required results. Balwinder Singh, a farmer from Makowal village, who also runs a customer hiring centre said he gives stubble management machinery including Happy Seeder, Straw Cutter-cum-Spreader, Rotavator, Mould Board Plough etc on rent but many farmers prefer burning stubble. “There may be an initial cost of managing stubble but in the long run, it turns out to be a cost-effective measure over burning stubble,” he said. He also said most farmers expect cash incentives from the government rather than subsidised machinery. Tarn Taran chief agriculture officer (CAO) Kuljit Singh Saini, who also holds additional charge of Amritsar CAO, said they run incessant campaigns to motivate farmers against burning stubble. “It is due to our motivation that many panchayats have passed resolutions to not burn stubble and manage it instead,” he said. He claimed that the number of stubble burning cases has gone down as compared to the previous year. “There are numerous jaggery making furnaces running these days and fire in various Gujjar deras or other furnaces are picked up as farm fires by remote sensing stations,” he said. A farmer leader who didn’t wish to be named said farmers desist from burning stubble under pressure of the agriculture department which imposes fine and files police cases. This yielded desirable results, which were neutralised due to political pressure. Citing an example, he said, “If a case is slapped against a farmer for stubble burning, the area MLA will intervene and use his influence to stop the police from taking action.” He said the only way to prevent farmers from burning stubble was to pay them cash compensation instead of giving them subsidy on stubble management machinery. Manpreet Singh, a farmer of Thattha village near Fatehgarh Churian said he had been managing stubble for the past six years. According to him, incorporating stubble in the soil not only provides essential nutrients to the soil but also protects the environment. Manpreet who has 12 acres of land said he makes ‘toori’ (straw) from wheat stubble and keeps the paddy straw for use as animal fodder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/fields-spew-smoke-as-govt-efforts-fail-to-douse-farm-fires/articleshow/78881886.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Keep vigil on online classes, says panel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There should be constant watch on the pattern of online classes by private schools, a committee appointed by government to analyze rising suicides among children in the state has recommended. In the report, prepared by committee led by DGP and commandant general of prisons and correctional services R Sreelekha, it has been analysed that hours of continuous online classes put extra burden and learning stress on students especially those in higher classes. According to figures, as many as 173 children had committed suicide between March 23 and October 7 in the state. Data compiled by police points fingers to possible adverse impacts of lockdown that had resulted in children attending online classes. “While online classes by government are designed not to overload children, that of private schools may be long and extended, with little time for interaction and dialogues. Government shall irrespective of the curriculum and authority, give instructions to all schools to make it comfortable for children,” the report said. Experts said these recommendations are very much needed to uphold the mental health of children. “There is a concept called ideal screen-time for each age group. As per guidelines issued by American Paediatric Association, 30 minutes per day is the ideal screen-time for children below eight years and one hour per day for adolescent children. Though it may not be possible in the current scenario, there should be an attempt to keep it to the bare minimum possible,” assistant professor of psychiatry at Thiruvananthapuram medical college, Arun B Nair said. He pointed out that in addition to long hours of online classes, children are also burdened with assignments. “They stay awake for long with their online gadgets, disturbing their sleep cycle and thereby leading to issues like depression,” he said. The report has pointed that 20% of school children have emotional and behavioural problems and 50% of adult mental health problems begins before the age of 15. There is research evidence to prove that 80% of suicides are related to mental health problems. Experts point out that even though other factors leading to suicide like sibling rivalry have been in existence, the lockdown has spurred such reasons as all are confined to their houses. Also, the emotional needs of many children are not being catered to by parents except enforcing discipline. “Instead of scolding them for prolonged usage of mobile phones or similar gadgets, set a time limit. If they do not adhere to it, they can be denied the privilege the next day, instead of being harsh on them,” Arun said. In addition, parents, teachers and students should be trained in identifying warning signs of mental distress and suicidal tendency among children and providing “psychological first aid” measures to help those in crisis, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keep-watch-on-online-classes-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/78878552.cms||KP Saikiran
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Next ‘blue moon’ in 30 days after this Saturday’s to rise in 2050||The second full moon in a month, a ‘blue moon’, will be visible on October 31. The previous full moon was on October 2. Unlike a blood moon based on red glow, a ‘blue moon’ has nothing to do with colour. It is an infrequent phenomenon involving appearance of an additional full moon within a given period. The last time there were two full moons in a month in 30 days was in June 2007, and the next will appear in September 2050. A ‘blue moon’ in a month with 31 days was on January 31, 2018, and the next will be on August 31, 2023. Nehru Planetarium director Arvind Paranjpye said there was a bit of mathematics in play. “The duration of a lunar month is 29.531 days or 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes and 38 seconds. Therefore, to have two full moons in a month, the first full moon should take place on the first or second of the month. This year, there will be a ‘blue moon’ on October 31. That calendar year will have 13 full moons, instead of 12,” he added. A solar year has 365.2422 days or 365 days, 5 hours, 19 minutes and 30 seconds. Therefore, there are 12.3681 lunar months in a solar year. A normal solar year has 12 full lunar months, with an extra 0.3681 months or 10 days, 20.9 hours. This extra time accumulates and after around 30 months, there will be one extra full moon in the year. This implies that one of the four seasons will have four full moons instead of the three. When this happens, the third full moon of that season is called a ‘blue moon’. Paranjpye said, “The phrase ‘once in a blue moon’ is used to describe a rare occurrence. It was first used in the early 16th century to indicate something absurd. Its present form was first used in 17th century. The ‘blue moon’ was defined as ‘the third full moon in a season of four full moons’.” The earliest reference to this definition is found in Maine Farmer’s Almanac, published in the late 1930s. The almanac is published annually as a reference book for farmers. It carries information for farmers, such as weather forecasts, planting charts and other articles of popular interest, he added. Feb Is The Exception * A ‘blue moon’ has nothing to do with the colour * February will never have a ‘blue moon’ as it is 12 hours short of a lunar month * It is not too common to have a ‘blue moon’ in a month with 30 days * The last ‘blue moon’ in a month with 30 days was on June 30, 2007, and the next will be on September 30, 2050 * There were two ‘blue moons’ in 2018 : On January 31 and on March 31 * The next ‘blue moon’ will be on August 31, 2023||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/next-blue-moon-in-30-days-after-this-saturdays-to-rise-in-2050/articleshow/78879951.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra government reduces minimum cost of RT-PCR test from Rs 1,200 to Rs 980||PUNE: The state government on Monday reduced the cost of RT-PCR test to a minimum of Rs980 from Rs1,200. State health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI, “The private laboratories will follow the new charges from Monday itself. All divisional commissioners, municipal commissioners and collectors should ensure the implementation of revised rates and ensure that no one is overcharged. Testing at government laboratories will continue to be free.” Tope said the government decided to reduce the testing charges in the range of Rs200-220 after discussions with the laboratories and the state task force on Covid-19 on Monday. He said, “The 500 and odd private laboratories carrying out testing in the state have been told to strictly adhere to the revised rates.” He said, “The RT-PCR test would cost Rs980 if one directly goes to a laboratory. Rs1,400 and Rs1,800 would be charged for samples collected from hospitals and homes, respectively.” The state task force had submitted a recommendation last week to reduce the cost of RT-PCR tests following the arrival of indigenous and cheaper kits in the market. The need to increase the tests per million in the wake of festivities and a possible second wave in the winter months ahead was also under consideration of the task force while tabling the proposal. At present, the state’s tests per million is 62,000 against the country’s figure of 70,000. Experts stressed on more tests in the state multiple times in the past. Cautioning against lowering the guard amid the dip in daily cases in the city and the state, the state task force pushed for a more aggressive strategy to keep the pandemic in check. It recommended walk-in test facilities to increase the testing amid relaxation of restrictions in the festive season. Dr Sanjay Oak, the head of the state task force, said they had recommended for testing kiosks in the entire state. Iterating that unlocking was essential, he said masking, sanitising, social distancing and testing were equally important in these times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-govt-reduces-minimum-cost-of-rt-pcr-test-from-rs-1-2k-to-rs-980/articleshow/78881197.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 27, 2020||Pune||Panel for cross-verifying nCoV casualties in private health hubs||Pune: The civic body has decided to set up an audit committee for cross-verifying Covid-19 casualties in private hospitals.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials stated that the decision was taken because though the rise in the Covid-19 cases was reducing of late, the number of deaths caused by Covid-19 was not coming down significantly. “The audit committee will check the causes of deaths, symptoms of all the patients who died and the reports of the people discharged from the private hospitals,” an official said. A senior PMC official said the municipal limits were registering around 40 to 45 deaths a day despite a major reduction in the number of positive cases. The procedure of the audit system has already been set up for the government- and PMC-run hospitals, as well as the health hubs at the district level. Each hospital has to entrust its staffers for the task, while a PMC official will monitor the audit work and reports.“We have issued necessary orders. The private hospitals should form the audit committees as soon as possible,” PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said.PMC data revealed that around 7.25 lakh tests have been conducted in the municipal areas to identify Covid-19 patients. The tests were conducted at civic and private hospitals, PMC’s Covid care centres and state-run and private pathology laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panel-for-cross-verifying-ncov-casualties-in-private-health-hubs/articleshow/78881172.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||AAP dares BJP MLAs to take a stand on double-tracking||PANAJI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has challenged the seven MLAs in whose constituencies the double-tracking of the South Western railway line passes to declare their stand on the matter. AAP has asked BJP MLAs whether they would resign from the party if the party does not accept their objections to the project. In a letter to the MLAs, the party questioned BJP’s move to push the project that their own constituents have been protesting against. Speaking to reporters, spokespersons Sandesh Telekar and Venzy Viegas pointed out that Goans have, for some time, been opposing the double-tracking of the railway line which is actually aimed at only helping Adani transport coal from MPT to neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. The party pointed out that Goans were not consulted when the project was envisaged or approved, asserting that Goans should be the final decision-makers in the matter and have every right to object to the project. While asserting that the people of Goa should be the final decision-makers about their future the party strongly opposed the double-tracking of the South Western railway line. A team of AAP workers will reach out to the MLAs of Vasco, Mormugao, Dabolim, Cortalim, Nuvem, Curchorem, and Sanvordem. They will submit a memorandum to each of the MLAs and ask to clear their stand by accepting the memorandum. As MLAs, they should get this project cancelled within 15 days or give their resignation as MLA and must either stand with the Goans or resign, the party further challenged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-dares-bjp-mlas-to-take-a-stand-on-double-tracking/articleshow/78881174.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Kerala girl, living with partner, held||CHENNAI: A team of Kerala police took a 22-year-old girl in their custody from a house in Nungambakkam after her parents based in Kozhikode filed a missing complaint. Though the girl from Kozhikode reportedly told Kerala police, who were accompanied by a personnel from Nungambakkam police station, that she stepped out on her own to stay with her partner, police insisted that she should accompany them since they had to produce her before a magistrate. Sources said that the two girls became friends via a social media platform, but the 22-year-old girl’s parents in Kozhikode opposed their relationship. Following this, she left her house in the first week of October and came to Chennai to stay with her girlfriend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kerala-girl-living-with-partner-held/articleshow/78881217.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra logs fewest (3,645) cases in 124 days, least deaths (84) in 146 days||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Mumbai reported astronomical drops in Covid cases and deaths on Monday, although it was largely attributed to the weekend dip in testing. The state on Monday reported a total of 3,645 cases and 84 deaths, its lowest in 124 days and 146 days, respectively. The fall was 40% and 25% over the Sunday figures. With this, the total caseload of the state touched 16,48,665, and the fatalities rose to 43,348. The lowest number of cases recorded by the state before Monday was on June 23 (3,214) and the last time Maharashtra had reported fewer than 84 deaths was on June 1 (76). In Mumbai too, the daily addition of new cases saw a record low. The city added 804 cases, the lowest seen in the last two months. The last time Mumbai had fewer cases was on August 25 (587). Deaths too showed a decline with 37 fatalities reported on Sunday, lowest in the last 10 days. The city’s overall caseload has now reached 2,52,085 and deaths 10,142. State officials said that the fall in cases may be due to the dip in the testing numbers usually seen during the weekend and also due to the shortage of manpower to upload the data. Sunday saw one of the lowest testing averages—merely 36,267 tests were carried out which is less than half of the daily average of 72,000. Many of the reports that are yet to be uploaded will reflect over the next few days, said an official. Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner, said that the drop in numbers was purely due to low testing. “Weekend, combined with festivities, was the reason for lesser tests being carried out. In fact, with Diwali approaching and many more people stepping out on the streets and markets, we are expecting a surge in cases,” he said, adding that the whole of November was crucial for Mumbai. “It’s therefore imperative for people to wear masks and maintain distancing,” he advised. The total number of discharges was three times the daily case additions on Monday. As many as 9,905 patients were discharged on Monday taking the total discharges to 14.7 lakh, and the rate of recovery was 89.2%. With this, the active cases in the state too are on the decline. There are over 1.3 lakh active cases in Maharashtra, of which 17,860 are in Mumbai. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region reported 1,483 cases and 52 deaths on Monday, taking the total cases to 5.7 lakh and the total deaths to 17,765. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 109 cases and 2 deaths taking the tally of patients to 49,291, including 996 deaths. As many as 289 patients also got discharged taking the total discharges to 46,269; 2,026 active patients are still undergoing treatment. Thane city reported 130 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, taking the tally of infected people to 45,541, while three deaths were reported taking the virus toll to 1,133.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/state-logs-fewest-3645-cases-in-124-days-least-deaths-84-in-146-days/articleshow/78882799.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||Station master held for raping teen girl in Vadodara||VADODARA: A 19-year-old girl has registered a complaint of rape against a station master at Vadodara railway police station. The girl told the police the accused identified as Rajendra Kumar Varma, a resident of Gotri, allegedly raped her at the Pilol railway station about eight months ago. The police have detained Varma and sent him for Covid-19 tests. If tested negative, he will be arrested immediately. The girl, who is married and hails from Madhya Pradesh, worked as a sanitation worker at Pilol railway station. She told the police that Varma, approached her on March 1 when she was cleaning up a room near his office. He raped her and later even offered her Rs 100 for keeping her mouth shut about the incident. The girl, though, refused to accept the money. She also informed her husband about the incident following which he asked her to quit the job. The couple left for its hometown during the lockdown and returned in June. “On October 17, the accused went to the girl’s residence and flashed a knife. She said that he threatened her,” said B S Jadhav, DySP, GRP, who is investigating the case. The couple got scared and approached the railway police on Sunday. A complaint under Atrocities Act has also been registered against Varma as the girl belongs to the scheduled tribe. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/station-master-held-for-raping-teen-girl/articleshow/78877409.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Task force for use of both platina trial, remdesivir||Pune: The state task force is keen on continuing with the platina trial or plasma therapy to treat the moderately infected to the serious Covid-19 patients. Members of the task force said the plasma therapy would continue simultaneously with the administration of remdesivir on the moderate patients because of the “positive reports for both the ways of treatment”. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday told TOI that in accordance with directions of the task force, the state government planned to continue with both the processes. He said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study had found no benefits of convalescent plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients and the national task force was considering to remove plasma therapy from the standard coronavirus treatment protocol. “The state will, however, continue with the platina trial and the government will soon reach out to the Centre on it. “The Project Platina is the biggest clinical trial of plasma therapy that aims at assessing the efficacy of plasma therapy to treat the severely ill covid patients. We have received positive reports of the use of platina across the state,” Tope said. Health officials stated that if the ICMR issued some strict guidelines, the trials could continue but the off-label use of plasma might have to discontinues. The same could be said about the use of remdesivir in the state, the health minister said. “After issuing orders about the rational use and price cap of remdesivir, the stated task force is of the view that the drug can be effective when used at the right time,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/task-force-for-use-of-both-platina-trial-remdesivir/articleshow/78881231.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Rare Central Asian desert bird spotted in Thrissur||KOCHI: Bird lovers have something to cheer about. Sighting of Variable Wheatear, a desert bird found in Central Asia, has been reported from the state for the first time.  Bird experts said the bird has chosen Kerala as its wintering ground and that the sighting will add to the list of birds found in the state.  Krishnakumar K Iyer, an ardent bird watcher spotted and photographed the bird at Chavakkad beach a few days ago. The pictures and details of the bird which were uploaded on the platform e-bird, generated a lot of excited discussions among the state’s bird watchers’ community. The pictures were shared with international experts as well before it was confirmed that it is the Variable Wheatear, a traveller from the Central Asian deserts.  “The bird is being sighted for the first time in the state and has been added to the list of birds seen in Kerala as the 530th member. Variable Wheatear is a small insectivorous bird growing no longer than 15cm and prefers to forage on the ground and among bushes. They nest on thorny shrubs of their desert homeland and migrate to dry, open habitats in India to escape the harsh winter. However, it is a rare vagrant in South India,” said Krishnakumar, who edits feature films and has been birdwatching for three years.  He said that there were discussions on whether the presence of a desert bird in Kerala are indications of climatic changes, but it was agreed that rather being a newcomer, it may not have been sighted before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rare-central-asian-desert-bird-spotted-in-tsr/articleshow/78878577.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Unity, community role helped Uttar Pradesh achieve encephalitis turnaround||GORAKHPUR: Not many years ago, a walk through Nehru Chikitsalaya of BRD Medical College was a heart-wrenching experience. Cries of inconsolable mothers echoed on the ground zero of encephalitis-stricken Gorakhpur district and the epidemic ward would become eerily silent, especially after its ‘season’. Cut to 2020, the painful era is on the way to become a part of history, with the state scripting a story of change. Confirmed cases of acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) have come down to 709 in 2020 (till September 14) from 3,911 in 2016. Cases of Japanese encephalitis (JE) have come down from 442 to 38 for the same period. The mortality rate from AES has come down from 16% in 2016 to 3% in 2020 and for JE, it has come down from 11% to 5% in the same period. Tracking what led to the change, Shailvee Sharda lists out 10 key learnings from the campaign against the annual killer in eastern UP. 1. United we stand: Eleven departments with health as the nodal one came together to fight the annual scourge that had devastated families for three decades. Each one took to micro-planning to achieve targets. For example, the medical education department worked on serious cases. Panchyati raj, Swachh Bharat Mission and agriculture worked on prevention through cleanliness. The education and information departments targeted behavioural change and awareness. Organisations like Unicef, Path, WHO, Tata Trusts and PLAN gathered technical support. An effective transport mechanism was provided by the 108 ambulance network. 2. Political leadership: Having witnessed the wrath of encephalitis first hand, chief minister Yogi Adityanath displayed extraordinary initiative in encephalitis control campaign from the point go. In an interview with TOI, he had said: “Every year, the demon of encephalitis came and slayed innocent children. As MP, I had raised the matter in Parliament but when I took charge as CM, I got a chance to make a difference. Three years since, numbers speak for the change I longed for.” A social sector functionary said, “The information that the CM was monitoring the situation ensured implementation.” 3. Investing in periphery pays dividends: After a proper gap analysis, the government realized that while BRD Medical College was overburdened, district infrastructure was underutilised. As a result, encephalitis treatment centres were established at block level. District-level intensive care units were strengthened to manage serious cases. This improved case fatality rate. 4. Setting the context is crucial: Great outcomes need crystal clear clarity. The government gave clear purpose and target to departments and field workers including ASHAs, anganwadi workers, public representatives, urban local bodies, nodal teachers and social influencers through workshops and training. Separate sessions were held for medical staff. 5. Micromanagement matters: Each department was asked to submit its micro plan for encephalitis control with place, date, time, type of activity and person responsible. Nodal departments coordinated reviews by experts from WHO and Unicef. Corrective action was ensured before execution. 6. Multi-pronged strategy for multi-faceted problems: The problem needed to be attacked from multiple angles. While the health and medical education departments looked at the medical side, other departments addressed issues like vaccination, awareness, behaviour change, sanitation, etc. The lessons learnt in the encephalitis campaign came in handy when dealing with Covid-19. 7. Correct messaging is a game changer: ‘Bukhar mein deri… padegi bhari’ hit bang on target to create awareness that any kind of fever could be encephalitis and a child should immediately be taken to hospital. Traditionally, locals hit the panic button too late. Pharses like ‘dimagi bukhar ke khatre pehchano, sare lakshan aur upay tum jano’,… sahi wakt sahi upchar’ and ‘saaf pani saaf haath nauki bimari ko denge maat’ became the mantra of survival. 8. Children are harbingers of change: Children were taught activities such as hand-washing with soap, use of mosquito nets, role of safe drinking water, use of toilets and dangers of missing encephalitis vaccine in school. This worked wonders. One innovative step was a specially designed snakes and ladder game in which missing on prevention behaviours meant snake bite while following them made the player climb the ladder. 9. Nothing impossible with community on board: Village-level governance units were mobilised against a common enemy. Dastak Campaign spread the message multiple times till it left a mark in the minds of all. Influencers such as school principals, teachers, village heads, community and religious leaders besides health staff made concerted efforts. 10. Foot-soldiers create ripples: Seeing the positive results of the first phase, the campaign was expanded to 18 districts in 2019 and to all 75 districts in 2020 to tackle vector-borne diseases such as encephalitis, dengue, kala-azar, malaria, chikungunya. Achievements include identification of children with severe acute malnutrition, construction of 1.4 lakh toilets, trimming of bushes in 55,000 areas to prevent mites, installation of hand-pumps and cleaning of drains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/encephalitis-turnaround-tracking-ups-story-of-change/articleshow/78881896.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Mining meet to be held soon in Delhi: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Two crucial meetings on resumption of mining activities in the state will be held soon in Delhi and are likely to be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. “We will get an appointment as soon as possible,” Sawant told reporters. The last meeting in Delhi was postponed after minister for coal and mines, Pralhad Joshi tested positive for Covid. Sawant said that a new date has been given to Goa mining people’s front (GMPF) to hear their view point on how to resume mining activities in the state. On September 30, Sawant met the Prime Minister in Delhi and said that Modi would be meeting with bureaucrats and have another political meeting to discuss and resolve the state’s mining issue. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. Sawant said that if the erstwhile Congress government had completed the second renewal process in 2007, the industry wouldn’t have had to grind to a halt. There has been no mining in Goa since March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government had filed a review petition on February 7, 2018, in the apex court against the same order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-meet-to-be-held-soon-in-delhi-sawant/articleshow/78881219.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Pandemic has ushered in new levels of innovations: Experts||KOCHI: The pandemic has thrown out a new set of challenges, overturned traditional industrial structures and opened a totally new job sector, said IIM-K director Debashis Chatterjee, while delivering the inaugural address at a two-day digital Industry-Academia confluence 2020 organized by the Times of India along with VedAtma & MaxEd on Oct 24-25. “We haven’t seen the impact of climate change. The important gifts of this challenge, the pandemic has thrown open, are innovations and breakdown of traditional structures. Going to office is no longer an absolute requirement, factories have begun to come home. American Airlines have lesser value than Zoom,” he said. Co-founder & CEO of Burnmark Devie Mohan said, “Innovation is the new driver and there will be a change in the way you deliver services. What will be of value will be cost-effective products and better customer experience.” CEO of UpGrad Arjun Mohan said that the industry is moving towards a hybrid model – certain things will be online and some will be offline. Eldho Kuruvilla, founder VedAtma, said that while planning a career, it is important to remember ‘who and why’in the 4Ws that we look at. Speaking in the session on healthcare, Dr Harish Pillai (India CEO, Aster DM Healthcare) said that there is a push for a certain level of care. “India lacks epidemiologists and healthcare economists, bureaucracy is managing the health crisis. We don’t have the scientific community and research playing a lead role,” he said. Dr K Hariprasad, group president, Apollo Hospitals, said that digital health has a huge impact on the success of healthcare industry. WebCardio CEO Aravind Ravikumar said that the smart phone is a big enabler and with lowest data rate, it is playing a key role in healthcare. Ignou VC Nageshwar Rao said that a lot of work has gone into matching courses by AICTE and UGC to help learners. IIT-Palakkad director PB Sunilkumar said, “We always assume that it is the duty of the high education sector to make students job ready. However, empowerment should start in schools.” In the session on media, art and entertainment, sculptor Riyas Komu said that youngsters should understand that art has become multi-disciplinary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pandemic-has-ushered-in-new-levels-of-innovations-experts/articleshow/78878569.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metropolitan Transport Corporation told to pay Rs 8 lakh to motorist||CHENNAI: A motor accident claims tribunal here has directed MTC to pay Rs 8 lakh to a man, who suffered 30% disability after a government bus knocked down the man’s two-wheeler near Kottivakkam along East Coast Road in 2013. Chitlapakkam resident S K Venkatesh, in his petition, alleged that he an MTC bus knocked him down in May 2013. In its response, the transport corporation denied his allegations and stated that the accident was due to his own negligence. After perusing the submissions, tribunal judge held that the accident happened only due to the negligence of the bus driver as the transport corporation had not provided enough documentary evidence to prove its contention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtc-told-to-pay-rs-8-lakh-to-motorist/articleshow/78881248.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Dreaded Rajura tiger finally trapped||Chandrapur: The dreaded tiger of Rajura – identified as RT-1 — was finally trapped in a specially-designed cage in a narrow culvert under a railway bridge in Rajura forest range on Tuesday afternoon. The tiger was suspected to be involved in eight human kills in as many months. A team headed by vet Dr Kundan Podshelwar rushed to the spot and tranquillized the tiger. The tiger was moved to Chandrapur transit treatment centre and is likely to be moved to Gorewada zoo in Nagpur later in the night. “We had set up an automated cage under a narrow railway culvert on the regular trail of the tiger in compartment no. 179 in Rajura range. The cage had both the sides open with a bait inside to lure the feline,” said officials involved in the operation. “Lured by the bait, the tiger walked into the cage and the barriers on both the sides dropped at once trapping the beast inside,” said the officials. The beast had eluded the hunting teams of forest department for almost eight months. After successive kills for over one year, forest department had issued capturing orders on February 14. However, the tiger grew aware of the hunting schemes of the forest department and dodged every trap and tranquillizing efforts. Officially, the beast had killed over 25 baits laid to lure it, but every time it managed to give a slip to the hunting teams. The efforts to trap the beast in trenches and pits too had failed. The feline had recently got trapped in a specially-designed cage in a culvert in compartment no. 170 of Rajura range, but had managed to break free with sheer might. CCF, NR Pravin, ratified the caging and tranquillizing of the RT-1. DCF, Arvind Mundhe, who headed the operation, termed it as success of the collective efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dreaded-rajura-tiger-finally-trapped/articleshow/78894265.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||2 child marriages prevented in Jind district||Jind: In a joint operation with the police, the Haryana women and child development department prevented two child marriages in Jind district, an official said on Monday. According to Jind district child protection officer (DCPO) Sunita Yadav, they got a tipoff that a man is going to marry his underage daughter in Khera Khemawati village of the district on Sunday, after which the joint team rushed to the village. When the team officials asked the two families to produce the age proof, they found that while the bridegroom was only 18 years, the girl was just 17. The two families were asked to stop the marriage, else action would be taken against them, following which they agreed and assured the officials that the marriage would take place only after they attain the legal age for marriage. In another case of Hoshiarpur village, the girl was found to be 16-year-old, while the bridegroom was 25 years of age. DCPO Yadav said, “We conducted a counselling of both families and received written affidavits from them that marriages will be done at the right time. We always try to stop such marriages on getting information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-child-marriages-prevented-in-jind-district/articleshow/78881895.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||House panel writes to UK government on hate crimes against Sikhs||AMRITSAR: The All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for British Sikhs has written to the UK home and communities secretaries asking for urgent action to address anti-Sikh hate crimes, which are largely under-reported in the country. Preet Kaur Gill, MP and chair of APPG for British Sikhs, has written to home secretary Priti Patel and communities secretary Robert Jenrick and asked them to take urgent action in this regard. “The rise of hate crimes against Sikhs and gurdwaras are of grave concern to me as chair of the APPG for British Sikhs. It is a sad fact that many of us who attended the anti-Sikh hate event have experienced or know someone who has been victim to some kind of race or religious hate abuse in our normal, everyday life,” Gill wrote. Earlier, a virtual meeting on anti-Sikh hate crimes was held wherein 43 cross-party MPs had participated and one among other key actions agreed upon was that the APPG should produce a report on such crimes and send to relevant ministers and shadow ministers, as the government’s plans to tackle hate crimes have for many years largely focussed on antisemitism and Islamophobia. The APPG report released on Monday states that when compared to 2018-2019 home office data, reported religious hate crimes in the last 12 months fell for Muslims by 12.5%, Jews by 9.3%, remained level for Hindus, but for Sikhs they increased by 7.3%. The increase in reported hate crimes for Sikhs last year was a staggering 61% as the Sikh organisations raised awareness within the community of the importance of reporting such crimes. It further says that in addition to a lack of faith in the police and authorities, the community also faces other obstacles and challenges in reporting hate crimes, which vary from self-pride to a complete lack of knowledge and understanding of the reporting process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/house-panel-writes-to-uk-govt-on-hate-crimes-against-sikhs/articleshow/78881894.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 27, 2020||Gurgaon||5 doctors in Ambala face action as electrocuted woman dies||AMBALA: Five medical officers have reportedly been placed under suspension following the death of a woman allegedly due to delay in treatment at the community health centre (CHC) in Shahzadpur Majra of Ambala district, sources said on Monday. The 32-year-old woman of the area, who had got electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire while hanging clothes for drying, was rushed to the CHC on Sunday morning. But, as there were no doctors available there, the injured woman kept wreathing in pain and finally succumbed before a doctor came after nearly 45 minutes, the family alleged. Lalita’s husband Chaman Lal said, “After my wife died suffering from pain, the doctor gave injection and oxygen support to her dead body.” Locals said the family declined to receive the body of the woman and protested at the CHC demanding suspension of the doctors and registration of a police case against him. It was only after deputy civil surgeon Dr Balwinder Kaur and Dr Rajinder Rai reached Shahzadpur towards the evening for investigating the matter and assured the family of action against the negligent medical staff that they agreed to claim the body. A medical officer requesting anonymity said on the basis of initial investigation, action was recommended against some medical officers. Later, the Ambala civil surgeon discussed the matter with state home and health minister Anil Vij and the five doctors, who were supposed to be present at the CHC as per the duty roster, were placed under suspension, he said. An official confirmation was, however, awaited till the filing of this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/5-docs-face-action-as-electrocuted-woman-dies/articleshow/78881897.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Day’s tally least in four months, fatalities at 32||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 case tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) dropped to 369 on Monday, its single-day least tally in four months, on reduced testing. This is lowest 24-hour tally in the region since June 22, when 352 people had tested positive. As many as 922 patients were discharged in PMR on Monday, pushing its total recoveries above 2.98 lakh. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 147, followed by 124 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas and 98 in the rural areas. With this, the region’s total caseload has reached beyond 3.20 lakh. A decline in new cases further brought down the active tally in PMR, which stood at 13,866 on Monday. Of these, as many as 6,569 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the region, while 7,297 are in home isolation. The PMC still has highest 6,424 active cases in the region, including 1,362 admitted in hospitals for treatment and 5,062 in home quarantine. The region’s death count reached 7,733 on Monday, with 32 more patients succumbing to the infection in the last 24 hours. Of these, the PCMC areas reported two deaths, the rural areas added 11 and the PMC limits accounting for 19 deaths. Out ofteh total 7,733 fatalities in the region, about 55% deaths (4,305) have been recorded in the PMC limits. The daily death count in the region has continued to remain below 50 for the last two weeks. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 3,041 tests were conducted in the region on Monday, taking the region’s total sample tests count above 13.48 lakh. The PMC’s health department stated that 1,681 patients were on oxygen support in the city limits. A total of 639 patients were at critical stage, including 356 were put on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-tally-least-in-four-months-fatalities-at-32/articleshow/78881250.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||BMC postpones crucial meets, 42 more items now on agenda||MUMBAI: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) postponed the standing committee meeting, which was to be held on Monday, to Thursday. Another 42 proposals are now on the committee agenda that require its approval. There are 674 proposals already pending. The administration also postponed an improvements committee meeting, which was to be held on Tuesday, to Thursday, after the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) threatened to move Bombay high court for contempt of court if the meeting was held online instead of a physical meeting. The standing committee is required to pass proposals within a month after these are placed before it, else they are deemed to have been passed. Opposition members now fear that the ruling party may delay the committee meetings to ensure all proposals are deemed to have been passed. The high court had ordered that every item on the agenda must be taken up serial-wise and a discussion must be allowed, as also voting, if required. The first meeting was disrupted over the appointment of BJP’s nominated councillor, Bhalchandra Shirsat, to the standing committee. The court had directed BMC to let the civic general body take a decision on the issue. BMC is likely to inform the high court on Tuesday about the resolution passed by the general body that only elected members should be nominated to the statutory committees. Shirsat, who is also BJP’s spokesperson, said the resolution passed by the general body was bad in law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-postpones-crucial-meets-42-more-items-now-on-agenda/articleshow/78879953.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Stolen car racket: STF files charges against 5 in Rohtak||CHANDIGARH: The special task force (STF) of Haryana police has filed a chargesheet against five accused, including three local residents of Mehem and two local officials of the registering and licencing authority (RLA) in the stolen luxury vehicles racket of Meham and Charkhi Dadri. The STF, on Saturday, filed a 500-page chargesheet against Ramesh Bamal, the main accused, Anil Kumar, the motor registration clerk, Somvir Singh, computer operator as well as two local residents Amit Kumar and a sportsperson, Dharamvir Singh, both residents of Mehem suburban townships. STF filed the chargesheet before the court of area magistrate. This is the second chargesheet filed against the five accused. Earlier, STF filed a chargesheet against seven persons, including these five at Charkhi Dadri on August 31. The other two accused named in the chargesheet at Charkhi Dadri court were identified as Ramesh Sisar and Parveen Kumar, close aides of registration clerk Amit Kumar. Sources said the STF has charged the accused with theft, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and Prevention of Corruption Act. “The accused would first procure stolen vehicles from various places and get the vehicles registered in active connivance of Somvir and Amit, who would identify the registration certificates and forge details of stolen vehicles. Most of the vehicles were found to have been registered in the name of Amit, Dharamvir, Parveen and Ramesh Sisar,’’ said an official spokesperson of STF. Sources said 16 such luxury vehicles have been recovered after interrogation of the accused from Charkhi Dadri district and Mehem sub-division of Rohtak. Acting on a tip-off, STF first arrested Ramesh Bamal, the main accused who dealt in the sale and purchase of cars. The STF activated the team after a tip-off from Chandigarh police, which also unearthed such a racket in Chandigarh city. As the investigation proceeded, the STF named the accused in separate FIRs at Mehem and Charkhi Dadri districts. “We are still investigating the case and are on the lookout for the Nagaland-based man who was instrumental in removing chassis number and engine numbers from vehicles. Besides, we are also in the process verifying the antecedents of those who purchased the stolen cars,’’ the spokesman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stolen-luxury-car-racket-stf-files-chargesheet-against-5-in-rohtak/articleshow/78881900.cms||Manvir Saini
October 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana sees over 20% dip in road accidents, fatalities: DGP||CHANDIGARH: Haryana witnessed less fatalities and road accidents till September this year as compared to last year, director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said on Monday. Road accidents in the state have registered a fall of 20.44% in first nine months of 2020 as compared to last year. Also, the number of fatalities and injuries reported between January and September decreased by 19.04% and 24.03%, respectively. As per official figures, the number of road mishaps reported between January and September 2020 came down to 6,476 from 8,140 in 2019. The incidents of casualties also saw a sharp decline of 713 cases, from 3,744 in 2019 to 3,031 in 2020. Similarly, incidents of injuries to persons fell by 1,677 cases. In total, 5,299 cases of injuries to persons were reported in June 2020 as compared to 6,976 in 2019. He said road mishaps also witnessed a decline even after the relaxation in guidelines issued by Central government for Covid-19 lockdown in Unlock-4. Road mishaps came down to 814 in September 2020, witnessing a 5.23% fall, as compared to 859 in 2019. From about 25 daily cases of injuries to persons reported in 2019, the number fell down to 20 in 2020 with an average dip of 20.47%. Yadava said comparative data analysis for September as well as the first 9 months of 2020 indicated that Haryana Police is moving on a safer lane in terms of road and traffic safety. “We remain deeply committed to reduce road accidents. We have been taking several measures, including scientific investigation of road accidents, concrete measures to prevent them, intensive awareness campaigns and better road safety management,” he added. In addition, the field units are also taking strict action against traffic violators. The DGP urged the citizens to help the police by following the traffic rules and educate others too in this direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-sees-over-20-dip-in-road-accidents-fatalities-dgp/articleshow/78881898.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Efficient CHC/PHC, ambulance service saved lives, say locals||GORAKHPUR: For years, villages in Gorakhpur counted their dead children after each Diwali, which marks the end of the annual encephalitis season. This year, a new normal has taken over the region, leading to unmatched relief. The fear that prolonged for years lingers though and will go away with time. Rajkumari Devi of Harpur village shared how only 20 days ago, her eight-year-old daughter Karishma contracted fever and was diagnosed of ‘nauki bimari’, the colloquial term for killer encephalitis. “First I was scared...this disease is an invitation to death. But then, as told by the village head, I took her to Piprouli CHC,” she recalled. The girl remained under treatment at the CHC for five days but was not showing the desired response. Hence, she was referred to BRD Medical College and is recovering well now. “My daughter had fever for a few days but I did not take it seriously. Had I taken her to the CHC on the first day, she would have recovered in 4-5 days and we would not have needed to go to the medical college,” said Rajkumari, pledging never to take fever in children lightly. Her father-in-law credits the improvement in the health system. “I have seen how people used to run from pillar to post to transport children to BRD Medical College. But this time, 108 ambulance took my grand-daughter to the hospital and we did not have to worry,” he said. Karishma’s father Ram Sabad Maurya, a vegetable seller, thanked chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the changed situation. “I could never afford a private doctor. Many thanks to Yogi baba that the CHC has started working,” he said. Similar stories are scattered across the region. The head of Katghar village in Khajni, Sheela Singh said: “Every year, at least 10 children in the village would take to encephalitis. Many families have lost children to the disease. However, this year, no case has been reported.” She added how villages benefited from awareness campaigns. “Our village is 100% open defecation-free. Only India Mark hand-pumps are used for drinking water here, thanks to the massive awareness drives. Arrangements of ambulances and primary health centres in our village are helping things get better,” she said. A teacher in Bansgaon, Sangita Jaiswal also finds improvement in health services. “Till a few years ago, children would die without treatment. But now, people rush to health centres as soon as they detect fever in their children and this is saving them. CHC/PHC are working better and ambulances reach soon after getting information,” she said. Many people agree that the region was in desperate need for such quality services. In Ahirouli village, Azim Ali said: “Eight years ago, my son suffered from encephalitis. Though the boy survived, he developed a mental disability. At that time, the CHC/PHC were not in good condition and it took a lot of time to reach BRD Medical College. The roads were broken and we had to walk till the main road to get an autorickshaw to the medical college.” “Now, people can get to the medical college without a worry on an ambulance. Children get treated in time and recover well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chc-ambulance-service-have-helped-save-lives-of-children-locals/articleshow/78881899.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 27, 2020||Nagpur||Oral hygiene in Covid||Fact file Oral diseases have also been reported to be an principal underlying factor for mortality in Covid patients Dental prophylaxis strengthens the overall immunocompetence of the oral cavity Dental check-up in order to identify any silent disease is very important to prevent its progress Brushing teeth twice, flossing and consumption of fibrous food is must Use of mouthwash is good for oral health Major effects of Oral Health on General Health Heart disease | Individuals with gum disease are twice at risk of fatal heart attack Stroke | A study has linked oral infections with increased chance of a stroke Diabetes | Oral infections make diabetics more susceptible to increasing blood sugar Respiratory problems | Individuals with oral infections can be affected with critical respiratory diseases such as pneumonia Tips for good oral health Brush and floss teeth regularly Get an overall dental check-up done from a good dental professional at least every 6 months Eat a healthy and balanced diet with plenty of fruits and vegetables Avoid tobacco intake Reduce intake of sweets made from refined sugar During pregnancy, have high intake of healthy food and take good oral care Parents must brush teeth of very young children on a regular basis. Once they start brushing on their own, keep supervision Post Covid effects like stress, anxiety, depression and loneliness also hamper overall oral health. Some of the issues are oral ulcers, loss of taste, dry mouth, fungal infections, hyposalivation which leads to caries etc. All these may be either due to side effects of drugs or compromised immunity post Covid. Dr Neelam Chandwani | assistant professor and in-charge, department of dentistry, AIIMS-Nagpur Oral hygiene to keep mouth free from bacterial loads is of utmost importance in Covid times. Prevention is always better and cheaper than cure. The slogan ‘Wash your hands and brush your teeth’ can be extended to ‘Wash hands, brush twice and wear mask’. Dr Ganesh Jadhav | assistant professor, department of dentistry, AIIMS-Nagpur (Text: Chaitanya Deshpande)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oral-hygiene-in-covid/articleshow/78882238.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Pune||Alandi rural hosp starts to treat non-Covid patients||Pune: The Alandi rural hospital has started an out-patient department (OPD) for treating non-Covid patients after the Khed administration’s decision to restore its status as a general hospital instead of a dedicated covid health centre (DCHC) in view of no Covid-19 admissions in the last three weeks.Non-covid patients from Alandi and adjoining villages were compelled to travel 8km to 14km to either the Chakan rural hospital and the Shel Pimpalgaon primary health centre ever since the Alandi hospital was converted into a 30 oxygen bed DCHC on September 30 in view of demand for the same from local activists and political representatives.Alandi rural hospital head Dr Ganpat Jadhav told TOI, “Following an order from Khed sub divisional officer Vikrant Chavan, we have started an OPD for non-Covid patients. On Monday, over 70 such patients were attended to.”Jadhav said, “Considering the inconvenience faced by people, we have submitted a report to the tehsil administration to reconsider the DCHC decision. For Covid-19 patients, we have earmarked two private hospitals as DCHCs. For asymptomatic Covid patients, we have a 500-bed capacity Covid care centre at Mahalunge village.”Alandi has recorded a total of 870 Covid cases since the outbreak. Of these, 835 have been discharged after recovery, 13 have succumbed to the virus and 22 are active cases as on October 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alandi-rural-hosp-starts-to-treat-non-covid-patients/articleshow/78881273.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 27, 2020||Jaipur||21-year-old Jaipur woman HR executive run over by speeding private bus||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old woman on a scooty was run over by a speeding private bus near Ajmer flyover close to Transport Bhavan on Sunday morning. The negligent driver kept drving the vehicle even after the girl was trapped between the tyres of the bus. She was working as an HR executive in a company manufacturing furniture. According to police, the deceased, identified as Puja Sisodia, left her home for the office at 10am. As she was going towards Ajmer Road, her scooty was hit by the private bus. According to eyewitnesses, after the collision the girl was stuck in between the tyres even as her scooty got crushed by the vehicle. “Locals claimed that the driver kept on accelerating the bus even after the girl was trapped in the tyres. Later, he managed to flee from the scene,” said a senior police officer. Woman rushed to a hospital by passers-byThe woman was rushed to a hospital by some passers-by. “The driver of the bus managed to flee from the scene. We have sought his details from the private bus company where he was employed,” the officer said TOI spoke to Mahendra Singh Sisodia, the father of deceased woman who works as an LIC agent. “I have requested the police to identify and permanently cancel the licence of drivers who are driving rashly. My daughter was on the way to her office at Amba Bari,” he said, sobbing. He further stated that his daughter had done her B.Com and was working at a furniture manufacturing unit as an HR executive. Two die in separate mishapsTwo persons were killed in separate accidents in the city on Monday. Mukesh Kumar Sharma (44), who was returning from his inlaws house at Bhankrota along with his wife, was crushed to death by a truck near Road No. 14 on Delhi-Ajmer express highway. In an another accident, a 23-year-old woman, who was crossing a road with her infant daughter, was killed after being hit by a car. However, her daughter was unhurt,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21-year-old-city-woman-hr-exec-run-over-by-speeding-private-bus/articleshow/78881249.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vadodara||Teenage girl raped by neighbour delivers baby||VADODARA: A 17-year-old girl was raped allegedly by a man living in her neighbourhood near the godown of Food Corporation of India on Alembic Road. The girl’s father approached police on Sunday after the girl delivered a baby girl on Sunday. According to police, the girl came in contact with the accused, Harishchandra Parte, around two years ago as they lived in the same neighbourhood. As the communication between the girl and Parte increased, the accused started visiting her home often. Later he started visiting when the girl used to be alone. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/teenage-girl-raped-by-neighbour-delivers-baby/articleshow/78877452.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||SC adjourns Mhadei case to November||KERI: The special leave petition filed by Goa regarding Mhadei river water disputes case with neighbouring states will come up for hearing in November 2020. When TOI contacted the advocate general of Goa, Devidas Pangam, he said, “On account of the Navratri festival, the court was on holidays. After opening of the court, the Mhadei matter is likely to be listed in November. I am in constant touch with the legal team dealing with the matter and also with the senior officers of the water resource department.” The Goa government has requested for a physical hearing instead of a virtual one, which was considered by the court, and it was decided to hear the matter on October 26.  All three special leave petitions of Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra have been clubbed together for a joint hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-adjourns-mhadei-case-to-november/articleshow/78881251.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ajmer||21-year-old Jaipur woman HR executive run over by speeding private bus||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old woman on a scooty was run over by a speeding private bus near Ajmer flyover close to Transport Bhavan on Sunday morning. The negligent driver kept drving the vehicle even after the girl was trapped between the tyres of the bus. She was working as an HR executive in a company manufacturing furniture. According to police, the deceased, identified as Puja Sisodia, left her home for the office at 10am. As she was going towards Ajmer Road, her scooty was hit by the private bus. According to eyewitnesses, after the collision the girl was stuck in between the tyres even as her scooty got crushed by the vehicle. “Locals claimed that the driver kept on accelerating the bus even after the girl was trapped in the tyres. Later, he managed to flee from the scene,” said a senior police officer. Woman rushed to a hospital by passers-byThe woman was rushed to a hospital by some passers-by. “The driver of the bus managed to flee from the scene. We have sought his details from the private bus company where he was employed,” the officer said TOI spoke to Mahendra Singh Sisodia, the father of deceased woman who works as an LIC agent. “I have requested the police to identify and permanently cancel the licence of drivers who are driving rashly. My daughter was on the way to her office at Amba Bari,” he said, sobbing. He further stated that his daughter had done her B.Com and was working at a furniture manufacturing unit as an HR executive. Two die in separate mishapsTwo persons were killed in separate accidents in the city on Monday. Mukesh Kumar Sharma (44), who was returning from his inlaws house at Bhankrota along with his wife, was crushed to death by a truck near Road No. 14 on Delhi-Ajmer express highway. In an another accident, a 23-year-old woman, who was crossing a road with her infant daughter, was killed after being hit by a car. However, her daughter was unhurt,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/21-year-old-city-woman-hr-exec-run-over-by-speeding-private-bus/articleshow/78883043.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Vagamon gets ‘green’ checkposts||KOTTAYAM: For the first time in the state, ‘green checkposts’ have begun operation in Vagamon, a popular tourist destination. Tourists heading to the hill station will have to undergo screening at the checkposts to ensure that they are not carrying any plastic materials or other materials harmful for the ecosystem of Vagamon. There are five such checkposts at the various entry points to Vagamon. According to T N Seema, executive vice-chairperson, Haritha Keralam Mission, waste management was a big issue in Vagamon and tourists were dumping waste, especially plastic, at various points. The checkposts have been launched on an experiment basis under the ‘haritha keralam’ project to put an end to this, she said. “The haritha karma sena is the service provider for the checkposts under Elappara panchayat. These are the first green checkposts in the state,” she added. There are green counters opened at the checkposts where one can buy cloth bags and other eco-friendly objects. There are also bottle booths where the travellers can drop used plastic bottles. According to Sajeev, resource person of Haritha Keralam project in Idukki, there are 32 women and 10 men currently for the checkpost job. For vehicles pass through the checkpost, there is a user fee: two-wheelers (Rs 5), four-wheelers (Rs 10) and heavy vehicles (Rs 15). There are five major entry points to Vagamon. The round-the-clock functioning green checkposts have come up at Elappara town, Vattapathal, Pullikkanam, Vazhikkadavu and Chemmannu. An amenity centre has been set up near the checkpost at Elappara. Women are on duty during the day while men manage during the night. If vehicles bypass the checkposts without halting, arrangements have been made to pass on information to other checkposts. Two material collection facility have been arranged to store plastic materials seized at the checkposts. Non-degradable waste will be segregated and will be removed by Clean Kerala Company of the government, said Arun, who is associated with the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vagamon-gets-green-checkposts/articleshow/78878590.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
October 27, 2020||Goa||IPL bookies pad up for covert innings in Goa||PANAJI: The current season of the high-stakes Indian Premier League (IPL) being played in the United Arab Emirates is generating considerable interest from cricket enthusiasts. Eager to cash in on its soaring popularity, the betting industry seems to have found Goa as a safe haven for their illegal operations. This month alone, Goa police have cracked down on six IPL betting rackets, and claim that there may more bookies active in the state. On Monday, another IPL betting racket was busted, where crime branch sleuths arrested three persons who had accepted bets of over Rs 1 crore at Arpora. Crime branch SP Shobhit Saksena said that on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, a police team raided a villa in Arpora after receiving a tip-off. “Three persons - Shakti Punjabi, Vishal Ahuja and Hitesh Keshwani, all residents of Gandhidham, Gujarat - were found accepting IPL bets on mobile phones. They were entering these bets on a high-tech software downloaded on their laptops,” Saksena said. He also said that the trio had accepted bets of over Rs 1.2 crore from their customers based in Gujarat. Crime branch and district police have already busted seven such betting rackets during this month. Saksena said that bookies prefer Goa for accepting bets as they can stay in a hotel like any ordinary tourist. He said that when the tournament commences, Goa police activates its local intelligence and informers to keep a tab on such activities. Once they obtain information about the bookies, a search is conducted and the accused are put behind bars, he said. “We want to send a clear message that Goa police is keeping a close watch on bookies accepting bets for IPL,” Saksena said. Police said that most of the bookies prefer staying in the state’s coastal belt to avoid suspicion. In some cases, police have found that the accused rent villas to conduct their activities. As betting is a bailable offence, the accused are released immediately after arrest, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ipl-bookies-pad-up-for-covert-innings-in-goa/articleshow/78881291.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Doubling rate 100 days in most wards||MUMBAI: The doubling rate for Covid-19 cases increased to 100 days in 23 out of 24 wards in the city, BMC reported. The doubling time refers to a sequence of intervals in which cases double in value. It is calculated on the basis of daily growth rate of positive cases in the last seven days. The decreased growth rate helps increase the projected doubling rate. BMC said only in R-South (Kandivli-W), number of days recorded for doubling rate is 97 days. In G-South (Worli), which till a few months ago was the hotspot for Covid-19 positive cases, now takes 256 days for the rate to double. It also has the least infection rate at 0.27%. While K-East at 678 has the most deaths, A ward at 96 has the least deaths. The average doubling rate for the city is 132 days but with the festive season underway BMC is worried about a rise in cases as people move around to meet family and friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doubling-rate-100-days-in-most-wards/articleshow/78879958.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Students of govt schools enroll online for NEET coaching||CHENNAI: An online drive to enroll government and government-aided school students for free NEET coaching for academic year (2020-21) has begun throughout the state. Officials are expecting to enroll more than 10,000 students this year. The online coaching for the students is scheduled to commence from November 1. “We are planning to give online coaching for Class XII students till the schools are reopened. After that, the coaching may continue in both online and offline mode,” an official from the school education department said. Due to the Covid-19 crisis, the school education department along with Amphisoft Technologies provided NEET coaching in E-box platform for the students. In a mixture of online test series and video lectures, students solved around 6,500 questions covering most concepts of Classes XI and XII textbooks. The online coaching consisted of four-hour video lectures and four-hour practice tests. Of 6,692 students who appeared for the common medical entrance test, 1633 students qualified and 89 scored above 300 marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/students-of-govt-schools-enroll-online-for-neet-coaching/articleshow/78881321.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Goa||Kandolkar embraces GFP||Panaji: Former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar, who quit the BJP a few days earlier, joined Goa Forward Party along with all his supporters. GFP president Vijai Sardesai welcomed Kandolkar into the party at a large gathering at Assonora and assured Kandolkar’s supporters that GFP would back Kandolkar in the coming state legislative assembly elections. Kandolkar had been angry with BJP since it embraced sitting MLA Nilkant Halarnkar who along with nine other Congress MLAs joined the ruling party in July 2019 Kandolkar, who announced his decision to quit the BJP in July, said he would work with Sardesai to defeat the BJP. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kandolkar-embraces-gfp/articleshow/78881322.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 27, 2020||India||Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar tests Covid positive||MUMBAI: Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said he had tested positive for Covid-19. Pawar, 61, posted a message that his health was fine and he was getting admitted to a hospital in Mumbai as a precautionary measure. He said people need not worry about his health, and he will be back after a brief period of rest. He had tested negative for Covid-19 last Thursday, but was in home quarantine as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/78882520.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||For virtual trials, SC seeks optical fibre network access||NEW DELHI: Attorney general K K Venugopal on Monday strongly pitched for live streaming of Supreme Court proceedings, in front of a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices D Y Chandrachud and L N Rao, citing the experimental live streaming of proceedings from Gujarat and Madras high courts on YouTube, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. The proceedings in Gujarat HC Chief Justice Vikram Nath’s courtroom went live on YouTube on Monday. The CJI said live streaming as an option could be examined, especially when there is a judgment of the SC to that effect. He said, “In principle, I agree with the idea. But there are practical difficulties. You must have heard of undisciplined behaviour of some lawyers during hearings through video-conferencing.” “We must say that the system of video conferencing has been extremely successful in providing access to justice,” the bench said. It said the time has come to think about adapting to the video-conferencing mode for trial courts in recording evidence. The bench said, “We want the Union of India to give us access to the optical fibre network... We were told that it is good for video-conferencing. Wherever it is not available we could use satellite-based communication.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-virtual-trials-sc-seeks-optical-fibre-network-access/articleshow/78882546.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Naresh Jain earned Rs 450 crore for rotating black money of businessmen, netas||NEW DELHI: Many Indians wanted for money laundering here have fled the country to safe havens like Dubai and London. But Naresh Jain, probably the biggest money launderer caught by the Enforcement Directorate till date, chose to return to India in 2009 through Nepal after jumping bail. He managed to dodge the agencies looking for him until August when he was arrested by the ED. The ongoing investigation against him has given an idea why Jain considered India safe to return. For, while allegedly being on the run, he exploited the weak regulatory mechanisms not to just ply his wares but, in fact, scale up operations. Wanted by the police of four countries — Italy, the UK, the US and the UAE — an ED investigation found that Jain opened at least 250 accounts at a single branch of a government bank at Vikaspuri in Delhi and carried out circular transactions of more than Rs 35,000 crore. In all, he opened 660 such accounts in the national Capital. Though the investigation is still in progress, the ED has so far detected documents that show Jain earned around Rs 450 crore in commission by managing circular transactions of more than Rs 95,000 crore for his clients. He transferred least Rs 18,000 crore of black money to foreign bank accounts which was later given to “beneficiaries” through telegraphic transfers. The modus operandi of the hawala kingpin was to receive cash (black money) from his clients who included big businessmen, politicians and middlemen, deposit them in shell companies and rotate the money among hundreds of such fictitious firms he has launched to mislead the investigation trail and then transfer them to foreign accounts, sources said. The accused morphed pictures of a dozen-odd people and used them to procure fake voter ID cards and permanent account numbers. These fake IDs were further used for the dummy directors who served in Jain’s fictitious shell companies. The money laundering operation continued undetected for a decade, despite mandatory reporting by banks on all high-value and suspicious transactions to the Financial Intelligence Unit and the RBI. The ED has recovered 14 “digital keys” from the premises of the accused during the search operation in August which was used by him to operate over 300 foreign bank accounts, mostly in Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naresh-jain-earned-rs-450-crore-for-rotating-black-money-of-businessmen-netas/articleshow/78882570.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 27, 2020||Delhi||Will set up statutory body to curb farm fires: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: In what will be the first instance of an anti-pollution law for a specific region, the Centre on Monday informed the Supreme Court it was drafting a comprehensive legislation to set up a statutory body empowered to take steps to prevent stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and UP as well as implement measures to reduce air pollution in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas. With Parliament not in session, the Union government is likely to take the ordinance route to set up the permanent body, which is expected to have representations from Punjab, Haryana, UP and Delhi. Track the pollution level in your cityThe intent of the proposed law seems to be to address a multiplicity of authorities that hampers coordinated action, though it will also have to address state jurisdictions involved in implementing steps. Draft law will be ready in 4 days, Centre tells SCSolicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, “The legislative step will create a permanent body with adequate powers. In the past, certain ad hoc steps were taken. Now, a statutory body will be created. We will come out with a draft legislation in four days.” The CJI-led apex court bench said, “You do that. We welcome it. This is a problem which the government should have addressed. People are choking in the city.” With the court welcoming the Centre’s decision to set up a statutory body, the solicitor general said it would be in the fitness of things to put in abeyance implementation of the court’s October 16 order setting up a one-man commission headed by retired Supreme Court judge Madan B Lokur for monitoring steps being taken by state authorities to prevent stubble burning. Appearing for petitioner Aditya Dubey, senior advocate Vikas Singh objected to the SG’s request. He said it was not clear when the legislation would be finalised to give shape to the permanent body against air pollution. It would be better if Justice Lokur continued with the task given by the Supreme Court. But the SG remained firm in his request to the court and the CJI-led bench agreed with him in putting in abeyance its October 16 order tasking Justice Lokur Commission with monitoring preventive steps against stubble burning. The apex court posted the PIL for further hearing on October 29. According to the Centre, the Lokur commission has not yet started field surveillance. It has sought preliminary data on paddy area, areas of stubble burning, paddy varieties, data on stubble burning for the last three years, monitoring mechanism in the form of questionnaires which have been supplied by the states, it added, According to data compiled by the agriculture ministry, Punjab accounted for 82% of stubble burning cases among three states including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh between October 1 and 23, which contributed heavily to the foul air choking the NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-set-up-statutory-body-to-curb-farm-fires-centre-to-sc/articleshow/78882576.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Gold smuggling case: Accused’s wife points finger at netas||KOCHI: An LDF-backed MLA was caught up in controversy after it was revealed in a customs report that Soumya — the wife of Sandeep Nair, a key accused in the gold smuggling case — had told sleuths that her husband and KT Ramees had been smuggling gold for councillor Karat Faisal and MLA Karat Rasak from Koduvally. The MLA denied the accusation and said no investigation officer had contacted him till date regarding the alleged statements against him. According to sources, Soumya had also told the sleuths that the smuggling gang was from Kozhikode. Soumya was summoned by customs to its Kochi office soon after Sandeep and Swapna went into hiding and she has given key details about the gang to customs sleuths, sources said. Rasak said he did not know Swapna, Sandeep or Ramees other than what he read in news about their smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gold-smuggling-case-accuseds-wife-points-finger-at-netas/articleshow/78882577.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Rahul-directed drama of burning PM’s effigy shameful: JP Nadda||NEW DELHI: BJP president J P Nadda on Monday said the Rahul Gandhi-directed drama of burning PM’s effigy in Punjab is shameful but not unexpected. “After all, the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty has never respected the office of the PM. This was seen in the institutional weakening of the PM’s authority during the UPA years of 2004-2014,” Nadda said as he attacked the Congress leader in a series of tweets. Nadda said the more the opposition party and its leaders "lie" and "hate" Modi, the more people will support him. He lambasted both Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for their reproof of the Prime Minister on a range of issues. “Combination of despondency and shamelessness is dangerous. Congress possesses both. Empty rhetoric of decency and democracy by the Mother is ‘complemented’ by live demonstrations of politics of hate, anger, lies and aggression by the Son. Double standards galore,” Nadda said. The BJP president made these remarks in response to an article written by Sonia Gandhi in an English daily alleging that democracy is being hollowed out in the Modi dispensation. “One dynasty’s deep personal hatred against a person who was born in poverty and became PM is historic. Equally historic is the love people of India have showered upon PM. More Congress’ lies and hate increases, the more people will support PM Modi,” Nadda said. Recalling the Emergency, the BJP chief said the Congress can never pontificate on the freedom of speech, claiming that they have had contempt for dissenting voices for decades. “We saw glimpses of it during the Emergency. Later on, the Rajiv Gandhi government made a brazen attempt to weaken press freedom. A free press rattles Congress,” he alleged. Dubbing the Congress "blessed" Maharashtra government as a “laboratory of usage of brute state power”, Nadda said troubling opponents and curbing freedom of speech in "trademark Congress style" are visible in the working of the state government. Alleging that atrocities against SC/ST communities are at an all-time high in Congress-ruled Rajasthan, and that women are unsafe in Rajasthan as well as Punjab, Nadda said, "Except governing, they are doing everything else”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-directed-drama-of-burning-pms-effigy-shameful-jp-nadda/articleshow/78882584.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nearly 8,000 lives lost in road accidents in AP last year: Report||VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 70% of all road accident fatalities in Andhra Pradesh are due to over-speeding, according to the latest report on road accidents compiled by the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Over-speeding and driving on the wrong side claimed more lives than all other traffic rule violations in 2019, says the report. According to the report, as many as 7,984 persons were killed and 24,619 persons were injured in 21,992 road accidents in Andhra Pradesh in 2019. The number of deaths in road accidents increased from 7,556 in 2018 to 7,984 in 2019. Over-speeding has been listed as the reason for 15,383 road accidents in the report, and is said to have claimed 5,530 lives and resulted in injuries of 16,840 people in 2019. Driving on the wrong side of the road was listed as the reason for 155 deaths and drunk driving for 43 deaths. In Vijayawada, over-speeding claimed 351 lives and led to 1,351 people getting hurt. 285 people were killed and 1,309 injured due to over-speeding in Vizag in 2019. Vizag ADCP (traffic) Ch Adinarayana said, “Call it negligence or for thrill, over 70% of all road accidents in AP over the last few years are due to over-speeding and rash or negligent driving. Too much blood is spilling onto the roads. We appeal to motorists to follow traffic norms to mitigate road accidents.” Studies have consistently shown that focussing on over-speeding, drunk driving, helmets and seatbelts can significantly reduce accident fatalities and injuries. But there is no existing mechanism that can check over-speeding. Even though the speed limit on national and state highways has been fixed between 80kmph and 100kmph, many motorists flout the rule with abandon. A senior official of the road transport department said that the department is monitoring speed using 13 speed laser guns. “But the number of guns is not enough. We need at least 20-25 more upgraded guns to catch offenders. The absence of speed limit display boards on some stretches is another reason for over-speeding,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nearly-8k-lives-lost-in-road-accidents-last-year-report/articleshow/78879040.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Breaking road rules costs 9 lives a day||VISAKHAPATNAM: At least nine people on average died every day in Andhra Pradesh in 2019 for not wearing helmets or for not fastening seat belts. The latest report compiled by the Union ministry of road transport and highways says that of the 3,287 two-wheeler riders killed in road accidents in the state in 2019, 1,861 were not wearing helmets. Similarly, 775 pillion riders were killed for not wearing a helmet. Another 335 in the driving seat and 376 passengers died for not wearing seatbelts in the same year. While the road transport authority and police made use of helmets and seatbelts mandatory for motorists in November 2015, between 20 to 40% of motorists ignore safety procedures. Police and RTA officials said two-wheelers continue to be the most unsafe mode of transport, not only for the rider, but also to other commuters and pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/breaking-road-rules-costs-9-lives-a-day/articleshow/78879115.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Man stabs, beats wife to death in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: In a fit of rage, a man allegedly stabbed and beat his wife to death at his residence in Krishna Lanka area in the city on Monday. The relationship between the deceased, Degala Nagamani (40), and her husband Krupanandam (45) had been hampered by family disputes according to police. Cops said that Krupanandam had been suspecting his wife’s fidelity and had allegedly been harassing her. A fortnight ago, unable to deal to with the harassment, Nagamani left her husband’s house and went to live with her parents in Nidamanuru village. Following this, elders in the family tried to resolve the issue but to no avail. Police said that when Nagamani returned to her husband’s place to collect her things on Monday morning, tempers flared again. Witnesses informed police that when the two were arguing, Krupanandam in a fit of rage assaulted Nagamani by slamming her head towards the wall and later stabbed her with a kitchen knife. Upon being informed, police reached the spot and arrested the accused. A case under section 302 of the IPC was registered against Krupanandam at Krishna Lanka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-stabs-beats-wife-to-death-in-vij/articleshow/78879136.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Hope in sight? Bengaluru Covid-19 positivity, fatality rates drop||BENGALURU: Though Bengaluru is second only to Delhi in Covid-19 infections among cities in the country, the drop in positivity rate and case fatality rate — two vital markers in assessing virus spread — has begun to offer hope. “The virus has not yet vanished from Bengaluru, but is definitely not spreading with the ferocity it did a few weeks ago,” health minister K Sudhakar told TOI, emphasising that Bengaluru is conducting around 50,000 tests a day, a majority being RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests. While the city was reporting around 5,000 positive cases per day in early October, the number is now 2,400 cases. Health officials said the positivity rate (number of cases turning positive per 100 tests) in Bengaluru had dropped to 11.8% on Sunday from 24.1% in July, 13.3% in August and 12.8% in September. In fact, Bengaluru’s positivity rate is same as that of Chennai and is much lower than that of Pune (24.3%) and Mumbai (17.6%). Early treatment, access to health infra working. Ditto with case fatality rate (the number of deaths vis-à-vis Covid confirmed cases), which it has now reduced to 1.1% from 3.1% in May-end and 1.8% in July. The city, which used to report around 50 Covid deaths per day two weeks ago, has reported less than 25 deaths for the past three days. The drop in positivity rate and case fatality rate has also triggered speculation whether the Karnataka government is fudging data to show a fall in number of cases reported every day or if the government has deliberately reduced testing to show fewer positive cases. Sudhakar, a qualified doctor, said: “When it comes to Covid containment, I’ve been thinking like a doctor, not a minister. We doubled the number of tests in recent days as our strategy is to stop the spread of infection early by testing more people. I have studied successful containment models, especially South Korea, and realised the key to save lives here is early testing and more testing. We’re the only state doing close to 1 lakh RT-PCR tests per day. Early treatment and access to health infrastructure is working, that’s why the numbers are going down.” He said even contact tracing has been made more effective as currently 7-8 contacts (both primary and secondary) of a Covid-positive patient are traced, isolated and treated. “We’re identifying vulnerable groups and repeating tests on them to ensure they do not end up as spreaders,” he added. IAS officer Munish Moudgil, who heads Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room, said the reduction in cases is due to diligent and ramped-up testing while controlling other parameters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hope-in-sight-bengaluru-covid-19-positivity-fatality-rates-drop/articleshow/78882590.cms||Rakesh Prakash
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Nine held for rape of 16-year-old girl||VIJAYAWADA: Disha police arrested nine men for allegedly raping and forcing a minor girl into sex work at Madevapuram village of Kandukur mandal in Prakasam district on Sunday. All the accused belong to various parts of Prakasam district. According to cops, the case came to light on July 18, when they received a tip off about a 16-year-old girl being allegedly raped by multiple men. Officials soon raided the house and found the girl in a pathetic condition due to sexual assault. Upon inquiring the victim from Nellore district, the cops found that her sister-in-law sold her to a woman, a resident of Vijayawada for Rs 27,000 who then forced her into commercial sex work. The cops said that she kept sending men to the rented house in Madevapuram. The cops had first arrested four persons involved in raping the girl. The police have so far arrested 15 persons associated with the crime. Later, they also picked up the girl’s sister-in-law. The investigating officer DSP M Dhanunjaya tried to trace the whereabouts of the other accused. After which, Dhanunjaya contracted the coronavirus leaving him out of duty for almost a month. The cops have sent the rescued girl to a rehabilitation centre. All the accused were booked under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO) and Immoral Trafficking Act against the accused at Kandukur police station and produced the accused at a magistrate’s home who sent them to judicial remand. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nine-held-for-rape-of-16-year-old-girl/articleshow/78879150.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 1,901 Covid-19 cases, lowest in 100 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,901 new Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, the lowest single-day count in over 100 days after recording 1,933 cases on July 12. While the cumulative caseload rose to 8,08,924, the toll jumped to 6,606 as 19 more people died of the novel coronavirus on Monday. Altogether 3,972 patients were declared cured and there are currently 28,770 active cases with 7,73,548 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 96 %. Nellore district achieved a near 99% recovery rate, while it was over 98% in Kurnool and Vizianagaram. Andhra Pradesh tested 51,544 Covid-19 samples to detect the 1,901 new cases on Monday. This reflects a case positivity rate of 3.7%, the lowest positivity rate in several months. Among the 19 deceased patients on Monday, four are from Chittoor, three each from Kadapa and Krishna, two each from Anantapur and East Godavari, and one each from Guntur, Nellore, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari. West Godavari reported 397 new cases on Monday, followed by East Godavari 313 and Chittoor 289. For the first time in months, eight districts recorded less than 100 cases with Srikakulam registering as few as 18 cases and Anantapur 21 cases. East Godavari continued to lead the table with 1.13 lakh cumulative infections. West Godavari stood in the distant second place with 83,224 cases. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 76.21 lakh Covid-19 samples with an overall case positivity rate of 10.6%. The mortality rate stood at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-1901-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-100-days/articleshow/78879169.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Punjab must ensure safety for trains to resume: Piyush Goyal||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways is ready to resume operation of both freight and passenger trains after getting assurance from the Punjab government that the state will ensure safety and security of its rakes and staff and clear the tracks of agitators for complete resumption of rail services, railway minister Piyush Goyal has written to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. Responding to the CM’s letter, Goyal on Monday wrote that as of now nearly 960 goods and more than 50 passenger trains have been impacted due to protests. “With total blockade, our staff, particularly loco pilots and guards, are not confident of running trains. They fear for their security and for the possibility of inadvertent run-over on tracks,” he wrote. Singh on Sunday had sought personal intervention of the railway minister for restoration of freight movement after the national transporter decided to extend its suspension of goods train operations in the state saying that protesting farmers are still blocking the tracks. Railway ministry sources said sporadic obstruction of track was still continuing at many places, particularly around Amritsar and outside the power plants at Naba and Talwandi Saboo. There were also obstructions outside FCI’s silo at Moga. Highlighting that railways has become a “soft” target for protesters, the officials said petroleum and container rakes were not being allowed. “Railway drivers need to have confidence and security to operate freely,” said a source. He added that the railways resumed freight trains and started moving empty coaching rakes to maintenance depots last week after an assurance from local police that the dharna has been lifted. But some of the freight trains and empty coaching rakes were obstructed again on Friday. “Thereafter, our drivers/ guards refused to operate trains in Punjab unless they are assured that trains will not be obstructed,” said another official. More than 200 rakes are standing idle, which includes around 100 coal and 50 fertiliser rakes and several important exim containers. Officials said the threat of Rail Roko protest resuming from November 5 is also creating uncertainty about resumption of freight services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-must-ensure-safety-for-trains-to-resume-piyush-goyal/articleshow/78882603.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Amaravati||Somu Veerraju confident of BJP’s rise in Andhra||AMARAVATI: Somu Veerraju, the new state unit chief of BJP, is confident of building the party as a force in the coming days. “TDP and YSRC are involved in looting public money. On the other hand, the Centre is keen to support all developmental projects in the state,” said Veerraju. He said the controversy about the cost of Polavaram project was unnecessary as the Centre was committed to complete it. Speaking to media on Monday, Veerraju said that BJP has clarity on Amaravati issue than YSRC and TDP. He said the party is committed for the location of the high court in Kurnool. “Naidu (Chandrababu) had failed to construct the capital city in the government land of 9000 acres available in Amaravati and turned it into a real-estate project. Both TDP and YSRC are playing mind games over the capital city,” said Veerraju. He said that they would complete construction of the party office in Vijayawada in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/veerraju-confident-of-bjps-rise-in-andhra/articleshow/78879209.cms||Samdani MN
October 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Northeast monsoon onset in Andhra Pradesh on October 28||VISAKHAPATNAM: Northeast monsoon is expected to make onset in Andhra Pradesh around October 28 this year, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The northeast monsoon generally causes extremely heavy rain in Tamil Nadu and surrounding border districts of AP including Nellore and Chittoor. Speaking to TOI, IMD director for AP S Stella said that northeast monsoon generally starts onset soon after withdrawal of southwest monsoon. “Southwest monsoon started withdrawing from the state on Monday. It will withdraw from the entire state by October 28. Then, northeast monsoon will make onset at Nellore and Chittoor,” said Stella. “If there is any cyclone or low pressure under the influence of northeast monsoon, there will be widespread rainfall in south-coastal and Rayalaseema regions,” added the IMD director. She further clarified that while the IMD had earlier announced formation of a low pressure system over Bay of Bengal on October 29, the announcement was withdrawn on Monday. “There will be no low pressure over the sea on October 29,” Stella added. Meanwhile, the state disaster management authority has started gearing up for northeast monsoon. Relief centres have been prepared to accommodate people from low-lying areas of Nellore and Chittoor districts. “We suffered huge losses due to extremely heavy rain in October. We are taking utmost care to effectively handle the situation and have alerted allied departments,” said an official. A Nellore-based agriculture official said that the department is ready for northeast monsoon. Chittoor district medical and health officer M Penchalaiah told TOI that they too are prepared for the northeast monsoon. “Since most of the district has hilly areas, they would be no stagnation of water. However, we have alerted our primary health centre staff to take control,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/northeast-monsoon-onset-in-state-on-oct-28/articleshow/78879232.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 27, 2020||India||Punjab sends out SOS call as goods trains stay suspended||CHANDIGARH: After the Railways suspended goods trains to Punjab, chief minister Amarinder Singh sought the personal intervention of Union railways minister Piyush Goyal for immediate restoration of freight movement, which hadn’t been restored even after agitating farmers’ decision to partially lift their blockade. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the stoppage of inbound goods trains to Punjab could amount to an economic blockade of the sensitive border state and shatter its already staggering economy. Pointing out that this approach smacks of needless and ominous confrontation, he urged the Union government to immediately resume goods train services in the state. “The decision needs to be reversed immediately. Do not punish the patriotic and peace loving people of Punjab for demanding their democratic rights,” said Sukhbir. Amarinder also spoke to Goyal in wake of the decision of the Railways to extend the ban on movement of goods trains, initially imposed for two days (on October 24 and 25), for another four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-sends-out-sos-call-as-goods-trains-stay-suspended/articleshow/78882618.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC stays further demolitions at Gitam Deemed||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Sunday gave orders staying further demolitions at the Gitam Deemed to be University campus in Visakhapatnam. The management of Gitam had moved court on Saturday seeking stay orders on further demolitions of college buildings by the revenue department. The house motion petition was heard by Justice Suresh Reddy on Saturday. Rudra Prasad, counsel for petitioners, argued that demolition of buildings in the college campus was a clear violation of fundamental rights under Articles 14 and 19.  The petitioners argued that the government demolished the buildings without any prior notice or order and opposed the large-scale deployment of police forces outside the college campus at the time of demolition. The additional advocate-general, appearing on behalf of the government, argued that the land belongs to the state government and was illegally encroached upon by Gitam. The demolitions were done at night to prevent traffic congestion, the additional advocate general said. The court on Saturday gave interim orders directing the government and Gitam management to continue status quo. Later on Sunday, the advocate-general sought four weeks’ time for filing affidavits along with necessary documents. The counsel for petitioners also sought at least ten days’ time for filing an affidavit. The court, after examining the issue, directed the government to not demolish buildings till November 30 and further directed the petitioners not to take up any new constructions on the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-stays-further-demolitions-at-gitam/articleshow/78879256.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Dasara festivities end on a restrained note||VIJAYAWADA: The nine-day-long Dasara celebrations concluded at the Kanaka Durga temple in the city on Sunday. Only 10% of the number of devotees in 2019 were able to have darshan of the goddess this year, in view of Covid-19 precautions. The temple drew around 16 lakh devotees during Dasara in 2019 and the rush of Bhavani devotees continued for another five days after Dasara. This year, temple authorities issued a limited number of darshan tickets. Only 1.6 lakh devotees were allowed darshan. The festivities, which began with Swarna Kavacha Alankruta Durga Devi on October 17, concluded with Raja Rajeswari Alankaram on Sunday. Teppotsavam was conducted on the last day of the festival at the Krishna river. Festive idols of Goddess Kanaka Durga and Malleswara Swamy were brought to Durga Ghat in a procession. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu participated in the procession. Later, festive idols were placed on the Hamsa Vahanam, a specially-decorated boat, and offerings made according to tradition. Officials prohibited rides in the river due to strong currents. A limited number of devotees with passes were allowed at Durga Ghat while other devotees had darshan from the Prakasam Barrage. Temple authorities have decided to extend Raja Rajeswari Devi Alankaram given the influx of Bhavani devotees that continued on Monday. It is estimated that crowds will continue till Wednesday. Temple trust board chairman Paila Somi Naidu and executive officer Suresh Babu thanked endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas for sanctioning funds for the celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dasara-festivities-end-on-a-restrained-note/articleshow/78879266.cms||Venu Lanka
October 27, 2020||India||'Rs 32 lakh payment by Hansa to TV channel’||NEW DELHI: Police have found a payment of Rs 32 lakh to an English television channel that is at the centre of the TRP investigation by Hansa Research, the agency that was contracted by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to install bar-o-meters in homes to gather viewership figures. Sources said it was quite strange that the research agency made a payment to the channel. “It should have been the other way considering the channel was using the services of Hansa Research,’’ an official said. Hansa Research officials said they were unaware of any such transaction. Police said even BARC is not aware of this transaction. BARC had given a contract to monitor the bar-o-meters to Hansa Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-32-lakh-payment-by-hansa-to-tv-channel/articleshow/78882622.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Central schemes are fodder for fraudsters in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Central government-funded projects involving several thousand crores of rupees are turning out to be easy fodder for scamsters in Tamil Nadu with at least half a dozen such big ticket central schemes being ripped off by state officials and fake beneficiaries for decades, and more so in recent times. It is still too early to lay the blame at politicians’ doors, but an unholy nexus among officials of different state departments, contractors/service providers and ‘beneficiaries’ has left several central schemes in tatters and bleeding. The biggest fraud on the system is the rural employment guarantee scheme (MGNREGA), where target beneficiaries themselves have become willing partners in a fraud which involves about 1.28 crore workers. Of them, about 88 lakh people have job cards and the Centre and state governments engage them at `256 per day per head wage. While wage claims running into Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 6,000 crore per annum are prompt, there is no corresponding evidence of lakes and ponds having been desilted or deepened or roads laid. Officials, panchayat representatives and the labourers bleed the exchequer in the name of guaranteed employment. MGNREGA has played havoc with the rural farm economy, as on one hand hardly any public work is accomplished, and on the other workers are not available for agricultural activities. Be it Bharatnet, which was scrapped by the Centre after an anti-corruption NGO highlighted grave violations, or Prime Minister Kisan (farmer) scheme, in which several lakh ghost beneficiaries were added to claim central funds meant for farmers, or rural water scheme, rural roads scheme and rural toilet scheme, Union government’s welfare schemes have become targets of fraudsters. The TOI, about two years ago, had exposed the stink in the rural toilet scheme. While the state claimed that every day about 4,000 new toilets were being added in rural Tamil Nadu to make the state free from open defecation, the reality was different. While some schemes like rural roads and water supply were stalled at early stages, in some cases by courts, to pre-empt misappropriation of funds, the Centre stepped in to save Bharatnet fund. However, the PM Kisan scheme, which has now earned the notoriety of being Tamil Nadu’s own ‘Kisan Gate’, and loot in the name of Prime Minister’s housing scheme have confirmed the worst fears that corruption is so deep-rooted in the state that it has tainted even the common people. The reason is not far to seek though. Any welfare scheme or relief measure is taken to the common man only through various state government departments. While the village administrative officers (VAO) or ‘thalaiyaris’ or field-level staff in various departments do door-to-door verification, their higher-ups give other bureaucratic clearances. There is no neutral external agency to verify the claims and credentials of the beneficiaries, and cross-check how implementation is done. In the absence of an outsider-review, toilets, houses, roads and pipelines are built on official documents and money is siphoned off. End-beneficiary is either totally unaware of the rip-off happening in his name or lends his name for a price. Major administrative reforms such as external scrutiny of claims and audit of work done are needed to clean up the system. While the implementing agency is the state government, the Union government is also at fault for weak monitoring of its schemes, said Jayram Venkatesan, convenor Arappor Iyakkam. As of now, except for occasional visits, that too up to only district headquarters, there is no connection between central government officials and those who had availed themselves of the Centre’s benefits. State officials have now mastered the art of taking officials at the Centre on conducted tours for a few days every year, in select locations, and escape from foolproof scrutiny of how central funds have been used. Using information technology tools, engaging external agencies to vet claims, auditing quality of work being claimed to have been done by state officials and holding specific state officials responsible for any fraud or quality issues are long overdue. Retired IAS officer M G Devasahayam said the overall atmosphere of corruption had ruined the state. Most Union schemes are rigidly framed, without giving any flexibility to the state government and district collectors in their implementation. Getting robust data ready is a prerequisite to stop embezzlement, he said. The CBI can take up a probe whenever a fraud involves central assets or funds. "Despite complaints of corruption in central schemes, the CBI is slow in taking action; it needs to be more proactive in tackling corruption," said Venkatesan. Not a single state official has been hauled up ever by the CBI for misuse and loot of central funds running into several thousand crores of rupees. Why is the Centre turning a blind eye?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/central-schemes-are-fodder-for-fraudsters-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/78882623.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil inscriptions from 15th Century hold lessons in maintaining water bodies||CHENNAI: Three Tamil inscription slabs belonging to the 15th and 17th century have been discovered near water bodies in Perungamanallur and Kanniyampatti, two remote villages 13km from Usilampatti. Epigraphists, who deciphered the inscriptions in old Tamil, said they recorded the purpose of the waterbody and tips on how to maintain it. Unlike today, water bodies got prominence in the social life of people centuries ago. Every village would maintain a water body. The inscription slabs are significant as they show how natural resources should be preserved. The three inscriptions are from different periods, the one found in Perungamanallur being the oldest dating to the 15th century. It was while organising a farming workshop for women in the village that Selva Preetha and her friends found the slab. "We first thought it was an ordinary rock. A close look revealed Tamil inscriptions on the edges of it. We soon turned it over and found inscriptions in 17 lines one after the other on it," said Selva Preetha, secretary of the village women’s welfare wing in Perungamanallur. With the help of S Vedaraj and Solai Babu, Preetha took photographs of the inscriptions. And it was the time she got to know about two other inscription slabs in Kanniyampatti, a village 2km from Perungamanallur. She sent all the pictures to rock art expert K T Gandhirajan, who has been surveying the Usilampatti region since lockdown. "During the reign of the ancient Pandya reign, the division of land for administrative convenience came under the category of Kottam. The inscriptions are found on the sluice stone pillars. This was common those days as water management was given top priority," said Gandhirajan. The management of water resources by kings was remarkable in Tamil Nadu. Chola king Karikalan built a dam on Cauvery, Raja Bhoja dug the largest man-made lake in India and emperor Ashoka created many water bodies. Senior archaeologist R Nagaswamy once said it was not just the popular kings but several rulers, chieftains and administrators across India built wells, step-wells, tanks, canals and dams. The inscriptions found on the slab in Perungamanallur reads that Srivallavan Idangai Nambi, one of the officer brigades of the "Kalla villikal" force, constructed the lake with his subordinate "Solalan Santhathanana Peraiyan from Kaduvett". His subordinate contributes one-fourth of the expenses for the tank construction. Even though the sluice stone pillars with inscriptions remain a mute spectator to the apathy of poor water management today, the villagers have decided to reinstall the slabs. "Even though the water body is there, it is poorly maintained. We are planning to reinstall the slabs to create awareness among people about the importance of natural resources," said Preetha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-inscriptions-from-15th-c-hold-lessons-in-maintaining-water-bodies/articleshow/78882634.cms||M T Saju
October 27, 2020||Goa||‘Bainguinim waste plant in final stages, do not create obstacles’||Panaji: A day after Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik opposed the setting up of a solid waste management facility at Bainguinim, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar appealed to him not to create obstacles when the project has reached the final stages. “We have fought and won all battles. We appeal to Shripad Naik to think of not only Panaji citizens, but the entire Tiswadi. The project will be beneficial to the entire taluka. Don’t bring obstacles now after the project has been tendered,” Madkaikar said. Opposing the plant Naik had said that many residents have put their life savings to buy property in the peaceful environment of the Kadamba plateau and that if the garbage project is completed then it will lead to pollution. Replying to this, Madkaikar said, “People knew the garbage plant would come up in the area and despite knowing this came to live in the area. When we acquired the land there was nothing there. It was a jungle area and in this area they built buildings.” He, however, assured residents of the area that the plant will come up “scientifically according to the directions of the high court” and will not cause residents in the area any inconvenience. “We have to follow the high court’s guidelines and the people need not fear. There is no smell emanating from the Saligao plant and this plant will be superior to the Saligao one,” he told reporters. He said that Panaji receives a floating population that is double its own population and as such doesn’t have a place to dump or treat waste. “We used to treat some waste at Campal ground, but the high court told us to clear the area. All Panjikars have their hopes set on Bainguinim. MLA Atanasio Monserrate pursued the matter and waste management minister Michael Lobo tendered it. After all this Shripad Naik is bringing obstacles,” he said. Madkaikar said that courts, including the NGT, have dismissed pleas of those who wanted to stall the project. Recently Old Goa residents called on Naik and Sawant and submitted a memorandum opposing the plant at Bainguinim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-waste-plant-in-final-stages-do-not-create-obstacles/articleshow/78863429.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||'Rs 32 lakh payment by Hansa to TV channel’||NEW DELHI: Police have found a payment of Rs 32 lakh to an English television channel that is at the centre of the TRP investigation by Hansa Research, the agency that was contracted by Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to install bar-o-meters in homes to gather viewership figures. Sources said it was quite strange that the research agency made a payment to the channel. “It should have been the other way considering the channel was using the services of Hansa Research,’’ an official said. Hansa Research officials said they were unaware of any such transaction. Police said even BARC is not aware of this transaction. BARC had given a contract to monitor the bar-o-meters to Hansa Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-32-lakh-payment-by-hansa-to-tv-channel/articleshow/78882647.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||From UAE, in NIA net||NEW DELHI: The NIA arrested Rabins K Hameed, allegedly a key link in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling racket in the UAE, on Monday. Rabins was taken into custody by NIA sleuths on arriving at Cochin International Airport at around 4.30 pm from Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-uae-in-nia-net/articleshow/78882649.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Tell us how you’ll make your content responsible: SC to Arnab||NEW DELHI: Chief Justice S A Bobde on Monday said he could not stand the kind of public discourse on TV channels these days and suggested they “become a little old fashioned”. Hearing the Maharashtra government’s appeal against a Bombay HC order staying investigations into alleged ‘hate speech’ content in a programme anchored by Arnab Goswami on Republic TV, a bench of CJI Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “As the Supreme Court, we are more concerned about peace and harmony in society. Nobody is immune from questioning. We cannot grant this immunity to anyone. But we can protect privacy and dignity.” “However, we want some sense of responsibility from you (Goswami). In a multi-cultural and multi-religious society in India, there are some ground rules which are not to be breached,” the bench said and asked Goswami to file an affidavit in two weeks detailing the steps he would take to make the broadcast on Republic TV more responsible. It also asked the Maharashtra government to give a list of offences for which it wants to prosecute Goswami. Goswami’s counsel Harish Salve maintained that the Maharashtra government was adopting a pick and choose policy to target the anchor. “The high court examined the FIR and the transcript of the allegedly offensive programme and said that though a few avoidable strong words were used, there was nothing that could be said to have constituted an offence under Section 153A of Indian Penal Code (disturbing communal harmony),” he said. However, Salve agreed with the bench on responsible journalism. “Society is fragile. We should not make statements to incite communal passion. But that does not mean what was said in the programme constituted an offence under Section 153A. If the criteria adopted by Maharashtra police to lodge the case against Goswami stands, then anyone covering communal riots or a caste conflagration would be liable to be punished under Section 153A,” he said. The Maharashtra government, through A M Singhvi, said no one could be above the law and certainly Goswami could not be treated as “an island or republic” in maintenance of rule of law. “How can a probe be stopped? I can understand protection from arrest,” he said. When the court said there was a culture of targeting someone and the certain someone surely needed additional protection, Singhvi said Maharashtra police would not arrest Goswami, would give him 48-hour notice to appear for questioning and that there would be no late night interrogation. The bench said, “We are contemplating protection. But even as supporters of free speech, one cannot say he cannot be questioned. Even after long periods of interrogation, the investigating officer may come across a question which he has not asked you.” Salve said Goswami was not denying making the statement in question. “So, what is the questioning required for? It will be decided by the trial court whether the statement in question constituted an offence under Section 153A,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tell-us-how-youll-make-your-content-responsible-sc-to-arnab/articleshow/78882655.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Monsoon withdrawal may cover Maharashtra today||MUMBAI: The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from the state began on Monday, announced the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The current withdrawal line passes through parts of northern Maharashtra and is expected to cover the rest of the state in the next 24 hours. This year, the monsoon withdrawal in the state and city was delayed due to two low pressure weather systems in the Bay of Bengal earlier this month. The official withdrawal date for the southwest monsoon over Mumbai was October 8. This is likely to be the most delayed withdrawal over the city in at least 10 years. "Monsoon has withdrawn from Vidarbha, parts of Marathwada, parts of North Madhya Maharashtra and North Konkan today (Monday). Withdrawal line passes through Dahanu, Nashik, Nanded and into Nalgaonda (Telangana) & further. Conditions are favourable for further withdrawal from most parts in the next 24 hours," said KS Hosalikar, deputy director, western region, IMD. The city's Colaba observatory recorded thundershowers late on Sunday night and 10.4mm rainfall between 8.30pm and 8.30am on Monday. The IMD has forecast dry days for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad at least until Friday. The weather bureau said the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from the entire country by October 28. "With likely setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels over Bay of Bengal and extreme south peninsular India, the southwest monsoon is likely to withdraw from entire country around October 28," said the IMD's weather inference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/monsoon-withdrawal-may-cover-maharashtra-today/articleshow/78882678.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Key accused in TRP scam likely to turn approver||MUMBAI: An accused in the TRP manipulation scam, Umesh Mishra, who was involved in making payments to households for keeping certain TV channels on, has agreed to turn approver, said a source. Mishra’s decision to turn approver is expected to bolster the prosecution’s case on rigging of TV viewership figures. It comes in the wake of four other suspects making confessional statements before a magistrate under CrPC 164. Mishra was arrested on October 16 on charges of distributing cash to households to influence TRPs. He was the fifth in a line of suspects to be nabbed, including the owners of two TV channels. In all, five channels including Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema are under probe for trying to boost TRPs, which are a key parameter used by mediabuying houses to determine placement of advertisements. Mishra was released on bail on Monday by the Esplanade Metropolitan Magistrate Court. Police did not seek his custody or object to his bail plea. Assistant inspector Sachin Vaze, the investigating officer in the case, declined to comment. An approver is a person involved in a crime who seeks pardon after expressing 'repentance'; he volunteers, without threat or coercion, to provide details of illegalities committed, which he has knowledge of. A trial judge can allow such an accused to turn approver. An approver does not have to face trial. He has to depose as prosecution witness and can be cross-examined by the defence. If he resiles from his earlier statement his pardon can be forfeited. The 37th Metropolitan magistrate, Sudhir Bhaijipale, granted Mishra cash bail of Rs 50,000 on sureties and directed that he visit the crime branch office once a week till filing of the charge sheet. The court rejected the bail applications of Bomepalli Mistry, Vinay Tripathi, Shirish Shetty and Narayan Sharma and sent them to judicial custody. Police have also summoned some investors in Republic TV on October 30 to record statements. Police in a remand application seeking custody of Abhishek Kolwade, the owner of a marketing company called Max Media, had said some of the accused in the scam have accepted money from “owners and directors” of three channels -- Maha Movie, Republic TV and New Nation. The court said it appears that Shetty and Sharma paid the money to Mistry to distribute to households. “They are ultimate beneficiaries in inflating number of viewers. ‘’ the court said, rejecting their bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-key-accused-in-trp-scam-likely-to-turn-approver/articleshow/78882682.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 27, 2020||Business||November 5 cutoff for banks to credit compound interest collected||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday informed the Supreme Court that by November 5 lending institutions must credit into the accounts of borrowers who had availed loans up to Rs 2 crore the compound interest collected during the six-month loan repayment moratorium period and then claim reimbursement from the Union government. “The central government has directed that all lending institutions shall give effect to the scheme and credit the (compound interest) amount calculated as per the scheme in the respective accounts of borrowers by November 5,” the finance ministry said in an affidavit. The SC had asked the government to explain the mechanism to implement its decision to waive interest on interest for the six-month moratorium period for those who had borrowed up to Rs 2 crore, including MSMEs. The Centre had said the benefit would be available to those who had availed the moratorium, paid their instalments or had partially availed the benefits. Read AlsoDidn’t skip EMIs during lockdown? Get cashback from your bank: GovernmentThe government on Friday spelt out the details of the waiver of interest on interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore where borrowers had taken moratorium during the lockdown and also made it clear that those who didn’t opt for it will get an ex gratia payment or a cashback.The ministry said, “Under the scheme, all lending institutions shall credit the difference between compound interest and simple interest in the respective accounts of eligible borrowers for the period between March 1 and August 31. The amount shall be credited by each of the lending institutions under the scheme irrespective of whether such eligible borrowers have fully availed, or partially availed or have not availed of the moratorium, which is deferment in payment of instalments. “After crediting the said amount in the respective accounts of eligible borrowers, the lending institutions would claim reimbursement from the central government through the nodal agency of State Bank of India as stipulated under the scheme,” it added. Read AlsoRelief on interest will flow to borrowers’ accounts as ex gratiaBanks are expected to put in place a portal on their website for redressal of any grievance regarding the ex-gratia payment. In the meantime, they will continue to charge interest in their regular manner. The ex-gratia payment credited to the customer account will be the relief on compound interestThe ministry said this decision was taken after “careful consideration, keeping in mind the overall economic scenario, the nature of borrowers, impact on the economy and such other factors as a policy decision earmarking the stipulated class of borrowers for grant of benefits.” Watch November 5 cutoff for banks to credit compound interest to borrowers: Centre to SC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/november-5-cutoff-for-banks-to-credit-compound-interest-collected/articleshow/78882694.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Stay on Maratha quota is causing miscarriage of justice, lift it: Maharashtra govt||MUMBAI: In its plea for vacation of the interim stay passed by Supreme Court on the implementation of Maratha quota in education and government jobs under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, Maharashtra government on Monday said that "the state is facing a volatile situation" as the law was "brought into force and implemented for the last two years". "The stay has caused irreparable loss and great miscarriage of justice to the Maratha community which is held to be socially, educationally and economically backward," said the state, and sought that it be lifted in "larger public interest". On September 9, the SC had stayed implementation of 12% Maratha quota in education and 13% in government jobs after referring to a larger bench the appeals against a 2019 Bombay high court judgment upholding the constitutional validity of the SEBC Act, 2018. The SC is scheduled to hear two applications-one by the Maharashtra government and the other by Maratha activist Vinod Patil, one of the conveners of the Maratha Kranti Morcha from Aurangabad -on Tuesday. The state, in a detailed application, submitted that the SC did not consider the fact that if the appeal is finally rejected, Maratha students, who have already taken admission for the academic year 2020-21, would lose that right. The state said that "the seats meant for SEBC students would be taken over by other students and admissions are not likely to be reversed," thus the "stay order has caused irreparable loss and injury to the community". The state also stated that though it had presented data to demonstrate that several states have exceeded the 50% quota limit even before the 10% reservation for Economically Weaker Section came into force last year, the SC did not factor this aspect while staying Maratha quota. It pointed out that in the Indra Sawhney judgment, the SC had put a 50% cap on reservation, but, at the same time, had said that in extraordinary situations, the limit can be exceeded. The state reiterated that the SEBC Act is "constitutionally valid and based on quantifiable data and recommendations made by the backward class commission", and hence is "warranted by extraordinary circumstances". The HC too, in its judgment, had accepted that there were exceptional circumstances to warrant this quota. But in its September 9 order, the SC bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said the Maratha community, which comprises 30% of Maharashtra's population "cannot be compared to marginalised sections of the society living in far flung and remote areas". It stayed the quota for 2020-21 saying the Bombay HC had "committed an error" in treating factors like social, educational and economic backwardness as extraordinary circumstances warranting relaxation of the 50% limit. The SC also said that providing reservation during pendency of appeal "will cause irreparable loss" to open category candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stay-on-maratha-quota-is-causing-miscarriage-of-justice-lift-it-maharashtra/articleshow/78882730.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 27, 2020||World||Amy Coney Barrett confirmed to US Supreme Court in Trump pre-election triumph||WASHINGTON: The US Senate confirmed conservative jurist Amy Coney Barrett as the Supreme Court's newest justice on Monday, delivering a landmark and controversial win for President Donald Trump just eight days before the election. The deeply divided chamber voted 52 to 48, largely along party lines in the Republican-controlled Senate, making Barrett the third Trump nominee to reach the high court and cementing a six-to-three conservative majority. Republican lawmakers broke into applause as the tally was read out, and the White House is also expected to celebrate the confirmation in the final run-up to the November 3 election, in which more than 60 million Americans have already voted. Watch Amy Coney Barrett confirmed as Supreme Court justice||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/amy-coney-barrett-confirmed-to-us-supreme-court-in-trump-pre-election-triumph/articleshow/78882732.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 567 new cases over two days; 15 lose battle||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 took 15 more lives and gripped 567 more persons in the past 48 hours. Both figures were the highest among all districts in the state. Among the new patients were Lucknow commissioner of police Sujeet Pandey, his wife and son. The family is in home quarantine under medical supervision. Continuing to work from home, the commissioner appealed to people to take all safety precautions. The 15 deaths—eight on Sunday and seven on Monday—accounted for one- third of the total casualties in UP. Similarly, 567 fresh infections included 310 on Sunday and 257 on Monday and were 15% of the total cases in the state. About 93% of the total 62,060 people infected since the outbreak have recovered. About 3,415 (6%) are still carrying the virus, while 864 (1.4%) died during treatment. Within the city, Rae Bareli Road recorded 29 cases on Monday, Gomtinagar 22, Talkatora 20, Indiranagar and Aliganj 19 each, Chowk 18, Madiaon, Jankipuram and Aashiana 15 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-567-new-cases-over-two-days-15-lose-battle/articleshow/78882745.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Fadnavis undergoing plasma therapy||MUMBAI: Former CM of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19, has received convalescent plasma therapy, one of the most contested forms of treatment for the viral infection. He received the first dose of 200ml plasma on Sunday and the second on Monday. ICMR has said that plasma therapy is likely to be omitted from standard treatment protocols for Covid-19 . Maharashtra, however, is carrying out a bigger plasma trial with a sample size of nearly 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fadnavis-undergoing-plasma-therapy/articleshow/78882783.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid testing rates slashed fourth time since March||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government has reduced the price cap for Covid-19 tests in private laboratories for the fourth time since the outbreak in March. With this, an RT-PCR test is now between Rs 1,800 and Rs 980, depending on the point of collection. The rate range earlier was Rs 2,000 to Rs 1,200 for the same categories. Thus, there has been a Rs 200 reduction across categories. State public health minister Rajesh Tope said the new rates were applicable from Monday. While Rs 980 will be the maximum cost that can be levied by pathological laboratories for collecting swabs from centres and processing them, charges for tests conducted through private labs at Covid-19 centres, hospitals and quarantine centres or even walk-ins at private labs have been capped at Rs 1,400. The rate for home collection of swabs has been brought down to Rs 1,800 from the earlier Rs 2,000. "Local authorities should ensure that the rates are followed and citizens do not have to pay more," said Tope. He also said that Maharashtra has consistency tried to cap prices of Covid-19 essentials, be it tests or even masks and diagnostic tools lie HR-CT scan. Tope said the rates were brought down to make it feasible for people to undertake tests in case they show symptoms and also because over the last few months the cost of PPE kits and test kits too have reduced and so private labs must pass on the benefits to the public. High testing rates have been seen as an obstacle by experts in getting more people to test for the virus and so there have been consistent demands to make testing cheaper so that more people across sections may avail of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-covid-testing-rates-slashed-fourth-time-since-march/articleshow/78882794.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 27, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 500 crore Sion hospital revamp plan, Opposition knives out over sole bid||MUMBAI: Redevelopment of the civic-run Sion Hospital is set to kick off with the BMC moving a Rs 513 crore proposal for phase 1 of development of a nursing college and residential quarters for doctors, nurses, other staff and hostel for undergraduate students. It involves construction of 14 lakh sq feet (approximately 32 acres). The proposal is part of 716 items on the standing committee agenda awaiting approval. The committee meeting scheduled for Monday has been put off to Thursday. The opposition is all ready to question the BMC on the proposal that has been delayed by 18 months as the administration sought to reduce the bid cost. "In the first instance, the administration received three bids of which one was non-responsive. The proposal expected to be detailed gives no reason why the bid was non-responsive. The lowest bid was 12% above estimated cost which BMC negotiated and brought down to 8.99%. However, for some inexplicable reason the bid was cancelled, and a second bid invited. Since no bids were received, this was extended and finally BMC got a single bid which is now 8.88% above the estimated cost. There is a delay, and the administration must explain why it did not negotiate further in the first instance and accepting a single bid is against Central Vigilance Commission norms," said BJP's Bhalchandra Shirsat. The single bid has been received from M/s Ahluwalia Contract (India) Ltd. The BMC has proposed to redevelop the entire hospital complex spread over two plots. In the first phase, the proposal is to build a 20-storey nursing college behind the medical college. It will have quarters for nurses and resident medical officers. Across the road, the hospital owns another plot that comprises quarters for doctors and other employees and a paraplegic foundation. The proposal is to build a hostel for undergraduate students, a transit accommodation for doctors and employees and the paraplegic foundation and then build permanent quarters which will comprise 2-BHK apartments. Sources said the first phase will be completed in three years. Thereafter, quarters that form part of the main complex will be razed and a new 1,900-bed single wing hospital will be built. Construction of the hospital building will be taken up in three phases so as not to disturb the running of the hospital that will continue operations all through. "The medical college building will be redeveloped in the last phase which will happen after 10-15 years as it is in relatively good condition," said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rs-500-crore-sion-hospital-revamp-plan-opposition-knives-out-over-sole-bid/articleshow/78882805.cms||Clara Lewis
October 27, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Dengue count rising but no fogging in many localities||LUCKNOW: Though dengue cases are rising in the city, Lucknow Municipal Corporation has failed to conduct adequate fogging, anti-larvae spraying and cleanliness of the most affected areas like Indiranagar, Gomtinagar and Faizullahganj. In fact, a blame game has begun between LMC and the health department over anti-larve drive. TimesViewThe city is already battling with Covid-19. The rise of dengue will complicate things further. Senior officials should intervene to resolve the dispute between health and LMC authorities and start anti-larvae spray at the earliest. In the meantime, the health department should launch a mass awareness campaign and LMC must step up cleaning and fogging drive on war-footing.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi claimed that fogging and cleanliness drives are being carried out regularly in affected areas, but anti-larve drive is stalled as of now because the solution required for it has not been provided by the health department. The health department, however, said that the LMC has been informed to approach the UP Medical Supplies Corporation for anti-larva chemical. “All agencies get material through the corporation and yet LMC is passing the buck,” said in charge of the vector borne diseases control unit Dr KP Tripathi. A reality check by TOI found garbage piles rotting at several places, unclean drains in many localities and water accumulation in a few areas. At most places residents complained of lack of adequate fogging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-dengue-count-rising-but-no-fogging-in-many-localities/articleshow/78882789.cms||---
October 27, 2020||India||Covid vaccine will be free for all: Minister||BHUBANESWAR: Everyone in the country will get Covid-19 vaccine free of cost, Union minister of state for animal husbandry and MSME Pratap Sarangi said in Balasore on Monday. Sarangi, who is the MP from Balasore, was campaigning for the bypoll in an assembly segment scheduled on November 3. “The prime minister has made it clear from the very beginning that vaccines will be provided free of cost in the entire country. Provision of funds has been made,” said Sarangi. Meanwhile, in Bhubaneshwar, Odisha health minister Naba Kishore Das said the state government is committed to universal vaccination for Covid-19 for all people in the state. Das, however, declined to comment on whether the state government will provide the vaccine for free in case the Centre doesn’t bear the cost. “Whenever a vaccine is available, we will ensure all in Odisha get it,” Das told TOI. On Sarangi’s comment that the vaccine will be available free of cost, Das said: “It is the prime minister or the Union health minister who should make such an assurance to the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-will-be-free-for-all-minister/articleshow/78882811.cms||Ashok Pradhan
October 27, 2020||India||Kamal Nath violated poll code, says EC||NEW DELHI: Election Commission on Monday held that former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath’s ‘item’ remark against state minister and BJP candidate for Dabra assembly bypoll Imarti Devi, had violated the poll panel’s advisory dated April 29, 2019, asking “political parties and candidates to refrain from any deeds/action/utterances that may be construed as being repugnant to the honour and dignity of women”. It advised the senior Congress member not to use “any such word or statement during the period of model code of conduct”. EC’s order came despite Kamal Nath’s denial of any malice or intent to disrespect Imarti Devi in his response to the commission’s notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kamal-nath-violated-poll-code-says-ec/articleshow/78882859.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Colleges, universities to also open post Diwali in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Like schools, the state government is considering the option of starting oncampus education in colleges and universities as well. This will reduce online education in institutions of higher education amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, state education minister said, “As the government is intently considering starting regular schooling for students from class IX to XII, there is no reason for keeping colleges and universities closed for an indefinite period of time. College and university students are adults and know how to take precautions against coronavirus.” At present, about 20 lakh students of 2,000 colleges and 45 universities are being educated through the online medium only. Colleges and universities have already demanded that they be allowed to resume on-campus education. On the basis of guidelines issued by the government of India, the state government is planning to resume on-campus education in schools from November 23. The minister said that the state government will shortly initiate consultations with associations of universities and colleges and begin the exercise of drafting a standard operating procedure (SOP) for starting on-campus education in colleges and universities post Diwali. Final decision after considering all safety aspects, govt clarifiesHowever, a final decision in this regard will be taken after due consideration of all aspects of safety of students,” Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, state education minister clarified. Associations of colleges and teachers have welcomed the move. Sudhir Nanavati, president, Gujarat Higher Education College Association, said that at a time when all other activities are being opened, higher education also ought to be. “It is not possible to study everything online. On-campus education is required. The USA and other countries have adopted a model where both oncampus and online education is done simultaneously. If the government is considering having on-campus education for class IX to XII students, then on-campus education should definitely be held for college and university students,” Nanavati said. Digvijaysinh Gohil of Gujarat State College Teachers Association also supported the idea of beginning on-campus education in colleges. “Life will begin to limp back to normal and students too will come out of Covid-related trauma. In either case, young people move all over the place. They can as well attend college,” Gohil said. Gujarat college principal association president, Jayvantsinh Sarvaiya said that physical examinations have been conducted in colleges and universities with no complaints, and regular classes can begin in colleges now. He added that most colleges and universities have however told the government that the odd-even system (calling 50% of students on alternate days to the campus) is not feasible, as the class size in colleges is large. “Regular classes and online classes can be held simultaneously,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/colleges-universities-to-also-open-post-diwali-in-gujarat/articleshow/78882864.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 27, 2020||India||BJP politician Twitter account suspended, later restored||CHENNAI: The TN BJP’s IT wing retrieved on Monday the Twitter account of Gayathri Raghuram after the US microblogging site had suspended it on Sunday for violating its rules. The party’s art and cultural wing president had posted a series of tweets relating to the row over VCK leader Thol Thirumavalan’s statement on ‘Manusmriti’. Her account (@gayathriraguram), which has 3.69 lakh followers, including several senior BJP netas, was suspended Sunday morning. “Twitter suspends accounts that violate the Twitter Rules,” the page said. The party’s state IT cell president C T R Nirmal Kumar had earlier said, “We will take necessary steps to retrieve her account.” Raghuram’s account was restored at about 3.51 pm on Monday, following which she posted a message, “...I will always come back stronger.” Her account was also suspended briefly last year for her posts on caste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-politician-twitter-account-suspended-later-restored/articleshow/78882867.cms||---
October 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sanitiser industry booms in Gujarat post Covid||AHMEDABAD: With massive jump in demand of hand sanitisers post Covid-19 outbreak, more and more companies ventured into making this personal hygiene product. As a result, 319 new plants for hand-sanitisers have been constructed across Gujarat since April this year. Among them, the maximum units are for cosmetic hand sanitisers. “The Gujarat FDCA approved construction plans for a total 350 plants in the pharmaceutical space since April. Of these, majority are for manufacturing hand sanitisers,” said Dr HG Koshia, commissioner, Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA), Gujarat. Out of the total new plants built for hand sanitisers, the cosmetic segment accounted for 226 units, followed by ayurvedic (86) and allopathic (7). As per the norms, a new pharma plant’s construction plan is required to be approved by the state drug regulator. “Apart from these, 23 new plants for producing medical grade oxygen have also been approved. While construction of only 8 plants for bulk drugs, formulations and other drugs has been granted permission since April,” Koshia added. According to the drug commissioner, some of the companies that built new plants for hand sanitisers also include names such as Marico, Asian Paints, Rekvina Pharmaceuticals, Fresio Herbals, Gujarat Lifescience Private Ltd and Aariva Pharma Products. “Initially, it was a challenge to ensure adequate supply of sanitisers. However, entrepreneurs in Gujarat turned the adversity into an opportunity with the active support of the state government in terms of policy decisions,” he said. Leaving behind the days of acute shortage, the state now has a hand sanitiser production capacity of over 2 crore litres per day (LPD). With the demand for hand sanitiser shooting through the roof, several biggies such as Zydus Wellness, Adani Wilmar, Eris Lifesciences, Cadila Pharma and Nivea India among many others dabbled into hand sanitizer production. Many pharma firms began handsanitizer production at their existing units also. Gujarat now has 613 hand sanitiser manufacturers, the number was 228 before the Covid-19 outbreak, shows the data compiled by Gujarat FDCA shows. These manufacturers have cumulatively been issued 4,775 product licences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sanitizer-industry-booms-in-gujarat-post-covid/articleshow/78882874.cms||Kalpesh Damor
