October 28, 2020||Business||Flipkart-Aditya Birla Fashion proposed deal violates government's FDI policy: CAIT||NEW DELHI: Traders' body CAIT on Tuesday raised objections over Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail's plans to raise Rs 1,500 crore by issuing 7.8 per cent stake to Walmart-owned Flipkart Group, alleging that the proposed deal violates the government's FDI policy. The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) wrote to commerce minister Piyush Goyal in this regard urging him to prohibit Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (ABFRL) from directly or indirectly selling its inventory on the marketplace platforms owned/controlled by the Flipkart Group. It also requested the minister "to not allow the proposed FDI unless they undertake that ABFRL will not be selling its inventory through any of the marketplace platforms owned/controlled by Walmart-owned Flipkart Group". ABFRL did not immediately offer any comment. Last week, ABFRL said its board approved the proposed stake sale. ABFRL said it plans to use this capital to strengthen its balance sheet and accelerate its growth trajectory. The company said it has also entered into a commercial agreement in relation to the sale and distribution of its various brands. The transaction is subject to regulatory and other customary approvals. "In its filing to the stock exchange, a clear intent to make ABFRL a preferred seller on the marketplaces owned and operated by Flipkart Group is shown which strictly violates the policy of the government," CAIT said in the letter to Goyal. The traders' body stated that the present FDI policy clearly prohibits a foreign company to venture in any forms of multi-brand retail trading (MBRT) including through e-commerce by having any equity interests in the sellers on the market-platform, or directly/indirectly controlling their inventory through side agreements, or under the garb of B2B e-commerce. It said the "restrictive provisions in FDI policy, through press note 2 of 2018, were made to protect the small traders/kirana shopkeepers and Indian industry from the onslaught of capital duping by foreign multinational companies and any violation of such provision must be strictly dealt with".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-aditya-birla-fashion-proposed-deal-violates-governments-fdi-policy-cait/articleshow/78899788.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||With double budget and better planning…#DurgaPuja2021 will get bigger and better, say organisers||It was indeed a different kind of Puja this year, held amidst the pandemic with great care and caution. With smaller idols, open pandals and restricted visitors, Puja organisers had to celebrate Bengal’s biggest festival with minimum rituals and zero glamour to defeat the Coronasura. Though it was a bit disappointing for them, they are hopeful that things will be much better in 2021 and Durga Puja will get bigger and better next year. “The way we’ve started planning, our budget will be more than double next year. There will be a bigger pandal, idol and lights,” said Abhinava Dey from Beliaghata 33 Palli Adhibashi Brindo. The organisers will start working on sponsorships from March itself. Online streaming to continue According to these organisers, the biggest gift of 2020 was the Puja going digital. Due to the present situation, every club — big and small — used the social media platforms to reach out to the audiences. “Next year, we have to allocate a part of our budget for digital streaming along with other expenses. We are happy that our Puja is getting bigger this way,” said Shubhra Das from Bhawanipore 71 Palli. Preparations start early The clubs have already started talking to various artists. “Every year, the Puja parikrama and competitions are over by Shashthi and awards are declared on Saptami. On Dashami, we visit a few select pandals. Then depending on the budget, we decide which artist to approach next. The club members have already started that discussion,” informed Pradyumna Mukherjee from 66 palli. By January, the clubs lock the theme and from May or June clubs start working on sponsorships. Abhishek Bhattacharjee from Behala Natun Sangha said that the first step of organising a Puja is to choose an artist. “Getting an artist is like getting the best player for the team. Just the way football clubs run after big players, we also try to hire the best artist around. If we succeed, half the battle is won,” Abhishek said. Several offers for artists Rintu Das, who became a household name after conceptualising the migrant worker Durga Puja at Barisha Club this year has already got more than 10 offers. He said, “For artists like us, this is the time for a vacation and I will enjoy the next seven days in leisure. I will decide something after Lakshmi Puja.” Celebrated artist Bhabatosh Sutar, who decorated Suruchi Sangha and Naktala Udayan this year, has also got several offers but has decided to take some time off before making any decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-double-budget-and-better-planningdurgapuja2021-will-get-bigger-and-better-say-organisers/articleshow/78900410.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
October 28, 2020||India||5G networks would be hobbled without optimal spectrum allocations, telecom majors tell parliamentary panel||NEW DELHI: Spectrum allocation for 4G networks in India is woefully low and if a similar approach is followed while allocating 5G spectrum, it will serve as a major handicap for telecom operators, VodaIdea, Airtel and Jio told the parliamentary standing committee on information technology during its meeting on Tuesday. Appearing before the Shashi Tharoor-led panel on IT, the three telecom majors, while presenting their views on ‘India’s preparedness for 5G’, also told the House panel that India’s regulatory systems are way behind other countries, even as pricing of spectrum is significantly higher. Raising "financial viability issues" in the Indian market, the companies told the house panel that while India charges Rs 490 crore per Mega Hertz (MH) of spectrum, the corresponding rates in Austria and Germany are Rs 7 crore and Rs 10 crore, respectively. However, telecom secretary Anshu Prakash and telecom regulatory authority (TRAI) chairman PD Vaghela argued that spectrum pricing in India cannot be compared to European nations because of the sheer size of India’s geography and population. In light of the recent build-up in border tensions with China, members of the standing committee on IT also sought to know from the government whether China would be allowed to participate in the spectrum allocation process. To this, while the government skirted the issue of an outright "ban" on Chinese participation, it is understood to have told the panel that China, like other neighbouring countries that share borders with India, will have to go through "extra rounds of procedures" to participate, which is likely to make them ineligible to apply. Sources said the committee decided on Tuesday to hold another round of consultations with the telecom companies and the government before collating its own views and recommendations on the subject of 5G and submitting a report to Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5g-networks-would-be-hobbled-without-optimal-spectrum-allocations-telecom-majors-tell-parliamentary-panel/articleshow/78900768.cms||Swati Mathur
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||The Devi gets an emotional farewell in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Lucknowites bid an emotional farewell to Goddess Durga on Monday. The six-day puja festivities ended with women participating enthusiastically in Sindoor khela, celebrating the bidaai of their devi by smearing each other’s faces with vermilion. Sindoor Khela at the Trans Gomti Puja pandal (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Sindoor Khela at the Trans Gomti Puja pandal (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Ladies applying sindoor to each other (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)At Bengali Club, a hundred and five year-old tradition was broken by devi visarjan being performed in the club premises. The goddess was bid farewell by girls performing the dhanuchi dance to the beats of the dhaki and the women performing the puja. Tuhin Bannerjee (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Ladies performing the last puja of the idol at the Bengali Club (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Girls performed the dhanuchi dance at the Bengali Club to bid farewell to the devi (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)“This year, keeping in mind the restrictions die to Covid-19, we did the visarjan in the club itself,” informed Arun Kumar Bannerjee, the president of the club. Young girls performed dhanuchi dance (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)President Arun Kumar Bannerjee also danced in the procession taken out in the club before the visarjan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/the-devi-gets-an-emotional-farewell-in-lucknow/articleshow/78898016.cms||---
October 28, 2020||India||Mike Pompeo attacks China, Rajnath Singh says ‘challenged by reckless aggression’||NEW DELHI: India and the US sealed a growing relationship by inking the last foundational agreement to exchange geospatial intelligence which brings defence systems closer and strengthens a compact that now spans a wide spectrum from health, science and technology and education and is undergird by a shared alarm over China’s increasing military and economic aggression. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo did not hesitate to name China and said, “US leaders and citizens see with increasing clarity that the Chinese Communist Party is no friend to democracy, the rule of law and transparency.” Defence minister Rajnath Singh too did not mince words when he said India was being “challenged by reckless aggression on our northern borders”. At the third ‘2+2’ meeting between foreign and defence ministers, India and the US signed five agreements, but more importantly signalled the two countries are cutting across a swathe of sectors to work together despite the occasional remarks of US President Donald Trump on trade and more recently on the quality of India’s air. The signing of the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for GeoSpatial Cooperation (BECA), along with the previous GSOMIA, LEMOA and COMCASA, makes India a close strategic partner of the US even in the absence of a formal alliance. Pompeo and US defence secretary Mark Esper also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi who said, “Our comprehensive global strategic partnership stands on a firm foundation of shared principles and common strategic interests.” In his initial remarks, foreign minister S Jaishankar, in an oblique reference to China, said, “The ability of India and the US to work closely in defence and foreign policy has a larger resonance. Together, we can make a real difference when it comes to regional and global challenges, whether it is in respecting territorial integrity, promoting maritime awareness, countering terrorism or ensuring prosperity.” A joint statement welcomed the “growing understanding on the Indo-Pacific among like-minded countries”. It reaffirmed that closer India-US cooperation would “support shared interests in promoting security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond”. In his opening remarks, Pompeo said India and the US were “cooperating on defeating the pandemic that originated in Wuhan, to confronting the Chinese Communist Party’s threats to security and freedom, to promoting peace and stability throughout the region”. The joint statement also reaffirmed convergences in the fight against terrorism. “The ministers called on Pakistan to take immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators and planners of all such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai, Uri and Pathankot.” The statement mentioned that visas, a point of contention, would be discussed as part of the consular dialogue. Countering China’s Belt and Road Initiative, India and the US will undertake joint projects in the Indo-Pacific region. “Recognising the need to contain the build-up of sovereign debt in developing and low-income countries by ensuring responsible, transparent and sustainable financing practices,” the joint statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mike-pompeo-attacks-china-rajnath-singh-says-challenged-by-reckless-aggression/articleshow/78901628.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 28, 2020||India||India nears 8 million cases, but spread slowing||NEW DELHI: Covid cases in India were just a few thousand short of the 8-million mark even as the number of fresh infections recorded on Tuesday, 42,704, was the second lowest since July 21 when 38,444 patients tested positive. A day earlier, the country had recorded its lowest daily tally in 101 days with 36,604 cases. While Tuesday’s tally is higher than the previous day’s by 6,000-plus cases, it is for the first time in over three months that the figures have remained low on a day other than a Monday when cases drop because of low testing on Sundays. India’s caseload set to breach the 8-million mark todayWith Tuesday’s numbers, the country’s Covid caseload was 79,89,356, just about 10,000 short of the 8-million mark that is sure to be breached on Wednesday. While the last million cases came in 18 days, it took just 13 to reach from six million to seven million. This denotes that the spread of the virus has clearly slowed down. After recording deaths below 500 for two consecutive days, India recorded 509 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the cumulative toll to 1,20,005. However, barring Sunday and Monday — when 489 and 490 deaths were recorded, respectively — Tuesday’s toll was the lowest since the July 12 tally of 492. Active cases continued to slide and stood at 6,14,197. Fresh cases in Maharashtra rose by 5,363 after a dip on Monday when new less than 4,000 new infections were recorded. After a day of reporting less than 100 deaths, the daily toll was back to triple digits with 115 fresh deaths on Tuesday. Watch India nears 8 million cases, but spread slowing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-nears-8-million-cases-but-spread-slowing/articleshow/78901869.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Business||FB’s controversial senior executive Ankhi Das quits||NEW DELHI: Ankhi Das, the senior Facebook executive who was caught in a raging controversy recently over allegations of political bias in the running of Facebook and WhatsApp in India, has quit the American social media giant. Das, who had joined Facebook in 2011 when it started gaining in global scale and was also expanding in India, leaves the company with immediate effect. The departure, which is being portrayed as a routine exit, comes after she faced allegations of meddling with Facebook’s content moderation policy in order to favour the governing dispensation. Das had been in charge of Facebook’s public policy and government initiative for India, South and Central Asia regions, and was often the face of the company in interactions with the government and regulators. "Ankhi has decided to step down from her role in Facebook to pursue her interest in public service. Ankhi was one of our earliest employees in India and played an instrumental role in the growth of the company and its services over the last 9 years," Ajit Mohan, MD of Facebook India, said in a statement. Mohan said Das had been part of his leadership team over the last two years, a role in which he credited her with making enormous contributions. "We are grateful for her service and wish her the very best for the future." Das, who in August had filed a police complaint after receiving "violent threats" to her life, said she "decided to step down" in order to "pursue my personal interest in public service". "There is an enormous amount I have learnt from incredibly smart and talented people in the company, particularly from people on the policy team... Thank you, Mark (Zuckerberg) for creating something beautiful for the world. I hope I have served you and the company well," she said. Facebook has faced a series of controversies in India, from failing to rein in fake news (on WhatsApp) that was blamed for a series of lynching incidents; vendor Cambridge Analytica’s data breach (where a CBI inquiry is on); refusal to share origins of hate messaging on WhatsApp (over its encryption rules); and the recent allegations of bias and ignoring hate speech. Controversies around Das first erupted around the year 2016 when regulator Trai opposed Facebook’s controversial "Free Basics" platform on the grounds that it may be against the tenets of net neutrality. Das had been instrumental in pushing the Free Basics platform in discussions with Trai and the government, and this had also seen the social media giant start a public campaign in support of its program. However, it had to abandon the move after getting a cold response from the government. A few months ago, Das was accused of opposing application of Facebook’s hate-speech rules against BJP and other right-wing leaders. In some quarters, she was also accused of posting messages in support of BJP for several years on a Facebook group of the company's employees. The issue was also highlighted by the opposition, with Congress demanding a joint parliamentary committee probe. The matter came to light after a report in the Wall Street Journal. Facebook’s India chief Mohan then issued a statement saying the company denounced hate and bigotry in any form. Even BJP criticised Facebook, with telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad writing to FB founder Mark Zuckerberg in September, accusing the company’s employees of "on record abusing" Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior Cabinet ministers and engaging in "collusion… to cast aspersions on the democratic process of our great democracy". "It seems from credible media reports that Facebook India team, right from the India managing director to other senior officials, is dominated by people who belong to a particular political belief. People from this political predisposition have been overwhelmingly defeated by the people in successive free and fair elections. After having lost all democratic legitimacy, they are trying to discredit India’s democratic process by dominating the decision-making apparatus of important social media platforms. Facebook is the latest tool in their arsenal to stoke internal divisions and social disturbances," Prasad wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fbs-controversial-senior-executive-ankhi-das-quits/articleshow/78901901.cms||Pankaj Doval
October 28, 2020||India||Pulwama kingpin and Hizbul chief among 18 based in Pakistan listed as ‘designated terrorist’||NEW DELHI: The home ministry on Tuesday listed 18 terrorists based in Pakistan – including key 26/11 attack conspirators, Indian Mujahideen brass, Dawood Ibrahim aides wanted for 1993 Mumbai blasts, besides Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudeen and Jaish e Mohammad No. 2 Abdul Rauf Asghar – as “designated terrorists” under Schedule 4 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Among the key names added to Schedule 4 of UAPA are key conspirator behind 2001 Parliament attack and more recently the Pulwama terror attack Rauf Asghar; Hizbul Mujahideen chief and head of United Jihad Council Syed Salahuddin; Dawood aide Chhota Shakeel, wanted in 104 criminal cases; and founder of Indian Mujahideen Riyaz Bhatkal wanted for a series of bomb blasts across the country between 2008 and 2010. Schedule 4 was added to UAPA in August 2019 as part of Narendra Modi government’s ‘zero tolerance’ approach to terror. Home minister Amit Shah, guided by “iron-willed” leadership of PM Modi, has unequivocally reaffirmed the nation’s resolve to fight terrorism, the home ministry said on Tuesday. Key 26/11 accused and Lashker e Toiba operatives based in Pakistan – Sajid Mir, one of the main planners behind the 2008 Mumbai siege; commander of LeT operations in J&K Yousuf Muzammil Butt; and LeT chief Hafiz Saeed’s brother-in-law and head of LeT political affairs Abdur Rehman Makki – now stand designated as “terrorists” under UAPA. Both Mir and Makki were earlier designated as ‘Specially Designated Global Terrorists’ by the US. Another LeT name in the updated Schedule 4 is Shahid Mehmood Rehmatullah, deputy chief of proscribed LeT arm Falah-i-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF). Key accused in Kandahar hijack case of 1999 – in which Maulana Masood Azhar was freed as part of a hostage-swap deal, followed by his founding Jaish e Mohammad – designated as terrorists on Tuesday include Rauf Asghar, who is also brother of Masood. Rauf, involved in setting up of training camps in Pakistan for recruitment and militant training, was the key conspirator in 2001 Parliament attack and, more recently, the Pulwama attack that killed 40 CRPF personnel. Ibrahim Athar and Yusuf Azhar, both involved in the Kandahar hijacking, have also been enlisted as individual terrorists. Apart from Hizbul chief Syed Salahudeen, his deputy Ghulam Nabi Khan alias Saifullah Khalid and the outfit’s finance head Zaffar Hussain Bhat alias Khursheed, were named as designated terrorists. Zafar was last week chargesheeted by NIA in the Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case. Top Indian Mujahideen terrorists based in Pakistan Riyaz Bhatkal, who as per an NIA chargesheet had escaped to Pakistan in March 2009 with ISI's help, and Shabandri Mohammad Iqbal alias Iqbal Bhatkal, are also now designated as terrorists. Four aides of Dawood Ibrahim -- Chhota Shakeel who looks after all criminal and underworld operations of D-Company; Mohammad Anis Shaikh who supplied arms, ammunition and hand grenades and was involved in 1993 blasts; Tiger Memon who hatched the 1993 blasts conspiracy; and Javed Chikna – figure in the updated list of designated terrorists . Others in the list are 2002 Akshardham temple attack accused Farhatullah Ghori and Shahid Latif, JeM’s Commander of Sialkot sector involved in launching of JeM terrorists into India including those behind 2016 Pathankot attack. With 18 new additions, Schedule 4 of UAPA now has 31 designated terrorists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pulwama-kingpin-and-hizbul-chief-among-18-based-in-pakistan-listed-as-designated-terrorist/articleshow/78901977.cms||Bharti Jain
October 28, 2020||India||Z+ cover based on threat, not paying capacity, says Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking withdrawal of Z-plus security cover to the Ambani brothers and their family members but frowned upon the Bombay High Court’s view that police should provide high level security to those who perceived a threat to their life and were willing to pay for it. A special leave petition by Himanshu Agarwal challenged a Bombay HC order dismissing his PIL, by which he had sought withdrawal of Z-plus security cover to the Ambani brothers and their family members on the ground that they were rich enough to arrange for their own security instead of the state providing it by spending from the public exchequer. The HC had said, "It is the duty of the state to ensure maintenance of law and order which includes providing security to such citizens who require the same to protect their lives. The revenue of Reliance Industries Limited corporation has a substantial impact on India's GDP. The threat perception of these private individuals cannot be lightly ignored to deny protection to their lives. Once a threat from (a) terrorist organisation has been found by the respondent state, private respondent's family members to have security protection of the highest category to protect their life and limb cannot be alleged as lacking in substance." Times ViewThe Supreme Court has raised a vital question: who’s Z plus security for? And why? The state should come up with a satisfying answer. The state should provide security on the basis of threat evaluations and not as a status symbol, which often seems to be the case.Agarwal, through counsel Karan Bharihoke, told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah that extension of Z-plus security to private persons "without any concrete proof of any real threat to them indicates an element of favouritism which is uncalled for, considering the fact that the same constituted a part of central government's resources”. Read AlsoKangana Ranaut gets Y+ category: All you want to know about X, Y and Z security categoryNEW DELHI: Kangana Ranaut has been given Y-plus category security and will be protected by about 10 armed commandos, the Union Home Ministry announced on Monday. Ranaut, who had said she feared Mumbai Police after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and likened the Maharashtra capital toThe bench looked for the state counsel but no one was present. Appearing for the respondents, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said there was a threat perception to the industrialists and their families. "We are paying for the cost of security cover extended to us by the government," Rohatgi said. Bharihoke responded, "It is a personal perception about threat to life. For the state to provide security cover, there has to be some reasonable relation between the threat and security cover." The bench asked, "If any citizen perceives a threat to his life and is willing to bear the cost of the security cover, should the state provide it? When was the last time the threat perception to the respondent was reviewed by the state? We don't want to approve that the state should provide security cover to private individuals, if he/she has the capacity to pay for it." The bench dismissed the appeal, but said the state would periodically review the threat perception to the Ambanis and take appropriate measures towards providing them security. Rohatgi said the Ambanis were ready to pay for it. The bench said, "We have no doubt you can pay for it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/z-cover-based-on-threat-not-paying-capacity-says-sc/articleshow/78902048.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 28, 2020||Business||Loans against FDs, bonds, shares out of interest relief plan; credit card dues eligible||MUMBAI: Loans against fixed deposits, bonds and shares will not be eligible for relief under the government scheme for an ‘ex gratia’ payment to borrowers of up to Rs 2 crore. However, in the case of credit card dues, the government has clarified that the outstanding as on February 29 will be eligible for relief. The government on Tuesday released FAQs (frequently asked questions) on its scheme to provide ex gratia payment for the difference between simple and compound interest for borrowers of up to Rs 2 crore. This is available for the period of moratorium (March 1 to August 31, 2020) announced by the RBI. The FAQs clarify that for calculating the Rs 2-crore loan amount limit, banks will take into account all borrowings and not just a single loan. Read AlsoDidn’t skip EMIs during lockdown? Get cashback from your bank: GovernmentThe government on Friday spelt out the details of the waiver of interest on interest on loans up to Rs 2 crore where borrowers had taken moratorium during the lockdown and also made it clear that those who didn’t opt for it will get an ex gratia payment or a cashback.While the moratorium relief was available for only those borrowers who did not have any overdue payments, the government’s ex gratia payment is available to even special mention accounts — or those that have overdues for less than 90 days, but are not non-performing assets. For payment to credit card holders, the relief will be calculated using the interest rate charged by the bank for converting outstandings into EMIs and not the rate charged to those who revolve their balances. According to bankers, loans against securities are not eligible as these are used by traders to take leveraged positions in the market. The relief will be available on MSME loans, and loans for education, housing, consumer durables and automobiles. Other consumption loans — including personal loans, credit card dues and loans to professionals — are also covered. The FAQs state that lenders will assess the total loan outstanding of a borrower based on information available with them as well as the information that is accessible from credit information bureaus. What this means is that if a borrower has a home loan of Rs 1.5 crore, an education loan of Rs 50 lakh and an auto loan of Rs 10 lakh, his total borrowing will be reckoned to be over Rs 2 crore from the banking system. Read Also90% borrowers didn’t defer EMI: SBI to Supreme CourtState Bank of India told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that 90% of borrowers did not avail the moratorium till Aug 31 on repayment of loans through EMI to question the brouhaha caused by PILs over waiver of interest on interest accrued on deferred EMIs. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, "...theIn respect of education loans, housing loans, automobile loans, personal loans to professionals and consumer loans, the rate of interest to be applied for calculating the differential interest component shall be the contracted rate as specified in loan agreements documentation applicable as on February 29, 2020. In case where no interest is being charged on equated monthly instalments for a specified period, for relief, interest may be applied at MCLR/ base rate as the case may be.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/loans-against-fds-bonds-shares-out-of-relief-plan/articleshow/78900829.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Gmada sells 57 residential sites in e-auction, earns Rs 417 crore||MOHALI: A residential site measuring 500 square yards in Aerocity fetched Rs 1.93 crore while a booth in Sector 61 went for Rs 1.15 crore as Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) fetched Rs 417 crore by selling its 57 sites in an e-auction concluded late in the night on Monday. Gmada had offered a total of 113 commercial and residential sites worth Rs 800 crore, out of which only 57 sites worth Rs 417 crore were auctioned. The residential plot of 500 square yards which fetched Rs 1.93 crore had a reserve price of Rs 1.40 crore and was auctioned for just Rs 53 lakh and a booth fetched Rs 38 lakh more than the reserve price of Rs 77 lakh to be sold at Rs 1.15 crore. The e-auction was held after a gap of eight months from October 10 to 26 after Gmada slashed the reserve price by 10%. However, Gmada had further offered a rebate of 10% if the successful bidders deposit the full amount within 60 days of the e-auction end date. The last auction for properties was held in February this year when Gmada managed to sell 32 out of the 67 sites after offering a rebate of 20% in reserve prices. Gmada offered a total of 22 residential sites out of which it managed to sell 14 sites and out of a total of 32 commercial sites, it sold 28 booths. A hospital site measuring 16320 square yards in Aerocity went for Rs 49 crore against a reserve price of Rs 24 crore, said a senior officer. A group housing society in Sector 77 went for Rs 97 crore against the reserve price of Rs 45 crore. A commercial site in Aerocity measuring 4 acres went for Rs 116 crore against the reserve price of Rs 83 crore. Gmada even sold seven IT sites, for which the calculations are yet to be done. There were no takers for a school site in Eco City and four hotel sites in various parts of Mohali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmada-sells-57-residential-sites-in-e-auction-earns-rs-417crore/articleshow/78900987.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 28, 2020||Patna||BJP boat in W Champaran may get rocked||BETTIAH: Erected and reigning steady on the ruins of the Congress’s edifice, the BJP’s safe citadel of West Champaran seems shaken with its Brahmin foundation trembling like quicksand. Confusion, astonishment and even anger has erupted among the saffron party’s steadfast Brahmin support base that feels upset with the BJP’s ‘Brahmin-mukt’ list of nominees in the district. “Been se poochin dahi ke haal, Yadav se poochin machri ke haal (Ask a fisherman about curd and a Yadav about fish),” former district BJP chief Ganga Pandey quipped as he took this reporter’s call from beside his wife’s mortal remains, waiting for his son to arrive from Chandigarh to perform the last rites on Saturday. A lifelong active party worker, politics in this poll season played on Pandey’s mind even in his hour of bereavement. “Kehu brahman layak naikhe? (No Brahmin is able?),” he asked in apparent reference to a social media post by a Brahmin candidate from Chanpatia. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal had, however, told this reporter on Saturday: “My DP was lifted and a mischievous, false quote was pasted and shared. We have filed an FIR.” The party elder in bereavement responded: “Oohey ta, Sanjay aisan galat baat naa karihan... jila me ek se ek vidwaan Brahman ba. (Yes, Sanjay will never utter such false things. There are plenty of Brahmin intellectuals in the district)...We are selfless workers, I am quiet” he said. “I’ve known adhyaksh ji (Jaiswal) for 35 years. He cannot make such a statement,” Babuaji Dubey, another Brahmin BJP leader, said though in a caveat. “Yes, denial of even a single ticket to Brahmins has been unfair. This may adversely impact the poll verdict,” Dubey said, calling the campaign tough. Sanjay Pandey, another former district chief, said: “Bhaari chook (Grave mistake).” That the BJP’s boat has been rocked in waters where it sailed smooth reflects in village and street-side chats that is fanned by social media posts. A few go back almost four decades in time when Madan Prasad Jaiswal, the Bihar BJP chief’s late father, had walked the streets of Bettiah in chains which symbolised political dominance of Brahmins. Jaiswal senior had predated Mandal in quest of social justice and to chart his own political future. Jaiswal junior has emulated his father’s three terms in the Lok Sabha. “There is an obvious mischief. Both my late father and I have had amiable relations with all sections of society,” he told this newspaper, negating allegations of diminishing Brahmins. “In 2015, we did not have a single Brahmin candidate in East Champaran where we have fielded one from Govindganj. The party has been fair in ticket distribution. In 2015, we had 13 Brahmin nominees out of 157. This time, we have fielded 15 Brahmins out of 110,” he said. State BJP vice-president Shailendra Mishra, who was reportedly a front-runner for Chanpatia seat, said: “There is no rebellion. Brahmins are with BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-boat-in-w-champaran-may-get-rocked/articleshow/78898464.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
October 28, 2020||Surat||Thieves outsmarted tech to target electronics showroom||Surat: This is a classic example where technology tripped in a maze of its own network. While the alarm did go off as is wont, but the message of theft got lost in translation. And thieves could merrily decamp with their booty from an electronics showroom located exactly in front of Varachha police station!Despite having the latest alarm technology, burglars entered the Reliance Digital showroom in Varachha Road, go about their business without raising anyone’s eyebrows and then leave the place undetected.Police said the burglar alarm triggered at the showroom's office in Mumbai at around 5.18 am. However, the employee who went to check at the showroom was alerted at around 5.35 am and after he could verify the exact showroom around 10 minutes later at 5.45 am, and thereafter called the police.Investigation revealed that the burglars escaped at 5.42am, three minutes before the employees arrived. Delay in alerting police gave the burglars enough time to escape to the neighbouring state of Maharashtra.Instead of alerting the police control room directly the showroom staff took too much time in verification and police was informed too late," said a senior police official.After being alerted police could not immediately find out if a car was used. Aagain, since no alert was sounded by police checkpost was not set up even after the burglars had to cross Surat district, Navsari and Dang while fleeing the city."The showroom should have alerted police immediately when the alarm went off. Further police found involvement of a car during examination of CCTV footage hence the burglars could not be nabbed through nakabandi," said Sajansinh Parmar, deputy commissioner of police, zone I.After escaping from the spot, the accused went up to Chikhli on national highway 48 and later suspected to have taken a turn toward tribal parts of Dang. Police suspect that they might have escaped towards Nashik or Dhulia in Maharashtra. “Police teams have gone to Maharashtra to trace the gang involved,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/thieves-outsmarted-tech-to-target-electronics-showroom/articleshow/78897805.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Grass production expected to touch two crore kg this year||Rajkot: Besides boosting lion conservation efforts, the massive increase in grass production has reduced Gujarat’s dependency for fodder on other states during peak summer. According to official data, 1.16 crore grass was cultivated in 2015-16 which is expected to touch 2.05 crore kg by the end of current financial year. The forest department has created a capacity to produce nearly seven crore kg grass per year. Few years ago, the state government had to purchase nearly 10 crore kg fodder for cattle during summers. This spurred the need for focusing on grass production. The forest department stores this grass in its warehouses and supplies to the revenue department as per the requirement. The department is increasing it’s storage capacity every year. The grass cultivation is done in Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Jamnagar, Morbi and Surendranagar district out of which Bhavnagar has the highest area while the production has increased by nearly 188% over the last 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/grass-production-expected-to-touch-two-crore-kg-this-year/articleshow/78898774.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||13-year-old boy among 2 Covid fatalities||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 50 tested positive on Tuesday.The casualties included a 65-year-old woman of Melo village, who died at PGI, Chandigarh, and a 13-year-old boy of Detwal village who succumbed at a Faridkot hospital. The day also saw three residents of Faridkot, Hoshiarpur and Jammu & Kashmir succumbing to the virus and 11 outsiders testing positive here.The Ludhiana fatality figure now stood at 831 and that of outsiders at 311. Chief medical officer Dr Rakesh Bagga said Ludhiana case count has climbed to 20,096. Of them, 19,026 have recovered (94.67%).The 50 positive cases included six contacts of positive patients, nine from OPD, 23 from flu corner, two health-care workers, a pregnant woman, one pre-operative case, one severe acute respiratory infection patient and seven through tracing process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/13-year-old-boy-among-2-covid-fatalities/articleshow/78898492.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Business||TaMo Q2 loss widens to Rs 307 crore||TNN Mumbai: Losses at Tata Motors, the flagship of the Tata Group, widened to Rs 307 crore in Q2FY21 from Rs 188 crore a year ago. Revenue declined 18% to Rs 53,530 crore as the global health crisis sapped demand for new vehicles. The company expects a gradual recovery of demand in the coming months even as there are concerns about a second wave of infection in many countries. Expenses fell 16% to Rs 54,983 crore as it kept a tight lid on costs. Employee benefit expenses declined 12% to Rs 6,409 crore due to government grants received by its UK subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). The British unit, which accounted for 78% of Tata Motors’ revenue, received grants of Rs 534 crore (55 million pounds). JLR’s revenue fell 21% to Rs 41,768 crore while operating profit declined 77% to Rs 577 crore in Q2FY21. Tata Motors’ automotive debt decreased to Rs 61,000 crore from Rs 68,000 crore in the September quarter of fiscal 2020. The company said it was committed to achieving a near-zero net automotive debt in the coming years by executing cash and cost savings with rigour. “We are squeezing the lemon dry in terms of cost savings,” said the company CFO P B Balaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tamo-q2-loss-widens-to-rs-307-crore/articleshow/78900712.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||BJP boat in W Champaran may get rocked||BETTIAH: : Erected and reigning steady on the ruins of the Congress’s edifice, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) safe citadel of West Champaran seems shaken with its Brahmin foundation trembling like quicksand. Confusion, astonishment and even anger has erupted among the saffron party’s steadfast Brahmin support base that feels upset with the BJP’s ‘Brahmin-mukt’ list of nominees in the district. “Been se poochin dahi ke haal, Yadav se poochin machri ke haal (Ask a fisherman about curd and ask a Yadav about fish),” former district BJP chief Ganga Pandey quipped as he took this reporter’s call from beside his wife’s mortal remains, waiting for his son to arrive from Chandigarh to perform the last rites on Saturday. A lifelong active party worker, politics in this poll season played on Pandey’s mind even in his hour of bereavement. “Kehu brahman layak naikhe? (No Brahmin is able?),” he asked in apparent reference to a social media post by a Brahmin candidate from Chanpatia. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal had, however, told this reporter on Saturday: “My DP was lifted and a mischievous, false quote was pasted and shared. We have filed an FIR.” The party elder in bereavement responded: “Oohey ta, Sanjay aisan galat baat naa karihan... jila me ek se ek vidwaan Brahman ba. (Yes, Sanjay will never utter such false things. There are plenty of Brahmin intellectuals in the district)...We are selfless workers, I am quiet” he said. “I’ve known adhyaksh ji (Jaiswal) for 35 years. He cannot make such a statement,” Babuaji Dubey, another Brahmin BJP leader, said though in a caveat. “Yes, denial of even a single ticket to Brahmins has been unfair. This may adversely impact the poll verdict,” Dubey said, calling the campaign tough. Sanjay Pandey, another former district chief, said: “Bhaari chook (Grave mistake).” That the BJP’s boat has been rocked in waters where it sailed smooth reflects in village and street-side chats that is fanned by social media posts. A few go back almost four decades in time when Madan Prasad Jaiswal, the Bihar BJP chief’s late father, had walked the streets of Bettiah in West Champarn district in chains which symbolised political dominance of Brahmins. Jaiswal senior had predated Mandal in quest of social justice and to chart his own political future. Jaiswal junior has emulated his father’s three terms in the Lok Sabha. “There is an obvious mischief. Both my late father and I have had amiable relations with all sections of society,” he told this newspaper, negating allegations of diminishing Brahmins. “In 2015, we did not have a single Brahmin candidate in East Champaran where we have fielded one from Govindganj. The party has been fair in ticket distribution. In 2015, we had 13 Brahmin nominees out of 157. This time, we have fielded 15 Brahmins out of 110,” he said. State BJP vice-president Shailendra Mishra, who was reportedly a front-runner for Chanpatia seat, said: “There is no rebellion. Brahmins are with the BJP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-boat-in-w-champaran-may-get-rocked/articleshow/78899684.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
October 28, 2020||Patna||Masks, gloves must at all polling booths||PATNA: The Election Commission of India (ECI) has made elaborate preparations for the smooth conduct of state assembly election. From hand sanitisers, masks, PPE kits, face shields and pairs of hand gloves to enable the voters to cast their votes, steps have been initiated to make polling safe in this pandemic. About 2.14 crore voters in the state will exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 1,066 candidates on Wednesday across 71 assembly segments in the first phase of elections. There are 31,371 polling booths where measures are in place to ensure safety of the voters, as Bihar has nearly 10,000 active cases of Covid-19, which means one positive after every 10 booths. Additional chief electoral officer Sanjay Singh said voters will have to cover their faces either with a mask, ‘gamcha’ or ‘dupatta’. Apart from thermal screening, the voters will be given gloves for one hand which they will use for signing and pressing the button of an EVM. Those recording high temperature will be asked to sit in the shade for rechecking. “Those having temperature of 100.4 F and above, will be given a token to come and vote in the last hour. Polling personnel in the last hour will wear PPK kits to complete the process,” said Singh, adding, “Safety of voters and polling personnel is our prime concern. There will be sufficient number of sanitizers at all the booths which voters will use before and after pressing the EVM button and completing the paper work. Even social distancing will be maintained in a queue.” Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi, who is the returning officer for assembly constituencies falling in Patna district added, “For polling personnel there will be a Covid kit containing face mask, gloves, a bottle of sanitizer and face shield. PPE kits have also been procured in sufficient numbers.” Ravi said apart from providing safety products like gloves and masks, their disposal has also to be done with precautions. “All the wastes will be collected at booths and treated as biomedical wastes.” When asked about the preparation for Wednesday, he added, “Everything is ready. Buildings and campuses being used as polling booths have been sanitized.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/masks-gloves-must-at-all-polling-booths/articleshow/78899174.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 28, 2020||Patna||On poll eve, BJP & Congress rain blows at each other||PATNA: Central leaders of two major national parties, BJP and Congress sharpened their attacks on each other on the eve of the first phase of assembly polls, on Tuesday. Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Anurag Thakur said NDA’s victory in the polls with a heavy majority was certain and they assailed the RJD-led Grand Alliance saying the people of Bihar will not allow the state to return to the days of fear amid class-based divisions, caste tensions and massacres. Parodying a famous dialogue from film ‘Sholey,’ Thakur said mothers are cautioning their children saying, “Betaa dhyan se vote daalnaa, kahin wo (read RJD rule) naa aa jaaye.” Thakur questioned RJD leader and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav embracing the Left parties. “Why have you embraced the tukde-tukde gang that engineered massacres in the state? Do you want to take Bihar into the jungle raj again?” Thakur said. Javadekar said PM Narendra Modi has inaugurated a new political culture with his mantra for development and politics in the country, which says ‘Sabka Vikas’ and ‘development-based politics’. He added that the BJP has ‘neta, niti aur niyat (leaders, policies and intention)’ to carry it forward. Congress leaders, on the other hand, cornered the Nitish Kumar-led government on the issue of police firing during goddess Durga’s idol immersion at Munger. Congress national secretary-general Randeep Singh Surjewala said all the cops involved in thrashing people should face administrative action and action should also be taken against CM Nitish, as he has the home department’s charge. Earlier during the day, Surjewala and Congress national spokesperson Pawan Kheda had hit out at CM Nitish Kumar-led NDA government for the increase in crime rate and said in the past 15 years there had been 150% increase in crime. Citing data from the state crime record bureau, Congress leaders said every day 737 crimes are registered in Bihar, including nine murders, 29 abductions, 123 heinous crimes, 51 crimes against women and two rapes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/on-poll-eve-bjp-congress-rain-blows-at-each-other/articleshow/78899276.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||Over 1,000 pink booths set up in first phase of Bihar polls||PATNA: Several exclusive polling booths have been set up for women and persons with disabilities (PwD) in districts going to polls in the first phase on Wednesday. These booths will be managed by women and PwD staff only. As per the data provided by the Bihar chief electoral officer, there are 1,171 all-woman or ‘pink booths’ and 48 PwD booths out of 31,371 polling booths for the first phase. Additional chief electoral officer Sanjay Kumar Singh said all-woman booths would be entirely managed by women security personnel and polling officers and the PwD booths by the specially-abled polling officers. “All polling booths have special arrangements for PwD and elderly people, like ramp, wheel chairs and vehicles. The differently-abled voters can hire vehicles through the PwD mobile application,” he added. Sanjay said there are maximum 422 all-woman 10 PwD booths in Gaya. “Around 210 all-woman booths will be there in Aurangabad, 180 in Banka, 96 in Buxar, 52 in Kaimur, 40 in Sheikhpura, 33 in Jehanabad, 30 in Munger, 26 in Patna, 24 in Lakhisarai, 20 in Jamui, 14 in Bhojpur, 10 in Bhagalpur, seven in Rohtas, five in Nawada and two in Arwal,” he added. Sanjay said the decision to set up women and PwD polling booths was taken to encourage women and differently-abled to exercise their franchise. Patna DM-cum-district election officer Kumar Ravi said all-woman booths have been set up in all the five constituencies in the district going to the polls in the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-1000-pink-booths-set-up-in-first-phase-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/78899196.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Senators seek Capt’s intervention||Chandigarh: Eleven senators of Panjab University wrote to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday seeking his intervention in the senate polls issue and ensure that elections are conducted immediately. The matter assumes urgency as the term of the present senate will come to an end on October 31, 2020. The letter to the chief minister states that the elections of the PU senate have been postponed repeatedly due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the same will have serious implications on the landscape of education in the region and in the state of Punjab. While elections are held all over the country at every level, denying senate elections is nothing, but a calculated plan to demolish the democratic governance of the university. More significantly, it is a murderous attack on the federal nature of the Panjab University’s administrative structure, since the process of election was scuttled midway after the nominations was finalised and polling was to take place. “As an inter-state body corporate, Panjab University has enjoyed a distinct status till date. As such it is neither a central university nor a state university. But keeping in view the spatial spread of its affiliated and constituent colleges and regional centres, Panjab University has a dominant presence in the state of Punjab,” mentioned the letter. Panjab University Teachers’ Association (Puta) also wrote to the Chandigarh administrator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/senators-seek-capts-intervention/articleshow/78900978.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||NGT probe into sinking of fly-ash barges in Sunderbans||Kolkata: The National Green Tribunal has instituted an inquiry by an expert committee to probe the frequent fly-ash barge capsize incidents in the Hooghly or in the eco-sensitive Sunderbans involving Bangladesh-registered vessels. Acting on a petition by Dakshinbanga Matsajibi Forum, a platform of fish workers in south Bengal, the NGT held the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) and owners of the capsized barges responsible for the environmental damage, and hence, liable to paying damages in accordance with the polluter pay principle under Section 15 of the NGT Act, 2010. The NGT has also stated that movement of fly-ash and other harmful substances through the Sunderbans will be restricted till a biodiversity impact assessment is carried out by the National Biodiversity Board with participation of fisherfolk and other coastal communities. It has called for an alternative route through the Bay of Bengal. IWAI, the state pollution control board and forest department have been tasked with jointly setting up a monitoring mechanism to check the safety standards for barges carrying fly-ash, including fixing an age limit for vessels allowed to enter Indian waters. Sources said most of the barges being used to transport fly-ash were condemned vessels and needed to be scrapped but were still in use so that owners could claim insurance once they capsized. The dumping of fly-ash caused contamination of the river and affected fish population in the area, thereby adversely impacting the lives of traditional fisherfolk. The NGT order called for a time-bound action plan to remove all the fly-ash that has been deposited in the Hooghly river network, including the fly-ash that has been carried downstream, with the involvement of public and environmental groups. The expert committee comprising representatives of the Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board, PCCF Wildlife and South 24 Parganas district magistrate will conduct the inquiry and file its report within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-probe-into-sinking-of-fly-ash-barges-in-sunderbans/articleshow/78901613.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||Will raise age bar for all in BPSC exams: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: The CM face of opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, has promised to raise the age bar for the students of reserved as well as general categories taking examinations conducted by Bihar Public Service Commission for jobs, if his government was formed after the state assembly election. Holding an employment talk (naukri samvaad) on his social media page on Tuesday, the RJD leader said, “On November 10, we will bid farewell to chief minister Nitish Kumar and the very same day, we will begin the process for ten lakh government jobs, which have multiplier effects. People will earn and spend in Bihar and that will also help businessmen. The government will also earn revenue.” Tejashwi said once the vacancies in education, health, police and administration departments are filled, there will be improvement in all sectors. “There are hospitals, but no doctors and nurses. There are colleges, but no teachers. Until all the vacancies are filled, there cannot be any improvement,” said Tejashwi. He criticized the way BPSC conducts examination and delays results. “Young aspirants have to wait for years together to sit in the examination and then for the results. They spend so much time and money on preparation. So we have decided to raise the age bar for all categories.” He repeated his promise of increasing the honorarium of anganwadi sevikas and cooks, ASHA didis and self-help group members and make all contract jobs permanent. Tejashwi said people in Bihar now wanted to vote on the issue of education, health, migration, unemployment. “But few people are trying to divert attention from these issues. I am like a clean slate. I will carry forward people of all castes and religion, holding each other’s hand,” he said after addressing 14 election rallies in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-raise-age-bar-for-all-in-bpsc-exams-tejashwi/articleshow/78899121.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Young male tiger ‘dethrones’ ST-6 from prized Sariska turf||JAIPUR: In a sign of thriving tiger population in Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR), ST-6, which ruled over a large territory in the core area for over six years, has been pushed by young male tiger ST-21. Experts said it was an indication that forests had decent strength of tigers. The territory is considered as crucial as it is situated in the middle of Sariska forest and covers majority of tourist zones. Dinesh Verma Durani, founder and general secretary of Sariska Tiger Foundation said, “Tigers by nature have their own territories. It’s a healthy sign that a young tiger has overpowered an old tiger to rule the territory. Entry of young adult males and females every three to five years is required to maintain the balanced population growth. Earlier this was missing.” ST-21 named Yuvraj is living with tigress ST-9 in this territory. The pair has been spotted in Sariska Sadar gate, Ghanka, Bhandipul, Karna ka bas, Haripura, Bhartari tiwara, Ghadedi and Sahrunda, which was once dominated by the ST-6. A forest staff at Sariska said, “ST-21 is approximately three-and-a-half-year old and is the first litter of tigress ST-10. The 13-year-old tiger injured ST-6 has been pushed towards Kali Ghati and Umri region.” ‘ “ST-6 was a famous dominant tiger. After launching one of the worst attacks on the then RTR ranger Daulat Shingh Shaktawat, it had gone for a long walk to Uttar Pradesh before returning to Bharatpur. It was brought to Sariska during the translocation programme,” a wildlife enthusiast said. “It was an aggressive tiger. Two years ago, ST-4 fought with ST-6 to claim this territory but died in the bloody territorial fight. Recently, it also injured a forest guard who was on patrolling,” said a senior forest official, who was posted in Sariska. At present, there are 20 tigers at STR including eleven females, five males and four cubs. Sunayan Sharma, a retired IFS officer said, “The sub-adults male tigers ST-20 and ST-21 are grown up and have marked their territory. It’s a good sign the big cats are not timid and living on peripheries to feed on cattle. Young tigers battling for territory is a good sign in Sariska.” The reserve is spread across 1,281 sq-km area and is divided into six ranges. Experts claimed Sariska had become self-sustainable and there was no requirement to relocate tigers from another reserve. “There is no inviolate space for a male tiger as villages have not been relocated from the reserve for long. There are 26 villages inside the tiger reserve. A new male tiger without a marked territory may also pose a threat to cubs here. It is suspected that ST-9 gave cubs recently and were killed by ST-21,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/young-male-tiger-dethrones-st-6-from-prized-sariska-turf/articleshow/78900984.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Udaipur||Tribal custom revives forests in Udaipur dist||UDAIPUR: A quaint age-old tradition is working wonders for the state forest department in Jhadol Phalasiya belt of Udaipur district. It all started five years ago when forest officials planted around 80,000 indigenous plant varieties in nearly 250 hectares of hilly terrain at Naya Khola village with the help of the local tribal community. To save these plants from cattle grazing and illegal felling, the department sought the help of villagers and sprinkled saffron or kesar water brought from the Kesariyaji temple at Rishabdev in Udaipur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/tribal-custom-revives-forests-in-udaipur-dist/articleshow/78900976.cms||---
October 28, 2020||---||LJP slams JD(U) over release of Chirag Paswan’s video||PATNA: The LJP on Tuesday alleged that ruling JD(U) released some video clippings, in which party president Chirag Paswan could be seen preparing for a speech beside a photograph of his father late Ram Vilas Paswan, in a bid to defame him. “JD(U) netas have released the video clippings in which Chirag is seen getting a video shot for party’s ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document. If a party has to contest, videos have to be shot. What do people of JD(U) want to prove by releasing this video? They have stooped to very low level and Nitish also seems to have accepted that he is going to lose,” the LJP said in a statement. The video clippings, the authenticity of which has not been verified, shows Chirag busy in shooting for a speech beside a photograph of his father senior Paswan. Chirag too launched a scathing attack on CM Nitish on the issue. “I had to release the first list of party’s candidates within six hours of Papa’s demise. I had to look after all works of the party as well. I was not allowed to step out from home owing to last rituals. The video, thus, had to be shot for digital campaigning. Do I need to prove my grief for Papa’s demise to Nitishji? I am doing shoots daily. What option do I have? Papa’s demise happened at the time when entire election campaign was underway. I never thought that the CM would stoop to such a low,” Chirag said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Chirag tried to derive political mileage from his father’s death. The way Chirag is seen instructing the cameraperson to shoot showed that he was not shocked. Rather, he was more interested in deriving political gains out of it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-slams-jdu-over-release-of-chirags-video/articleshow/78903343.cms||---
October 28, 2020||---||Will raise age bar for all in BPSC exams: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: The CM face of opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, has promised to raise the age bar for the students of reserved as well as general categories taking examinations conducted by Bihar Public Service Commission for jobs, if his government was formed after the state assembly election. Holding an employment talk (naukri samvaad) on his social media page on Tuesday, the RJD leader said, “On November 10, we will bid farewell to chief minister Nitish Kumar and the very same day, we will begin the process for ten lakh government jobs, which have multiplier effects. People will earn and spend in Bihar and that will also help businessmen. The government will also earn revenue.” Tejashwi said once the vacancies in education, health, police and administration departments are filled, there will be improvement in all sectors. “There are hospitals, but no doctors and nurses. There are colleges, but no teachers. Until all the vacancies are filled, there cannot be any improvement,” said Tejashwi. He criticized the way BPSC conducts examination and delays results. “Young aspirants have to wait for years together to sit in the examination and then for the results. They spend so much time and money on preparation. So we have decided to raise the age bar for all categories.” He repeated his promise of increasing the honorarium of anganwadi sevikas and cooks, ASHA didis and self-help group members and make all contract jobs permanent. Tejashwi said people in Bihar now wanted to vote on the issue of education, health, migration, unemployment. “But few people are trying to divert attention from these issues. I am like a clean slate. I will carry forward people of all castes and religion, holding each other’s hand,” he said after addressing 14 election rallies in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/will-raise-age-bar-for-all-in-bpsc-exams-tejashwi/articleshow/78903397.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Students can’t be forced to pay fees’||JAIPUR: All government and private schools have been instructed that till schools re-open, no student can be forced to pay fees. The Office of the Director of Elementary Education, Bikaner, issued the order on Monday after receiving complaints from parents that their wards were being forced by schools to pay fees. Orders were issued by deputy director RTE, Chandra Kiran Panwar said, “Schools are not functioning due to the pandemic. Online classes are going on and we have received many complaints that students are being pressurized to pay fees or their names will be removed from online class groups. This is against the guidelines issued by the government. Until reopening orders are issued, no school can extert pressure on students to pay fees.” Many videos went viral on social media in which teachers were seen warning students to pay fees as early as possible or else they would be removed from online classes groups. A private school in Jaipur recently removed around 75 students from online classes for non-payment of fees. Lockdown has economically affected many people who have lost their jobs and suffered business losses. Hence, parents in the city have been demanding waiver of a portion of fees. Sanyukt Abhibhavak Samiti, had recently organised a campaign in which parents begged in different markets in the city requesting shopkeepers to donate for school fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/students-cant-be-forced-to-pay-fees/articleshow/78900985.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Business||Pandemic to wipe out 3 yrs of states’ fiscal gains: RBI||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has warned that the Covid-19 pandemic will wipe out three years of fiscal consolidation gains of the states. It also said that the redemption pressure of state debt is likely to double from 2026. In its annual report on state finances, the RBI called for states to revise their fiscal legislation to chart out a path for getting out of the debt burden. The report said that the pandemic may also leave lasting scars on federalism in India. It will have a bearing on inter-generational transfers, with lower discretionary spending or higher taxation in future. States’ indebtedness is set to rise, and if it is not accompanied by an acceleration in growth, fiscal sustainability will become the casualty, overwhelming the modest gains of the prudence in recent years, the report said. According to the RBI, states have been at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic and the public health crisis it has spawned. Besides the “biggest migration in the world”, the debilitating combination of compression in tax receipts and ramped-up expenditures has generated unprecedented pressures on fiscal positions at sub-national levels, the central bank said in its annual report on state finances. “States have budgeted their consolidated gross fiscal deficit (GFD) at 2.8% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020-21. However, the Covid-19 pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years,” the RBI said. A pointer was the deficit target as a percentage of gross states domestic product (GSDP), which was 4.6% for states that announced budgets after a lockdown, while the average GFD for states that presented their budgets before the outbreak of Covid-19 is 2.4% of GSDP. “Like the centre, states may also consider revising their fiscal legislation by bringing in the desired counter-cyclicality and by incorporating debt as a medium-term anchor,” the RBI said. It said the next few years are going to be challenging for the Indian states. “They need to remain empowered with effective strategies to drive through these difficult times. Sub-national fiscal policy has to be judicious and calibrated. Across states, maintaining overall stability, quality of spending and credibility of budgets may distinguish one state’s resilience from another,” the report said. TNN Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has warned that the Covid-19 pandemic will wipe out three years of fiscal consolidation gains of the states. It also said that the redemption pressure of state debt is likely to double from 2026. In its annual report on state finances, the RBI called for states to revise their fiscal legislation to chart out a path for getting out of the debt burden. The report said that the pandemic may also leave lasting scars on federalism in India. It will have a bearing on inter-generational transfers, with lower discretionary spending or higher taxation in future. States’ indebtedness is set to rise, and if it is not accompanied by an acceleration in growth, fiscal sustainability will become the casualty, overwhelming the modest gains of the prudence in recent years, the report said. According to the RBI, states have been at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic and the public health crisis it has spawned. Besides the “biggest migration in the world”, the debilitating combination of compression in tax receipts and ramped-up expenditures has generated unprecedented pressures on fiscal positions at sub-national levels, the central bank said in its annual report on state finances. “States have budgeted their consolidated gross fiscal deficit (GFD) at 2.8% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2020-21. However, the Covid-19 pandemic may alter budget estimates significantly, eroding the gains of consolidation secured in the preceding three years,” the RBI said. A pointer was the deficit target as a percentage of gross states domestic product (GSDP), which was 4.6% for states that announced budgets after a lockdown, while the average GFD for states that presented their budgets before the outbreak of Covid-19 is 2.4% of GSDP. “Keeping in mind the inter-generational burden of debt, it is important for states to chart out a glide path back to fiscal rectitude. Like the centre, states may also consider revising their fiscal legislation by bringing in the desired counter-cyclicality and by incorporating debt as a medium-term anchor,” the RBI said. It said the next few years are going to be challenging for the Indian states. “They need to remain empowered with effective strategies to drive through these difficult times. Sub-national fiscal policy has to be judicious and calibrated. Across states, maintaining overall stability, quality of spending and credibility of budgets may distinguish one state’s resilience from another,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-to-wipe-out-3-yrs-of-states-fiscal-gains-rbi/articleshow/78900777.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Forest dept working goes digital, Chamoli and Pithoragarh to get bear rescue centre||Dehradun: In a move aimed at bringing transparency and increasing the pace of works of the forest department, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday inaugurated the e-office facility for the department. The e-office would mean almost negligible paper work in the office. During the inauguration, the chief minister also announced that Pithoragarh and Chamoli will get bear rescue centres. Incidentally in the past three years, Uttarakhand has seen a constant increase in bear attacks. A proposal for making four rescue centres for monkeys was also sent to the Centre. The state government has so far connected 37 different offices by e-office facility and in the near future, all of them would go digital. After the urban development department, the forest department is second in row to go digital. “During Harela next year, we will plant at least one crore saplings so that the habitat of wild animals becomes richer. This will also improve the overall environment of the state,” said CM Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-working-goes-digital-chamoli-and-pithoragarh-to-get-bear-rescue-centre/articleshow/78898493.cms||Shivani Azad
October 28, 2020||Patna||Security up in dists going to polls today||Gaya/Buxar/Ara/Nawada: Tight security arrangements have been made and Covid safety measures introduced in all the districts going to polls in the first phase on Wednesday. In Gaya, a helicopter has been made available for rescue purpose. In addition, 45 ambulances and 24 medical response teams have also been kept ready in the district. Around 2,00,069 voters are expected to exercise their franchise at 4,430 polling stations in 10 assembly segments in the district. District magistrate-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh and SSP Rajiv Mishra during said 202 companies of central paramilitary forces have been deployed at all the polling stations in the district. The polling stations have been divided into three categories – Maoist-hit, critical and general. In Buxar, the district administration has taken several measures to ensure peaceful polls in Buxar, Rajpur, Brahampur and Dumraon. On Tuesday, the administration sent the patrolling-cum-collecting parties (PCCPs), sector magistrates and micro observers to their respective stations. The officers were reminded of their duty and tasks. At the polling booths, the administration has also made arrangements for hand gloves for pressing the EVM buttons. At the exit point of the polling booths, dustbins will be placed for throwing used hand gloves. In Bhojpur, there are 21,18,504 voters, including 9,72,025 women and 100 third gender. Altogether 52 polling booths have been made for women, district magistrate-cum-electoral officer Roshan Kushwaha said. “For the first time, central paramilitary forces will be deployed at all the polling booths and 488 sensitive booths will be videographed. All guidelines pertaining to Covid-19 will be strictly followed at the polling booths,” Kushwaha added. Polling will also be held for five assembly segments in Nawada district, including Nawada, Hisua, Govindpur, Warisaliganj and Rajauli amid tight security arrangements. The administration has staged flag marches in Rajauli and Govindpur to instil confidence among the voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/security-up-in-dists-going-to-polls-today/articleshow/78898388.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||‘Make NDA victoriousfor all-round growth’||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday sought votes from the people of the state for the NDA candidates so that his government could complete the ongoing infrastructure projects and other development tasks in hand. Nitish, who is also the JD(U) national president, was addressing public rallies in Nalanda district, his home turf. He addressed seven meetings in the district, including at Nalanda, Rajgir and Harnaut. “As part of our commitment to develop state’s infrastructure, we will construct flyovers and elevated roads and also complete the ongoing road projects,” Nitish said. “We have connected every village with roads. After forming government again, we will connect the same village roads with the highways,” he added. At Rajgir, Nitish said the developmental activities undertaken in and around Rajgir have transformed the place. At Harnaut, he reminded people about the lack of developmental activities in the state before the NDA government came to power. He also reiterated his commitment to zero tolerance towards crime, corruption and communalism. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/make-nda-victoriousfor-all-round-growth/articleshow/78898501.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Eastern canal project yet to start as it awaits nat’l status||Jaipur: The state is yet to commence work on the ambitious Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project as it waits for the Centre to declare it as a national project. Announced in 2017 at an estimated cost of Rs 40,000 crore, it aims to link three rivers to solve the water crisis in 13 districts in the state. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot have written to PM Narendra Modi to grant national status to the project, which would require the Centre to bear 90% of the cost while the state will fund 10%. The project intends to solve water scarcity till 2051 in various districts — Jaipur, Ajmer, Tonk, Dausa, Bundi, Sawai Madhopur, Baran, Jhalawar, Kota, Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur and Karauli. Reminding Modi of his promise made to the people of Rajasthan, Pilot said the project was a lifeline for eastern Rajasthan. “It is the same demand that the state BJP leaders were making. Now what happened? We will make sure that Union government will accord the status, which will change the lives of people and farmers forever,” said Pilot.An official said repeated reminders to Modi have so far gone unanswered, leading to a delay in initiation of the project. “The project will be in three phases. The first phase was to be completed by 2021, but it has already been delayed,” said an official, who added that further delay would escalate the cost. The official also added that the Central government had accorded 16 such projects across the country as national projects. “This project is among the largest in terms of its magnitude and impact. Surely, it qualifies for national project status, for impacting almost half of the population of the state,” said an official. Currently, the project belongs to the state with a 40:60 ratio between the state and the Centre. If the project gets a national tag, it will give financial respite to the state. Even former CM Vasundhara Raje had requested Modi to declare it as a national project in 2017-18. “She was keen to get it declared a national project before the assembly polls in order to take political mileage in December 2018. However, it didn’t happen and the BJP suffered major losses in Bharatpur, Dholpur, Alwar and Karauli, which are part of the project,” said a government source. In July 2018, during an address in Jaipur, Modi had said the ministry of water resource had received a detailed project report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eastern-canal-project-yet-to-start-as-it-awaits-natl-status/articleshow/78900992.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Bonhomie and bonding spread cheer at Pujo Barir Shera Pujo||Kolkata: Durga Puja this year was comparatively low-key, especially after Calcutta High Court prohibited the entry of visitors inside pandals. But the pandemic could not cast a shadow on the celebrations inside housing complexes, where the very essence is bonhomie and bonding, a far cry from showmanship and race to draw crowds. The judges of Times Pujo Barir Shera Pujo were unanimous in their decision to select the winners in different categories, an important yardstick being the safety protocols followed this year. The Times Pujo Barir Shera Pujo, a part of The Times of Puja initiatives since 2001, strives to reach out to housing societies that celebrate Durga Puja in a homely way. The pujas at housing complexes stand out in their simplicity and the involvement of each and every resident in the festivity. The initial round of judging at Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) was completed on Chaturthi, October 20. The second round was held on Shasthi, while the final round of judging by celebrities Ishaa Saha and Anindya and Gaurav and Ridhima was held on Ashtami, when the best Pujas were selected from a host of 20 shortlisted RWAs. The pujas were judged for varioius categories, such as Best Pujo, Best Idol, Best Pandal and the Most Hygienic Environment. There was also a Suvida Sundari Selfie contest at each housing society. Uniworld City bagged the Best Pujo award, Most Hygienic Environment was maintained at Balaka, Diamond City South had the Best Idol, while the Best Theme accolade went to Upohar. Women at five housing societies were asked to participate in the Suvida Sundori contest, a winner from each complex being awarded Suvida Sundori, based on parameters, such as confidence, presentability, smartness, dressing sense and smile. The five winners walked away with trophies and gift hampers. This year, the title sponsor for Times Pujo Barir Sera Pujo 2020 was Suvida—Gorbonirodhak Pill, music partner was SMULE-India Jams, while STADMED was the associate sponsor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bonhomie-and-bonding-spread-cheer-at-pujo-barir-shera-pujo/articleshow/78901011.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||‘Bainguinim plant won’t be withdrawn’||Panaji: Panaji BJP MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate on Tuesday said there was no question of withdrawing the proposed garbage treatment plant from Bainguinim at this stage. He was reacting to a recent statement by Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik urging the government to rethink its decision to set up the facility there. “A garbage treatment plant is required for the whole of the Tiswadi taluka. A tender has been floated for the plant and now, there is no question of withdrawal,” Monserrate told reporters. He said the facility had been proposed at Bainguinim way before any buildings were constructed in the vicinity and added that the high court of Bombay at Goa is itself monitoring the status of the plant. Naik on Saturday had said the place identified for the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim was wrong. Residents of Old Goa had recently called on Naik and chief minister Pramod Sawant, and had submitted a memorandum opposing the garbage plant. “We had opposed the project earlier too, as it was close to heritage sites. A lot of churches are also there in the vicinity,” Naik had said, adding that many of the residents had put in their life’s savings to buy property on the Kadamba plateau, and that if the project attained finality, it would lead to pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bainguinim-plant-wont-be-withdrawn/articleshow/78900988.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi: Nitish’s remarks on my family an attack on Modi||PATNA: A day after CM Nitish Kumar took a dig at Lalu Prasad for having nine children in the hope of getting a son as he did not have faith in his daughters, RJD chief’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday said the JD(U) president was in a way targeting PM Narendra Modi who has six siblings as well. “Even bad words used by Nitish Ji against me are like ‘blessings’ to me. Nitish Ji is mentally and physically tired and that is why he can speak whatever he likes. I am taking his every word like a blessing. This time, Bihar has decided to vote on the issues of ‘roti-rojgaar’ (bread and employment) and ‘vikas’ (development),” Tejashwi tweeted in Hindi. “…By using such language, Nitish ji has insulted women and my mother’s sentiments. They (NDA leaders) don’t speak on main issues of corruption and unemployment and always try to divert people’s attention by using such language,” Tejashwi told the media. Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi have seven daughters and two sons — Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi. All seven daughters, including Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, are older than Tej and Tejashwi. “Does anyone care (for Bihar)? They are giving birth to eight-eight, nine-nine children. They do not have any kind of confidence or faith in their own daughters. After the birth of so many daughters, their (two) sons were born. What kind of Bihar they want to make? Is this the kind of Bihar people want? If these are their ideals, one can easily imagine the extent to which Bihar will be ruined. (If they come to power), no one will be there to take care of people’s grievances. Everything will be destroyed in Bihar,” Nitish said at an election rally on Monday. Though Nitish did not take name of any of his opponents, but it was an apparent attack on Lalu-Rabri family. Nitish, who is seeking fourth term as the CM, has repeatedly been losing cool during the election meetings recently over slogan shouting against him by a section of the crowd. He lost his cool at Kanti (Muzaffarpur) and Parsa (Saran) after a small crowd of RJD supporters raised slogans like ‘Lalu Yadav zindabad’ in the middle of Nitish’s speech. In Parsa, Nitish made a personal attack on Lalu-Rabri family by raking up the issue of alleged misbehaviour with Aishwarya Rai, the estranged wife of Tej Pratap, by the Lalu family. “Those who misbehaved with her would see in the future how dangerous can be the consequence of ill-treating a woman,” he had said in Parsa from where Aishwarya’s father Chandrika Rai is the JD(U) candidate this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-nitishs-remarks-on-my-family-an-attack-on-modi/articleshow/78899043.cms||Madan Kumar
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Final-year MBBS students to write exams sans training||CHANDIGARH: Due to Covid-19, final-year stuents of MBBS at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh, will take their final examination, but without practical training in handling patients. “With no clinical postings or visits to the OPDs, the final-year students of MBBS at the GMCH-32 will have a tough time during internship. These medical students have completed their online theory classes and shall be taking their final examinations soon,” said a faculty at the GMCH-32. Though, the first-year MBBS practical classes started at the GMCH from September end, they have not missed much as the sessions started last year. “Also, in online classes, one can log-in and still not attend the classes. So it is not the best way of teaching,” said another faculty at the medical college. For the medical students, who had been attending theory only, not being a part of clinical postings will be a disadvantage. “We have been missing out on this aspect as we have heard about its significance from our seniors. We will still pass the examination, but without a sense of course completion,” said a final-year student at the GMCH-32. The second-year of the MBBS has still been running online classes without practicals. “For the first-year students, we are taking all precautions as these classes are conducted in batches of 40-50 students to maintain social distancing. Before entering, students and teachers use sanitisers and wear masks,” said Anil Moudgil, a spokesperson of the GMCH-32. The classes for the medical college had been stopped due to the Covid-19 since April after all the medical colleges in the country had issued directions to start online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/final-year-mbbs-students-to-write-exams-sans-training/articleshow/78900989.cms||Shimona Kanwar
October 28, 2020||Business||Tatas eye up to 51% in Bigbasket||BENGALURU: The Tata Group is exploring the acquisition of a large stake in Bigbasket in a deal which has the potential of being the biggest investment by a local conglomerate in a new-economy business. The salts-to-software conglomerate has discussed taking up to 51% stake in the grocery e-tailer. This will include a fresh capital infusion for business expansion besides the purchase of shares from existing shareholders like Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, said three sources briefed on the matter. The development comes at a time when the Indian government has heightened restrictions on Chinese investments amid geopolitical tensions, including the border clash. Alibaba holds 25-30% in Bigbasket, having first invested in the company in 2018. The potential entry of Tatas could give the 10-year-old company a buffer against the backlash on its foreign shareholdings and intensifying competition with the entry of Reliance Industries’ JioMart, said the sources. A deal has still not been finalised and the potential shareholding of Tatas will depend on valuations and result of discussions with existing shareholders, cautioned the sources. The discussions with Alibaba will be important as it has various rights, including the right of first refusal (ROFR) on a stake sale to competitors, said one of the sources briefed on the matter. TOI could not ascertain if Tatas are listed as competitors. “Even if Tatas come in, the company will continue to be run by the same management and it will give them a long-term backer with deep pockets,” said the source mentioned earlier. The move is expected to be a part of the Tatas’ super-app play and will open another front in the grocery commerce wars between Reliance JioMart, Amazon India and Walmart-owned Flipkart besides startups like Grofers. The conglomerate had set up Tata Digital last year for the effort. “There could be a potential tie-up with Trent-owned Star Bazaar as well for pick-up and distribution,” said another source briefed on the matter. Tata Group and Bigbasket spokespersons declined to comment when contacted by TOI, while an emailed query to Alibaba did not elicit a response. The development comes as Bigbasket has also been in parallel discussions with financial investors like Singapore’s Temasek, US-based Generation Investments and hedge fund Tybourne Capital for its new round of funding, as TOI reported on September 29. Bigbasket is also eyeing an IPO next year, TOI had reported. Bigbasket is expected to get a pre-money valuation of about $1.6 billion and, depending on the final capital infusion in the company, its valuation in the current round can reach close to $2 billion. Bigbasket’s annualised gross sale run-rate crossed $1 billion for the first time in May, when it recorded Rs 650 crore, or almost $90 million, of sales. The monthly sales number have now reached about Rs 750 crore or about $102 million last month, pegging annualised run rate to over $1.2 billion. The company is also targeting operating profitability soon. Bigbasket’s new round also comes as the company has been consolidating its position in the space, especially the morning milk delivery market where it acquired DailyNinja earlier this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-eye-up-to-51-in-bigbasket/articleshow/78900677.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Will another law cut through the fog?||NEW DELHI: With the central government working on a new law to tackle air pollution in Delhi and the National Capital Region, another statutory body looks likely. It may not only be empowered to prevent stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but also be able to enforce other anti-pollution measures in the region. The draft of the legislation is to be completed within three days, the Supreme Court was informed on Monday. Track the pollution level in your citySuch a body under the new law will join the likes of the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority and three anti-pollution task forces under the Central Pollution Control Board, Prime Minister’s Office and the Union ministry of environment and forests. Whatever steps or programmes the new body comes up with will be simultaneous to a number of special pollution measures already in place, such as the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), state-level action plans, the Comprehensive Action Plan (CAP) and the long-term National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). This is why experts believe the addition of another central law and body will only complicate the situation. As it is, even with the numerous laws in existence, burning of harvest remains hasn’t ceased. In fact, this year, Punjab has been recording three times the number of stubble fires than last year, according to satellite data. The focus, therefore, shouldn’t be on introducing new legislations and statutory bodies but on implementing the extant laws, opined Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment. “We don’t know what direction the new legislation will take, but we need implementation on the ground now,” she emphasised. “The challenge is not about having enough legal authority, which we already have, but making the right investment and ensuring implementation of the existing measures.” Chowdhury cited the recently notified norms for municipal solid waste management, e-waste management and plastic waste management, laws for all of which exist on paper but are hardly enforced. Santosh Harish, fellow, Centre for Policy Research, however, believed such a body and the funds provided to it could be crucial to how air pollution was managed in Delhi-NCR. “There is a strong case to be made for effective coordination across states and agencies in managing air quality. The present crisis provides an opportunity for much-needed institutional changes,” Harish said. “However, I hope this is not a reactionary measure that ends up creating a hastily conceived agency.” Harish said use of funds, staffing and technical expertise were important factors for an anti-pollution body. “EPCA already has a similar mandate and considerable powers in theory, so policymakers should learn from what worked and did not work with that body,” he said, adding that any new institution should represent the different states and local governments concerned, key sectoral agencies (like transport), and civil society. Environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta noted the confusion potential in numerous agencies doing the same work. “As of now, the central government uses powers under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, to issue directions on pollution control. Both the state and Centre have enough powers under existing laws, including the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981, and Environment (Protection) Act,” Dutta pointed out. “As things stand, multiple laws and institutions may create more confusion and friction among them.” For her part, Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, felt that instead of a new law, the central government should first engage with farmers to understand why the current measures, such as subsidies for farm implements to curb stubble burning, have not yielded the desired impact. “As far as Delhi is concerned, the legacy issues of waste management and inadequate buses will have to be solved first,” said Ganguly. Polash Mukherjee, an air quality researcher with the National Resources Defence Council, reiterated that there was no lack of restraining laws. The problem, therefore, he said, was the political will to implement the existing laws. “Having said that, it will be welcome if there is a specific provision to deal with crop residue burning at a national level, not just as a problem in Punjab and Haryana,” said Mukherjee. Till date, the main body tackling the problem has been EPCA, formed in 1998. In the last few years, it has provided specific tasks to various groups to deal with air pollution and also overseen the implementation of GRAP. EPCA relies on the CPCB task force, which advises it on when restrictions should be implemented based on the expected deterioration in air quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-another-law-cut-through-the-fog/articleshow/78901013.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 28, 2020||Business||Ability to reinvent, handle disruptions crucial for leadership||Most organisations are now on a path to recovery, even as we still grapple with the dreaded pandemic. Several have transformed many practices, processes and even business models, keeping employee, consumer, customer and community safety in mind. These few months have been quite unprecedented, and everyone was forced to change some habits and ways of life. Covid has taught many things. But at a personal leadership level, subconsciously we have enhanced our ability to handle some epic competencies not faced before, or at such a grand scale. Many, however, are still hurriedly trying to go back to the old normal, assuming it will be soon back to the past. On the other hand, many have transformed significantly. It’s not a right or wrong game — it’s about seizing and sustaining the new habits and reinventing one’s own leadership, given this opportunity has dawned so widely, albeit in the form of an acute crisis. In many areas, the pandemic seems to be having a second or even third wave. Who knows, in future there could be another unprecedented lockdown due to a completely different reason. So, ability to reinvent and carry on the personal transformation agenda will be crucial... Ability to self-develop: With travel and commuting vanishing from our daily routine, we have more time in hand. Is this being used to sharpen the saw, or just incessantly cutting the trees? Many leaders have identified a clear personal development plan and worked on them — be it reading, podcast, audiobook, attending webinars, journaling, taking team sessions or just reflecting on career, business & life. The proliferation of online courses, and that too for free, have prompted many to sign up for multiple ones and complete them. Would you be continuing to develop yourself, or is it back to drowning in monthly, quarterly XL & PowerPoint reviews, and the QSQT syndrome? Learning, training and development in most organisations get chopped at the first sign of challenges. That aside, how much you invest in your own development through time, course, projects, coaching, mentoring will decide your shelf life in the new mega competitive post-Covid world. Development begins at home. Ability to handle disruption: Initially, we were hoping normalcy would resume soon and hence our commitment to change was half-hearted. Slowly, we realised what was needed and made many changes — be it meeting duration, blending work for home with office work, reaching out with a caring message than demanding insane output overnight. We were all forced to change many daily habits, and this has increased our leadership skill to sense the unknown and figure out ‘what will work for me and my team’. What are the personal changes that you are still sustaining? Be it leading, inspiring, communicating, caring, empathising. Are they getting practised still or is it back to the old model of command & control, harsh feedback & yelling, cold turf war, convoluted mail wars and showing “I am right and I know all” than others? Ability to be more diverse/agile: Many leaders have used the Covid opportunity to innovate — be it in business or transforming themselves. WFH has cut out the noise, distraction and multitasking, and brought in a sense of discipline, focus and serenity. Have you been able to think differently? Achieved something new? Were you able to sell your ideas in cross-functional teams? Across the organisation? The pandemic thaw made everyone more receptive to others’ ideas. Have you been able to encash that and experimented with a new idea? Or will you go back to the traditional, age old well-crafted ‘Strategy & mission document and drive usual KPIs’? How would your mid-year appraisal go? Will a new initiative stand out or will it be last year’s copy-paste & repeat? Ability to enhance leadership effectiveness - fear of death & hence diet: The core in this pandemic is ‘death’, which led to most behaviour changes. This forced us towards home food & supplements like vitamins, healthy stuff and stopping a few habits. As a result, our personal energy and effectiveness have improved. Lasting through 10 or 12 hours of Zoom calls back to back is a great sign. Although some fatigue has set in, most leaders by now are used to these long hours and still practice walk, yoga, Zumba, fitness apps, home-gymming, and have replaced online ordering of delicacies with a fortified diet and discipline. What are the changes you have brought in and are continuing? Or its slowly getting back to pizza, burger & biryani? Mental wellness and leadership effectiveness will depend a lot on sustenance of a healthy diet & fitness regime. Recognising the effort of the last 7 months is almost like congratulating someone on getting into an IPL team. However, metaphorically winning the IPL trophy will depend on — among many other things — the personal leadership transformation commitment and one’s discipline on leading disruption, development, diversity and diet. (The writer is chief people officer, Allied Blenders & Distillers)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ability-to-reinvent-handle-disruptions-crucial-for-leadership/articleshow/78900367.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Business||‘Volumes in Dec qtr to match 2019 level’||Avik.Das1@timesgroup.com Volvo India president and MD Kamal Bali is banking on commercial vehicle (CV) and construction equipment industries to revive, which will help the Swedish company emerge out of the pandemic. He says that building a flexible supply chain is one of the key learnings from this crisis... How far has your business returned to normal? After a deep impact in Q1, we see volumes recuperating reasonably well July onwards. Volvo Trucks is seeing tremendous recovery with projected volumes for September-December potentially on a par with last year. The bus segment is reeling under demand slowdown, while our Global Technology Services (GTS) has continued to operate at pre-Covid levels. Impact on CV industry has been significant. After growing 70% from FY15 to FY19, there’s a drop of nearly 40% in FY20. It may see a further drop of 25% in the current fiscal, but is projected to see a strong recovery of around 40% next year (FY22). What challenges has the ‘new normal’ posed for the company? We have successfully dealt with challenges, starting with the safety and well-being of employees and their families, supply chain disruptions, especially for export of components, revenue and cash flow contraction, transformation to new ways of working, and the need to support our customers, especially those running essential services. When do you expect things to get back to ‘normal’? Sectors of interest to us such as coal mining, infrastructure and road construction are bouncing back faster due to pent-up demand and activity levels. How are you dealing with your employees? Has Covid impacted remuneration, resulted in downsizing? We have not downsized. We have honoured all pre-Covid appointments. We have also not resorted to salary cuts. In fact, we have implemented annual merit increases with a little time delay. What is the key learning from this crisis? There are clear signs that we must step up on our sustainability ambitions towards zero road fatalities, zero emissions, more for less and care for the planet. Building resilient, dependable and flexible global supply chains is a key focus. The geopolitical developments are suggestive of huge opportunities for India to become a manufacturing powerhouse like never envisioned earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/volumes-in-dec-qtr-to-match-2019-level/articleshow/78900263.cms||Avik Das
October 28, 2020||Business||ICICI Pru reports flat net profit for Q2||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: ICICI Prudential Life Insurance reported a net profit of Rs 303 crore for the quarter ended September 2020, almost unchanged from Rs 302 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Although pre-tax earnings were higher by 8%, a higher tax liability during the quarter flattened profit growth. The company ended the quarter with assets under management of Rs 1,81,492 crore — an increase of 19% over the corresponding quarter last year. New business premium recovered in the second quarter to end flat for the quarter at Rs 2,957 crore, helping offset some of the decline seen in the first quarter brought on by the strict lockdown in response to the pandemic. The new business premium for the first half was Rs 4,456 crore. Announcing the results, ICICI Prudential Life MD & CEO N S Kannan said that the value of new business (VNB), or new business profit, for the quarter stood at Rs 401 crore with an expansion in VNB margin to 27.4% from 21.1% in the corresponding period last year. He said that the margins had widened due to market-leading sales of protection policies with the share of protection business increasing to 19.5% from 14.8% a year ago. “The company’s new business premium was better than our forecast of de-growth of 16%. The performance was mainly supported by a sharp jump of 45% in single premium while first-year premium registered a de-growth of 32%,” said Prayesh Jain, lead analyst at Yes Securities. Kannan said that risk-aversion among customers led to higher sales of long-term savings product, which grew 45% year-on-year for the quarter. “As part of our strategy to deepen and widen distribution, we forged new strategic partnerships with IndusInd Bank and NSDL Payments Bank. To fulfil our vision of securing the protection and long-term savings needs of Indian families, we will continue to expand and be present across platforms and geographies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-pru-reports-flat-net-profit-for-q2/articleshow/78900401.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 28, 2020||Patna||2.14 crore to decide fate of 1,066 netas today||PATNA: Elaborate security arrangements have been made for the first phase of the state assembly polls to be held on Wednesday. In all, 71 constituencies spread over 16 districts will go to the polls in the first phase. The election is being held for the first time in the country amid Covid-19 pandemic. Around 2.14 crore voters will decide the fate of 1,066 contestants, including eight cabinet ministers, such as Jai Kumar Singh, Prem Kumar, Ram Narayan Mandal, Santosh Kumar Nirala and Vijay Kumar Sinha. Of 1,066 candidates in the fray, 319 have criminal antecedents. Anant Singh (Mokama), Prahlad Yadav (Suryagarha), Hulas Pandey (Brahmapur) and Azad Paswan (Rajpur) are among those facing charges of serious criminal offences. Paswan, a self-proclaimed former area commander of a banned Maoist outfit, has nine cases of Maoist violence pending against him in Shahabad region. Altogether 31,380 polling booths have been set up keeping in view social distancing norms. Of them, around 6,000 booths have been identified as sensitive from security point of view. Polling will be held from 7am to 6pm. State chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa said of the 71 constituencies, 35 are in Maoist-hit areas. Polling will be held up to 3pm in the four Maoist-hit constituencies – Chainpur, Nabinagar, Kutumba and Rafiganj. In five other Maoist-hit constituencies, polling will be held up to 5 pm. In the remaining 26 Maoist-hit constituencies, the polling will be held up to 4pm. The CEO said central armed police forces have been deployed at all the polling booths to ensure free, fair and peaceful elections. Additional security forces have been deployed in the Maoist-hit areas. Choppers have also been pressed into service for air patrolling to avert any untoward incident. Combing operations have been launched in some areas identified as worst hit by LWE. On Tuesday, the Gaya police averted a major incident ahead of the polls. Three improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were recovered from different places during a search operation. Police said the explosives were meant for use during the election. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said the IEDs were defused by members of the bomb disposal squad. Guidelines have already been issued by the election commission to strictly adhere to the Covid19 social distancing norms at all the polling booths. While polling personnel have been provided PPE kits, sanitizers, therm-scanners, the electorate will be provided hand gloves at the polling booths. An additional chief electoral officer (ACEO) said a helpline number, 1950, has been set up to help the electorate. An estimated Rs 625 crore will be spent on the ensuing three-phase state assembly election, about 131% more compared to the 2015 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-14-crore-to-decide-fate-of-1066-netas-today/articleshow/78899011.cms||Ramashankar
October 28, 2020||Patna||Kin of Galwan Valley martyrs felicitated||PATNA: The Bihar Regimental Centre dedicated Infantry Day celebrations of the Indian Army to families of Galwan Valley martyrs by felicitating them in a special programme held at Akhaura auditorium at Danapur on Tuesday. Of the 20 martyrs, 12, including commanding officer Colonel B Santosh Babu, were from 12 and 16 Bihar regiments, who had laid down their lives in a fierce encounter with China’s PLA soldiers on June 15. Bikumalla Santhoshi, wife of martyr Colonel Babu, reached the BRC to attend the programme along with her elder daughter Abhigna and son Anirudh Teja. Family members of 11 other martyrs were also there. All of them were felicitated by centre’s commandant Brigadier Alok Khurana. The martyrs’ kin reached Danapur from Telangana, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odhisa, Chattishgarh and different parts of Bihar. A special video dedicated to Galwan martyrs was played on the occasion with a message that the enemy would have to pay the price one day. Santhoshi, while interacting with media persons, said she wants her son to join the Bihar regiment of Indian Army to complete the unfulfilled dreams of his father. Visibly emotional, Santoshi said there’s not a single day when her children don’t recall their father. Colonel Babu’s brother-in-law Muktheeshwar Erukulla said Abhigna and Anirudh are still heartbroken at the demise of their father. While Anirudh studies in LKG, his elder sister, Abhigna, is a Class IV student. Major general Rajpal Punia, general officer commanding (GOC) of Jharkhand and Bihar sub-area of Indian Army, said martyrdom of Galwan brave-hearts pushed China on back foot. “These martyrs had taught a big lesson to China,” he said. Punia urged Khurana to erect a memorial for the Galwan martyrs at BRC. Besides Colonel Babu’s wife, martyr Nuduram Soren’s wife Laxmi Mani Soren, havildar Sunil Kumar’s wife Reeti Devi, sepoy Chandrakant Pradhan’s mother and aunt Bilasini Pradhan and Malati Pradhan, sepoy Kundan Kumar Ojha’s wife Namrata Devi, sepoy Rajesh Orang’s mother Mamta Orang, sepoy Ganesh Ram’s mother Jageshwari Devi, sepoy Chandan Kumar’s mother Dharma Devi, sepoy Kundan Kumar’s wife Baby Devi, sepoy Ganesh Hansda’s mother Kapra Hansda, sepoy Aman Kumar’s wife Minu Kumari and sepoy Jai Kishor Singh’s father Rajkapur Singh were also felicitated on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kin-of-galwan-valley-martyrs-felicitated/articleshow/78898565.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt may soon announce plans for forming new dists||Amaravati: The government is setting the stage for the announcement of new districts in the state. The exercise for reorganisation of the districts has been put on the fast track as the committees constituted to study the issue are busy compiling the data received from district collectors. Sources said that the process of the creation of new districts may delay the conduct of elections to local and civic bodies which were abruptly held up in March this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. While the government is likely to oppose the conduct of elections, expecting a second wave of Covid-19 infections in November and December, it may seek additional time to conduct the elections citing logistical troubles after the creation of the new districts. Incidentally, the term of state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar will end on March 31, 2021. The government had constituted three separate committees to study different issues involved in the creation of new districts. The planning department is studying the geographical, historical and boundaries of the districts that will be created after the formation of new districts. Another committee headed by the roads and buildings department principal secretary is studying the availability of infrastructure in the new district headquarters. Sources said the high-level committees studying the reorganisation of the new districts have been directed to complete the process as early as possible. The draft of the new districts is likely to be completed by December 2020. Meanwhile, assembly deputy speaker Kona Raghupathi, addressing the media on Tuesday that the official announcement on new districts may be made on January 26, 2021. “Chief minister is likely to make the official announcement on January 26 to mark the celebrations of the Republic Day. We are expecting the entire process to be completed by then,” said Raghupathi. Interestingly, Raghupathi is representing Bapatla assembly constituency which is likely to be upgraded to a district headquarter under the new set up. Raghupathi has been closely monitoring the works related to the formation of the new district in his home town. He had already bagged a government medical college for his constituency under the new districts quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-may-soon-announce-plans-for-forming-new-dists/articleshow/78898487.cms||Samdani MN
October 28, 2020||Business||MSCI index rejig to bring $2.5bn inflow||TNN Mumbai: The Indian stock market is expected to see an additional foreign fund inflow of about Rs 18,500 crore ($2.5 billion) in December because of a rejig in the MSCI’s Emerging Market index. This restructuring may boost India’s weight to close to 9% from 8.1% now in the index. Kotak Bank, L&T, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance and Britannia are seen to be the biggest beneficiaries of the MSCI rejig. Among the foreign fund managers who invest in India, MSCI’s Emerging Market index is one of the most followed ones. Once the index is rebalanced, all the funds benchmarked to the MSCI index have to rejig their portfolios according to the new weight. After the November rejig of the index, a host of Indian stocks are expected to see their weights increase. “MSCI will implement changes in foreign ownership limits (FOLs) in the MSCI Global Indexes containing Indian securities coinciding with the November 2020 semi-annual index review at the close of November 30, 2020, effective December 1, 2020. The FOL changes result from the relaxation of the foreign portfolio investor (FPI) limit of Indian companies to the sectoral limit,” a report by Morgan Stanley noted. The exact change in the index will be announced on November 11. According to a report by Motilal Oswal Financial Services, the rejig is expected to lead to an additional inflow of nearly Rs 5,100 crore in Kotak Bank, about Rs 1,200 crore each in Bajaj Finance, L&T and Asian Paints, and about Rs 1,050 crore each in Britannia and Nestle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/msci-index-rejig-to-bring-2-5bn-inflow/articleshow/78900567.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||People ready to cast votes despite Covid-19||PATNA: Despite the fear of contracting and spreading coronavirus, enthusiasm is running high among several voters who will exercise their franchise on Wednesday. Political conversations have taken centre stage in every household as people are discussing major poll issues like development, education and health. 30-year-old Rishikesh Narayan, who lives at Mera village in Paliganj, claims that road connectivity and law and order situation have improved in his constituency, but not much has been done in the health and education sectors. “For better treatment, we still have to travel to the city. I have decided to vote for a party that will ensure development and generate employment opportunities,” Rishikesh says. A resident of Manikchak Mor in Masaurhi, 43-year-old Nandini, wants “change”. She has, therefore, decided to carry gloves, face mask and sanitizer to the polling booth. “If leading our lives amid the pandemic is the new normal, why shouldn’t we cast our votes?” she asks. Quinquagenarian Ratneshwar Singh, who lives in Mokama, is worried because of corona, but he wants to make his vote count. He says, “This election is extremely important not only for political parties, but also for common people like us who want development.” First-time voters are more excited to exercise their franchise. 22-year-old Bipul Agarwal, a Barh resident, points out that voting is an important way to make a difference. “Youngsters like me want a leader who can create job opportunities so that we do not have to migrate to other cities,” he adds. However, there are many people who have decided to skip the elections because they believe there are high chances of virus transmission at the polling booths. Paliganj resident Kamal Kant Prasad says, “Going out at a time like this means inviting the virus home. I cannot risk my life by going to a polling booth to cast my vote.” A resident of Aspura Road in Bikram, Chandra Prakash, echoes similar views. “It is better to stay away from gatherings because there are old people and kids in my house,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-ready-to-cast-votes-despite-covid-19/articleshow/78899359.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 28, 2020||Goa||Fake billing racket: I-T dept conducts search||Panaji: The income tax department on Tuesday conducted a search at a starred hotel in the state where a person suspected to be involved in a fake billing racket was staying. The search was part of a multi-city raid carried across 42 premises in the country. Sources said that the case was registered by the I-T office in Delhi, and that searches were conducted in Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa. So far, documents evidencing accommodation entries of more than Rs 500 crore have been found and seized. Rs 2.37 crore in cash and jewellery worth Rs 2.89 crore was also found, along with 17 bank lockers, which are yet to be operated. Evidence exposing an entire network of entry operators, intermediaries, cash handlers, beneficiaries, and firms and companies involved has been seized, too. Commissioner of income tax Surabhi Ahluwalia said that several shell entities and firms were used by these entry operators for layering unaccounted money, making cash withdrawals against fake bills issued and giving unsecured loans. “Personal staff, employees and associates had been made dummy directors and partners of these shell entities, and all bank accounts were managed and controlled by these entry operators,” Ahluwalia said. Beneficiaries have been found to have made huge investments in real estate properties in prime cities and in fixed deposits to the tune of several hundred crores of rupees. Those searched were also found to be controllers and owners of several bank accounts and lockers opened in names of their family members and trusted employees and shell entities, which they were managing in collusion with bank officials through digital media. The statements of such entry operators, their dummy partners and employees, cash handlers as well as beneficiaries have also been recorded clearly validating the entire money trail, the I-T commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fake-billing-racket-i-t-dept-conducts-search/articleshow/78900979.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Forest dept to abstain from serving non-veg food||Dehradun: In a bid to protect all kinds of animals, the forest department on Tuesday directed the forest authorities to ensure that non-vegetarian food is not served during official meetings, workshops, training programmes. The move will help in adequate compliance of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960. According to the head of the forest force, Jairaj, the forest officers have been given certain rights in the Act in order to ensure that no one indulges in any kind of cruelty against the animals. In an official order signed by Jairaj on October 27, it is stated that, “In the past few years, we have ensured that non-vegetarian food is not served during any official work and its compliance should be maintained strictly.” The order further reads that the mandate of the forest department is to save wild animals and therefore, it is important to maintain sensitivity towards all kinds of animals, birds, and aquatic species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-to-abstain-from-serving-non-veg-food/articleshow/78898484.cms||Shivani Azad
October 28, 2020||Pune||Youth arrested after girl tries to end life||Pune: An 18-year-old youth was arrested on Tuesday on the charge of stalking and sexually harassing a girl (17) from Khed taluka last week. The police action followed suicide bid by the girl on October 25. After her treatment, the girl lodged an FIR with the Alandi police on Monday, naming the youth. An officer from the Alandi police said on October 23, when the girl had gone out for washing clothes at a stream, the suspect had followed her. He had also sexually harassed her. “The girl had tried to end life by consuming pesticide on October 25. She is out of danger,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-arrested-after-girl-tries-to-end-life/articleshow/78900990.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||LJP slams JD(U) over release of Chirag Paswan’s video||PATNA: The LJP on Tuesday alleged that ruling JD(U) released some video clippings, in which party president Chirag Paswan could be seen preparing for a speech beside a photograph of his father late Ram Vilas Paswan, in a bid to defame him. “JD(U) netas have released the video clippings in which Chirag is seen getting a video shot for party’s ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’ vision document. If a party has to contest, videos have to be shot. What do people of JD(U) want to prove by releasing this video? They have stooped to very low level and Nitish also seems to have accepted that he is going to lose,” the LJP said in a statement. The video clippings, the authenticity of which has not been verified, shows Chirag busy in shooting for a speech beside a photograph of his father senior Paswan. Chirag too launched a scathing attack on CM Nitish on the issue. “I had to release the first list of party’s candidates within six hours of Papa’s demise. I had to look after all works of the party as well. I was not allowed to step out from home owing to last rituals. The video, thus, had to be shot for digital campaigning. Do I need to prove my grief for Papa’s demise to Nitishji? I am doing shoots daily. What option do I have? Papa’s demise happened at the time when entire election campaign was underway. I never thought that the CM would stoop to such a low,” Chirag said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Chirag tried to derive political mileage from his father’s death. The way Chirag is seen instructing the cameraperson to shoot showed that he was not shocked. Rather, he was more interested in deriving political gains out of it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-slams-jdu-over-release-of-chirags-video/articleshow/78899324.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Dengue spreads its tentacles in Mohali with 56 cases in a week||MOHALI: The district has reported 56 dengue cases a week. The cases are scattered at different places across the district, with 59% (33 cases) of them from Mohali urban, said civil surgeon G B Singh. “Dengue cases have been reported from various parts of the district. In the past one week, 56 patients have tested positive. Health teams are already on alert and are conducting door-to-door checking of suspected dengue larvae spots.” In 2016, the district topped the dengue positive cases in Punjab with 2,088 cases, out of which 1,125 were from Mohali city. Similarly, in 2017, Mohali recorded all-time high of 2,252 cases, out of which 1,044 were from the city itself. In 2018, as many as 1,079 dengue cases were reported. In 2019, the count was 576. The health department in September had issued a warning that it had detected dengue mosquito larvae at many places in the district. Singh said, “When we all are engaged in a battle against the coronavirus pandemic, it is equally important and essential to save ourselves from the dangerous bite of mosquito Aedes aegypti. People should clean coolers, flowerpots, fridge back trays, water tanks and other containers which are general breeding sites of the deadly mosquito.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dengue-spreads-its-tentacles-in-mohali-with-56-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/78900999.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Rajya Sabha election: BJP nominee Bansal’s win almost certain||Dehradun: Naresh Bansal, a veteran BJP member of Uttarakhand, filed his nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha (RS) seat at the office of secretary of state assembly in the presence of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, state chief Bansidhar Bhagat, ministers and several party MLAs on Tuesday. Bansal’s nomination seems to be a mere formality now. With only 11 MLAs in the 70-member assembly, Congress had earlier withdrawn itself from the race. As a result, Bansal’s win is almost certain. He would be officially declared a Rajya Sabha member on November 2, which is the last day for withdrawal of nomination. Sharing the information, secretary of Assembly and returning officer for Rajya Sabha election, Mukesh Singhal told TOI, “Only one nomination paper was filed and it was by BJP candidate Naresh Bansal. The scrutiny of documents would be done on October 28, but even after everything is found in order, we will have to wait till 3pm on November 2 – which is the last day for withdrawal of nomination – before handing over the certificate.” The polling was to be held on November 9, as per the schedule, and the result to be announced on the same day. With a lone nomination, the polling process would not be required for the seat now. After filing his nomination, Bansal said, “I am grateful to the party leadership for giving me this opportunity. I will raise issues related to the state at the national level.” Meanwhile, CM Rawat said, “Only one nomination has been filed. Bansal is a senior party member who is dedicated to the state's development." While a number of senior party members were in the race, BJP announced Bansal as its candidate on Monday. The seat is being currently held by Raj Babbar of the Congress and his term would end on November 25. Babbar was elected on March 14, 2015. Uttarakhand has a total of three Rajya Sabha seats. The two others are represented by Anil Baluni of the BJP and Pradeep Tamta of the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajya-sabha-election-bjp-nominee-bansals-win-almost-certain/articleshow/78898504.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Constable held for taking Rs 10 lakh bribe, SHO on the run||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has arrested a constable for accepting a bribe of Rs 10 lakh from a complainant whom he threatened to trap in a drugs case on Tuesday. The constable was posted in Sriganganagar. He along with the SHO of the same police station had accepted a bribe of Rs 16 lakh. The SHO is on the run. In another case, the ACB is probing a case of disproportionate income against an RTO inspector. The arrested constable has been identified as 34-year-old Ramesh Chand Meena, while the absconding SHO was identified as Rajesh Sihag who was posted at Jawahar Nagar police station in Sriganganagar. B L Soni, DG (ACB), said, “The complainant, who is from Kanpur claimed that the constable had threatened to trap him in the NDPS Act if he did not pay the required amount. He had already paid a hefty amount earlier and as soon as we received the complaint, we started the investigation. Once the allegations were verified, we set a trap and caught the accused accepting a bribe of Rs 10 lakh at a posh hotel in the city.” A team of Jodhpur ACB unit had also gone to Sriganganagar to nab the SHO, but he fled before he could be arrested. Cops are searching for him. Sources claimed that Meena used multiple mobile phones and internet connections to carry on his corruption. Police are also looking at his history to find the amount that he had taken in bribes. They will look into the cases handled by the duo to get more details. A case was also registered against transport inspector Jagdish Narayan Meena for having disproportionate income and an investigation has been initiated. Meena who was stationed at the district transport office in Chomu had an additional income of Rs 2.75 crore which was unaccountable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-held-for-taking-rs-10l-bribe-sho-on-the-run/articleshow/78901007.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Imported coal theft racket busted||Rajkot: A racket of stealing imported coal was busted by the employees of Digvijay Cement Company (DCC) having a manufacturing facility at Sikka in Jamnagar. Police have booked three truck drivers for criminal breach of trust for stealing 96 tonne imported coal. According to a police complaint registered with Sikka police station by engineer of DCC Hardevsinh Chudasama, the truck driver used to replace the imported coal with inferior quality coal while transporting it from the Deendayal Port in Kandla to the manufacturing unit in Sikka. The DCC imports coal from Singapore to Deendayal Port. The company has agreement with five transport firms to transport the imported coal from Kandla to Sikka. Three trucks, each carrying 32 tonne coal arrived at Sikka facility on October 25. Two trucks were unloaded and while the third was being unload, Chudasama got suspicious about the quality of the coal. He informed his lab technician Jitesh Rawal but by that time he arrived the truck driver ran away. K R Sisodiya police inspector of Sikka police station said “On testing it was found that the coal in the three trucks was not the imported coal but was of inferior quality. The imported coal might have been changed between Kandla and Sikka. We are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imported-coal-theft-racket-busted/articleshow/78898510.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Disabled man’s body recovered from Moga canal||Ludhiana: Almost a month after Charanjit Singh, 45, of Gian Chand Nagar, Daba, went missing, a body recovered from a canal in Moga district has been identified as his.Police said the body was found on October 24 and two days later, its autopsy was conducted after identification.Police have already arrested Charanjit’s friend Veeram Singh and auto driver Simran Singh, both residents of Basant Nagar, Daba. Two other accused, Gurdit Singh and Dupinder Singh, who are brothers of Veeram, are at large. Cops said the accused hit Charanjit, who had polio, on head with bricks, stabbed him to death and then threw his body in Kaind canal in Khanpur village, Ludhiana. Daba SHO inspector Pavittar Singh said, “On October 24, an unidentified body was found in a canal in Badhni Kalan, Moga district. Charanjit’s family claimed it was his. Its autopsy and DNA test were conducted, which substantiated their claims.”Cops have now added the murder section to the FIR.Earlier, on October 20, an unidentified body was recovered from Dhaipai village of Ludhiana rural. Even as the family had claimed that it was Charanjit’s, the post-mortem revealed that it was of a woman.Charanjit’s family said Veerma had borrowed Rs 20,000 from them. On October 2, Charanjit had gone to Veeram’s house to get the money back. But Veeram, along with his brothers, thrashed Charanjit and kidnapped him in Simran’s auto.The Daba police, on October 17, had booked Veeram, Gurdit, Dupinder and Simran. Veeram and Simran were arrested the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/disabled-mans-body-recovered-from-moga-canal/articleshow/78898496.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Cop held while taking Rs 15k bribe in Ajmer||Ajmer: The ACB on Tuesday arrested an ASI of Ramganj police station for taking a bribe of Rs 15,000 in a land dispute case. Babulal had demanded bribe of Rs 1 lakh and the complainant had gone to pay the first instalment, the ACB said. The ACB caught Babulal at the tea stall outside the police station while he was accepting the bribe. ACB is also looking involvement of other police officials in this matter. According to the ACB, a case was registered against a person identified as Rishabh of Ramganj with the allegation of forging papers of a land. Babulal started the investigation and demanded Rs 1 lakh from Rishabh to take out his name from the report. The ACB received the complaint and DSP Mahipal Choudhary started investigation. The agency planned a trap and when Babulal came out of police station they followed him. Babulal went to the nearby tea stall where the complainant Rishabh was already there. ASI talked to him and Rishabh handed him Rs 15,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-held-while-taking-rs-15k-bribe-in-ajmer/articleshow/78901020.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Markets & malls open, coaching classes too seek nod to start||Nagpur: As state government accelerates its unlocking mode, coaching institutes say it’s high time that they too get the nod. Institutes feel with malls and traditional markets open, teenagers are anyway seen frequenting these spots hence to keep their sector closed ‘is unfair’. Sameer Phale, owner of a city-based coaching class said safety guidelines are most likely to be followed at their premises. “We have all the infrastructure available to ensure that safety guidelines are followed. You look at malls and see how teenagers are roaming around. Look at election rallies and is anybody questioning the safety guidelines there? So when we are ready to operate with highest level of compliance, it makes no sense to keep us on the waiting list,” said Phale. Ashutosh Hisaria, Nagpur centre head of a multi-city coaching institute said physical classes have to start. “Looking at the overall scenario in India, we can see that number of Covid-19 cases are going down. Course completion for both board exam plus for competitive exams need to be done and for that, you need students in classrooms. Of course every coaching institute will follow safety guidelines, due to which both offline and online mode will continue,” said Hisaria. Yogesh Sharma, medical entrance coach said students coming to their institutes are ‘matured’ and capable of handling themselves. “They are all junior college level students and completely aware of the precautions to be taken for Covid-19. I just do not see any reason to further keep classes closed. In fact if you look at home tuitions for smaller kids, many parents have already started sending their wards. Since that sector is completely unorganized there is no one to oversee what exactly is going on,” said Sharma. Narendra Wankhede, owner of a city-based coaching institute however disagrees. “I feel it will be better to wait a bit longer because even if a single student becomes positive, it will be a problem. Probably the best time to physically reopen classes will be once local cases are very low,” said Wankhede.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/markets-malls-open-coaching-classes-too-seek-nod-to-start/articleshow/78899688.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Sex racket busted in Panchkula, 3 Uzbek women, 1 from Turkey rescued||PANCHKULA: The crime branch on Tuesday busted a flesh trade racket running from a house in Sector 12, with the arrest of four people and rescued eight women, including three from Uzbekistan and one from Turkey. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Satish Kumar Kaushik said the four accused have been identified as Aditya Goyal alias Sunny, a resident of Etawah, Uttar Pradesh, Manmohan Singh alias Raju, a resident of Rupnagar, Punjab, Shekhar Kumar, a resident of Banka, Bihar, and Ganesh Kumar, a resident of Madhubani, Bihar. ACP Raj Kumar said that all four foreigners rescued are in the age group of 20 to 40 years of age. They were living in India even after the expiry of their visas and permit. The owner of the house stays abroad and had rented it to Goyal. The ACP said one Ashok Chauhan (yet to be arrested) and Goyal used to arrange the women. Their driver Manmohan Singh used to supply them to various hotels in Punjab based on demand. The accused had hired various persons for running the business. They used to charge between Rs 4,000 and Rs 15,000 for supplying a woman for a night/hour depending upon the demand, cops said. They had got made fake Aadhaar card, voter ID card and driving licences of the foreigners. The accused have been booked. All the four accused were sent in judicial custody. DCP Mohit Handa has informed the embassies of the foreigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sex-racket-busted-in-pkl-3-uzbek-women-1-from-turkey-rescued/articleshow/78901015.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Temperature drops to 18.8 degrees Celsius in Pune, season’s lowest at night so far||PUNE: The minimum temperature in the city dipped to the season’s lowest at 18.8 Celsius on Tuesday, with clear skies the preceding night. While the dip was to 18.8C in Shivajinagar, in Pashan the temperature was slightly lower at 18.6C and higher in Lohegaon at 19.3C. Night temperatures would be in this range over the next few days, with another drop to around 17 C on November 2 in Shivajinagar and Pashan. The lowest night temperatures this month still remain higher than the lowest minimums recorded in October during the last decade in Pune. In the last ten years, the temperature in October has usually been in the range of 12-15C. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune told TOI, “We expect the minimum temperature in Pune to fall even further in the next couple of days as moisture is depleting fast. The monsoon is set to make a complete and simultaneous exit from the country on Wednesday.” He said that the nearly dry weather in Pune, causing a reduction in clouding, has caused night temperatures to drop. “The wind regime over the state is northerly and north-easterly, but the cold northerly wind flow has still not developed fully. The warm and moist north-easterly wind flow is dominating currently but the cloudless night skies are aiding the drop in minimum temperature,” Kashyapi explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temperature-drops-to-18-8c-seasons-lowest-at-night-so-far/articleshow/78901009.cms||Neha Madaan
October 28, 2020||Goa||Cop’s assailants held for robbery||PONDA: A case of robbery that had occured at a busy Ponda street surfaced after a Karnataka-based goldsmith identified the two accused, arrested for assaulting ASI Jeetendra Naik, as robbers who had snatched his bag containing Rs 6 lakh worth gold. The robbery had taken place on the night of September 30 near Safa Masjid, Shapur-Ponda. The accused, Krishna Khadka, 30, a Nepali, Shubham Naik, 28, a resident of Panditwada-Ponda and Sahil Mulla, 22, a native of Karnataka, were allegedly involved in the robbery. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said the goldsmith, Raju Vernekar from Gadag-Karnataka, approached them after he identified Khadka and Shubham from the photographs published in newspapers. He said there were three youths involved in bag-snatching case. Mulla was named by the duo after their arrest in the robbery case. Police picked up Mulla who was in judicial custody in an drugs peddling case. “We have recovered three mangalsutras worth Rs 4.5 lakh from the accused and one is yet to be recovered,” Gaude said. The Ponda police have booked the trio under Section 392, read with Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code. The accused have been remanded in police custody for six days for further investigation, inoder to probe whether the accused are involved in any other cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-assailants-held-for-robbery/articleshow/78901002.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Lockdown forces traders to vacate rental shops in city||Jaipur: A number of shopkeepers have left their rental outlets because of mounting losses due to lockdown. Around 30 shops have been shut down in Johri Market since lockdown. Traders say high rent and no income was the reason for them to leave the property. “Rent in the market starts from Rs 40,000 to Rs 2 lakh. Complete lockdown had broken the backbone of businesses in the market eventually forcing people to look for cheaper rent properties,” said Kailash Mittal, vice-president of Johri Market Traders’ Association. A similar trend was seen in Walled City Market as 20-30 shops in every market have been vacated. Subash Goyal, president of Jaipur Vyapaar Mahasangh, said lockdown had badly affected people in the market. Not even 30% customers are coming, which has forced people to look out for less expensive places. “Many people have opened shops in their homes or on the outskirts of the city where they don’t have to pay high rent,” said Suresh Lashkary, president of Sanjay Market. Due to the limit on number of guests in weddings, cloth shops, especially ones selling wedding dresses, have been hit the most. In Khatipura market, around 30 shops are closed down, majority of which are cloth shops. Sanjay Yapar, treasurer of Khatipura Market, said in peak wedding season, when the entire market used to be packed, traders are barely getting customers. Ravi Naiyar, president of Jaipur Vyapaar Mandal said, “You go in any market and you will find to-let property boards everywhere. In Raja Park area alone, 60 shops are closed. Many shop owners have decreased the rent by 50% to 70% as they know it is difficult to find another tenant at present. Many owners have waived three months’ lockdown rent. Some people are waiting till Diwali season and if things don’t improve, more shops will be vacated. Times are tough for everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-forces-traders-to-vacate-rental-shops-in-city/articleshow/78901023.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Covid-19: Kerala's Wayanad tests old-age home inmates, all -ve||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad has tested all inmates and staff in old-age homes in the district for Covid-19 to ensure that the high-risk population remains safe from the pandemic. As many as 678 inmates and 158 staff at old-age homes have been subjected to antigen tests twice and all have tested negative, pointing to the success in ensuring reverse quarantine. The district health authorities said that Wayanad has become the first district in the state to achieve 100% Covid-19 antigen testing of inmates of all old-age homes. The state government had issued directions to conduct antigen testing for Covid-19 among inmates of old-age homes in view of their vulnerability, as many residents are indisposed and have underlying medical conditions. There are around 21,000 inmates in 619 old-age homes in the state, including those under the government and run by the NGOs “The testing negative of all inmates of old-age homes is a result of successful implementation of directives for ensuring reverse quarantine given by the health department,” said Dr R Renuka, district medical officer. National Health Mission (NHM) district programme manager Dr B Abhilash said that the district has screened inmates of old-age homes through antigen tests twice and the second round of testing was completed just recently. “The inmates of old-age homes comprised a high-risk group and Covid-19 spread in the centres could turn very serious. So we prioritized testing of the inmates to ensure that they can be protected from contracting the disease,” he added. Also, Covid-19 prevention measures for other elderly citizens are being carried out under the Grand Care programme run jointly with the Kudumbashree. District health department authorities said that a control room is being operated at the collectorate and volunteers are contacting all elderly people over phone and urging them to follow precautions, and conveying the reverse quarantine message. The social justice department had brought out a set of guidelines to prevent Covid-19 spread among vulnerable sections, including old-age home inmates. The directions include strict curbs on visitors to old-age homes and restrictions on inmates to travel outside, disease prevention measures, special care for providing healthy food, steps to make available emergency medical help, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-tests-old-age-home-inmates-all-ve/articleshow/78898511.cms||K R Rajeev
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||BJP’s Rajya Sabha candidate Naresh Bansal joined RSS at the age of eight||Dehradun: Naresh Bansal, 65, who is all set to become the Rajya Sabha (RS) member from Uttarakhand, joined RSS when he was eight years old. Bansal left his government job to join BJP and has been actively participating in the party activities for over four decades. A familiar face in the state's political circles, Bansal, currently holds the rank of a Cabinet minister. He is the deputy chairman of the 20-point programme and implementation committee of the state government. In his 50 years of service, Bansal has occupied several key positions in the party. He was the state president (interim) and the state general secretary. Bansal was selected as a candidate for Rajya Sabha in 2012 as well, but was later withdrawn. On Tuesday, Bansal said, “I am overwhelmed with the love and respect given by my party at the Centre and state. I will live up to their expectations.” Born in a lower middle class family in Dehradun, he did his primary education at a municipality school - when the state was part of Uttar Pradesh. He studied M.Com in DAV College and completed a ‘Sangha’ degree from Nagpur. “He left his bank job to participate in RSS activities after the Babri mosque demolition in 1992. He even wrote a literature which was circulated widely at the time of emergency," said Devendra Bhasin, BJP spokesperson. Bansal remained the state general secretary (organisation) between November 2002 and 2009. He has also been part of the party's poll committees. Talking about his role in the Sangh, a senior RSS member told TOI, “He was the treasurer of Uttaranchal Samvad Samiti formed at the time of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi movement. From 1972 to 1974, he took over the responsibility of city treasurer of the RSS student council and was elected as district coordinator of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad in 1977. He was office bearer of Hindu Jagran Manch from 1980 to 1986.” Bansal also headed the RSS’s disaster management panel for over 20 years. For his family - his wife and three children - he is a caring husband and father who always finds time for home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjps-rajya-sabha-candidate-naresh-bansal-joined-rss-at-the-age-of-eight/articleshow/78898519.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Low intensity quake hits Nagpur, Seoni||Nagpur: A low intensity earthquake of 3.3 magnitude on the Richter scale was experienced in Nagpur and Madhya Pradesh’s Seoni district early on Tuesday morning, officials said. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, they said. According to the National Centre for Seismology and India Meteorological Department Nagpur, the quake was recorded at 4.10am with its epicentre at a depth of 15km, 96km north-northeast of Nagpur, a PTI report said. The tremors were also recorded in Seoni, said IMD Bhopal centre scientist Ved Prakash Singh. Some residents of Dunda Seoni suburb and other parts of the district woke up on experiencing the tremors and came out of their houses, said eyewitnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/low-intensity-quake-hits-nagpur-seoni/articleshow/78899736.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Punjab police seize ‘medicines’ in Jaipur||Jaipur: Punjab police conducted a raid in Jaipur’s Kanota police station area in a warehouse which was illegally storing medicines and seized over 200 boxes of addictive medicines, including Codeine. The Punjab police was in Rajasthan after they had arrested an accused in their own state.Codeine is part of banned fixed-dose combination (FDC) drugs that were widely available in the market till few years back. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/punjab-police-seize-medicines-in-jaipur/articleshow/78901032.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||E-com delivery agent arrested for theft of smartphone||Pune: The Hinjewadi police on Monday arrested a 19-year-old delivery agent of an e-commerce website for stealing a smartphone worth Rs38,000, which was to be delivered to a customer.Police said the suspect, Manoj Suryavanshi, was supposed to deliver the smartphone between September 28 and 30 to a 27-year-old software engineer. She had ordered a smartphone from the website in September, and received an SMS stating that it would get delivered between September 28 and 30. When she did not receive the parcel, she checked the tracking details and saw that the package was marked as returned by the customer. “She became suspicious and lodged a police complaint,” sub-inspector A B Hingole said.He said the police had been trying to track down Suryavanshi for the past 25 days. “On Monday he switched on the stolen phone and used his SIM card in it. We traced him using the handset’s IMEI number,” Hingole said, adding they were looking into whether he cheating others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/e-com-delivery-agent-arrested-for-theft-of-smartphone/articleshow/78901029.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Security forces, Maoists exchange fire along AOB||Visakhapatnam: An exchange of fire took place between Maoists and security forces along the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) on Tuesday morning, sparking tension on both sides of the state border in Odisha and AP. Following the incident,Viskhapatnam rural police alerted all border police stations and intensified search operation for Maoists. The incident took place at Jomdong forest in Doliput panchayat under Papparametla police station limits im Malkangiri district of Odisha, a neighbouring district of Visakhapatnam. No casualties of injuries to security forces or Maoists were reported. Tension prevailed in the area after the exchange of fire and combing operations were intensified by Special Operations Group (SOG) police. According to police sources, Maoists reportedly opened fire on security forces that were combing the area. Security forces retaliated and fire was exchanged in the region for around 30 minutes. It will be recalled that Maoists had allegedly killed a tribal, Kumudu Das of Jhajarpit villge under Jodambo panchayat, and injured two others recently. Following the incident, security forces started combing the area and unearthed land mines and explosives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/security-forces-maoists-exchange-fire-along-aob/articleshow/78898509.cms||Siva G
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Samrala school shut as teacher tests positive||Ludhiana: Government Senior Secondary School, Samrala, was closed on Tuesday after a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. “The school will remain closed for a week,” said district education officer (DEO), secondary, Swaranjeet Kaur.About 60 students and over 30 teachers were sent back home at 9.15am and a notice pinned to a board outside the school after the authorities received the report.On October 23, as many as 32 teachers were tested. Of them, a teacher tested positive on Tuesday. She has been home isolated.The school had reopened on October 19. Over 50 to 60 students, who were visiting the school, will be tested after their parents’ consent. Most of the students are from commerce section. The senior medical officer has asked all the teachers to get themselves tested on Wednesday.School principal Davinder said, “After the test, all 32 teachers were coming to the school. The teacher who has tested positive came on Saturday, but remained on leave on Monday and Tuesday. She will now be on leave for the next 14 days. The rest of the 31 teachers have tested negative. The school will be opened after 10 days and the classes will be held online. The municipal corporation staff is sanitizing the school.”The school is also a centre for students appearing for classes X and XII open exams. On Monday, six students appeared for Punjabi test and on Tuesday, 102 students took the English exam. Hundred students are scheduled to write the science exam here on Thursday.The principal said, “We have requested the DEO to shift the centre.”Punjab School Education Board controller Janak Raj Mehrok told the TOI, “The exam centre has been shifted from Government Senior Secondary School, Samrala-III, to Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School, Samrala-I, for classes X and XII (open school) board examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/samrala-school-shut-as-teacher-tests-positive/articleshow/78898520.cms||Mehak Jain
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Dholpur encounter: 1 more dacoit held, kingpin at large||Jaipur: Ten teams of Dholpur police are scouting the Dang region to find the dacoit who had shot and wounded a policeman on Monday. Four persons have been arrested in the case so far, but the main accused was yet to be nabbed. The district witnessed a cop-robber encounter in the early hours of Monday when police tried to nab notorious dacoit Keshav Gujjar. Keshav is wanted by Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan police in several cases of extortion, loot and murder and has a Rs 1 lakh reward on his head by Rajasthan police. One constable sustained grave bullet injures while Keshav managed to escape leaving behind his brother’s wife with whom he apparently had an illicit relationship and two of his gang members. While three persons were arrested on Monday, cops nabbed another accused on Tuesday. Dholpur SP Keshar Singh said, “We have arrested the fourth person identified as Bhura Singh. He also had a country made-weapon on him. The search operation for Keshav will continue and we have already combed two dozen villages. We will arrest him soon. We are questioning the villagers as well to check if they know of his whereabouts.”  As firing started from various directions, the team took a cover which allowed Keshav to flee from the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dholpur-encounter-1-more-dacoit-held-kingpin-at-large/articleshow/78901028.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Fuel theft: Petrol pump owners under scanner||Ludhiana: After the suspension of two employees for alleged irregularities in fuel meant for fogging vehicles, now municipal corporation officials are planning action against the petrol pump owners and its employees as one of the health branch officials has submitted a complaint against the petrol pump from where these employees were caught red handed. Mayor Balkar Sandhu on Friday had caught two employees red-handed at the petrol pump near Arora palace and were suspended immediately. Even councillors have started demanding a thorough probe in this matter. The councillor, Kuldeep Singh Bitta, has brought the matter of a fogging machine to the knowledge of the mayor while claiming that the machine never put to use since July for fogging, whereas in the records the fuel was being shown as being filled in this vehicle. He asked the mayor to pay attention towards the same and big fishes would be caught. The mayor said he had asked the officials to conduct a proper inquiry in this matter and take appropriate action against erring employees as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fuel-theft-petrol-pump-owners-under-scanner/articleshow/78898527.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot writes to MLAs on Covid control||Jaipur: CM Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday shared with all the MLAs the new findings related to Covid. In a letter, Gehlot informed the legislators of the second wave of the virus in Europe and urged them to create awareness among people. He asked them to participate in the state-run campaigns ‘No Mask, No Entry’ and ‘Corona Ke Vurudh Jan Andolan.’ “I appeal to every MLA to participate in these non-political campaigns and contribute in eliminating the virus from the state,” the letter said. He urged the lawmakers that they should promote wearing masks and maintain social distancing while meeting people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-writes-to-mlas-on-covid-control/articleshow/78901030.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sector 25 firing case injured takes cop plaint to SSP||CHANDIGARH: A garment and liquor trader in Sector 25, who was injured in a firing on October 19, has submitted a written complaint at the SSP public window against Shiv Charan, sub-inspector and former in-charge of Sector 24 police post, and Neetu, a resident of Sector 25, for sending two shooters to kill him. Sandeep Kumar, the complainant, provided the phone recording of one of the shooters, Vijay, threatening to kill him a few days before the incident. He also demanded police protection. After Kumar had first made the allegations, UT SSP on October 21 suspended Shiv Charan. The SSP had also issued show-cause notices to DSP central division and Sector 11 police station house officer, seeking explanation. Kumar alleged Vijay called up his cousin and threatened to kill him as well. Sandeep alleged that after getting the call, he reported the matter to Shiv Charan, then police post in-charge of Sector 24, but instead of taking any action, he allegedly pressured him to compromise with Vijay. Kumar requested senior police officials to check the call details and WhatsApp calls of Shiv Charan, Neetu and Vijay from October 1 to 20. Kumar also demanded police protection as both shooters, Vijay and Monu, are absconding. In the meantime, a local resident found one more bullet shell from the crime spot a week after the incident. A total of five empty bullet shells have been recovered so far. Vijay and Monu, both residents of Sector 25, had allegedly opened fire on Kumar at his cloth shop around 10 pm on October 19. Sandeep received injuries in his head and leg. Sector 11 police have been raiding possible hideouts of the two shooters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sec-25-firing-case-injured-takes-cop-plaint-to-ssp/articleshow/78901024.cms||Pawan Tiwari
October 28, 2020||Pune||Complaints of erratic water supply in some areas||Pune: The residents of Yerawada and New Khadki area are angry over erratic supply of water at odd hours. The residents said the supply schedule has been disrupted since the last few days and water supply is inadequate and at low pressure, causing hardships. Nana Devkar, a resident, said, “There has been a gradual drop in water pressure over the years and it reduced further recently. We are not able to fill underground tanks. The supply is also restricted to two hours during the day. We are getting water supply early in the morning. The administration should resume supply at 6am,” Devkar added. The residents have demanded that the administration streamline the distribution in the next few days failing which they have threatened to stage an agitation. Around 3,000 residents have been affected. Another local resident, Fiza Sayyed Talim, said that water supply needs to be strengthened and quality of water should be improved at the earliest. “Early morning water supply is not helping anyone,” she added. Local activist Daniel Landge said that he has discussed the issue with civic officials. “We have visited the area and held talks with local residents who want water supply at adequate pressure in the morning. The water supply department has been requested to supply water at night around 9 pm so that people will be able to fill tanks. Some pipelines also need to be replaced. We are following this up with the administration,” he said. PMC authorities said that some water distribution lines are old and need to be changed. The proposal is under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/complaints-of-erratic-water-supply-in-some-areas/articleshow/78901025.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Get your confiscated items, vehicles back from police||Ludhiana: The city police have appealed to residents to contact them to get back their vehicles and other items, like mobiles and gold, confiscated by them. According to police officials, there are approximately 4,000 vehicles at the police stations of Ludhiana commissionerate that will be returned to their owners on October 30. The Ludhiana police have also got the court orders for it. If people fail to get their belongings, the police will auction them on November 3. On Tuesday, the police also uploaded a post on its official Facebook page saying, “There are a lot of vehicles and other items lying at the police stations as case properties. We contacted their owners and also took the court orders to release them. We will be returning them on October 30 at 11am. We request the owners to immediately contact us.”Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “There are approximately 4,000 vehicles at police stations, besides other belongings. Some vehicles are lying for as many as eight to 10 years. So, we have decided to hand them over to their owners. The police are also helping people by getting them aid from advocates, who have been asked not to charge them for court applications.”Agarwal said, “Sometimes people don’t come to take back their vehicles because either they do not have documents or the vehicle is very old or sometimes they have already taken a claim from the insurance company. In such cases we will auction them on November 3. But our target is to dispose of at least 80% of the vehicles to decongest the police stations.”At a few police stations, like Division 5, Basti Jodhewal, Haibowal and Ladhowal, there is not enough space and the vehicles are kept on roads outside the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/get-your-confiscated-items-vehicles-back-from-police/articleshow/78898524.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Cop sent to police lines for dereliction of duty||Jaipur: The investigation officer who kept a person’s body in mortuary for 19 days without trying to locate his family has been sent to the police lines for dereliction of duty. Police conceded that there was negligence on the IO’s part who did not follow up on the investigation to identify the person who died in a road accident in Toonga police station area. On October 7, Ravikant (35) had left his house on a scooty and met with an accident. The victim was taken to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. His family registered a missing person report in Adarsh Nagar police station on October 8. DCP (Jaipur East) Rahul Jain said, “The IO should have tried to identify the deceased through the registration details of the scooty which was kept in the police station after the accident. However he did not do so because of which there was delay in the identification. He has been sent to police lines and is awaiting posting order.” The official added that the victim was taken to hospital before the cops reached the accident spot. The family alleged negligence on part of Toonga police as they had failed to identify the deceased for nearly three weeks due to which his kin had been in the dark about the death. This incident brings to light the lack of coordination between various police stations resulting in such negligence. The family identified the body following which was handed over to them. In missing person cases, usually information is shared with other police stations as well to find the persons, but it appears that it was not done in this particular case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-sent-to-police-lines-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/78901027.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||New central body may spell end of the road for 22-year-old EPCA||NEW DELHI: The Centre’s move to bring a new law is likely intended to set up an overarching body to implement measures to improve air quality for Delhi-NCR and could mean the end of road for the 22-year-old Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority (EPCA) and other committees mandated to deal with the air pollution menace. Though EPCA would continue for some more time as its role is not limited to air pollution alone, the power and functioning of this Supreme Court-backed environment pollution monitoring authority will eventually be subsumed in the proposed executive-led statutory body that is expected to bring about improved implementation of several measures to curb bad air in the Delhi-NCR region. “The new permanent body will have representations from Delhi and all NCR states. Unlike EPCA, it will have more resources and manpower at its disposal to initiate actions on the ground. The environment ministry is expected to submit a draft of the new legislation to the Supreme Court on Thursday," said an official. He said, “The permanent statutory body, which is to be created under new legislation to deal with the issue of air pollution in Delhi-NCR, will have adequate power to enforce implementation of all mitigation measures on the ground and take action against erring agencies, individuals and government officials.” The permanent body under the proposed legislation will be assisted by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and experts from both government and private institutions. “The body will end multiplicity of authorities, involving central and state agencies, which hampered coordinated action on the ground. It will have more teeth than the CPCB to initiate action against polluters,” said the official. It is pointed out that the Centre and Delhi-NCR states had hammered out an action plan agreed to by all but the implementation has remained patchy. Though the Centre will have such statutory body only for Delhi-NCR to begin with, the legislative model can be replicated in other polluting regions, mainly in Indo-Gangetic plain, in due course. It is believed that the executive-backed statutory authority is likely to have better coordination and cooperation with other agencies unlike the judiciary-backed EPCA which was constituted in 1998 to assist the Supreme Court in various environment related matters – be it air pollution, noise pollution and handling of hazardous waste among others. The current 20-member EPCA, which was reconstituted in 2018, has got multiple extensions since then with the last one being on August 5 for the tenure ending September 30, awaiting formal notification of new extension. It’s headed by former bureaucrat Bhure Lal and comprises of 19 others including environmentalist Sunita Narain, CPCB member secretary Prashant Gargava and experts from various institutions. The EPCA had played a key role in converting Delhi’s public transport buses from diesel to CNG, relocating and closing down of polluting industries, phasing out use of polluting fuels in industries and imposing environmental compensation on polluting trucks among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-central-body-may-spell-end-of-the-road-for-22-year-old-epca/articleshow/78901031.cms||Vishwa Mohan
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Driving over rules as no one is watching||Ludhiana: According to the report of the Union ministry of road transport and highways, 2019 saw 35 accidents in Ludhiana caused by vehicles coming from the wrong side, 52 were caused due to speeding and three due to drunk driving. Ludhiana roads have been death traps for long. As per the report of the ministry, in the 35 accidents due to wrong-side driving, 16 people were killed, 19 suffered grievous injuries and three minor injuries. Under the category of drunk driving, one fatality was reported in three accidents, while 29 died and 23 were grievously injured in 52 accidents due to speeding. For speed violation, Ludhiana is on the 49th rank among 50 cities with a million-plus population. The report also revealed that no accident was caused in the city in 2019 due to jumping red light and use of mobile phones while driving. Maximum of 463 accidents were caused in the category of “other reasons” in which 219 people lost their lives and 244 sustained injuries. Ludhiana is at 13th position in 50 cities in this category. Besides Ludhiana, the other city of Punjab on the list is Amritsar. In Amritsar, a maximum of 93 accidents were caused due to speeding in which 60 people were killed, 41 suffered grievous injuries and nine minor injuries. For wrong-side driving, only one accident was reported in 2019 in which one person had died and none was injured. One fatal accident was reported due to drunk driving. In Amritsar too, no accident was caused due to jumping of red light and use of mobile phones. However, under the category of “other reasons”, 38 accidents were reported in which 33 people lost their lives.On August 1, the Ludhiana police had started a drive against traffic violators on the national highway. Under this drive, the city police had submitted case files of those caught driving on the wrong side and also found crossing over the medians. The drive was started after several complaints were received about violations on the national highway-44 near Basti Jodhewal Chowk. “In some areas, especially on national highways, people cross through the median, putting their and others lives at risk. We see traffic cops issuing challans to those having incomplete documents, but they ignore violations like speeding and wrong-side driving, among others,” said Ajay Prabhakar, a resident of Rajguru Nagar. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Gurdev Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/driving-over-rules-as-no-one-is-watching/articleshow/78898536.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Missing man’s body found in sack, police suspect murder||Jaipur: A middle-aged man, who had gone missing two days back, found murdered in the Sitapura industrial area on Tuesday morning. Police claimed that the body was found in a sack. The deceased has been identified as Ghanshyam, but the cause of death is yet to be ascertained.Manoj Kumar, DCP (Jaipur South), said, “On Monday, the victim’s family had lodged a report in Sanganer Sadar police station as he had been missing since Sunday. The cause of death will be confirmed after the post-mortem, but it appears to be murder.” A local spotted the sack and found it to be suspicious following which the cops were informed. The police personnel along with FSL team reached the spot and on opening the sack, found the body.“At present, it is not possible to confirm the motive behind the alleged murder, but we will check in case there is CCTV footage or if any witness in the matter. We will question the victim’s family as well to get more details into the case,”, added the official. In August, 53-year-old Mamta Bharadwaj’s body who went missing from her home on August 4, was found in a sack. The body was found in a highly decomposed state and almost beyond recognition. Bharadwaj’s body was found in a plastic sack and it appears that she was killed elsewhere and the body dumped at the site where it was found. Officials claimed that this was a common method used by the criminals to dispose of bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-mans-body-found-in-sack-police-suspect-murder/articleshow/78901038.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Air at 5 stations takes a ‘severe’ hit||NEW DELHI: The overall air quality index (AQI) in the capital has been in the “very poor” category since October 23, however, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that a few monitoring stations recorded readings over 400 in “severe” category for the past few days. Track the pollution level in your cityThe monitoring stations where the hourly reading for the day crossed 400-mark were Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Mundka and Alipur. Of these, Anand Vihar and Vivek Vihar recorded “sever” AQI several times during the day from October 23 to 26. Wazirpur recorded “severe” readings on October 26, 24 and 23 but remained on higher side of “very poor” on October 25. Following rise in wind speed, the capital’s AQI improved marginally at 312 on Tuesday to lower end of “very poor”, while no monitoring station touched the “severe” mark by 6pm. Last year, CPCB and Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) had identified 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi, including Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur and Mundka, based on the average PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels recorded through the year. CPCB, in its report to Delhi government earlier this month, said among the pollution hotspots, construction and demolition (C&D) waste was observed at Vivek Vihar, Mundka, Anand Vihar. During the inspection by DPCC and members of Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) in the past said, among the biggest sources of pollution identified at Wazirpur were open dumping of garbage and C&D waste and dust. Senior officials of DPCC said, due to the movement of big vehicles, vehicular emission was one of the main sources of pollution in Alipur.  It is predicted that further deterioration of air quality will be over by October 29, said a DPCC official. “Our teams have been regularly conducting random inspections, and if any person is found flouting norms, immediate action is being taken. Besides, a dedicated team has been acting on the complaints received on app and social media,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-at-5-stations-takes-a-severe-hit/articleshow/78901046.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Man accused in murder of elderly couple held after gunfight||HARIDWAR: One of the two accused allegedly involved in the double murder of an elderly couple in Haridwar was arrested by city police on Tuesday morning following a gunfight. The accused, identified as Muzaffarnagar-resident Satendra (alias Dharmendra), sustained a bullet injury in his leg during the gunfight. He was later admitted to a hospital and is told to be "out of danger" now. A day before, police had arrested Satendra's partner-in-crime Vipin (alias Bhim). The two are accused of killing retired Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) officer PK Aggarwal and his wife Beena Aggarwal in their residence in Shivalik Nagar area of the district earlier this month. Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S, SSP Haridwar, told TOI, “The main accused used to live as a tenant in the same colony where the elderly couple lived alone in their house. They killed the couple and decamped with their valuable items. We found the clues of their involvement through CCTV footage and one of the accused Vipin was arrested on Monday night. The police team got an important lead from him about the main accused. Satendra was traced in the Suman Nagar area, where he was arrested after the gunfight. He sustained a bullet injury in his leg and was subsequently hospitalised. A country-made gun was also recovered from his possession.” Police have told mediapersons that both the accused have served jail terms for separate crimes in Muzaffarnagar (Uttar Pradesh). The two accused got acquainted to each other in the jail itself. The police officials added that the accused looted a cash amount of Rs 8,000, four watches, and a LCD TV from the house of the elderly couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-accused-in-murder-of-elderly-couple-held-after-gunfight/articleshow/78898547.cms||MS Nawaz
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||83 years on, DJ Narain to pay tribute to dad at Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: It was in 1937 that a young man, Jai Narain Srivastava, challenged the might of the British by putting up the Tricolour at the historical arts quadrangle of Lucknow University. Eighty-three years on, his son, singer Dharmendra Jai Narain popularly known as DJ Narain, will once again hold the national flag on the campus and sing patriotic songs as a tribute to all bravehearts and freedom-fighters whom LU has nurtured in its century-old journey. DJ Narain, famous singer of ‘Aryans’ band and former director of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), will perform at LU’s centenary celebrations to be held from November 18-25. Narain, an LU alumnus, will begin his performance with the song, ‘Rok sakey na mujhko koi, main to naya savera hoon, saat samundar paar se main chala mitane andhera hoon, main Raju hu main Raja hoon main Akbar hoon Azaad hoon... Haan main Hindustan hoon’. “Life has come full circle for me. Restarting from where I began my journey – Lucknow Vishwavidyalaya. I give credit to LU for infusing music in my blood. In 1987, when I was a LU student, our band ‘Dreams’ became famous as the Beatles of LU,” said the civil servant-turned-singer. “It’s an emotional moment for me as I will perform at the very place where my father late Jai Narain Srivastava had unfurled the Tricolour,” he said. He said the entire nation might have celebrated Independence Day on August 15, 1947, but the ‘Tiranga’ fluttered on LU campus a decade earlier. “It was 1937 and the dream of a free India was getting bigger. My father, an undergraduate who later became student union president, decided to rewrite the history of student politics at LU. He didn’t care about his safety or career. With the tricolour tucked under his arms, he ran towards the arts quadrangle and put up the flag using a bamboo ladder,” he said. “The incident took place on the day when Governor-General HG Haig was to visit the university to attend a function. As heavy security was in place on the campus, my father hid the flag near the arts quadrangle a day before. Moments before the British officer had to arrive, he swiftly removed the British flag and let the Tiranga flutter atop the building. Haig’s shock was anybody’s guess, but the student was too quick to be caught that day,” he said. “On the launch of Quit India Movement on August 9, 1942, he sustained lathi blows while leading a freedom rally. He was later arrested and released from jail in 1944,” he said. On India’s 25th Independence Day in 1972, he was conferred ‘Tamra Patra’ by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “The UP government has dedicated two pages to Srivastava in Uttar Pradesh Swatantrata Senani compilation. Like him, there are several heroes and bravehearts for whom I will perform during the centenary year celebration,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/83-yrs-on-dj-narain-to-pay-tribute-to-dad-at-lu/articleshow/78901633.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||End of lockdown saw street crimes jump 307% in city||Nagpur: The unlockdown process between June and September this year was marked by a stunning rise of more than 307% in street crimes compared to previous three months. Between March and May this year, there were only 13 robberies including chain snatchings, a number that jumped to 53 between June and September. A drastic drop of more than 80% in the street crimes between March and May was observed in city during lockdown compared to same period in 2019. Response to an RTI query from the police department showed total numbers of cases like burglaries, dacoities, robberies, chain snatchings and thefts, clubbed as ‘property offences’, went up from 427 between March and May to 892 between June to September. In 2019, 67 robberies had taken place between March and May. In the same period this year, there were only 13 such cases on the roads. Chain snatching incidents too came down by more than 91% from 24 in 2019 to just two this year between March and May. The total numbers of thefts increased almost 91% from 301 between March and May this year to 576 in the period from June to September. Just five dacoities were registered between March to May this year while eight such cases occurred between June and September. With more people staying at home, the burglars too had to stay away with the offences of housebreaking remaining at 108 between March and May. They surged to 225 between June and September. ACP, crime, Sudhir Nandanwar, who has worked for several years in the city, said visibility and alertness of police was high during lockdown which made the robbers and burglars insecure. “The criminals were seeing police everywhere on the streets,” he said. “Another major factor was non-availability of liquor which is a prime cause of any crime. Many criminals lack confidence to carry out a criminal act until they are high on liquor,” said the ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/end-of-lockdown-saw-street-crimes-jump-307-in-city/articleshow/78899765.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to amend law to save land of marginal farmers||Jaipur: The state government plans to amend the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 Section 60 to prevent attachment of the land of small and marginal farmers having less than five acres by decrees or for breach of agreement. The Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Bill, 2020 seeks to insert a provision for exemption of agriculture land not exceeding five acres in Section 60 of the procedure, which provides for attachment or decree of various properties - moveable and immoveable- for breach of agreement or by decree. Proviso-B of this section states that property of farmers such as cattle, cowsheds, etc would be exempt from attachment. Given the farmers’ apprehension about attachment-decree of their land because of enforcement of farming contracts or otherwise, the state government is seeking through this bill to give full exemption to small farmers and others from attachment or decree of land up to five acres. The Punjab assembly had recently unanimously passed four bills and adopted a resolution against the farm laws passed by the Centre. But in the Code of Amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment Bill) 2020, the farm land exempted from attachment of loan default is only 2.5 acres. UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal said the amendment would be taken up on November 2 in the short assembly session convened from October 31. The bills also provide for penal provisions of imprisonment and fines for sale and purchase of wheat or paddy under a farming agreement below the MSP, besides prevention of hoarding and black-marketing of agricultural produce, among other things. The assembly, which was adjourned on August 24, will resume its business on October 31, according to a notification issued by the Rajasthan Legislative Secretariat on Saturday. The government convened the assembly session to pass legislation to circumvent the three laws on agriculture passed by the Centre allowing private players in the procurement of agri produce. The Congress has been insisting on incorporating the provision of minimum support price by private players which was turned down by the Centre. The state government is also considering passing a law making wearing of masks mandatory in the state to prevent the spread of Covid infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-amend-law-to-save-land-of-marginal-farmers/articleshow/78901042.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Residential properties being used for commercial purpose’||Ludhiana: An activist, Maninder Pal Singh, has raised the matter of illegal use of residential properties for commercial purpose in blocks D and E of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Tuesday. In the complaint letter sent to principal secretary, local bodies department, he mentioned that shop-cum-flats were being converted into shop-cum-offices and residential land was being clubbed for commercial usage without CLU approval. He said it was a major issue regarding illegal, under-construction sites being constructed by violating the rules and regulation of building bylaws-2018 by using of residential properties for business modules at the above mentioned locations. He said due to negligence of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) employees, the clubbing of residential properties for commercial benefits were in full swing in block D. Large commercial halls are being constructed on residential allotted properties without CLU approval and illegal projection of non-compoundable house line is getting covered by property owners. The shop-cum-flats sites in block E of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar are also being converted into shop-cum-offices with property owners working in alleged collusion with officials of LIT. He also highlighted that a new water supply connection is admissible after the construction of first floor at any site but illegal water supply connections are getting allotted before even starting of the construction work at the site. He demanded action against defaulters in this case so that illegal activities gets curbed. Meanwhile, executive engineer of LIT Boota Ram said, “We are conducting checks in the market and suitable action will be taken against the defaulters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residential-properties-being-used-for-commercial-purpose/articleshow/78898542.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||NFAI’s homage to films on audio-visual heritage day||Pune: On World Audiovisual Heritage Day on Tuesday, the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) paid homage to films as a medium in itself, given its role as the nodal agency of the National Film Heritage Mission (NFHM) in the process of preserving more than one lakh film reels across the country’s film industries.It conducted a lecture on the evolution of film as a medium and material itself. How cinema changed over the years, including acting, actors and Indian filmmakers who were priced out of world cinema till around two decades ago.“Only a few companies brought out colour negative reels and none were from India. Kodak was a big deal, so were their Asian competitors like Fujifilm. But before the year 2000, the government imposed huge import duties on film, up to 300% in some cases. And even that was rationed through the National Film Development Corporation,” said Ujwal Nirgudkar, a film engineering and preservation expert, who spoke at NFAI’s lecture. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfais-homage-to-films-on-audio-visual-heritage-day/articleshow/78901033.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Farmer electrocuted, 3 officials booked||Kota: An assistant engineer, junior engineer and a lineman of the Jaipur Vidut Vitran Nigam Limited were booked for murder after a 28-year-old farmer was electrocuted in Raipur police station area of Jhalawarre district on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Rajesh Dangi (28), a resident of Baroni village in Jhalawar.Raipur police station SHO Islam Ali said, “The farmer, after seeking shut down of power from the officials in Baroni village, had climbed up a 1,100-KV power line to repair a fuse on Monday morning. The farmer was electrocuted as the power supply was resumed by officials on the wrong information that the repairing work was over. The body of the farmer was later taken down from power line with the help of earth moving machine, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmer-electrocuted-3-officials-booked/articleshow/78901034.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Man held for stabbing friend||Chandigarh: Police arrested a Maloya resident was for allegedly stabbing his friend on Monday. Mohammad Raja, who belongs to Bihar, alleged Rajesh Kumar stabbed him with a sharp-edged weapon near the accused’s house. Raja had just arrived from his home town in Bihar and came to visit his friend Kumar. Police said Kumar suspected Raja of having an affair with one of his relatives. The two had a heated argument and entered into a brawl. In a fit of anger, Kumar allegedly took out a knife and stabbed him. A police control room (PCR) vehicle took him to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Police recorded his statement at the hospital. A case under Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the IPC was registered. A court remanded the accused in 14-day judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-held-for-stabbing-friend/articleshow/78901037.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Ratnagiri’s reed organs sound perfect made-in-India notes||PUNE: Amit Padhey has been arranging music for the Marathi and Hindi film industry for long. But working on a reed organ was nothing short of a dream, let alone owning it. When Padhey in 2013 heard that the reed organ was made at a village in Ratnagiri, he made up his mind to get one for himself. The following year, he arranged organ music in Marathi films such as ‘Katyar Kaljat Ghusli’ and yet-to-be -released ‘Panghrun’, where the instrument was played by harmonium expert Aditya Oke. Padhey says, “Reed organs were manufactured in Europe and America long ago, but never in India. The musical instrument manufacturers in our country sold only Indian harmoniums, not reed organs. Nobody had much knowledge about reed organs. But we have a rich cultural background relating to the reed organs. We can trace it to right from ‘sangeet nataks’ or Marathi musicals by the legendary Balgandharva to the early cinema.” Umashankar Date (56), a maker of the reed organ at Adiware in Konkan, said when he saw the instrument for the first time and heard its majestic notes in 2002 during a ‘sangeet natak’, he immediately fell in love with it. It took him eight years to start working on reed organs, as various financial and personal issues made him change his priorities. Date said, “I was working as a music teacher at a school in 2010. As our village got internet access, and I started my research on reed organ. After a while, I received 50 sets of old organ reeds from a friend in the United States and the work picked up pace. I soon got an old reed board and started building a new reed organ.” He studied a complete two-manual reed organ made by Imperial Organ and Piano Company of London, which helped him understand the physics of organ building. “It had three couplers: one for bass, another for treble and the third one to couple both keyboards,” he said.  Date said the most important parts of an organ are the soundboard and reed cells. To manufacture these, he built a wooden milling machine as he was not in a financial position to buy one. With this homemade device, he made five reed organs and earned enough to afford proper machinery. “When I procured good quality wood such as pine and German spruce for soundboard, astor for keyboard and beech and teak for the case, the notes of the organ improved a lot,” he said. With a few tweaks, he also managed to reduce the weight to almost 18 kg. Normally, a reed organ weighs 35-40 kg. “I still have to procure reeds from the US. We are into research and development for creating reeds in India,” he said. Oke, music arranger and harmonium player working for 25 years, said he had shared a lot of ideas with Date for making the instrument more affordable and portable. “There are several research and development projects we are working on, but the Covid situation has delayed many of our plans,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ratnagiris-reed-organs-sound-perfect-made-in-india-notes/articleshow/78901041.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Post-Covid clinic to fight physical & mental stress||Ajmer: JLN Hospital here has set up post-Covid OPD and ward for patients who have recovered from coronavirus. The services of the OPD include helping patients recover physical and mental stress. So far, Ajmer has recorded about 13,000 cases and around 300 deaths due to the virus. Patients who have recovered from the virus are complaining mostly of bodyache, loss of mental stability and also of weakness, “The post-Covid clinic and the ward functions from 9am to 7pm,” said a doctor. He added specialists from different departments of medical college will render their services . Doctors said many recovered patients are suffering from mental and physical problems. Many recovered patients coming to the general OPD of JLN Hospital have problems such as breathlessness, pulping of heart, pain in joints and problem in concentration. The follow-up plan include regular check-up , exercises, physiological counselling, medicines and diet chart.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/post-covid-clinic-to-fight-physical-mental-stress/articleshow/78901035.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Campaign against exams: Calicut University to seek police probe||KOZHIKODE: Calicut University syndicate has decided to approach the police seeking a probe by the Cyber Cell into the organized campaign through social media to postpone the varsity exams citing Covid-19 situation. The syndicate meeting held on Tuesday took the view that there was a deliberate attempt to sabotage the examinations by resorting to false campaigns over social media. The varsity has also decided to seek probe into the circulation of alleged audio clips of telephone conversations persons have made with the VC and syndicate members demanding postponement of exams. “We feel that there was a concerted attempt to sabotage the examinations. An online platform named Students Collective had conducted deliberate campaigns over social media against holding exams. Given the organized nature of the campaign, we feel that some shady groups are also involved in it. The varsity will file police complaint against the admins of the WhatsApp group,” said syndicate member K K Haneefa. The group had demanded postponement of exams or granting marks on the basis of previous exams and internal marks and also moving the exams into online mode. The authorities also raised doubts over the mass gathering of students at the IHRD College, Kozhikode for an exam held on October 22, violating social distancing norms. While just 80 students had registered for the exam at the college, a large number of students had assembled there. “We will also approach the agencies concerned to register cases in such incidents under Epidemic Diseases (Prevention) Act,” Haneefa added. The syndicate has decided to conduct the exams as scheduled from November 3 onwards. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/campaign-against-exams-cu-to-seek-police-probe/articleshow/78898564.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Pay to get your bags sanitised at station||JAIPUR: If you wish to get your baggage sanitised and wrapped, pay for it. The Jaipur division of North Western Railway (NWR) has started an ultra violet sanitising machine and wrapping facility of baggage at Jaipur station. DRM Manjusha Jain inaugurated the facility at the entry gate on Tuesday. Railway authorities have fixed Rs 10 per baggage for UV sanitisation and Rs 50 per baggage for wrapping. The move, however, has not gone down too well with the passengers. TOI visited the railway station to know the response of the passengers. “Everywhere, the governments are working to make people secure from Covid and are distributing masks and providing proper medication at government hospitals. However, the railways is using this pandemic as an opportunity to mint money. I am not going to opt for this sanitising and wrapping facility,” said Trilok Bakshi, a passenger travelling to Delhi. According to sources, railways has entered into an agreement with a vendor for 14 stations for this sanitisation and wrapping. Passengers said railways was inviting private vendors for everyhting which is causing extra burden on passengers.  “I think railways is a public transport system. They are creating lounges for which they are charging exorbitantly. I am not interested in baggage sanitizing,” said Anil Agarwal, who was travelling to Ajmer with his wife. “We are charging nominal money for safety of passengers,” said a senior officer of Jaipur division of NWR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pay-to-get-your-bags-sanitised-at-station/articleshow/78901051.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Sirimanotsavam celebrated without rush of devotees||VISAKHAPATNAM: The annual Sirimanotsavam of the presiding deity of Vizianagaram town, Sri Pydithalli Ammavaru, was celebrated on Tuesday without the flock of devotees the festival draws every year. Keeping social distancing in mind, the Vizianagaram district administration avoided large-scale celebrations and made strict arrangements to prevent mass gatherings. At least three lakh devotees from northern Andhra districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, and parts of southern Odisha attend the festival every year. Only a few thousand devotees attend festivities this year, which were held without swordsmen, puliveshagaalu (men dressed in tiger skins), stick fighters and musicians. As per schedule, the procession of Sirimanu started at 3.35 pm from Chaduru Gudi of Pydithalli and moved towards the fort. Chief priest of the temple, Bantupalli Venkata Rao, was perched atop a 40-feet-high pole (sirimanu) and paraded from the temple to the fort thrice before returning to the temple. Assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram, ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and other political leaders offered prayers to the goddess in the morning. Over 3,000 police personnel were deployed in Vizianagaram town to prevent the entry of devotees during the festival. The district administration didn’t allow the public to mount on their terrace to witness the festival. The district administration set up LED screens at some locations to enable devotees to watch Sirimanotsavam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sirimanotsavam-celebrated-without-rush-of-devotees/articleshow/78898558.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after open school exam, probe marked into PSEB goof-up||Ludhiana: An inquiry has been marked a day after a couple of students had to skip their Class X (open school) Punjabi examination on Monday due to Punjab School Education Board’s (PSEB) goof-up. The admit card issued to these students mentioned the examination time from 2pm to 5.15pm, however, the exam was conducted from 11am to 2.15pm at 20 examination centres in the district. Janak Raj Mehrok, controller of PSEB, said, “An inquiry has been marked and then we will see the report. The exam will be rescheduled for students who missed it on Tuesday. The exam will be conducted after all exams will be over.” The PSEB has asked the students to represent the case so that they can reschedule the exam for them. Mehrok stated that the issue might have taken place during the trial run for the website and the students might have got the old roll numbers issued during the testing of the website. Later, the students were issued new roll numbers and had to download these. The students might have downloaded those old roll numbers, which were invalid as we had issued new roll numbers.” After October 20, the board had issued new roll numbers to students and they were asked to download the same from the board’s website. Owing to this goof-up, when four students reached the examination centre set up at RS Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, at 1.45 pm and were denied entry by the school authorities, which informed them that the exam had already been conducted from 11am to 2.15pm. The students were then asked to go home. A student said, “I had downloaded the admit card last week from the board website and the exam timing printed on it was 2pm to 5.15pm, so I reached the centre at 1.30pm. But the school authorities did not allow me to appear for the exam. I had to miss the exam due to the board’s apathy.” JP Bhatt, spokesperson of joint action front, associated schools, Punjab, said, “Many students missed their exam on Tuesday and the same issue was reported from two-three other centres. The authorities must reschedule the exam for these students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-open-school-exam-probe-marked-into-pseb-goof-up/articleshow/78898555.cms||Mehak Jain
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan calls on Vijayshanti, sets off speculations||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy’s meeting with Congress star campaigner Vijayashanti at her residence has given rise to speculations about her re-entry into the BJP. Though there was talk last year too that Vijayashanti would join the saffron party, it did not happen. Another Congress leader Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy, Munugode MLA, too was supposed to join BJP last year but did not do so. Sources said some leaders from Congress and TRS are waiting for the results of Dubbak bypoll, two Graduates MLC and GHMC polls to take a call on joining the BJP. Kishan Reddy’s meeting on Monday was preceded by the visit of BJP state president Bandi Sanjay along with an ex-MLA to her residence a few days ago. Sources close to Vijayashanti confirmed Kishan Reddy had met her but did not divulge further details. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-calls-on-vijayshanti-sets-off-speculations/articleshow/78901052.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan corona mortality rate less than national average||JAIPUR: The number of Covid mortalities per 10-lakh population in the state is much less than the national average. Despite the state reporting 381 Covid deaths in October, which accounted for 20% of the fatalities since the first death was reported, its mortality is just 23 per 10-lakh population, in comparision with the national average of 87. The health department claimed that it created beds for critical care Covid treatment not only in government hospitals, but also in private ones, which proved helpful in preventing mortality. A senior health department official said mortality per 10-lakh population was much less than the national average. “The state government has taken measures from reserving 30% beds for Covid treatment in Jaipur and other parts of the state. More ICUs and ventilators were allocated for Covid treatment and beds with oxygen support increased manifold,” said a senior health department official. Besides expanding critical care, the health department is taking measures on preventing spread of the virus. “There is no specific medicine and vaccine available in the markets which are spefically made for Covid treatment. In such a situation, masks are the best option available to ward off the risks. The government is distributing 1crore masks among people and the government is planning to formulate a law on masks,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died taking the fatalities to 1867 while 1,796 tested positive taking the overall tally to 1,89844. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (329), Bikaner (320), Jodhpur (159), Alwar (125), Ajmer (120), Hanumangarh (100), Kota (94), Nagaur (94), Sikar (85), Sriganganagar (76), Udaipur (56), Churu (38), Pali (37), Bharatpur (34), Jhunjhunu (27), Jalore (23), Bhilwara (17), Jaisalmer (11), Tonk (10), Chittorgarh (7), Sirohi (5), Banswara (4), Dausa (4), Dholpur (4), Dungarpur (4), Barmer (4), Karauli (4), Pratapgarh (2), Rajsamand (2) and Sawai Madhopur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-corona-mortality-rate-less-than-national-average/articleshow/78901053.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Two cops among three arrested for bribery||UDAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested the SHO and a head constable of the Jhallara police station and their accomplice for allegedly demanding and taking bribe in lieu of releasing a dumper used in transporting illegal sand in Udaipur district. Police said, Hazarimal Rebari, a complainant and a resident of Sagwara tehsil of Dungarpur, approached the ACB unit in Udaipur on Monday about the bribe demand allegedly made by SHO Rameshchandra Khateek (39) and head constable Brajmohan Meena (39) against letting off the dumper that was seized and parked at the Jhallara police station.  The cops demanded Rs 50,000 bribe and after bargaining the sum was settled at Rs 45,000, police said. The ACB team arrested Suthar and seized the amount, while the SHO and the head constable too were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/2-cops-among-3-arrested-for-bribery/articleshow/78901047.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati cops oppose HC suspending Thakur’s conviction||Nagpur: The Amravati Police on Tuesday opposed the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s interim order to suspend sentence awarded to Maharashtra women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur. A single-judge bench comprising justice Vinay Joshi however adjourned the hearing till next week, as police’s reply wasn’t attached to the official record of HC registry. The minister was convicted for allegedly manhandling and assaulting a police constable on duty on March 24, 2012, by Amravati Sessions’ Court on October 15. In its reply, the police clarified that the minister along with her aides were convicted on basis of eyewitness testimony and other material evidence available on record. It added that since the court had awarded three months of rigorous imprisonment, it wouldn’t lead to the minister’s disqualification. Along with Thakur, also the Amravati’s guardian minister, three others, including her driver, were also booked under Sections 353, 332 and 186 read with 34 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and awarded similar jail terms. Through senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari along with lawyers — Aniket Nikam and Kuldeep Mahalle, Thakur contended that perusal of evidence and witness testimony clearly shows that sessions judge committed an error by convicting her. According to her, she represents Maharashtra on various national and international platforms. Bare perusal of record clearly shows that no case is made out against her for holding her guilty. She’s a law-abiding citizen and it would cause big prejudice to her image if conviction isn’t quashed. It would also create difficulties for her at various forums, since leaders/members of opposition parties would try to take undue advantage of conviction that was wrongly granted to her, Thakur’s lawyers contended. In the last hearing, the HC had admitted the minister’s appeal and issued notices to the state government through Rajapeth Police Station in Amravati, where offences were lodged against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-cops-oppose-hc-suspending-thakurs-conviction/articleshow/78899790.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Why CCTV cameras are villains for Chennai’s baddies||CHENNAI: The city, covered by 2.9 lakh CCTV cameras, of which about 1.5 lakh belong to private houses/shops, is seeing the arrest of chain/mobile snatchers and other grave offenders in droves, all due to these hawk eyes. For instance, all 14 murders reported in September have been solved, investigation completed and in most cases chargesheets, accompanied by CCTV clippings, have been laid too. In the August-September period, more than 60 snatchers have been tracked down and sent to jail. The ‘bullet gang’, which specialised in stealing Enfield bikes and selling them in far off places has now been busted. As of now, committing an offence is easier than escaping from CCTVs in Chennai. But tracking down culprits with the help of these CCTV footages is anything but easy. Only a sharp police brain with investigation skills and thorough knowledge of city terrain can put the digital evidence to use effectively, say officers. Once a theft occurs or a vehicle-borne gang hits its target and scoots, the scene of occurrence (SOC) becomes the central point. Police then create a digital grid for about 50 to 100 metres up to a point where the culprit might take left or right turn. They then ascertain how many CCTVs are there on the stretch. The culprit’s digital footprint recorded in the first stretch is then applied on a larger area extending up to 500 metres, covering a larger area which will include bigger traffic junctions. If the blip disappears between two 100-metre grids, police look for smaller bylanes and interior roads where the culprits would have most probably taken shelter or left the vehicle, with a view to return and ride it away at a later date. If nothing is traced within these grids, police draw grey areas and try to sync suspected images with the help of time of the offence. There are cases where police had to weave a digital grid for up to 100km. "Mobile data and digital footprints left behind by the suspects are key," said joint commissioner of police (Chennai-East) R Sudhakar. An organised network targeting high-end bikes in Kilpauk, Nungambakkam and Egmore areas was busted by special teams tracking CCTV camera footages. After pursuing different leads with the help of digital grids, they finally narrowed down on three thieves. Police initially seized 10 stolen bikes valued about Rs 15 lakh from them. Subsequent arrests of 12 more men solved bike thefts reported in the past eight months. Assistant commissioner of police of Kilpauk, Raja, said, "The suspects stole a parked bike on Lakshmi Street in Kilpauk. We tracked him through a series of CCTV cameras from various locations on Lakshmi Street, Umayal Road, Halls Road, Flowers Road, and Poonamallee High Road." A police team assigned to sift through CCTV grabs stayed glued to the grids before it spotted the thieves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-cctv-cameras-are-villains-for-citys-baddies/articleshow/78899794.cms||A Selvaraj
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi firm to launch new Covid test kit||KOCHI: Agappe Diagnostics Ltd, a Kochi-based medical devices manufacturer, is launching a new Covid-19 test kit based on RT-LAMP (Reverse Transcription Loop-mediated Isothermal Amplification) technology. Agappe is the first company in India to get the clearance of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and Central Drug Standards Control Organisation (CDSCO) for this technology. The test kits, along with reagents, will be available in the market under the brand names Mispa Lume and Lumescreen-nCov. “The RT-LAMP technology will be a game changer because it is accurate, faster and cost effective. RT-PCR has to be maintained at a constant temperature of minus 20C. It requires huge infrastructure to maintain the temperatures. This is not available in the rural areas. Mispa Lume is compact and the reagents can be maintained at temperatures ranging from 2 to 20 degree centigrade. The turnaround time of the test is 20 to 30 minutes. In the case of RT-PCR, it is longer,” said Thomas John, managing director, Agappe Diagnostics. “Currently, the country’s combat against Covid-19 is focused on antigen tests and RT-PCR tests, both of which have their own limitations in their respective ways. It has been widely accepted that antigen tests have a wider margin of error. In the case of RT-PCR, the process is a bit tedious owing the difficulty in handling the kits at constant temperatures at minus 20C. It has also been established that conducting more and more tests in large segments of the population is the only possible way to manage the spread of Covid-19 till a vaccine is delivered,” the company said in a media statement. “The RT-Lamp technology is a significant improvement from PCR as it is more economical and quicker with high correlation of results. Owing to its high rate of accuracy, RT-LAMP technology will provide the best answer to the country’s attempt to develop the right protocol to tackle the pandemic,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-firm-to-launch-new-covid-test-kit/articleshow/78898592.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Agra||Bangle trader shot dead, 4 injured in group clash in Firozabad||Agra: A bangle trader was shot dead and four persons were injured when two groups clashed after a dispute in Badhi Chapati locality of Firozabad district on Tuesday evening. According to locals, a vehicle collided with an e-rickshaw loaded with freshly-moulded bangles leading to damages. An argument broke out between trader Amit Gupta and the driver over it. Within minutes, the dispute took an ugly turn and a stone-pelting started, followed by firing. Senior superintendent of police Sachindra Patel said, “Adequate police force has been deployed in the area. The situation is completely under control. The firing and stone pelting took place between two groups after an altercation over damage to bangles loaded on a vehicle outside a warehouse in the area. Five teams have been tasked to investigate the entire matter.” Firozabad MLA Manish Asija said, “The entire incident is very shocking. One person is shot dead following a minor dispute and another person is in critical condition. I have informed the home secretary about the entire incident. The attack seems to be done in a planned manner. Locals have informed me about the use of petrol bombs in the attack by a group of men. We will ensure strict action in the entire matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bangle-trader-shot-dead-4-injured-in-group-clash-in-firozabad/articleshow/78898568.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Job on compassionate ground not charity: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Appointment on compassionate ground is neither an act of charity nor temple ‘prasadham’, the Madras high court said censuring BSNL for refusing such appointment for a deserving candidate. “Death of a sole breadwinner will definitely cause huge imbalance in any family especially when the family is in the low-income group,” a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha said. The court made the observations while allowing a plea moved by G Vijaya Prasanna challenging an order passed by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) denying her the benefit of compassionate appointment. Vijaya Prasanna’s father K Gajendran died in 2003 while working as a telegraph man in BSNL. In 2004, the petitioner gave a representation seeking appointment under compassionate ground. Though she was appointed as an office assistant on contract basis, her application for permanent appointment was rejected. “… in view of the assets / liabilities of the family of the deceased, official support arrangement, constitution of the family and overall assessment of condition of the family, the circle high power committee did not agree to recommend the compassionate ground appointment and rejected the request under provision of the scheme,” BSNL said through an order dated June 1, 2016. Aggrieved, the petitioner moved the CAT but her plea was dismissed by the tribunal, prompting her to move the high court. Allowing the petition, the bench said, “In the instant case, the authorities, by their act, have deprived a truly indigent destitute and impoverished family, of a deserving compassionate appointment.” Instead of extending a helping hand at the time of distress, authorities have remained mute for years only to turn the tables against the petitioner. Callous attitude and lack of empathy have caused this denial of an appointment on compassionate grounds, the court added. The court then directed the BSNL to consider appointment of the petitioner under compassionate ground favourably within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/job-on-compassionate-ground-not-charity-hc/articleshow/78899816.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Eurasian cuckoo sighted in Pallikaranai||CHENNAI: With the city getting rain, migratory birds have begun to fly in. Birders have recorded rare visitors in Pallikaranai marshland and among them is the Eurasian cuckoo (Cuculus canorus). Also, raptors have been sighted in the marshland. Founder of Nature Trust, K V R K Thirunaranan, said the Eurasian cuckoo is found in the Himalayas, Nepal, Myanmar, west and north China and Mongolia besides Europe. They fly to southern India before moving to Africa. The bird was sighted on October 18, 21 and 24 in Pallikaranai marshland. “This is the first ever sighting of this bird in Pallikaranai marshland,” he said. V Santharam, director of Rishi Valley School of Bird Studies, said the birds are migrant passers in the state. “Way back in 1988, when I visited the university campus in Puducherry, I saw this bird,” he said. “This is a non-breeding season for this bird. They breed during summer in the Himalayas. During non-breeding season, they do not make calls. So identifying the bird is very difficult,” he said. Thirunaranan said the bird feeds on hairy caterpillars. “In Pallikaranai, these insects are found in good numbers. Hence, they could have come here to feed on them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eurasian-cuckoo-sighted-in-pallikaranai/articleshow/78899799.cms||P Oppili
October 28, 2020||Pune||Pune airport’s flyer count up 90% in October over June||PUNE: The passenger traffic at Pune airport has increased by close to 90% this month (October 1 to 24) as compared to the same period in June. In comparison with the same period in September, the growth has been 25%. The passenger traffic is expected to be the highest this month since domestic operations resumed from May 24. Aviation experts said though the airport is currently operating from 8am to 8pm, it will have not much of an impact on passenger growth. “We are expecting the traffic to grow further in November as we are in the festival season and Diwali falls next month. A lot of people visit their families during Diwali. Things started to improve from September, and we hope that this will continue till the end of the year unless there is another spike in Covid-19 cases, which again leads to a lockdown situation,” the official said. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI that the current situation was unusual even with an increase in passenger traffic. “We hope that the trend in recovery is maintained. However, no predictions about the traffic can be made in the short term,” he said. “The ministry of civil aviation has allowed 45% flight operations at all airports. Pune may have some new flights,” the official said. Experts and analysts said that passenger growth is expected to continue. “One of the reasons is that the Indian Air Force has not imposed two-hour restriction in the morning and their aircraft movements are very minimal at present,” Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) said. Aviation analyst and expert Dhairyashil Vandekar echoed the views. “In Pune, there is an inherent demand for air service. While the passenger growth will continue, it is presently linked to the revival of the economy,” he said. “When unlock process started after May, the successive months recorded double bookings compared to the previous months. The fear among people is waning now,” said Nilesh Bhansali, director of Travel Agents Association, Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airports-flyer-count-up-90-in-october-over-june/articleshow/78901085.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Caste, religion info optional for Educational Management Information System registration, govt tells Madras HC||MADURAI: After the state government informed that providing religion and caste in the Educational Management Information System (EMIS) was not mandatory, the Madras high court closed a plea which sought to remove such mandatory information in the online registration procedure to admit children in schools. The public interest litigation filed by V Janaki sought to remove mandatory conditions of filling religion, caste and Aadhaar in the EMIS online registration procedure. Special government pleader S Srimathy appearing for the state contend that such columns are meant to be filled optionally. She submitted that disclosure is not mandatory but otherwise is necessary in the event of any concessions that are proposed to be or may be claimed either at the time of admission or even in the future. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy observed it is reasonable in the event any concession or right is sought to be claimed on the basis of such a declaration in the columns referred to above, then a person may have to necessarily part with the relevant information as that would form the foundation for seeking any such concession. This information being necessary in the interest of the person seeking concession, no complaint can be made about the same being a disclosure as being unnecessary, observed the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/caste-religion-info-optional-for-emis-regn-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/78901055.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Surat||CP orders probe into towing cranes’ lockdown payment||Surat: City police commissioner Ajay Tomar ordered an inquiry into the alleged financial irregularities in the payment of Rs 1.2 crore as charges towards towing crane services provided during the past five months including lockdown and the first three phases of unlock.The financial details were revealed through an RTI application filed by activist Sanjay Ezhava. The documents revealed the “wastage” of public money on payment for towing cranes when there was negligible traffic movement.The inquiry has been handed over to additional commissioner of police, traffic and crime, Sharad Singhal. Based on the report if any irregularity is detected further steps will be taken against officers of traffic police.Traffic police officials claimed that the cranes were paid to shift 37,000 detained vehicles during lockdown. The vehicles were detained on the public roads after they were found violating lockdown rules. Officials also claimed that the cranes were not only used for towing but also to transport relief materials like food, masks, sanitizers and other emergency products during the lockdown.During two months of lockdown Rs 37.8 lakh was paid for the towing cranes. While for the following three months after lockdown when the first three phases of unlock were in force police paid Rs 82.79 lakh to the towing crane provider.In July, traffic police also observed ifollow campaign from July 7 to 28 during Unlock 2 when no vehicles were fined. While objections were raised on the payment during this campaign phase by assistant commissioner of police A P Chauhan, it was overruled by senior officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cp-orders-probe-into-towing-cranes-lockdown-payment/articleshow/78897831.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Eye-opener for BJP: Revanth||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy on Tuesday alleged that there are two groups in the state BJP unit with one of them in favour of being friendly with the ruling TRS party. Revanth said with the Dubbak incidents, the BJP should open its eyes and not trust the ruling TRS. “Police would not have dared to arrest MP Bandi Sanjay had the BJP government at the Centre reacted strongly to Sanjay’s earlier arrest,” he said. He asked G Kishan Reddy why he did not order an inquiry into Dubbak incidents. “Being a Union minister state for home, Kishan Reddy could have ordered an inquiry himself,” Revanth said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eye-opener-for-bjp-revanth/articleshow/78901060.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Agra||Bangle trader shot dead, 4 injured in group clash in Firozabad||AGRA: A bangle trader was shot dead and four persons were injured when two groups clashed after a dispute in Badhi Chapati locality of Firozabad district on Tuesday evening. According to locals, a vehicle collided with an e-rickshaw loaded with freshly-moulded bangles leading to damages. An argument broke out between trader Amit Gupta and the driver over it. Within minutes, the dispute took an ugly turn and a stone-pelting started, followed by firing. Senior superintendent of police Sachindra Patel said, “Adequate police force has been deployed in the area. The situation is completely under control. The firing and stone pelting took place between two groups after an altercation over damage to bangles loaded on a vehicle outside a warehouse in the area. Five teams have been tasked to investigate the entire matter.” Firozabad MLA Manish Asija said, “The entire incident is very shocking. One person is shot dead following a minor dispute and another person is in critical condition. I have informed the home secretary about the entire incident. The attack seems to be done in a planned manner. Locals have informed me about the use of petrol bombs in the attack by a group of men. We will ensure strict action in the entire matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bangle-trader-shot-dead-4-injured-in-group-clash-in-firozabad/articleshow/78898569.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Anjali, sindur khela fervour in Covid season worries experts||KOLKATA: Anjali and ‘sindur khela’, rituals integral to Durga Puja, where several members participate in close proximity, remained a cause for worry for health experts. While many pujas managed to implement the guidelines with the help of volunteers and sustained awareness programmes, there were many others who struggled either owing to space constraint or lack of manpower. Members of Thakurpukur SB Park wore PPE kits during ‘devi baran’ and cancelled ‘sindur khela’ keeping in mind the social distancing. “We had a sprawling pandal which was open on all sides. The entry was restricted while we altered or cancelled several rituals as a precautionary measure,” said Sanjoy Majumdar, general secretary of the puja. “There was no ‘sindur khela’ this year. Some of the ladies who participated in ‘devi baran’ did so wearing proper PPE kits,” said Majumdar. At Maddox Square, organisers asked the priest not to recite ‘anjali’ mantra over the public address (PA) system so that people did not come rushing to the ritual. “Usually, we make announcements over the PA system to alert people. This year, only locals who knew about the ‘anjali’ timings came and quietly offered prayers from a distance,” said Ballygunge Sarbajanin Durgotsav (Maddox Square) treasurer Animesh Chattopadhyay. But many struggled to implement guidelines as members and locals joined in to participate in the rituals. “Our puja is located in a residential area and most residents knew about the ‘anjali’ and ‘sindur khela’ timings. In many cases almost all members of the family turned up. Since our puja is small, we did not have many volunteers or adequate space to accommodate everybody,” said Debmalya Sengupta, president of the Kaviraj Row Youth Club off Central Avenue. At the puja by Milan Chakra Club on Garcha Road, use of PA system during ‘anjali’ led to a gathering. “We maintained the distance prescribed by the court and held several rounds of ‘anjali’. But social distancing wasn’t possible,” said a member. Arindam Biswas, internal medicine specialist at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, said: “We are simply inviting the virus to infect people in the proximity. Even if one among them is a silent carrier, this could prove deadly as spreading of the infection is concerned.” Organisers at north Kolkata’s Raja Rajballabh Street could not enforce the 5-metre distance between visitors and pandal due to space constraint. Many other clubs too did not hold a community sindur khela this year. Tridhara Akalbodhon decided to only allow one person to do the ritual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/anjali-sindur-khela-fervour-in-covid-season-worries-experts/articleshow/78899845.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to provide free home dialysis for kidney patients||JAIPUR: Thousands of patients who spend over Rs 15,000 per month for hemodialysis in hospitals will soon get free peritoneal dialysis at their homes. The state government will soon roll out a scheme under which a patient can get peritoneal dialysis at home. The Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation (RMSC) will procure the equipment for peritoneal dialysis soon. “We have formed a committee of Sawai Man Singh Hospital doctors for specification of consumable items and peritoneal dialysis fluid. On the basis of their recommendations, RMSC will procure the items which will be provided to patients suffering from kidney failure,” a senior health department official said. He said the scheme could have been launched earlier, but due to Covid, it was delayed. The state government has provided a budget of Rs 12 crore for the scheme. “Kidney transplant is what doctors suggest to patients with kidney failure, but not all patients are lucky enough to find a suitable donor. In such a situation, they have to get dialysis done to clear the impurities in the blood. Two types of dialysis —hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis — are available. Both cost almost equal. But peritoneal dialysis is suitable to a lot of patients as it is home-based,” said the official. The state government will provide free consumables to patients on hemodialysis to shift to peritoneal dialysis. “We will provide it only to those who have a clean separate room and they should be aware about the safety and precautionary measures. In peritoneal dialysis, there is a risk of infection known as peritonitis, which can happen due to unhygienic handling of catheter,” said the official, adding that they are taking all possible measures to launch the scheme in November or December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-to-provide-free-home-dialysis-for-kidney-patients/articleshow/78901067.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||DU’s VC to continue on leave pending inquiry||NEW DELHI: The President of India, visitor of Delhi University, approved the recommendations of the Union education ministry for an inquiry against DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi for administrative lapses on Tuesday. Tyagi will continue to be on leave pending inquiry, and pro-VC PC Joshi will officiate in the interim. The inquiry committee will also scrutinise the action of PC Jha, the registrar and South Campus director appointed by Tyagi while on medical leave. TOI had first reported that the ministry had written to the President on October 22 apprising him of the situation in DU and recommending the inquiry. According to a senior ministry official, “The visitor has given consent for an inquiry and action to be taken based on the findings.” The official added that the committee will look into allegations that Tyagi went on medical leave without intimation and on administrative lapses and irregularities in this tenure in the last four and half years. Ramesh Pokhriyal, Union education minister, told TOI: “Vitiation of the atmosphere of any educational institution will not be tolerated and campuses cannot be allowed to turn into an arena for a power tussle. Strict action will be initiated in cases of misgovernance.” In September 2019, the ministry removed Tripura University (Central) VC for alleged corruption and in January this year, accepted the resignation of the Allahabad University VC against whom charges of financial and administrative irregularities were pending. In February, the visitor of Manipur University dismissed the VC over accusations of misconduct, dereliction of duties and abuse of power. The drama of the absurd began in DU on October 21, when Tyagi approved — and through the joint registrar (establishment) — notified the appointment of PC Jha of the department of operational research as South Campus director and acting registrar in place of Suman Kundu, who was appointed by Joshi during Tyagi’s absence. This came just ahead of the Executive Council meeting. Joshi, appointed by Tyagi as pro-VC on June 28, however, invalidated Jha’s appointment and the EC, with Joshi in the chair, approved the appointment of Vikas Gupta as the registrar. A day later, Tyagi removed Joshi from the position of pro-VC and appointed Geeta Bhatt in his stead. According to ministry sources, the inquiry panel will also scrutinise the emails and orders issued by Tyagi while on leave to see if anyone hacked into or misused his email account. “Jha’s role in the crisis will also be probed. He has been given 24 hours to respond to Joshi’s notice,” said a source. Tyagi did not respond to calls and messages. Jha also refused to comment on the visitor’s action. “I have not received anything so far. I cannot comment,” he said. Jha added that he was seeking legal opinion on the notice issued to him. “While at work, I was handed a memo, asking me to respond to the notice or face action,” Jha told TOI. Jha himself issued two circulars on Monday, one asking the teaching and non-teaching employees to comply with the Delhi University Act of 1922 and the other saying that “notifications regarding teaching, legal affairs, transfer and Cluster Innovation Centre have been issued on the letterhead of the university on October 24” in complete disregard of DU Act and other statutes was “therefore null and void”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dus-vc-to-continue-on-leave-pending-inquiry/articleshow/78901088.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Road work during rain stopped after residents protest||CHENNAI: A contractor engaged by the city corporation to lay a road in the Perungudi zone last week was forced to stop the laying and even remove the new layer following objections from residents over the quality of work being done during rain. On Saturday, workers employed by the contractor were giving a fresh coat of bitumen to Raja Lakshmi Nagar 5th Street at Pallikaranai in Perungudi zone even as rain was pelting down. A video recorded by a resident showed hot bitumen being brought on a truck and being dropped on the road, while workers levelled it. A water puddle had already formed at the edge of the road. Residents in the area immediately objected to this, raising questions about the quality of the road laid during rain. The workers continued unfazed, but had to stop when the residents refused to relent. A video of this soon surfaced on social media and was shared by Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO which has been raising questions over the quality of roads laid by Greater Chennai Corruption as well as other issues of corruption. On Monday, the corporation assistant engineer concerned visited the spot to take stock of the situation. A few hours later, the contractor came in and removed the freshly laid road with the machinery. A resident who was present at the spot while the engineer conducted the inspection said the bitumen coating was so weak the engineer could scrape a chunk of it with his footwear. A senior corporation official with the Perungudi zone confirmed the sequence of events and said the road would be re-laid after the monsoon. Arappor Iyakkam convenor Jayaram Venkatesan said the contractor’s efforts were thwarted only because people raised their voices. “However, the corporation needs to ensure that the area gets a proper road and action is taken against the official and contractors responsible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/road-work-during-rain-stopped-after-residents-protest/articleshow/78899838.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Training session on Dharani portal held for officials||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said the Dharani portal will provide services in a simple, transparent, discretion-less and in a speedy manner. He said that under the Dharani portal, registration and mutation will be completed immediately. The chief secretary added that CM Chandrasekhar Rao will launch the Dharani portal on October 29. He said this at the training programme for tahsildars, nayab tahsildars and officials of the registration department on Dharani held on Tuesday. The CS gave a presentation on the functioning of the Dharani portal. He said a state level control room and district level technical support team will be set up to address the technical issues. Necessary infrastructure should be in place at all offices for the purpose, he said and added sale transactions would be completed only after biometric authentication. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/training-session-on-dharani-portal-held-for-officials/articleshow/78901112.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hike in passenger fare for festival special trains||VISAKHAPATNAM: Waltair division will be operating festival special trains till November 30, a divisional railway spokesperson told TOI. Passengers can avail services of the special trains, which have a higher fare than other trains. Explaining the reason behind the higher fare, the official said, “The fare may be different from the regular trains, but the advantage of the festival special train is that the chances of getting a reserved ticket at the last minute are high.” Another railway official said while fares for festival special trains will be higher than those for regular trains, they will still be lower than fares for other alternative mode of transport, such as buses and cabs. “In festival specials, we don’t give any concessions. Everyone must pay the full fare. This helps in getting a confirmed ticket,” the official said. Passengers, however, were left wondering why fares varied among trains when distance between two railway stations was the same. Frequent traveller P Kiran said the fare of 02727 Godavari Special between Visakhapatnam and VIjayawada is Rs 255 per passenger. The train covers a distance of 355 kilometres but the fare of Hatia Yesvantapur 02835 for the same journey is Rs 415 per passenger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hike-in-passenger-fare-for-festival-special-trains/articleshow/78898595.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sikar gets Centre nod for 100-seat medical college||JAIPUR: Finally, the state will get a medical college in Sikar as the Centre has given its approval for the proposal. It is the last medical college to get the Centre’s nod out of the proposed seven such colleges announced in 2013-14 by the Centre. All other medical colleges have become operational but the one in Sikar has got the Centre’s nod only now. Apart from 100 MBBS seats in Sikar, the state has got 130 more MBBS seats in Ajmer (50), Udaipur (50) and Barmer (30). Centre has approved a total of 230 seats. Medical education principal secretary Vaibhav Galriya said that in 2018, the state had 1,950 MBBS seats, which have now increased to 2,830. It is the seventh medical college approved by the Centre to be run by the society formed by the state government. The one in Sikar is the 15th medical college run by the state government or by the societies formed by the state government, and among them is one, which is run by the RUHS. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that Sikar’s Sri Kalyan government medical college will become operational from 2020-21 academic session. The state government has constructed the building of the new medical college in Sanwali village in Sikar, but for construction of the 500-bed hospital, it requires more land. However, for the time being, the Sikar Medical College had upgraded its district hospital which has been attached to the proposed medical college so that it starts functioning from 2020-21. The Trust — Shri Kalyan Arogya (SKA), donated 8 hectare of land for construction of the medical college building in Sanwali village. The MCI had inspected the hospital and medical college last year too but it did not give its permission, as the MCI had found deficiencies. The authorities upgraded the facilities at the existing district hospital and after the MCI inspection, this time around, the Centre approved the medical college in Sikar. The hospital has six major operation theatres and two minor operation theatres, four ICUs, nursing stations, dressing rooms, injection rooms, central oxygen line, which were necessary for a hospital attached to a new medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sikar-gets-centre-nod-for-100-seat-medical-college/articleshow/78901087.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Sunni Board voices concern over moves to reclaim Kashi, Mathura||Ayodhya: Amidst the Kashi and Mathura shrines being dragged into fresh legal dispute, just months after the apex court’s Ayodhya verdict, Sunni Central Waqf Board expressed concern over moves to reclaim religious structures and sought strict implementation of Places of Worship Act, 1991, which was reiterated by Supreme Court in its November-2019 verdict on the Ayodhya title suit. In an exclusive chat with TOI, chairman of Sunni Central Waqf Board, Zufar Farooqui, who is also president of the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, said, “The Places of Worship Act aims to freeze the status of any place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947.” “The Supreme Court too invoked this law in its Ayodhya verdict while mandating construction of temple at Ramjanmabhoomi premises to preempt new claims by any group,” he added. Talking about recent litigation to reclaim the Gyanvapi masjid in Varanasi and Shahi Eidgah in Mathura, Farooqui said, “The Sunni Waqf Board will be dealing with the court cases, but since the Places of Worship Act is in place, the law must be implemented to stop attempts to change status of mosques in India.” Farooqui, who’s also president of the Trust mandated to construct a mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of the Babri mosque, said: “We are working on a war footing to begin construction of the mosque and other public facilities in the 5acre land in Dhannipur village in Ayodhya. The blueprint has been finalized and will be presented next month. We are seeking advice from international experts to make the facility world class.” The new mosque will be bigger than Babri masjid, but won’t be a lookalike of the structure which once stood in Ramjanmabhoomi premises. The hospital of course will hold centrestage and will serve people in the true spirit of Islam as taught by the prophet. “The hospital won’t be a usual concrete structure, but will be in sync with the architecture of the mosque, replete with calligraphy and Islamic symbols,” said Farooqui. “It will house a 300-bed speciality unit, where doctors will work with missionary zeal to provide free treatment to the ailing,” he added. The master plan will be designed to house an archive, museum and community kitchen. The archive and museum will exhibit contributions of Muslims to nation building, Indian culture and freedom struggle and of course Sufi saints who spread love and harmony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunni-board-voices-concern-over-moves-to-reclaim-kashi-mathura/articleshow/78901654.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 28, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Drunk youth kills mother||KANPUR: A 19-year-old youth, Monu, allegedly killed his mother Malti Devi by opening fire at her with a country-made pistol in inebriated state, in Etawah’s Kathgawan village under the limits of Ekdil police station on late Sunday night. Neighbours informed the police. However, the youth fled by the time police reached, police said. Monu had left home on Sunday evening for witnessing Dussehra celebrations and returned home drunk late. “He later opened fire on his mother leaving her critically injured. She was rushed to a hospital, but she succumbed on way. Body was sent for autopsy, Investigations are on in the case and a search to arrest Monu is underway,” said SHO Ekdil Rajesh Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/drunk-youth-kills-mother/articleshow/78881218.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Seven-year-old missing girl found dead in abandoned house near Bhachau||Rajkot: Body of a seven-year-old girl who was missing since Monday afternoon was found in an abandoned house at Lakhapar village in Bhachau taluka of Kutch.The girl, whose parents work as agariyas, had gone missing when she went in the neighbourhood asking for water. When she did not return till evening her parents searched her but could not find. By late evening entire village of 150 households mostly of agariyas searched for the girl. Villagers also posted on social media about her due to which cops learnt about it.On Tuesday morning, her father lodged a complaint of kidnapping at Samakhiyari police station. As the search resumed on Tuesday, somebody checked in an abandoned house just 50 metres away from the girl’s house. She was found dead lying in the kitchen. Police said that she had minor bleeding behind her head and there were injury marks on her throat.“We have sent the body to Jamnagar for post-mortem and forensic investigation,” said sub-inspector V G Labariya of Samakhiyari police station. Senior police officials too visited the village on learning about the incident. “The parents of the girl do not have suspicion on anyone as they live in the village for just four months. But we are probing suspicious people,” Labariya said. He added that the girl may have been killed with an intention of rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-year-old-missing-girl-found-dead-in-abandoned-house-near-bhachau/articleshow/78898611.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Citizens try measles, BCG, flu shots to counter Covid||PUNE: Citizens are increasingly opting for measles-rubella or influenza and anti-tuberculosis (BCG) shots in their effort to counter or at least dull the attack of Covid-19, as they learn to live with the virus that has so far infected over 3.2 lakh people in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Young and middle-aged adults are mostly getting vaccinated with the measles-rubella (MR) vaccine or Bacillus Calmette–Guérin (BCG) shots, while senior citizens are opting for the seasonal flu and pneumococcal vaccine, doctors say. Times ViewVaccination with measles, BCG or flu shots may provide cross-protection but over-reliance on them is dangerous. Citizens should refrain from harbouring a false sense of security after taking any of these shots. They should particularly continue with the protocol of wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and observing hand hygiene. It’s for the doctors administering these shots to also educate citizens on the basic preventive measures.People have been choosing one of these vaccines as a possible shield as they induce “trained immunity”. The trend has picked up ever since the lockdown restrictions have been almost lifted. “Enquiries for these vaccines have surged after the ‘unlock’ led to a lot of crowding and mingling in Pune. We educate people that vaccination with any of these vaccines doesn’t mean protection against Covid-19. There should not be any false sense of security,” Sanjay Bafana, president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics’ (IAP) Pune branch, told TOI. Among the practising doctors in the city, the general practitioners (GPs) and paediatricians are primarily administering the desired vaccines after due diligence. Senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar said, “The enquiries have gone up ever since the lockdown restrictions were diluted. I have of late administered measles and flu vaccine on quite a few adult patients.” Paediatrician Sampada Tambolkar said, “Adults patients, while coming for the vaccination of their children, also enquire about the flu vaccine. This is adding up the count. Parents and grandparents are mainly opting for the flu shots. I have also received enquiries about BCG and measles vaccines.” Practising physicians have been increasingly recommending yearly flu shots and a dose of pneumococcal vaccine to senior citizens even before the Covid-pandemic. “A select class was aware of these shots. The overall demand for these vaccines has increased during the pandemic. The recent easing of the restrictions is leading to the vaccination surge. Many doctors have also opted either for measles or recombinant BCG vaccine to counter the threat or blunt the (Covid-19) attack,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association’s Hospital Board of India (IMA). Senior NCP leader Sharad Pawar recently admitted to having taken BCG vaccination as a precautionary measure. Senior virologist and former director of the National Institute of Virology-Pune, Deepak Gadkari, said, “There are reports that influenza, measles and BCG (anti-TB) vaccines offer cross-protections against Covid-19. But we still do not have sufficient data on well-planned large studies to completely accept these observations. However, these vaccines have no side effects and will certainly help in protecting against major non-Covid respiratory diseases.” A multi-centric trial in Maharashtra is studying the efficacy of Serum Institute of India (SII)'s recombinant BCG vaccine as a preventive treatment for Covid-19 among 6,000 healthcare worker Besides, Pune-based paediatrician Nilesh Gujar, along with experts from the community medicine department of state-run B J Medical College and Sassoon hospital, are conducting an observational study to check if the measles vaccination has helped in either negating Covid-19 or preventing its severity among the RT-PCR-tested individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-try-measles-bcg-flu-shots-to-counter-covid/articleshow/78901114.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 28, 2020||Delhi||DU VC issues booklet listing 33 of his ‘achievements’||NEW DELHI: Amid the controversy over his appointments of a new pro vice-chancellor and registrar, Delhi University vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi issued a booklet on Tuesday on his four-year tenure till date. It highlights 33 initiatives and achievements involving democratic review, inclusion and equity and digital transformation to raise human capabilities. At the top of the achievements since Tyagi took over as VC in March 2016 listed in the 26-page booklet are the status of Institution of Eminence conferred on DU, A+ grade in the NAAC assessment and graded autonomy, which has helped it improve in the global rankings. According to a university official, the booklet was a reply to those who had been raising questions about the work done by Tyagi in his tenure. “People were saying that the VC has not worked at all for the university. Releasing this booklet is his way of putting across his point,” the official said. The booklet claims, “Around 3,500 courses from over 70 undergraduate (UG) programmes and about 2,500 courses from over 67 postgraduate (PG) programmes were revised and restructured in about six months. One of the highlights of the curriculum revision was outlining course objectives and weekly teaching-learning processes in terms of pedagogy.” Beside mentioning Delhi School of Journalism, Delhi School of Transnational Studies and Institute of Cyber Security and Law plus other study centres, the booklet says, “The University of Delhi has initiated the process of establishing women's college at Fatehpur Beri Village, Delhi. The women's college will largely cater to the women from rural areas of the outskirts of southwest Delhi.” The VC has also credited himself for the digitalisation of procedures, from admissions to examinations and on new partnerships with foreign institutions. Concerns had been expressed about delays in promotions of teachers and non-teachers and vacancies not being filled. However, the booklet contends, “145 vacant posts of assistant professors have been filled up. Around 100 faculty members have been promoted in 16 departments, including education, law, and physics and astrophysics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vc-issues-booklet-listing-33-of-his-achievements/articleshow/78901131.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM approves draft rules to protect rights of temple priests, other stakeholders||Dehradun: The chief executive officer (CEO) of Devesthanam board on Tuesday handed over the draft guidelines and rules for protection of the rights of priests, trustee pilgrims, pandas and other stakeholders to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who is also the head of the board. Apart from approving the draft, the chief minister also gave in-principal approval to the board’s logo that will be finalised after certain amendments. The board authorities and tourism department officials also discussed measures to be taken for the beautification of Badrinath temple, which is witnessing most foot fall of devotees every year during Char Dham Yatra. The board members also shared details of proposed renovation work at the third Kedar Shri Tugnath Temple, Sabha Mandap and facelift of Ishaneshwar temple in Kedarnath. “In the draft proposal, apart from rights of purohits and priests, the board also mooted plans to repair the rooms of Rawals at prominent temples. Renovation work in Kedarnath, Ukhimath temple, digitising valuable manuscripts preserved in these temples, bringing Karthik Swami temple under the Devasthanam board and renovation of Vindeshwar temple in Thalisand were the other issues discussed in the board meeting on Tuesday,” said Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Uttarakhand Devasthanam Management Board. The CEO also informed that 1.72 lakh pilgrims have visited 4 temples under Char Dham Yatra till October 25 while 2 lakh have registered for the yatra. The devotees have offered Rs 7.55 crore donation at Badrinath temple while Kedarnath temple received a donation of Rs 75 lakh this year. The chief minister, in the meeting, directed the officials to ensure the installation of signage hoardings of Devasthanam Board in the temple premises and the yatra routes. “The board should gather the details of priests, pandas, priests, instrumentalists, and others working in the temples of the state so that financial assistance can be provided to these people as well when needed,” the CM added. The issue of renovation and development of the areas where the Tritiya Kedar and Tungnath temples are situated was also discussed. The board was informed that some donors were willing to assist in renovation works around the temples. While USA-based Pankaj Kumar has offered to take on the renovation of Tungnath, and Manoj Solanki Mumbai has expressed his desire to refurbish Ishaneshwar temple at Kedarnath. The meeting was also attended by cabinet minister and vice chairman of Uttarakhand Devasthanam Management Board Satpal Maharaj, tourism secretary Dilip Javalkar among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-cm-approves-draft-rules-to-protect-rights-of-temple-priests-other-stakeholders/articleshow/78898605.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five BJP men held for ‘snatching’ cash from election staff||HYDERABAD: Siddipet police on Tuesday arrested five persons, including a woman, in connection with the incident at Lecturers’ Colony in Siddipet town when cash was taken away from election staff after it was seized from the house of a relative of BJP Dubbak candidate M Raghunandan Rao on Monday. Cash of Rs 27,500 was seized from three of those arrested. The Siddipet I Town police officials, who examined the videos and photographs taken by the election personnel and police, identified those involved in grabbing the cash from the bag of a head constable who was carrying it after its seizure at Surabhi Anjan Rao’s house. BJP spokesperson K Krishna Sagar Rao said, “This is below the belt politics by the TRS regime. BJP strongly condemns the arrests.” The accused were booked for offences under IPC sections for unlawful assembly, rioting and sections related to resisting the taking of any property by a lawful authority or any public servant among other sections. Sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, too have been invoked. Police said the five persons confessed to their involvement in the incident. They were produced before a magistrate and sent to judicial remand. The arrested were identified as Ragula Vineeth (23) of Boppapur village in Dubbak mandal from whom Rs 10,000 was recovered, Elikanti Suresh (28) of Jaligama village in Gajwel mandal from whom Rs 7,500 was recovered and Govindagiri Sudha Reddy of Dharmajipeta in Dubbak mandal from whom Rs 10,000 was recovered. Sudha Reddy is a BJP Mahila Morcha secretary. The two other arested were Gudem Amarendar Reddy (24) of Imambad in Siddipet mandal and Ramaram Vamsi (20) of in Dubbak mandal. Police said 30 BJP workers were involved in the incident. “The others have also been identified. They will be traced soon and arrested,” Task Force ACP Surendra said. Among those absconding include Akula Naresh of Chellapur, Gundla Janardhan of Siddipet, Doodi Srikanth of Tadkapally, Sanjeeva Reddy and others, police said. Meanwhile, three companies of central forces had arrived in Siddipet to supplement the local security. Davis said: “We are investigating the case and will bring out the conspiracy angle, if there is any.” Police released videos taken by election team Anjan Rao’s house, who was seen explaining from whom he had gotten the money. The video showed a family member bringing a packet of money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-held-for-snatching-cash-from-election-staff/articleshow/78901162.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Queues for Navami meat add to bother||KOLKATA: Prabir Kumar Ghosh had stepped out of his Ballygunge residence early on Sunday to purchase mutton for the customary rice and mutton curry meal on Navami afternoon. By the time he reached Hafiz Meat Shop on Swinhoe Street around 7, over two dozen customers were already in the queue. Several of them were without masks, some having a puff and others engaged in animated conversation about how the Puja had been a damp squib this year. “I was astonished to see how people were behaving in such a cavalier manner, as though they had taken an anti-Covid vaccine and weren’t bothered about contracting the virus. Though I initially stood at a distance, I decided to return home as it was impossible to maintain the queue, from where I stood. When I returned around noon, the shop had downed shutters,” he recounted. Md Omar who runs the shop said he was taken aback by the crowd and exhausted the 120kg of meat by 11am. The scene was similar at nearly all meat shops on Sunday as people shrugged off Covid fear and queued up to buy mutton. On Navami, Old Haji Meat Shop at Mullick Bazaar; Munna’s Meat Shop near Jadu Babu Bazaar in Bhowanipore and Calcutta Meat Shop near Beadon Street drew more crowds than neighbouring pandals. BK Pal Avenue resident Sandip Sur, who stayed away from the Ahiritola and Beniatola pandals but joined the 100-plus customers in the queue at the meat shop on Beadon Street, said,“I wasn't going to give up on the home-cooked meal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/queues-for-navami-meat-add-to-bother/articleshow/78899867.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Sellur residents want defunct borewells made rainwater harvesting units||MADURAI: Most of the 150 bore wells in Sellur consisting of five wards in Madurai corporation are defunct now. If they are turned into rainwater harvesting (RWH) structures, they could help in improving the groundwater level in the area, say Sellur residents, adding only a few were converted into such structure after representations were made while most were sealed. Wards 5, 6, 7, 38 and 40 come under Sellur in Madurai Corporation. M P Sankarapandian, a resident of Sellur, said that this region had copious groundwater around 50 years ago. But, as the population increased and exploitation of groundwater also rose, water level went down below 600ft. “Over the last 15 years, the corporation had laid over 150 borewells attached with Sintex tanks, where the groundwater was pumped up and supplied,” he said. “However, this water is not potable any more, but people depend on it for their other needs like washing and bathing,” he added. As the defunct borewells are left abandoned, “people of Sellur made a representation to the district administration and corporation to convert them into rainwater harvesting structures and only some were converted,” he said. Poonthamalli Nagar, Bose Street, Meenambalpuram, Bibikulam and Saraswathi Theatre Main Road have many such defunct borewells. “After the rains, the groundwater level, which had gone down, has improved. But, if these borewells were converted earlier itself, they could help in recharging the groundwater level in the entire area,” said M Balaguru of Sellur. City engineer S Arasu said they had converted the maximum number of defunct bore wells into rainwater harvesting structures. “Maintenance of the created structures are underway and it would be rectified,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sellur-residents-want-defunct-borewells-made-rwh-units/articleshow/78901138.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘Med colleges must earn to make themselves viable’||Nagpur: IGGMCH medical superintendent Dr Ravi Chauhan, who has been entrusted with the responsibility of planning the new 615-bed government hospital at Indora, on Tuesday said Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and Research Centre (BAHRC) aims to treat people from all sections of society at the same level. Speaking to TOI in an exculsive interview, Dr Chauhan, who is named OSD for BAHRC's upcoming Rs1,024 crore project, said people have faith in government medical colleges but because of lack of facilities, private hospitals remain the first choice of many patients. Dr Chauhan did not want his photo published with this interview Excerpts: Q) What is the idea behind the new hospital at Indora? Everyone has faith in government medical colleges but in last two decades it has become a misconception that these are only for the poor and lack facilities. Hence, people prefer private hospitals. The honourable guardian minister Nitin Rautji proposed that level of treatment should be same for all, irrespective of their financial condition. Hence, the idea is to have revenue generation to make such big ticket government projects viable. In addition to this, the new hospital shall also cater to the poor of North Nagpur, Kamptee, and Kanhan. Hospital’s catchment is two state highways. Existing medical colleges are quite far for these beneficaries while superspecialty is under pressure. Q) What can be sources of income for medical colleges? Most campuses have sprawling lands which often remain idle. Rentals can bring in much–needed income for them to upgrade facilities. Secondly, people have to pay hefty charges for certain diagnosis and investigations. These can be started on public-private participation (PPP) model where the contractor has to provide free of cost service to government patients and applicable charges for walk-ins. Of course, the applicable charges too can be capped as it would be within government premises. Q) Any other means of revenue generation? Government schemes like MJPJAY offer more treatment packages for superspecialties. MJPJAY covers 972 procedures. This can help existing GMCs earn profit from schemes. Today, GMCs are spending on these procedures as they don’t have a database. If patient’s economic data is available, GMCs can get the treatment cost reimbursed by availing the scheme. Q) Is it going to benefit all? Yes, it is win-win situation for all. Let me give an example. Today, a knee replacement costs around Rs5lakh in private. This can be offered in government for not more than Rs1.5lakh after buying the joint replacement, paying the surgeon, anaesthetist, assistant, nurse and sanitary workers. When same amenties are provided in government, why would people not prefer the low cost option? Q) Can mediclaim beneficiaries be allowed in these schemes? GMCs can collaborate with public sector companies like WCL, MOIL, etc to start with once they start offering high-end services. It will be benefical for insurance companies too as cost would be low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/med-colleges-must-earn-to-make-themselves-viable/articleshow/78899884.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||School re-opening SOP: Tweak or remove certain points, asks schools’ body||Dehradun: Days after the state government issued the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of schools in the state for Classes X and XII from November 2, the schools’ body held a meet on Monday to discuss the objections they have with the order. During the meet, the officials of the schools’ body discussed those points of the SOP which are “not in the interest of the school managements”. Also, the body has requested the state government to either remove those points or tweak them. The SOP clearly mentions that a written consent from the parents is required to allow their ward into the school. However, the schools claim that only 10% of the parents are in favour of sending their child to the school and it would not be financially viable for them to operate with anything less than 50% of their total strength. The officials of the schools' body added that schools will take a call on reopening in the coming days and the decision would be based on the number of parents willing to send their wards to the school. The schools' body has also objected to the point which maintains that a school management would be booked under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act of 1897 if any shortcoming is noticed in implementing the points mentioned in the SOP. “This particular point prevents us from reopening the schools. It seems that the private schools are being purposely targeted while no action will be taken against the officials of the government department for shortcomings. It is also not logical. A child stays in school only for six hours while he/she spends around 18 hours at his/her house. Therefore, parents know about their whereabouts much better than us,” said Prem Kashyap, president of the Principals Progressive Schools’ Association (Uttarakhand). The schools’ body has also demanded changes in some of the points of the SOP that focus on boarding schools of Uttarakhand. The body has asked for the facility of a free Covid-19 test. Also, they have asked that the test report verification be done by the government officials during their inspection drive while adding that it should not be the onus of schools to submit the Covid-19 negative report of students to the Chief Education Officer. Notably, the SOPs also mandate that all the staffers of boarding school should stay in the campus until future orders by the state government. The boarding schools have raised an objection to this saying that it won’t be possible. They add that several boarding schools don’t have a large enough campus to house all the non-residential staff while maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/school-re-opening-sop-tweak-or-remove-certain-points-asks-schools-body/articleshow/78898655.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 28, 2020||Meerut||Couple thrashed for askingmoney from debtors in M'nagar||Muzaffarnagar: A purported video of a couple being thrashed with sticks has gone viral on social media. Two people have been arrested. Mange Ram and his wife - in their early 40s - run a grocery shop and had asked their debtors to pay money, but the latter had been unwilling to do so, police said.This led to an argument and the couple was beaten up with sticks by Vikki Sharma and his associates on Sunday night. Both of them are now in hospital with severe injuries.The incident took place in Kashiram colony under Civil Lines police station in Muzaffarnagar on October 24.A case has been registered against five accused. SP (city) Satpal Antil said, "Police have arrested two men. Raids are being conducted. Action will be taken accordingly."Mange Ram's wife Savita Devi said they used to receive threats in the past, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/couple-thrashed-for-askingmoney-from-debtors-in-mnagar/articleshow/78897513.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 28, 2020||Meerut||UP edu dept pulls up BSAs for not providing details about money spent on uniforms||Meerut: Pulling up the basic shiksha adhikaris (BSAs) for not providing details about money spent on uniforms, the Uttar Pradesh education department has asked for records on the amount spent so far within three days or else strict action would ben taken against them.It should be noted that the funds were provided by the state education department to procure uniforms, but the status of the funds spent has not been provided by any district until now.“All the districts were given funds to procure uniforms for students of state government-run schools. 75% of the total amount was released for the purpose to all the districts and the BSAs were supposed to provide details about the money spent by August 25. However, despite the deadline in August, not a single district has provided the details of the money spent so far,” said the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, UP state project director, Samagra Shiksha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-edu-dept-pulls-up-bsas-for-not-providing-details-about-money-spent-on-uniforms/articleshow/78897519.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 28, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Employee flees with Rs 52 lakh cash||SURAT: An employee of a private limited company in Bhavnagar disappeared with Rs 52.35 lakh cash. The accused, Shailesh Makwana, was asked to deposit the money to an angadia firm but he went missing. Police booked Makwana for criminal breach of trust following the complaint of Ketan Shah, 49, one of the directors of Maun-Sat Ferro Alloys Private Limited at the Ganga Jaliya Police Station in Bhavnagar. Police informed that the company deals in scrap sourced from ship breaking at Alang. Makwana, a trusted employee, used to do different jobs of managing office work and handling cash as well. On Monday, Makwana was given Rs 15 lakh cash from the office of the company in Vaghawadi area and instructed to collect Rs 37.35 lakh from Shree Ganesh Angadia firm in Mehta Sheri. He was told to deposit the total of Rs 52.35 lakh in another angadia, P Umesh. After leaving office in the evening, Makwana collected the cash from Shree Ganesh Angadia but did not deposit that to another angadia firm. He disappeared, switching his phone off. Shah tried to contact him multiple times and also checked at his home but failed to locate him. Sources informed that the accused did not ask for a loan or describe any financial trouble to the employer in recent past. He did not have a habit of gambling or any addiction. Makwana’s family were called for questioning at the police station but they did not have any idea about Makwana’s location. “Police have collected CCTV footage of the angadia firm from which it was confirmed that Makwana himself collected the cash. The phone of the accused is switched off but we are trying to track him,” said a police officer at the Ganga Jaliya Police Station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/employee-flees-with-rs-52-lakh-cash/articleshow/78897848.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Man, grandson killed as two bikes collide near Gondal||RAJKOT: A 80-year-old man and his grandson were killed when their motorcycle collided with another bike coming from the opposite direction on the Gondal-Gundala road on outskirts of Gondal town of Rajkot on Tuesday morning. Two other persons were injured in the accident. According to police, the accident took place when Hiten Virpariya (32) who was riding the bike with his grandfather Hansraj Virpariya (80) sitting pillion, tried to overtake a truck and collided with the motorcycle coming from the opposite side. Police said that Hasraj died on the spot, while Hiten succumbed to injuries on way to Gondal government hospital. The injured persons — Pratik Bhalori (20) and Kishan Bhalori (17) are under treatment at Gondal hospital. Police added that Hiten and Hansraj were going towards their village Garnala from Gondal while the injured duo was coming from Anida village and going towards Gondal. Hiten owns a steel utensils shop in Gondal’s Modi Bazar, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-grandson-killed-as-two-bikes-collide-near-gondal/articleshow/78898822.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Meerut||Baghpat SI should have quit instead of shaving his beard, feel a section of Deoband clerics||Meerut: A set of clerics in UP’s Deoband town, the seat of country’s biggest Islamic seminary, has taken exception to a Muslim sub-inspector’s decision to shave off his beard, saying the policeman should have quit the job after being suspended over it.Intezar Ali, 46, posted as SI in Baghpat district, was suspended last week for keeping a beard without permission from the department. A few days later, Ali shaved his beard and was reinstated, putting an end to the row. UP Police pays allowances to maintain moustaches, but discourages beard. Ali claimed that he had sought permission to keep the beard in November last year, but Baghpat’s SP Abhishek Singh denied it.But the row refuses to go away.A debate raged on all the social media platforms, and also in the streets of Deoband where a set of clerics didn’t approve of shaving of the beard.Maulana Lutfur Rehman Qasmi, a cleric at Jamia Anglo-Arabic madrassa, said, “It is wrong if a Muslim doesn’t keep a beard. And removing the beard after keeping it is a bigger sin in the eyes of Islam. We are of the opinion that the sub-inspector should have resigned if he was being compelled to shave off his beard.”Another prominent figure, patron of Jamiat Davatul Musleemeen, Maulana Kari Ishaq Gora said, “Religious freedom should be granted in services. And where there is no such freedom, it should be provided through the amendment. It is not good that someone was suspended for following his religious beliefs.”Meanwhile, against the backdrop of the controversy, UP’s director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthi issued a letter to senior police officers in the state, saying, “There have been reports of violation of uniform rules. Shaving is mandatory for all policemen except Sikhs. Even if the permission is granted, the beard should be short and neat. Similarly, mustaches are allowed but they should also be properly trimmed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/baghpat-si-should-have-quit-instead-of-shaving-his-beard-feel-a-section-of-deoband-clerics/articleshow/78897541.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: TRS, BJP luring voters with money||Hyderabad: Congress on Tuesday charged TRS and BJP with using money to buy votes in Dubbak and demanded that ECI direct the state police to book cases against those violating model code of conduct. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-trs-bjp-luring-voters-with-money/articleshow/78901197.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Meerut||Bull tosses man in Muzaffarnagar & kills him||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 50-year-old man was tossed over several times by a raging stray bull on a busy road in Muzaffarnagar on Tuesday morning. He succumbed to injuries at a nearby hospital. The incident took place in Sohani Jatan village under Titavi police station. Mohar Singh was on his way to a farm in the morning when the bull, all of a sudden, charged towards him. It lifted him up and tossed him several times. Singh sustained severe injuries. The bull later attacked three more people in the village. They all sustained minor injuries. Titavi SHO Kapil Deo said, "The man's body was sent for postmortem. The bull will be shifted to a shelter house. Steps will be taken accordingly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bull-tosses-man-inmnagar-kills-him/articleshow/78897551.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Only sale entries in a/c books bare Rs135cr GST fraud||Nagpur: The GST intelligence wing that caught a trading firm suspicioulsy recording only sales in its books and no purchases eventually unearthed an intricate web of fake input tax credit racket operating across Maharashtra and Gujarat. The sleuths have reported a fake input tax credit (ITC) racket of Rs 135 crore availed through fraudulent transactions worth over Rs 1000 crore. This is said to be the biggest case in the Nagpur zone so far. It began with the directorate general of GST intelligence’s (DGGSTI) zonal office at Nagpur finding that a trading firm in Malegaon dealing in yarn has recorded only sales in its books. Despite being a trading concern, no purchase entry was seen. The proprietor of the firm, who claimed to be a farmer, was traced in Nandurbar. The person claimed his credentias including PAN was misused. He has been arrested and sent to judicial custody. Sources said the firm was part of a network engaged in supplying fake entries to a number of other businesses. The sales recorded in the books of the Malegaon firm were entered as purchases in the account of other entities. This helped the businesses claim input tax credit (ITC) on such purchases. Under GST, or any other indirect tax system, the seller can adjust his tax liability on the sale of goods against the tax paid at the time of purchase of inputs. ITC can also be used for clearing tax liability without paying the tax in cash. Sources said the ultimate beneficiaries on the chain are suspected to be in Gujarat. Another such company that only recorded sales was found in Dhule. The searches revealed the entities were shell companies. The credentials including electricity bills and rental agreements put on the GST common portal as a proof of business were fake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-sale-entries-in-a/c-books-bare-rs135cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/78899970.cms||Shishir Arya
October 28, 2020||Meerut||Kin turn out to be conspirators in Baghpat trader's abduction||Meerut: A day after Baghpat based iron trader was abducted, police have arrested eight men for hatching a conspiracy and revealed that trader Adeesh Kumar Jain's own relatives were involved in the sensational kidnapping. A ransom of Rs 1 crore was demanded for his release. In a dramatic turn of events, Adeesh was kidnapped by three men in a van while he was on his way to his godown on Monday morning in Baraut region. Soon after, his family received a ransom call. Police swung into action and the area was cordoned off. Drones were also brought in. Rattled, the kidnappers released the trader, but not before leaving a trail of clues for the cops to nab them in the early hours of Tuesday. Baghpat SP Abhishek Singh said, "Gaurav Jain, son in-law of Adeesh's brother, is the mastermind. He runs a shop in Baraut. Similarly, his friend had a clothes shop. Both were regular visitors to Adeesh's house. Gaurav hatched the conspiracy along with Abhishek Jain who involved two of his shop workers - Amit and Sumit Kumar. They hired four men for the abduction, and worked in separate teams." Gaurav remained within the vicinity of the aggrieved family to keep an eye on the police movement while another team led by Abhishek was near the van used to abduct the local businessman. The actual captors were promised a sum of Rs 25 lakh, of which, Rs 5 lakh was paid soon after the kidnapping. After blindfolding Adeesh, the kidnappers snatched away his phone and gave it to Abhishek. It was on this phone that the ransom call was made to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kin-turn-out-to-be-conspiratorsin-baghpat-traders-abduction/articleshow/78897563.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 28, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka govt college lecturer sets up library in Dalit colony||BAGALKOT: In the wake of the state government’s decision to suspend ‘Vidyagama’, children from a socio-economically disadvantageous background have been affected greatly, hopes of continuity in their education dashed. Taking cognisance of their situation and to ensure that their learning continues, Priyadarshini Sharanappa Amadihal, a lecturer at a government college in Dhannur in Bagalkot district, started a library with her own money – Rs 10,000 – in Ambedkar Nagar, a locality in Ilkal town mostly populated by Dalits, for the benefit of the children there. A youngster in the locality has been tasked with overseeing the operations at the library. The setting up of a library for the children in Ambedkar Nagar seems like a natural step to take for Priyadarshini, who has been offering her books to students at the college she works at for the past decade. Ample support from her father Sharanappa Amadihal and husband Uday Kumar Dhammannavar gave her the necessary encouragement to go ahead with setting up of the library in Ambedkar Nagar. “When I approached the Babasaheb Ambedkar Dalit Hitarakshana Vedike, the organisation members and residents of the area welcomed me like a daughter. The library itself was inaugurated last Sunday in a simple ceremony,” Priyadarshini told TOI. Basappa Mudhol, a senior citizen and member of the vedike, said that the library stayed open two hours in the morning and three hours in the evening. Although he did not have the benefit of education – an illiterate, he called himself – he is determined to ensure that the ensuing generations reap the rewards of learning. “When madam (Priyadarshini) approached us with this proposal, we drew up a list of children attending schools and colleges and convinced parents to send their wards to the library. We have about 20 chairs at the Ambedkar Bhavan, where the library is housed. Anand Shivanagutti, a resident of neighbouring Basav Nagar, donated two bookshelves to the library and another philanthropist donated a table,” Basappa said. Priyadarshini, meanwhile, is already working on her next project: Hiring a tutor to teach English to the children of Ambedkar Colony so they rise to be on a par with students from English-medium schools. “We are also organising seminars on Jyotibha Phule, Savitribai Phule, Ram Manohar Lohia, Shahu Maharaj, et al so that youngsters and children can draw inspiration from their lives,” she added. Youngssters in Ambedkar Colony Suresh Doddamani and Suresh Jangli said that the library had helped them expand the horizons of their knowledge. They felt confident of the kids in the colony becoming knowledgeable about the Buddha, Basavanna and Ambedkar in a few months. Priyadarshini expressed her gratitude to Ladai Prakashan in Gadag, the store that offered books at a concessional price to help her set up the library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/govt-college-lecturer-sets-up-library-in-dalit-colony/articleshow/78898669.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||12-foot-long python attacks aged woman in Gujarat||RAJKOT: In an unusual incident, a 55-year-old woman was attacked by a python in a village in Khambha taluka of Amreli district on Tuesday. A 12 foot-long python wrapped itself around Labhuben Chauhan but could be rescued on time by the local people. They also informed the forest department about the strange incident. While Chauhan was taken to a nearby hospital in an 108 ambulance , the forest officials rescued the python.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/12-foot-long-python-attacks-aged-woman/articleshow/78898714.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bareilly||Parents get custody of girl who eloped with youth in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A girl, who had eloped with a youth from another community in Bareilly on October 17 and was found by police on October 23, appeared before the court on Tuesday. The girl told the magistrate that she is a "major" and left her house with the youth on her own will and was not kidnapped. However, she told police that she wants to return home and live with her parents. Earlier, the police had booked the youth and several others for abducting the minor girl. Some members of saffron outfits had vandalised the Quila police station on October 20, claiming it was a case of "love jihad". The couple was recovered from a hotel in Ajmer district of Rajasthan where police had found a fake Aadhaar card of the girl along with Rs 3.18 lakh in cash. The cash was reportedly taken from the girl’s house and police had booked the youth under the IPC sections of forgery and robbery. He was sent to jail on October 23. Bareilly SSP said, “The girl has given a statement to the court that she went with the youth on her own and now she wants to go back to her parents. On the court's orders, her custody has been handed over to the police. Investigation in the case, registered by her father, will continue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/parents-get-custody-of-girl-who-eloped-with-youth-in-bareilly/articleshow/78897599.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Deoria’s jhalar, jhoomar challenge Chinese monopoly with a finesse||GORAKHPUR: This Diwali, indigenous products are strategically decimating the Chinese sway over the market and piloting the state towards Local for Vocal, Aatmanirbhar Bharat and Mission Shakti. Amidst a boycott call of Chinese products, Deoria’s ‘jhalar’ and ‘jhoomar’ are creating space not only in the local market, but also abroad, powered by chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s one district one product (ODOF) policy. Entrepreneurs Vivek Singh and Puja Shahi have scripted success stories under the project. IIT alumnus and CEO of VS Energy Technology, Vivek Singh is leading an ODOP revolution in UP and Uttarakhand villages with his buyback policy. “I dreamt of bringing Indian products in the market and challenge Chinese import. So, I began training people in villages of Deoria and Gorakhpur and provided raw material for mobile chargers, jhalars, LED light decorative items, cow dunk lamp and bought them back. In 2018, the chief minister of Uttarakhand allowed me to train people in the state. During lockdown, I spoke to chief minister Yogi Adityanath and working on his suggestion, I opened employment opportunities to migrant workers. Some of them set up shop, some opened factories and others worked under our buyback policy. During Kumbh, the chief minister allowed me to open a stall and I trained 500 women and they have all begun earning.” “Now, I have a factory at Noida where I am training workers from Deoria, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj. We are competing with Chinese and planning to further lower the price of our goods if we get government funds to install more machines,” said Vivek Singh about the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/local-for-vocal-deorias-jhalar-jhoomar-challenge-chinese-monopoly-with-finesse/articleshow/78901720.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Caseload dips to 209 in district, 373 get discharged||COIMBATORE: The district recorded the lowest spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two and half months on Tuesday, when 209 people were declared positive for the virus. The tally now stands at 42,296. The day also saw 373 patients getting discharged from treatment centres, bringing the number of active cases down to 3,590. A total of 38,166 patients have recovered from the virus infection in the district so far at a recovery rate of 90.2%. The Covid-19 toll has, meanwhile, shot up to 540 with two more patients succumbing to the virus in the district in the past couple of days. Among the deceased was a 23-year-old girl, who suffered from posterior fossa arteriovenous malformations, a rare vascular lesion in the brainstem and cerebellum. She was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on October 16. She died of bilateral bronchopneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome and renal failure on Sunday. The other deceased was a 69-year-old diabetic man, who tested positive for the virus on October 21. He had fever, cough and pneumonia that was caused by Covid-19. He died on Monday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caseload-dips-to-209-in-dist-373-get-discharged/articleshow/78899979.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Intel hints Maoist used drones to distract cops, help top cadre travel||Nagpur: The latest intelligent inputs with the police department indicate Maoists flew drones near security posts in sensitive south Gadchiroli to keep the forces distracted while their senior cadres crossed through the region. Even as the drone mystery has kept the cops on tenterhooks, it’s learnt the state government is contemplating investing in anti-drone technologies to counter the threat they pose. Gadchiroli police may propose to procure such anti-drone mechanisms for the Maoist-affected district. Security forces here have been reeling under uncertainty over the flying objects for more than a month now. The flying drones, first spotted at Gatta in mid-September, have so far remained untraced. SP Ankit Goyal only chose to say ‘the investigation was underway’. It’s learnt the latest theory police are working on is whether the drones were flown to keep security forces engaged with the flying object threat while senior Maoist cadres safely passed through nearby forested stretches. Highly placed source said the Maoists have become cautious about the security of their senior leadership since the central government started targeting and eliminating them if they did not surrender. “Unlike in the past, when senior leaders were provided just a handful of bodyguards, they are now escorted by scouts and team of guards with more manpower,” said a source. “The latest drone sightings may be linked to the Maoist strategy of keeping security forces distracted or engaged at their own posts to facilitate passage of their leaders,” he said. The drones, after being sighted at Gatta, were spotted at several other places as they flew over villages and also tried to come near police posts, leading to firing. The drones were spotted last at Venkatapur in south Gadchiroli a few days ago. Till date, there was a lot of speculations regarding the drones but no concrete findings have surfaced. “It’s likely the drones were being controlled from the adjoining hillocks of remote hamlets. Prima facie, the drones spotted so far do not seem to be of high quality,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/intel-hints-maoist-used-drones-to-distract-cops-help-top-cadre-travel/articleshow/78900000.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Daily cases back to 1,000 level; lowest deaths in October on Tuesday||Nagpur: A day after plunging to a low of 658, daily new Covid cases returned to above 1,000-mark in Vidarbha with 1,106 positives. At the same time, 1,435 recoveries brought down the number of active patients down to 13,531 on Tuesday. Vidarbha also recorded its lowest death count of 23 in October, which alone has seen 1,081 deaths. All the nine districts witnessing deaths registered only single digit figures, with Nagpur being the highest at 8, for day’s toll of 23. This was Nagpur district’s lowest fatality count in 81 days. Though 330 new cases were found here, 530 patients getting discharged was the highlight of the day. Nagpur now has 4,855 active cases while 94,233 have so far tested positive while 3,085 have passed away due to Covid. Beside Nagpur, deaths were reported from Bhandara (4), Wardha (4), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (1), Gadchiroli (2), Amravati (1), Yavatmal (1), and Washim (2), adding for a total of 5,105 fatalities till date in Vidarbha. New cases were also reported from Bhandara (114), Wardha (41), Gondia (100), Chandrapur (188), Gadchiroli (87), Akola (16), Amravati (63), Yavatmal (49), Buldhana (98) and Washim (20). The region’s tally is 1,87,591 now. Vidarbha’s recovery rate inched closer to 90% mark with Bhandara (102), Wardha (86), Gondia (130), Chandrapur (188), Gadchiroli (114), Akola (15), Amravati (96), Yavatmal (67), Buldhana (49) and Washim (58), besides Nagpur’s 530 being top of the chart. Wardha: The district saw four Covid deaths, 41 new cases and 86 recoveries on Tuesday. The Covid caseload reached 6,167 and the number of patients under treatment is 461. Two men (58 and 60) and two women (58 and 55) from Wardha died due to coronavirus during treatment, taking the toll to 205. Total recoveries have reached 5,501. Bhandara: The district recorded four deaths, 114 new cases, and 102 recoveries on Tuesday. The death toll reached 206. The district has 881 active cases. Total caseload is 8,188 cases, and 7,101 discharged patients. Gadchiroli: Two deaths, including 60-year-old asthma patient and 70-year-old man, were reported beside 87 new cases and 114 recoveries on Tuesday. The district now has 866 active cases, while total cases are 5,423. The 60-year-old deceased was from Kurkheda while the 70-year-old man from Govindpur. So far, 54 have succumbed to the disease while 4,503 have defeated Covid in the district. Gondia: Two deaths and 100 new cases were recorded while 130 were discharged on Tuesday. The new positive patients took the tally to 9,442 and Covid death toll so far to 122, recoveries are 8,484 and 836 are active cases. Yavatmal: The district recorded one Covid death on Tuesday. The deceased was a 51-year-old man from the city. The day also saw 49 new Covid cases, while 57 recoveries. As on date, there are 405 patients under treatment. Till date, 9,981 Covid patients were detected in the district and 8,876 have recovered. Amravati: A spike of 63 cases took the district’s Covid caseload past 16,000 mark to 16,040 on Tuesday. With 96 persons staging recovery today, the count of recoveries reached 14,839 for a recovery rate of 92.51%. The day also saw one Covid death that took the toll to 361. Chandrapur: The district witnessed a spike of 188 new Covid cases while equal number of patients were discharged on Tuesday. The Covid caseload has now crossed 15,000 mark to reach 15,049. The total recoveries now stand at 12,048, while 2,788 patients are under treatment. The day saw a lone death of 73-year-old person from Chhatrapati Nagar in the city. Washim: The district’s Covid tally rose by 20 while 58 recovered from the disease. The deaths too jumped to 136 after two more fatalities were reported on Tuesday. The new cases took the tally to 5,639, discharged total count rose to 5,014 while 487 are active. Buldhana: No Covid death was reported while 98 persons tested positive through RT-PCR tests at labs and rapid antigen test (RAT) kits. After Amravati, this was the only district reporting fewer recoveries than new cases at 49 on Tuesday. According to official data, the district now has 9,153 cases, 8,418 recoveries, 121 deaths and 614 active cases. Akola: The district’s new cases count dropped to 16 and recoveries at 15 while no Covid death was recorded on Tuesday. The cases tally climbed to 8,286. So far, 274 people have died here of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 7,514. Now, only 498 are active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/daily-cases-back-to-1000-level-lowest-deaths-in-october-on-tuesday/articleshow/78900057.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Sunni faction warns govt of agitation over 10% quota||KOZHIKODE: The Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS), a feeder organisation of the Kanthapuram faction of Sunnis that traditionally favours the CPM, has warned of a "strong agitation" if the government does not withdraw its decision to introduce economic reservation. The state cabinet meeting of the sangham on Tuesday said the government's decision went against all reservation norms. It said the allocation of 10% seats in educational institutions and jobs would badly affect the reservation for backward classes. The SYS said it would organise joint agitations with like-minded parties against the denial of the constitutional right of backward classes. The Siraj daily, the official mouthpiece of the Kanthapuram faction, also asked the LDF government to review its decision to allow 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections among the forward castes. It said in a hard-hitting editorial on Monday that the decision was ‘an insult’ and ‘a great treachery’ on the weaker sections and it undermined the very idea for which quota was introduced. “It amounts to cheating those in the reserved category as there are other ways to address the economic problems of a minority among the forward castes,” it said. The oppressed classes in Kerala had to face several obstacles to get the benefits of reservation but the speed with which officials introduced the economic reservation is a pointer to what is in store in future, the editorial said. The deserving sections got the last drop of benefits after passing through many filters. The Mandal commission, Narendran commission and Paloli commission reports are examples in this regard, it said. The government assures that the new quota will not rob any benefits enjoyed by the reservation classes but it is allocating 10% seats to the forward classes instead of taking them from the general category, the editorial said. The circumstances will force many to believe that the decision reflected the political and upper caste interests of the government, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/sunni-faction-warns-govt-of-agitation-over-10-quota/articleshow/78900023.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||Cricketer honoured with stamp||VADODARA: The postal department on Tuesday released a postal cover to celebrate the 92nd birthday of former India skipper and Baroda cricketer, Dattajirao Gaekwad. He is currently the oldest living ex-test player of India. The department wanted to honour Gaekwad along with other international cricketers from the city this year and hence it approached the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA). “The postal stamp was dedicated to Gaekwad who made immense contribution to cricket. We met Gaekwad at his residence and presented a memento to him on Tuesday,” said Ajit Lele, BCA secretary. Gaekwad, who made his test debut as batsman in 1952, played 11 test matches and even captained the Indian team during its 1959 tour to England. He led the Baroda team and bagged Ranji Trophy as skipper in 1950s. He is father of former Indian opener Anshuman Gaekwad who too is an accomplished ex-cricketer. Apart from Gaekwad’s photo, the postal cover as pictures of former test players from the city and three office-bearers, Fatehsingrao Gaekwad, Chirayu Amin and Jaywant Lele who served at the BCCI for more than five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cricketer-honoured-with-stamp/articleshow/78898915.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Surat||Jewellery exhibitions to boost demand: GJEPC||SURAT: For the first time, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has organized three virtual buyer-sellers meets (VBSM) in November. It is all geared up for the diamond-studded jewellery VBSM from November 25-28. Diamantaires from Surat and Mumbai will be able to trade loose diamonds, plain gold jewellery, silver jewellery and diamond-studded jewellery and put on display their jewelleries for buyers in the US, the UK, Australia, New Zealand and Russia. Top diamond jewellery manufacturers from India would be showcasing their innovative and trendy jewellery, especially designed for these markets at the VBSM. Chairman of GJEPC, Colin Shah said, “Buyers are gradually getting used to the virtual platforms and business transactions are executed across VBSMs for loose diamonds, plain gold jewellery organized so far. Even the IIJS Virtual, GJPEC’s flagship show held recently, garnered overwhelming response from global buyers as well as from India.” Shah further said that product-specific VBSMs are especially designed for the international buyers. The loose gemstone virtual exhibition will run through November 3 to 6, followed by another virtual exhibition on loose gem stones from November 9 to 11 and silver jewellery exhibition from November 17 to 19. Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “The virtual exhibition has become a new normal during the coronavirus pandemic. We are targeting buyers from China, Australia, Europe, USA and Russia this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jewellery-exhibitions-to-boost-demand-gjepc/articleshow/78897880.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Family crowd thins, hits cinemas’ festive revenue||KOLKATA: It is a mixed bag for Tollywood during the Pujas. Under the current circumstances where the family crowd has vanished, the industry is happy that the dozen-odd films generated a net collection of approximately Rs 70 lakh across Bengal. According to Ratan Saha, chairperson of the exhibitors’ section of the Eastern India Motion Pictures Association, “The usual Puja revenue is Rs 5 crore to Rs 6 crore. But going by the reports, it will be approximately Rs 70 lakh this year,” Saha said. However, most believe this too is encouraging. Navin Choukhani, the owner of Navina, is elated that “Dracula Sir” even managed repeated houseful shows. “I’m very happy with the response. It is quite encouraging that people trust you and are willing to see good content. There is no doubt that Navina got advantage from the fact that adjoining cinemas including INOX South City, Hiland Park and even Acropolis are shut. Majority of the Bengali movie-viewers used to go there,” Choukhani said. Joydeep Mukherjee, who has the lease for Star Theatres, said that his sales figures surpassed expectations. “The footfall is good enough since I didn’t expect any better when there is a reluctance because of the fear of infection and the new seating arrangement,” Mukherjee said.  Staggered openings of auditorium, only prime time shows and running select movies were the strategies for the two theatres of Carnival Cinemas in Bengal. “Instead of morning shows with few viewers, we went for only few prime-time shows. All health protocols were followed. We even got a few housefuls for ‘Dracula Sir’,” said Sujit Kumar Bhukta, general manager (east) of Carnival Cinemas.  Meanwhile, most theatre owners agree that only two out of the nine new Puja releases - “Dracula Sir” and “Rawkto Rawhoshyo” – have encouraging figures. Pranab Kumar Roy, owner of Menoka, refuted that most of the other new releases trailed because of bad show timings or viewers’ apathy. “Even for shows at good time slots, I’ve seen viewers leaving midway because the content isn’t good enough,” Roy said. A Puja-release distributor on conditions of anonymity said, “Some makers are buying tickets to show good collections to theatre owners so that the films get showcased next week as well. But this strategy will not help the producers. Releasing 10 new movies simultaneously has done harm to Tollywood.”  New Empire, Prachi and Priya had an average occupancy of 18%, 17% and 15% respectively during the Pujas. Amit Sengupta, manager of Humayan Properties Ltd which runs New Empire, said Bengali movies don’t usually run at New Empire. “Yet, we will keep the theatre open,” Sengupta said. Vidisha Basu, the owner of Prachi, says, “The weather wasn’t good. Few people went out of their houses. Couples couldn’t sit together. The sales picked up only on the last two days. But, there is no question of shutting the down hall,” Basu said. During the Pujas, Priya showcased “Ebhabei Golpo Hok”, “SOS Kolkata”, “Saheber Cutlet”, “Guldasta” and “Shironaam”. “In the first three days, only some 10-15 people watched most of the shows. The footfall improved on the last two days of the Pujas. I will keep my options open regarding the future,” Priya’s owner Arijit Dutta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/family-crowd-thins-hits-cinemas-festive-revenue/articleshow/78900017.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 28, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Nugu safari stopped due to tech issues||MYSURU: The proposal to start second wildlife safari near Nugu Reservoir by Bandipur Tiger Reserve has faced a setback due to technical reasons. It was supposed to commence on October 30 but there is a temporary delay as officials are checking whether NTCA permission is required for the same. The proposal is likely to lessen the load on the main safari point. But a section of environmentalists have been opposing the move, claiming that the proposed spot is a notified area. The proposal for safari zones at the backwaters of Nugu Reservoir in Hediyala Forest Range and near the Kabini River at Gundre Forest Range on the borders of Kerala was sent a few months ago. This was done to reduce the pressure on the Bandipur and Kakanakote safari centres which witness huge tourist inflow throughout the year. The Bandipur authorities had also submitted their reports to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the Supreme Court as well the department higher-ups to start the new safari zones. As per the NTCA guidelines and SC direction, the safari should be conducted within 10% of the total reserve area and not to extend beyond the limit. While the BTR stretches across 912 sqkms and wildlife safari is conducted in 54 sqkm in Bandipur range, the authorities are planning to use the remaining 20 sqkms quota for safari at Nugu Dam. Gundlupet division ACF K Paramesh told TOI that a proposal has been sent to PCCF for permission. “The issue has to be discussed in the wildlife board. The safari will start only after getting a green signal from the higher authorities,” he said. BTR director T Balachandra told TOI that the launch has been temporarily delayed as the higher authorities needed some clarification. “The clarification is whether NTCA permission is required or not. The issue will be discussed with experts on this score to reach a decision,” he said. Environmentalists oppose the proposal Meanwhile, environmentalists have questioned opening of one more tourism zone in Bandipur. They claim that Bandipur was the first national park to get an eco-sensitive zone notified. “There is no scope for any tourism activity in Bandipur beyond Mangala as it violates eco-sensitive zone guidelines and public will. Forest department itself is promoting commercial activities by facilitating tourism in Nugu which will promote homestays and resorts,” said an activist. Nugu wildlife sanctuary has already been designated as a buffer to Bandipur core critical tiger habitat and the same has been notified by NTCA. “Affidavits have been filed in the Supreme Court in a PIL has been wherein pan-India blanket ban has been issued on ‘tiger tourism.’ Nugu remains the most vulnerable area as far as elephant-human conflict is concerned. Maximum elephant depredation cases are from that region. Nugu tourism zone will niether benefit wildlife, local farmers or environment, argue activist and environmentalists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nugu-safari-withheld-due-to-technical-reasons/articleshow/78898749.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 28, 2020||Agra||Tundla bypoll: Slogans against Union minister over lack of development||Agra: Union minister and Fatehpur MP Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti faced opposition from locals over lack of development while she was addressing a rally for the by-election to Tundla assembly seat in Firozabad district on Tuesday. The minister was addressing a rally in favour of BJP candidate Prempal Dhangar when some people raised slogans against her alleging lack of development in the parliamentary constituency of Fatehpur, which is represented by her.The people also alleged that she did not visit her constituency to hear the grievances of the people. While leaving the place, the MoS for rural development gave the assurance that for their plea (of development).Earlier, Jyoti addressed the gathering where she said the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi had constituted a National OBC Commission and that the BJP has worked for everyone irrespective of their caste and background.The Tundla assembly seat in Firozabad fell vacant following the resignation of former UP minister SP Singh Baghel after he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Agra.Polling will be held on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tundla-bypoll-slogans-against-union-minister-over-lack-of-development/articleshow/78897654.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Cops to use online data to rein in east Nagpur goons||Nagpur: City police under Zonal DCP Akshay Shinde are gearing up to put check on dreaded gangsters of east Nagpur after notorious goon Sumeet Chintalnar and his gang became active last week. DCP Shinde, a medical graduate and IPS of 2014 batch, is currently working on a standard operating procedure (SOP) to recover crime records from online data of Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS). Cops plan to present the data before courts to oppose bails. Chintalnar, who is out on bail after he was slapped with Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), had brandished a firearm to extort Rs10 lakh from his uncle Nayan on October 23. Along with his close aides, Swapnil Bhoyar and Mayur Surve, Chintalnar also robbed Nayan’s wife of her gold ring. Cops had arrested Chintalwar, having murder cases in the past, on October 24. He is in police custody till October 27. Surve and Bhoyar, both having criminal records, are yet to be arrested. Chintalnar and his aides had set up dreaded ‘Maya gang’ based in Ajni around a decade ago. DCP Shinde said he is analysing crime records of all criminals, gangsters and gangs from east Nagpur. “We will plan different strategies comprising preventive actions and stringent provisions against the criminals,” he said. “For every offences being registered, the CCTNS would be referred to see whether any more crime was registered against the same accused. The crime details would be sent to the court for opposing bail,” he said. Police are also searching for ‘Beats gang’ mastermind Salunkhe and his aides. Several smaller gangs, who are into extortion, land grabbing and narcotics, are active in Rameshwari, Manewada, Besa, Beltarodi and so on. Even during the last week’s special grievance redressal camp of state home minister Anil Deshmukh, there were complaints against dreaded goon Tarachand Khillare of Manewada and other gangs dealing in narcotics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-to-use-online-data-to-rein-in-east-nagpur-goons/articleshow/78900125.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Fasting Sanjay shifted to pvt hosp||Hyderabad: State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, who continued his fast and sit-in protest in his Karimnagar office, was shifted to Apollo Hospitals in Karimnagar on Tuesday night. With his sugar levels dropping and on doctors’ advice, he was shifted to the hospital. He was earlier released by police after his arrest on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fasting-sanjay-shifted-to-pvt-hosp/articleshow/78901282.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Independent gets Samajwadi Party support, Upper House race hots up||LUCKNOW: The Rajya Sabha elections took an interesting turn on Tuesday when Samajwadi Party extended support to an independent candidate, Prakash Bajaj, who filed his nomination just before the deadline. Now, there are 11 candidates in the fray for 10 vacant seats, necessitating the polling for the last seat which was being eyed by Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) despite not having adequate numbers. Voting will take place on November 9. The nomination papers of Bajaj—a Varanasi-based lawyer—were filed with the support of 10 SP legislators. SP took a last-minute decision after securing a seat for senior party leader and national general secretary Ram Gopal Yadav, who is the party's official candidate. While Prakash Bajaj is a corporate lawyer, his father Pradeep Bajaj was associated with the Janata Party. For getting elected, every candidate will have to get at least 37 votes. This way, the SP, which has a strength of 48 MLAs in the UP assembly, had 11 additional votes to spare. BJP didn’t field any additional candidateOne of its MLAs, Nitin Agarwal, though has been in support of the BJP after his father Naresh Agarwal joined the saffron brigade in 2018, after being denied a RS ticket. The BJP, on the other hand did not field an additional candidate despite having eight votes to spare—with a strength of 304 MLA in the UP assembly, the BJP would have required the support of 296 MLAs to get its eight candidates sail through. With nine MLAs of its ally Apna Dal (Sone Lal), the BJP would have mustered 17 additional votes. Besides, MLAs like Rakesh Singh and Aditi Singh of Congress, Anil Singh and Ram Veer Upadhyay of BSP have been hobnobbing with the BJP for quite some time. In fact, Upadhyay’s son Chirag joined BJP earlier this month. BJP sources said that fielding or supporting an 11th candidate was not in its plan. “We had sufficient numbers for eight candidates only," said a senior BJP leader associated with the party election team. He categorically set aside rumours of fielding a family member of former union minister and Congressman, late Akhilesh Das. Even though speculation of Das’s wife Alka purchasing papers to file her nomination started swirling. Political analysts said that after BJP decided not to field an additional candidate, it became clear that there would be no polling and all 10 candidates including Ramji Gautam of BSP would have sailed through with only 18 MLAs. However, that would have allowed the BJP and BSP to come closer, analysts said. Now, with SP blocking BSP candidate's smooth sail, the chasm between the two arch-rivals, which came closer in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, seems to be getting wider in the run-up to the next big fight in 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/independent-gets-sp-support-upper-house-race-hots-up/articleshow/78901748.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five-star hygiene, short drive||AHMEDABAD: Finally, tour operators and travel agents are breathing easy with inquiries pouring in for booking Diwali holidays. While bookings continue to decline against last year’s Diwali, people are beginning to travel, albeit with precautions. “Overall apprehensions prevail and so people are travelling only to nearby destinations,” said Anuj Pathak, secretary, Tour Operators and Travel Agents Association of Gujarat (TAG). “However, many have increased their budgets and are looking to spend a little extra on branded five-star hotels so that safety and hygiene are not compromised.” Tour operators said that destinations such as Udaipur, Kumbhalgarh, Mount Abu, Jaipur, Jaisalmer, and Jodhpur in Rajasthan along with Goa and Lonavala are finding good traction with Gujarat tourists. The majority of travellers are selecting nearby destinations which are accessible through a short- or medium-haul drive. “Most are wary of public transport, whether flights or trains, because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Ankit Bajaj, the proprietor of a city-based travel company. “People want to travel in their personal vehicles or cabs.” The increasing preference for personal vehicles has impacted the uptakes for cabs. “There’s barely 10% business this time as people are either not travelling or are using their own vehicles. This is a huge hit for the cab business,” said Amit Shah, a city-based travel company owner. In the absence of connectivity, international travel has been completely disrupted. In fact, destinations within the state are being chosen. Explaining this trend, Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Gujarat, said: “Destinations such as Dwarka-Somnath, Statue of Unity, Sasan Gir, and Diu and Daman a little farther afield, are the favourite picks.” Sharma went on to say: “With some business, the tourism industry will get a cushion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-star-hygiene-short-drive/articleshow/78900123.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Welcome change: 50% immersions on Dashami in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The pandemic not only compelled Puja organizers to restrict entry of the visitors to the pandals this year, but also triggered a change in the immersion procedure. While organizers of several big-budget Pujas were in a hurry to complete the immersion on Dashami itself, some innovated and chose not to take the idols to the immersion ghats at all. The rush saw nearly 50% of big-budget and community Pujas complete the immersion on Dashami. Organizers of Tridhara Sammilani decided to create a makeshift tank in front of the pandal and immerse the idols in it. They also used water cannons to melt the idols. According to Debasish Kumar, president of the Puja committee, the decision to create a makeshift pond was taken to avoid gathering at the ghat. A parks department official said most organizers rushed to the immersion ghats on the very first day of the four-day immersion schedule. “On Dashami, around 50% organizers chose to complete the immersion. This is unprecedented. Usually, less than 30% of the organizers opt for immersion on the first day,” the official said. Till late on Dashami, 227 idols were immersed at the immersion ghat in New Town. On Tuesday, another 100-odd idols were immersed there. “Most of the big-ticket Puja idols have been immersed over the last two days. The remaining will be immersed by Thursday,” said a senior officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate. The Bisarjan ghat developed by New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) was barricaded and only two persons from each Puja committee were allowed to enter the immersion zone as NKDA-designated labourers carried the idols and immersed them in the water. Anticipating a rush of idols at the immersion ghats along the Hooghly, the KMC parks department and solid waste management department had deployed additional porters to clean up major ghats — like Bajekadamtolla (Babughat), Judges ghat and Nimtolla ghat — after completion of the immersion process. However, after the immersion of so many idols, a section of the environment activists sounded the alarm. They said the state had failed to mandate the use of eco-friendly materials for idols. “Even now, many use huge quantities of non-biodegradable materials, and paints made from heavy metals,” said environment crusader Subhas Datta, who had moved a petition seeking the court’s intervention to clean up the Ganga after immersion of idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/welcome-change-50-immersions-on-dashami/articleshow/78900114.cms||Saikat Ray
October 28, 2020||Bareilly||With AQI at 351, air quality is ‘very poor’ in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Two weeks ahead of Diwali, the air quality of Moradabad has dipped to ‘very poor’ category with Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording Air Quality Index (AQI) at 351 in Lajpat Nagar area on Tuesday morning. Officials at regional pollution control board and experts attributed the discharge of harmful effluents directly into the rivers and functioning of illicit metal factories and furnaces as the trigger to the poor air quality in the region. According to CPCB data, prominent pollutant PM 2.5 was recorded 322 while prominent pollutant PM 10 was recorded 236. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 is ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’ and 401 and 500 falls under the category of ‘severe’. UPPCB regional officer Vikas Mishra said, “The AQI suggests that the pollution levels in the city have spiked and air quality has deteriorated. This is mainly due to numerous factories, units and brass furnaces. Moreover, Moradabad is a terai region and hence, moisture remains present in the environment and peaked moisture levels have high potential to hold pollutants. The wind speed is also low, due to which, the pollutants present in the atmosphere are intact, thereby resulting in the formation of a thick layer of smog.” Officials said that frequent crackdowns are being launched in the district against the units that are not adhering to the NGT and pollution board norms. The enforcement activities will intensify in the coming days, officials said. Experts, meanwhile, have advised locals, particularly the elderly with respiratory problems, to remain indoors and ensure use of face masks when outdoors - to remain safe from pollution and Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-aqi-at-351-air-quality-is-very-poor-in-moradabad/articleshow/78896790.cms||Maria Khan
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court exempts Rahul Gandhi from presence at defamation trial||AHMEDABAD: A metropolitan court on Tuesday exempted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi from remaining present in court during the trial in connection with a defamation case filed by a local BJP councillor for calling the then BJP president Amit Shah a ‘murder accused’. BJP councillor Krishnavadan Brahmbhatt last year filed a criminal defamation complaint taking exception to the Wayanad MP’s comment during an speech at Jabalpur in MP ahead of the 2019 general election. Gandhi had reportedly called the Union home minister Amit Shah a “murder accused” referring to the 2015 Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. Brahmbhatt made a complaint claiming that as Shah had been discharged in the case much before that and he could not be called a murder accused. Gandhi was granted bail after he pleaded not guilty in this case. His advocate Pankaj Champaneri filed an application in September 2019 requesting the court to grant permanent exemption to Gandhi from remaining present in court during the trial. Metropolitan court No.16 granted exemption under provisions of Sections 205, 273 and 317 of the CrPC. The court has imposed conditions that Gandhi will not dispute his identity, his lawyer would regularly attend proceedings and would not seek adjournments to get instructions from his client and that Gandhi will have to remain present upon the court’s order. Another court, Metropolitan Court No.13 also heard arguments on a similar exemption application filed by Gandhi and reserved its order. In this court, Gandhi is facing defamation charges levelled by the Ahmedabad District Cooperative Bank and its chairman Ajay Patel for remarks on Twitter regarding allegations of corruption during demonetization in 2016. Another Congress leader, Randeep Surjewala, is also accused in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-exempts-rahul-from-presence-at-defamation-trial/articleshow/78900153.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||CM gesture for frontline warriors||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sent messages and sweets to all police stations and hospitals to thank the Covid warriors for working overtime during the festive season amid the pandemic. She had earlier sent letters to the Covid warriors at the hospitals and those working at the laboratories.Moreover, the state government has undertaken an initiative to recruit the kin of the government staffers who died of Covid on duty. The CM has instructed the district magistrates to issue the appointment letters without delay.Hospital officials and cops were greatly surprised by the gift from the chief minister. The CM is known to send gifts to various people, including envoys and the Governor.An official of the health department said the CM’s letters would be a great inspiration for the Covid warriors. “The letter had a human touch and I have been greatly moved by it,” a doctor said.An officer at a police station in the city said, “We are very happy with the empathy shown to the force by the CM.”Meanwhile, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Tuesday held a high-level meeting with home secretary H K Dwivedi, finance secretary Manoj Pant, health secretary N S Nigam and other officials to discuss the Covid situation in the state. He also spoke to IMA functionaries about ways to tackle the pandemic. He took stock of the districts from the DMs and analyzed the Covid figures.The officials also discussed the latest guidelines from Centre that stated that the lockdown shall continue to be implemented in containment zones till November 30 and that the areas should be demarcated at the micro-level by the district administrations. An official hinted that there was likely to be a meeting with the Centre on new guidelines for the state on Thursday.The MHA guidelines stated that the state government should not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without the prior approval of the Centre. It mentioned that only essential activities should be allowed within containment zones and urged the chief secretaries to take necessary steps so that people wear masks, and follow hygienic practices and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cm-gesture-for-frontline-warriors/articleshow/78900151.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Agra||41-year-old Covid patient dies in Agra||Agra: At least one more person died of Covid-19 infection in Agra district on Tuesday. The 41-year-old man was being treated at the SN Medical College (SNMC). The resident of Kirawali block was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, septicemia and other medical ailments. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 143 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. At least 25 new Covid-19 positive also cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 7,065. These included two staffers of the SNMC. Meanwhile, 57 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 7,065 cases, 6,579 (93.1%) have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has also decreased from 375 on Monday, to 342 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/41-year-old-covid-patient-dies-in-agra/articleshow/78897672.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 28, 2020||Hubballi||Former minister Y Nagappa passes away in Harihar||DAVANAGERE: Former minister Dr Y Nagappa, 87, passed away at his residence in Harihar town of Davanagere district after prolonged age-related illness on Tuesday morning. He is survived by a son, three daughters and grandchildren. Nagappa had served as the social welfare minister during Congress-JD(S) coalition government led by then chief minister N Dharam Singh. He was a three-time MLA representing Harihar constituency after winning the elections in 1989, 1999 and 2004. But after suffering defeat in the 2008 assembly elections, he kept himself away from politics. Being a medical doctor, he had served at Harihar taluk government hospital in the 1980s, and was into politics by happenstance, according to his family sources. His mortal remains were laid to rest at his farm near Harihar on Tuesday evening as per the Kuruba community customs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ex-min-nagappa-passes-away/articleshow/78898782.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: End of the Mahesh-Naresh era||AHMEDABAD: Veteran Gujarati film actor Naresh Kanodia, 77, breathed his last at 9am on Tuesday at the UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology & Research Centre (UNMICRC) in Ahmedabad. Kanodia was hospitalized for the past six days with Covid-19 infection and other health complications. A Gujarati film superstar, Kanodia had worked in over 200 films in a career spanning four decades. With his elder brother Mahesh, he also shared film music credit as ‘Mahesh-Naresh’ in a large part of those films. His demise came two days after death of Mahesh Kanodia, 82, on Sunday morning in Gandhinagar. Hitu Kanodia, the actor’s son and Idar MLA, got emotional while talking to the media outside the hospital. "People often termed them ‘Ram-Lakshman ki Jodi.’ They lived together, stayed together and also died together, proving it right," he said. A video of the duo singing ‘O saathi re, tere bina bhi kya jeena’ recently remained in trending throughout the day. Naresh and Mahesh KanodiaThe rise of Kanodia brothers, born in Kanoda village near Modhera in Mehsana district, is often compared with fairy tales with their initial struggle both in Gujarat and Mumbai and their eventual stardom that made them household names. Mahesh-Naresh with Lata MangeshkarPM Narendra Modi tweeted his condolences, ‘In a span of two days, we have lost both Maheshbhai and Nareshbhai Kanodia. Their contributions to the world of culture, especially popularising Gujarati songs, music and theatre will never be forgotten. They also worked hard to serve society and empower the downtrodden.’ Brothers with Asha Bhosle "If we see his contribution to the Gujarati film industry, it’s manifold – he introduced the ‘dancing star’ to the Gujarati films. Earlier heroes couldn’t shake a leg. With brother Mahesh, he also produced many films and contributed to the music," said Kartikeya Bhatt, a city-based Gujarati film historian. "Few might know, but he had also acted in a Hindi film Chhota Aadmi. He and Mahesh Kanodia struggled in Mumbai in 1960s after their very successful orchestra performances but found their calling in Gujarati films." Riding on his popularity, Kanodia forayed into politics and became MLA on BJP ticket from Karjan in 2002. He lost the constituency in 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/end-of-the-mahesh-naresh-era/articleshow/78901297.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||Covid effect: MSU mulls centre for digital education||VADODARA: Covid-19 is forcing M S University to improve its infrastructure in the digital era. The university is mulling to set up a centre for digital education (CDE) through which basic courses and later niche programmes can be offered in a range of streams. At the same time, the university will also set up computer centres at individual faculties and colleges or cluster of faculties through which technical support instantly reaches the teaching staff. The proposal to set up CDE has been moved by the director of Office of International Affairs. The decision regarding it will be taken on Wednesday during syndicate meeting. “In the Covid era, we have started diversifying our academics. So far, most of the teaching at our university was done through physical mode only. We are exploring how digital mode of education can be provided and existing methods improvised. The idea behind CDE is to set up a dedicated centre through which this can be done,” said MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama. CDE will start offering certificate courses and later niche programmes that can be easily delivered through digital mode. “We can prepare modules that can be served through digital mode,” he said. Currently, there is only one computer centre that provides services to all faculties and colleges in the university. If teaching members in any faculty require any technical support, they have to channelise their request through the university head office after which the problem is addressed. The university is proposing to set up computer centres which are like small units functioning from the faculty premises itself. These centres will work in liaison with the existing centralised computer centre. Deans of faculties or principal of colleges will identify space available with them in their respective faculties where such centres can be set up. “These centres will help in maintenance and repair of computer hardware, updating websites, streamlining internet connectivity and assisting in all such activities,” said Chudasama.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-effect-msu-mulls-centre-for-digital-education/articleshow/78897686.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, a handheld device for detecting oral cancer||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Startup company Sascan Meditech Pvt Ltd has designed and developed a handheld imaging device for screening, detection and biopsy guidance of oral cancer. The company was incubated at TiMED, technology business incubator of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Dr Subhash Narayanan, CEO of Sascan, said oral cancer is a growing concern in India with more than 80,000 fresh cases reported every year. The disease has a high mortality rate because of the delay in detection. Current practice relies on oral examinations using a torch light to detect early stage cancer of the oral cavity. The studies have demonstrated that this screening technique is not reliable and often oral potentially malignant lesions (OPMLs) go undetected in the early stages. Even experienced clinicians find it difficult to locate the optimal site for a biopsy based on conventional oral examination. This leads to multiple biopsies, increased expenditure and false negative reports which can delay diagnosis and outcome. “It is in this context that OralScan, a handheld imaging device developed by Sascan for screening, detection of OPMLs and biopsy guidance, becomes relevant,” he said. A proprietary software assists the surgeon in taking biopsy from the most appropriate site, which is likely to confirm the diagnosis of malignancy. This will avoid multiple biopsies and false negative reports. The device will be marketed at a price of Rs 5.9 lakh. This will be a one-time investment for hospitals and laboratories without any additional costs on consumables. Oral Scan is a make-in-India initiative with seed funding from the scheme National Initiative for Developing and Harnessing Innovations (NIDHI) of the department of science and technology (DST). Oral scan was designed and developed entirely in India and supported by biotechnology ignition grant of Biotechniology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), INVENT (DST) and Kerala Start Up Mission. The company has received investment from Unicorn India Ventures. Health minister K K Shailaja will launch OralScan on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-a-handheld-device-for-detecting-oral-cancer/articleshow/78898818.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Free N95 masks for 50,000 youngsters to encourage voting||RAJKOT: The Surendranagar district administration will distribute 50,000 N95 masks among youngsters ahead of the byelections for the Limbdi assembly seat. These masks will have messages encouraging youngsters and first time voters to exercise their right during the bypolls schedule don November 3. BJP’s Kiritsinh Rana is contesting against Congress’s Chetan Khachar The masks will be distributed in the areas falling under the Limbdi constituency beginning in next couple of days. K Rajesh, Surendranagar district collector said “The main purpose behind the mask distribution is to make an appeal to people to come out for vote but with precautions. We want a good turnout. We have also printed message of ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ on the mask.” Limbdi has over 2 lakh electorate and as per the guidelines of election commission 982 voters aged above 80 years will be able to vote from their doorstep. Election officers will go to their homes and get their votes registered. The byelection for Limbdi seat was necessitated after the then sitting Congress MLA Soma Ganda Patel resigned from the party just before Rajya Sabha election in March this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/free-n95-masks-for-50000-youngsters-to-encourage-voting/articleshow/78898861.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Surat||Form SIT to probe default cases: FOGWA||SURAT: The Federation of Gujarat Weavers Association (FOGWA) has demanded the state government for formation of Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the increasing cases of defaults in the textile industry. In a meeting held on Tuesday, FOGWA office-bearers unanimously decided that the payment of grey fabrics will have to be disbursed by the traders within seven days or else they will be charged with 18% interest on the outstanding amount till the payment is made. FOGWA said it will carry out a survey of cheaters and a detailed list of defaulters will be made public. Ashok Jirawala, president, FOGWA told TOI, “The powerloom weavers have been facing defaults to the tune of Rs 600 crore per annum. There are fly-by-night operators who are cheating the textile traders of their hard earned money.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/form-sit-to-probe-default-cases-fogwa/articleshow/78897891.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Online booking for HSRP from November 1||NEW DELHI: The owners of vehicles without high-security registration plates (HSRP) or colour-coded fuel stickers will be able to book a slot online to get both from November 1. In some areas of the capital, home delivery of HSRP and fuel stickers will also be available on a trial basis. Earlier this month, transport minister Kailash Gahlot had instructed that no new online appointment for fitting HSRPs would be taken until a “proper” system was in place. The order was issued after a large number of vehicle-owners had complained about not getting them on the allotted date and time despite booking a slot online. Gahlot had also instructed the transport department to delay any enforcement drive against vehicles that don’t have high-security registration plates or colour-coded fuel stickers, which could lead to a fine of Rs 10,000, compoundable to Rs 5,000 under the amended MV Act, till further orders. The decision to restart online booking was taken in a meeting held by Gahlot with stakeholders, a source said. Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), which was also part of a similar meeting earlier this month, gave a detailed presentation on how the booking and fitment can be carried out smoothly. A spokesperson of HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta confirmed that booking would begin from November 1 and installation from November 7. Applicants will be sent a text by auto dealers when the numberplate is ready and in case of any other problem, the applicant will be directly informed. The department is also likely to start an awareness campaign soon. There will be a common website for Rosmerta and two other HSRP manufacturers. Each vehicle owner will get a receipt so that even during a future drive against violators, they are not punished if there is a delay on the part of dealers or manufacturers, a source said. More than 30 lakh vehicles registered in Delhi don’t have HSRP and fuel stickers. If the home delivery of HSRP and colour-coded stickers is successful, it will be implemented across the city in the next few months, the source added. On September 22, the department had announced an enforcement drive against vehicles without HSRPs or fuel stickers and advised vehicle-owners to install these without any delay. Thousands of vehicle-owners had applied for both, but a large number of them later complained that they had got to know about non-availability of their numberplate or sticker only after reaching the designated vehicle dealership on the allotted date and time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/online-booking-for-hsrp-from-nov-1/articleshow/78900183.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Pandemic stirs fear over organ donations, transplant surgeries||BENGALURU: At least 25 people who died in the past three months, all potential organ donors, could have given someone else a new lease of life if only their families had consented. The fear of Covid-19 and an unwillingness to allow a virus test to be conducted on the cadaver prompted these families to refuse consent to Jeevasarthakate, the government’s organ transplant wing. “Cadaver organ donation is purely voluntary and the lack of consent was a hurdle earlier too,” said authorities at Jeevasarthakate. “But now fear of Covid has become another stumbling block. Relatives do not want to spend a day in hospital to complete formalities of declaring the patient brain dead. They would rather prefer to take away the body for rituals. We could not harvest organs from at least 25 potential donors. Covid fear is one of the factors that affected families’ decision.” So far this year, a total 28 organ transplants have taken place in Karnataka till date and all but three took place prior to April. Of the three donations that took place after the nationwide lockdown, one each was performed in August, September and October. “It’s not unique to Karnataka since organ transplants have decreased globally,” said Dr Kishore Phadke, convener, Jeevasarthakate. “There are multiple reasons for this. The number of accidents has reduced drastically. People are reluctant to visit hospitals. There is reluctance on the part families of potential donors. They don’t want to get screened for Covid. The entire process would take about 12 hours and families do not want to wait in hospitals.” Dr Phadke said even families of patients seeking organs are also refusing to transplant surgery at this time. “Recipients are also vulnerable to Covid infection,” he said. “It was not easy to get recipients for the three organ donations that happened after the pandemic hit, though our state has a huge waiting list of more than 4,000 people who need organs. We can only hope that the Covid situation eases.” Recently, on October 3, a 15 year-old-girl was declared brain dead in a hospital near Hebbal and her family gave consent for her organs to be harvested. Her small bowel was airlifted for a needy patient in Pune. Her heart and lungs were airlifted and used for two patients in Chennai as there were no matching recipients in Karnataka. Dr Ravi Jangamani, a Bengaluru-based nephrologist, said kidney patients who depend on dialysis fear even live transplant surgeries. “It is not only cadaver donations that have taken a back seat. Even when there is a willing donor within the family, kidney patients are refusing to opt for transplant surgery as there is fear and misconception about Covid,” said Dr Jangamani. Officials say many cases of potential organ donors would not even have come to their notice since hospitals would have failed in their first round of discussions with bereaved relatives. Jeevasarthakate authorities point out that beds in hospitals are full largely of Covid cases, especially the ICUs. “We have asked several hospitals to allow our team to visit and ease cadaver donations, but they have been deferring a meeting,” said Dr Phadke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-stirs-fear-over-organ-donations-transplant-surgeries/articleshow/78898832.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 28, 2020||Agra||Two of Delhi family killed as car overturns on Yamuna Expressway||AGRA: A 45-year-old woman and her daughter, 15, were killed and three other members of the Delhi’s Karol Bagh family were injured when their car overturned after hitting scraps of tyre lying on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura early Tuesday morning. The man behind the wheel, Ramesh Singh, 52, said that he saw his younger daughter, Shivani, being run over by another vehicle as she fell out of the car. Singh works as a personal assistant to the IT commissioner (VI) in the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Delhi. “We have always read accident stories in the newspapers. Today we have become the news,” a shattered Singh told TOI after losing his wife, Aradhna, and the younger daughter. The accident took place in Mathura’s Baldeo area and the family was going to Hamirpur to attend a funeral ceremony. Singh’s elder daughter, Anjali, 22, a BA final year student at Delhi University and his brother-in-law, Anil Singh, were among the injured. As they lay on the road waiting to be rescued, a police van rushing to get them also met with an accident, on the same stretch and again due to the same tyre scarps a few metres ahead. The police jeep lost control after hitting the scraps and collided with a truck. Head constable Nem Singh Rajput died on the spot. He was a resident of nearby Etah district. Hours later, recalling the fateful morning, a distraught Singh told TOI that the family was going to attend the last rites of his father-in-law in Hamirpur. “We got the news of the death on Monday night and decided to reach Hamirpur to attend the funeral. We started at 1am after my brother-in-law joined us,” said Singh, adding, “It is fate. Everything is pre-decided. That is all I can say.” And recalling the accident, Singh said, “I was driving Wagon-R in the middle lane when it hit a loose truck tyre, lying in the middle of the road. The car overturned towards the right. My wife and the younger daughter, Shivani, were sitting on the back seat. Initially I thought my daughter was stuck in the car. But then I saw her on the road and a vehicle passed over her.” The bodies of the mother and the daughter were handed over to Singh after post-mortem examination. And Singh resumed his journey to his village in Hamirpur, where he will now cremate his wife and daughter. The last rites will be held on Wednesday. “We will go back to Delhi after completing all the rituals,” he said. Senior superintendent of police of Mathura, Guarav Grover, told TOI that the family members have not lodged any complaint. “However, police have registered an FIR against the driver of the truck, which collided with the police jeep.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-of-delhi-family-killed-3-hurt-as-car-overturns-on-yamuna-e-way-after-hitting-tyre-scraps/articleshow/78897699.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ministers to meet fishermen agitating at Vizhinjam seaport worksite||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Minister for ports Kadannappally Ramachandran and minister for tourism Kadakampally Surendran will meet the representatives of local fishermen who are agitating at Vizhinjam seaport worksite stalling the works of the port. The ministers have agreed to meet the agitators on Wednesday at the request of Janapaksham, a pro-development organisation that has been working on the realisation of the Vizhinjam port project. The works of the breakwater at the port site were stalled since September 30 after the local fishermen, whose livelihoods were affected by the port works, launched an agitation citing that the government was yet to fulfill promises given to them before commencing the construction of the port. Though secretary (ports) Sanjay M Kaul met the agitators on October 16 and held talks with them, the agitators had refused to call off the protest until their grievances were addressed through government orders. Meanwhile, the government has officially addressed two of the demands raised by the agitators. These are the renovation and repair of Gangayar drain and upgrading the drinking water pipelines in the port project area by replacing old and worn-out pipelines with new ones. The government order in this regard was issued on last Friday. The renovation of Gangayar stream is a Rs 84-crore project. The local residents had demanded repair and renovation of Gangayar and Karumpozhikkara drains, two of the four major drains that flow into the port area, citing that waterlogging caused by the deplorable condition of the drains gave way for diseases among the local residents. In its order, the government has directed that Adani Group and Vizhinjam International Seaport Limited (VISL) must equally share the expenses of this work. The fund needed for this work must be deposited to minor irrigation department and the works in this regard must be begun immediately, said the order. The order also said the Kerala water authority has fixed an estimate of Rs 1.74 crore for the renovation of drinking water pipelines in the project area. The cost of this project must be met by VISL. Government sources, who did not wish to be named, said the government was not ignoring the grievances of the agitators as alleged by some. “The agitators have a long list of demands and they fall under the ambit of multiple government departments. It would take its own time to coordinate with officials concerned in those departments to take necessary action,’’ an official said, adding that the government order on the Gangayar drain and drinking water pipelines were an example that the government had taken their demands seriously. The official also hoped that the agitation would be called off once they get assurances from the ministers themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ministers-to-meet-fishermen-agitating-at-vizhinjam-seaport-worksite/articleshow/78898840.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Tender manipulations led to Rs 2,000 crore Bharatnet tangle||CHENNAI: A one-line order was all it took for the Union government to scrap an infrastructure project worth more than Rs2,000 crore in Tamil Nadu earlier this year. It was the culmination of a series of allegations of malpractices, litigation and a preliminary probe by the Centre spanning several months. Read the entire story on TOI+How corruption blocked a village broadband project||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tender-manipulations-led-to-rs2000-crore-bharatnet-tangle/articleshow/78901782.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kharicut filth: NGT orders action against errant officers||AHMEDABAD: Following a stern direction from the National Green Tribunal on September 1 regarding pollution in the Kharicut canal, a team of the state irrigation department and the AMC has begun a cleaning operation. Debris and garbage are being removed and illegal outlets of chemical manufacturers are being shut. The outlets empty their toxic waste into the irrigation canal. The NGT has directed municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar to initiate action against errant officers in the AMC and to take immediate remedial action by preparing a time-bound plan which is to be furnished to the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) within a month. The NGT has insisted that the procedures be overseen by the secretary of the urban development department. The GPCB in its report of August 13 had stated that while monitoring the Kharicut canal stretch from GIDC Naroda to downstream of Vatva GIDC, it was observed that untreated domestic waste water was being discharged into the canal at several locations. Also, many outlets had been created by the AMC for the discharge of untreated domestic waste water and storm water. The NGT action comes after Ajitsinh Vaghela and residents of Kheda taluka approached the NGT. The NGT noted that serious violation of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, was taking place. “Action initiated by the State PCB so far is highly inadequate. Neither compensation for the damage to the environment has been assessed and recovered nor prosecution initiated,” the NGT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kharicut-filth-ngt-orders-action-against-errant-officers/articleshow/78900395.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Car breaks through crossing barrier, rams into goods train||NEW DELHI: A car broke through a railway crossing barrier near Lajpat Nagar on Tuesday evening and rammed a goods train, derailing its last two wagons. The driver of the car, who sustained serious injuries, is being treated at AIIMS Trauma Centre, said a railway official. The man has been identified as Mohan Lal, a 50-year-old who works as a driver for a Kalkaji resident. He reportedly lost control of the vehicle and could not apply the brakes before the barrier and collided with wagon number 41 of the moving 42-coach train, the official said. Both wagon numbers 41 and 42 got derailed. Around 4.20pm, the goods train was crossing the Lajpat Nagar railway intersection. The crossing barrier was down on both sides and 40 wagons had already crossed the intersection when the Honda Amaze car broke through the barrier. “The car came with such a force that nothing could be done. The man was trapped in the vehicle and emergency services were called in to rescue him,” said the official. “The owner of the vehicle might have left on foot and Lal was left with the vehicle. We don’t know yet how he lost control of the vehicle,” said a senior Railway Protection Force official. According to an eyewitness, the driver was on the phone and was reversing the car when he lost control. “He could not apply the brakes and broke through the crossing barrier while reversing the car. He was stuck in the vehicle for several minutes before he could be pulled out,” the eyewitness said. S C Jain, divisional railway manager of Delhi division who oversaw the rescue operation, said the fire brigade was also called in as the man had to be pulled out of his car using gas cutters. “He had suffered tremendous shock. Within minutes of the incident, he was pulled out of the vehicle, which was badly damaged. He was taken to AIIMS in an ambulance and the track repair work began soon,” said Jain, adding that debris from the incident was lying near the tracks till 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/car-breaks-through-crossing-barrier-rams-into-goods-train/articleshow/78900196.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Realty dispute? Doctor abducted by men in burqa||HYDERABAD: A 55-year-old doctor was kidnaped by four burqa-clad men from Bandlaguda in Rajendranagar on Tuesday afternoon. The Cyberabad police has not been able to make any breakthrough in the case so far. Police said Bhejab Hussain owns a building in Bandlaguda, where he has a clinic. Besides this, he is also involved in construction activities. Around 1.45 pm when he was at the building, four men clad in burqa entered the building and forcefully took him away. The victim was whisked into a car before being taken away. After locals saw the incident, they alerted his family members of the kidnap and a case was registered. Senior Cyberabad police, including commissioner VC Sajjanar, reached the spot and spoke to the family members of the victim. Special teams have been formed to look out for the accused. When asked whether the kidnappers demanded ransom, the officials said that, “A ransom call was made by the kidnappers, but they said the amount would be informed later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctor-kidnapped-by-burqa-clad-men/articleshow/78900201.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cops land on Indo-Nepal border, catch up with thieves||HYDERABAD: As arresting thieves, posing as domestic helps, and recovering property from them in Nepal has become cumbersome due to recent diplomatic issues, police have started flying to Indo-Nepal border to intercept the offenders at checkpoints. They have been fairly successful in arresting some of the offenders so far. In the recent past, offenders from Nepal, who have been posing as domestic helps, had committed several offences at the houses of rich businessmen in the city. During two such cases registered in Narsingi and Kushaiguda in January and August respectively, the offenders, posing as domestic helps, escaped with property worth over Rs 2 crore. In the Narsingi case, the offenders gave food laced with sleeping pills to businessman Srinivas Reddy and two of his family members, while in the Kushiaguda case, the accused stole valuables when businessman Narasimha Reddy’s family went to a hotel for his son’s wedding. Though special teams of investigators of Cyberabad and Rachakonda commissionerates managed to trace the trail of the offenders to Nepal, they could not arrest the prime offenders immediately and part of the stolen property could not be brought back as it was recovered in the Himalayan kingdom. While Narsingi police team had arrested three of the seven offenders in January 2020, Kushaiguda police also arrested three offenders in Nepal in August. The arrested accused were handed over to Nepal police and they were booked under local laws. Some of the seized property recovered from two receivers in Kushaiguda case was also handed over to Nepal police and the same was intimated to the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. “We have written to Nepal authorities through the Indian embassy to bring the accused and the seized valuables,” Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said. In view of the previous experience, police teams have reacted swiftly in two servant theft cases involving offenders from Nepal in October at Raidurgam and Nacharam police stations. Police teams rushed to Nepal border and in coordination with police units from UP, Uttarakhand and SSB nabbed most of the accused near the border checkpoints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-land-on-border-catch-up-with-thieves/articleshow/78900192.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||First domiciliary Covid care centre at Thiruvananthapuram's Ambalathara||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The district administration has declared Cordova Public School, Ambalathara, as the first domiciliary Covid-care centre (DCC) in the district. DCC will provide isolation facilities for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who do not have adequate isolation facilities at home. Food for the inmates at DCC will be provided by Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation. At present, there are 23 first-line treatment centres, 7 secondary- treatment centres and one Covid hospital in health services. District collector Navjot Khosa said from the initial stages where a vast number of positive cases were managed at first-line treatment centres, the district has evolved to a scenario where positive home-isolation cases occupy a major fraction. The concept of DCC or micro first-line treatment centres has evolved to deal with positive cases that are not symptomatic and need only isolation. District administration also declared on Tuesday that food bill of patients referred to private hospitals from government hospitals shall be met from state disaster response fund. Such patients will be eligible to get Rs 160 per person per day. Those patients who are unable to pay food expenses in respective private hospitals can opt for availing food as per the menu and the cost shall be met from SDRF, read an order issued by district collector on Tuesday. The state mission director of National health mission had directed the district administration to meet the food expense incurred by government-referred patients in private Covid hospitals in public interest from SDRF. At present, there are 497 beds in 11 private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment in the district. It was reported that the food given to the patients admitted in such beds in private hospitals are not covered by the rates fixed by the government. Meanwhile, active cases dropped further in the district as 413 positive cases were reported on Tuesday. As many as 654 persons recovered from infection. A total of 8,857 persons are under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/first-domiciliary-covid-care-centre-at-ambalathara/articleshow/78898850.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Agra||Hathras victim’s family still hopes case will be moved to Delhi||AGRA: The CBI investigation into the alleged Hathras gang-rape and murder now placed under judicial oversight, with the Supreme Court asking the Allahabad high court to monitor it, the victim’s family said it is still counting on the entire case being moved out of Uttar Pradesh. “We want justice. We hope the case is moved out to Delhi,” the victim’s sister-in-law told TOI on Tuesday, hours after the Supreme Court order. “We have nothing left here anymore. My daughters are growing up. We want good education and safety for them. Leaving this place will be the best for all of us.” The family’s request to move the case to Delhi was placed before Allahabad high court on October 12. But the high court is yet to take a call on their plea to move the case out of UP. “Our lawyer (Seema Kushwaha) told us that the decision would be taken after the CBI concludes its probe. We are hopeful,” the girl’s sister-in-law said. They are among four Dalit families in the upper caste-dominated village. And since the alleged gang-rape and murder of their 19-year-old girl by four upper-caste men in her village, things have not been easy. “Police security is present at the moment. It won’t be here forever. It would mean a lot if the government helped us move to Delhi. We want to start over, away from the glare in Hathras,” the victim’s elder brother had told TOI two weeks ago. Perhaps indicative of the irreversible change in their lives, a large police contingent followed the family to the maize field for harvest on Tuesday. For nearly an hour, the cops stood as they went about what would otherwise be routine work. Later in the day, CBI visited and mapped all routes leading up the farms and houses of the accused, and visited the victim's house again. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-victims-family-still-hopes-case-will-be-moved-to-delhi/articleshow/78897735.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||97 new cases, 108 discharged||Vadodara: With 97 new Covid-19 cases being detected in the city and district during the 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening, the total number of cases went up to 14,688. According to the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), 3,411 tests were conducted during the 24-hours cycle out of which 3,314 were found negative and the remaining 97 were positive. The VMC did not confirm any more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary reason and the toll due to the disease remained at 210. The number of discharged patients continued to remain higher than the new cases. As many as 108 persons were discharged on Tuesday taking the total number of discharged cases to 12,957.Those discharged include patients in hospitals as well as home isolation. After the discharges, 1,521 patients remained under treatment in the city and district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/97-new-cases-108-discharged/articleshow/78897760.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Soon after reopening, Covid intermission for multiplexes||AHMEDABAD: On Sundays, Nikhil Rathi, an Ahmedabad-based professional, used to head to a movie theatre to enjoy the latest release. On a good day, he would watch two films! “I love watching movies and seldom missed new releases. Despite the convenience of online streaming platforms, going to the theatre is a delight,” said Rathi. “I caught up on almost all films that piqued my interest — Bollywood movies mainly. Now, because of the pandemic, my living room has been turning into a private theatre on Sundays for the past six months.” From James Bond films to period dramas, cinematic works are a hit with the people of Gujarat. Cinephiles have remained the same but the medium has changed. Even though multiplexes reopened ten days ago and have begun screening movies, widespread apprehensions about Covid-19 have kept most theatres almost empty. Moreover, there are no new releases to draw in people. So some theatres have shut shop for another week while others are running limited shows. “We have shut down for a week as there are no new releases,” said Niraj Ahuja, the manager of a multiplex in Ahmedabad. “We barely saw ten people in a day against the footfalls of a few thousand before the pandemic. It is not viable to operate the theatre with limited revenues as overhead costs will pile up.” Ahuja said when new films release, business may be resumed. “We had offered nearly a 50% discount on tickets, yet footfalls were abysmally low,” said Ahuja. Footfalls are indeed a major concern for multiplex owners. “In the whole day, the multiplex gets people only in double digits,” said Rashmi Bhalodiya, owner, Galaxy Cinema, Rajkot. “Theatre owners are forced to bear major losses, as we’re absorbing fixed overheads costs while there is zero income. Some theatres may even shut down permanently if the circumstances persist.” Ashish Jain, the owner of City Plus multiplex on the Surat-Dumas Road, told TOI: “At present, footfalls for all three screens at our multiplex are about 50% of the pre-Covid figures.” Jain went on to say: “We are running old films. When new films are released, the footfalls will increase.” Jain added, “People are not very keen to visit the theatres to watch old movies. For our part, we are following all the SOPs issued by the government.” An official of Inox Multiplex in Vadodara, said: “Footfalls have been very low as people are still wary of visiting multiplexes.” The official went on to say: “We run four shows daily but the audience is hardly 10% of the regular crowd. On Sundays, the numbers are better. But the situation won’t improve unless new movies are released.” Manoj Suryavanshi, who runs Cinemarc multiplex in Vadodara, said: “We are yet to open our multiplex as we are assessing the situation. We are planning to open around Diwali with all the precautions.” (With inputs from Tushar Tere in Vadodara; Melvyn Thomas in Surat; and Nimesh Khakhariya in Rajkot)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/soon-after-reopening-covid-intermission-for-multiplexes/articleshow/78901341.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 28, 2020||Bareilly||Emergency services suspended at Kheri dist hosp after BJP MP’s kin, aides create ruckus, misbehaved with staff||Bareilly: Emergency medical services at the district hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri were suspended after staff went on a strike protesting “police inaction” in a complaint lodged against five men, including a purported relative of a BJP MP, on Tuesday. The accused had allegedly created a ruckus at the emergency ward and misbehaved with staff members, doctors and a pharmacist late Monday night. The protesters accused police of not registering an FIR into the matter initially due to “political pressure”, but BJP district president Sunil Singh later issued a statement claiming that “the accused don’t have any connection with the party and police should take action as per law”. Following the statement, Sadar kotwali police on Tuesday evening booked Vasu, Katiyar and Vikas, along with three unidentified men, and claimed to have detained three accused, including Vikas and Vasu, for questioning. Emergency medical officer Dr DK Yadav, meanwhile, alleged that Vasu came to the hospital inebriated around 1.45am and forced staffers to treat a patient lying in the car without admitting him. “The patient was injured and we applied dressing to his wounds. Later, Vasu and his aides misbehaved with me and other staff members and broke articles at the emergency room. They also took away a pulse oximeter and a blood pressure machine, which affected the treatment of other patients. It was the third occasion when an attendant misbehaved with staffers and created ruckus at the hospital.” Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull told TOI, “We have booked five people and detained three of them. We have also arrested a relative of a BJP MP. There is no political pressure on us. We will take strict action against the accused as per law.” The emergency services were, however, not fully restored till the time of filing this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/emergency-services-suspended-at-kheri-dist-hosp-after-bjp-mps-kin-aides-create-ruckus-misbehaved-with-staff/articleshow/78895760.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Swedish tourist dies in Gokarna||KARWAR: Glisner Swain Rune, 67, a Swedish national who had been visiting Gokarna for last several years died on Tuesday in the coastal town. He had come to Gokarna last December and could not return to his country due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. He was admitted to the Gokarna PHC by a local person known to him following respiratory issues. He was subjected to Covid-19 test and the result was negative. Subsequently, he was shifted to the Kumta taluk hospital. He died on the way to the hospital, said police. Police said the Swedish embassy has been intimated about his death and that their reply is awaited. His body will be kept in the Karwar Medical College mortuary, they added. Gokarna police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/swedish-tourist-dies-in-gokarna/articleshow/78898855.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Festival camaraderie goes missing from workplaces due to Covid-19||BENGALURU: Working professionals missed celebrating Dasara/Navratri with their colleagues this year. From dressing up, clicking photographs and having a gala time in office with co-workers, none of it happened this season, thanks to Covid-19-induced work from home. Priyanka Ashwasthappa, who works for an MNC in Bengaluru and usually takes charge of organising events during festivals at her workplace, said, "It was very different this year because we are working from home. It used to be nice to see my colleagues switch to ethnic wear from the otherwise formal or semi-formal attire." Many companies would also host awards at the end of the event and hand out goodies to the best dressed. "While it’s great that most of us got to spend the festival days with our family, we definitely missed celebrating it with our colleagues," added Priyanka. Office festivities also provided a forum for migrant employees to celebrate with their local colleagues, soak in all the camaraderie and feel at home. "In the current scenario, many of our colleagues are still working from home and are away from their families, which means their festive season will be a dull affair. There will be no dressing up or sharing food and sweets and no gatherings or parties either," a working professional said. Office annual parties, cultural celebrations and team-building competitions have all been cancelled, which means that for a lot of employees there is nothing that they can look forward to for a change in their routine. "In our organisation, we celebrate all festivals and everyone is equally excited on every occasion. We have several competitions such as painting earthen lamps, cooking and rangoli-making. Going to office on a festival never felt difficult because it was fun. But all we did this year was remember what a good time we had last year," said Manjunath Gowda, a working professional in the city. Many employees feel that celebrations at the workplace help bring together employees in the organisation. The distance between juniors and seniors narrows and employee-bonding gets stronger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/festival-camaraderie-goes-missing-from-workplaces-due-to-covid/articleshow/78898870.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops probing robbery bust Aadhaar racket||HYDERABAD: City police claimed to have busted a racket of foreigners obtaining Aadhaar cards in India and securing jobs to carry out high-profile burglaries. While probing a two-month-old case of domestic helps from Nepal escaping with cash and valuables worth Rs 2 crore from a city businessman’s house, sleuths said they furnished Aadhaar cards and SIM cards as ID proof to get jobs in the household. Now, police said they are going to crack down on manpower agencies who provided them jobs without questioning how they obtained Aadhaar cards. Kushaiguda police probing the August 2 case of burglary at businessman A Narasimha Reddy’s house where his staff Bhim Bahadur Shahi and his wife Durga escaped with valuables found that they had furnished Aadhaar cards obtained with Himachal Pradesh addresses to get jobs in Hyderabad through a manpower agency. After the duo stole Rs 2 crore worth valuables, including jewellery, cash and electronic gadgets after sedating the family, the police team tracked their movement to Nepal and managed to nab their associate Deepak Bahadur alias Bham Bahadur and two stolen property receivers there. “Deepak also has an Aadhaar card with Bangalore address,” said a cop from Rachakonda commissionerate probing the case. Accused got SIMs using Aadhaar cardsMadhapur DCP M Venkateshwarulu, who supervised the investigation of similar thefts, involving domestic helps at Raidurgam recently, said that two of the offenders, Rajender and Sita Lawar of Nepal, managed to obtain local SIM cards by furnishing Aadhaar cards which had Bangalore addresses. “The addresses in Bangalore mentioned by the accused in customer verification form on their Aadhaar cards proved to be false,” the DCP told TOI. Manpower agencies in Hyderabad provide jobs to thousands of foreigners in Hyderabad and now the police said they will act against them. “The manpower consultants who supply domestic help to clients should do thorough antecedent verification of workers. They should at least verify how a person from Nepal obtained an Aadhaar card. We will take appropriate legal action against such errant manpower consultants,” Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat told TOI. Mahesh Bhagwat also appealed to representatives of the Nepal community in Hyderabad to alert police about criminal activities. “Most of the people from Nepal who are working in India are very good. Due to a few bad elements, the entire community should not get a bad name. I appeal to the Nepal association representatives to alert police if they see any one from their community with criminal antecedents operating from the city,” Bhagawat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-probing-robbery-bust-aadhaar-racket/articleshow/78901342.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 28, 2020||Bareilly||Constable shoots self with service revolver inside police station in Sambhal||BAREILLY: A UP Police constable allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service revolver while on duty in Sambhal on Tuesday afternoon. The body was found lying in a pool of blood at his room at the Hayatnagar police station. The deceased was identified as Ankit Yadav (26). According to Sambhal police, the 2015 batch constable had been transferred from Hardoi to Sambhal around two months ago and was deputed as the cheetah police for the Hayatnagar police station limits. “The incident happened when the constable was resting in his room at the police station after returning from the duty. Soon, a sound of gunshot was heard after which the police personnel rushed towards him to find that he was found lying in pool of blood with his service revolver in one hand,” said SHO Hayatnagar police station, Sambhal, Vidyut Goyal. Superintendent of police, Sambhal, Yamuna Prasad told TOI that forensics have been called in to gather evidence to ascertain whether this was a case of suicide or not. “We have not recovered any suicide note from his room. The family has been informed and the body is being sent for a post-mortem examination. Statements of the family members will be recorded while information related to his mental condition is also being gathered from his colleagues and know persons to know if he was undergoing any kind of stress or mental pressure.” Yadav was originally from Khedki area under Chandpur police station limits in Bijnor. The deceased is survived by his parents and a younger sister who live in Bijnor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/constable-shoots-self-with-service-revolver-inside-police-station-in-sambhal/articleshow/78895768.cms||Maria Khan
October 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Five years on and `Smart`city fails to produce a master plan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In spite of the best efforts, town planning standing committee has failed to garner the support of both ruling and opposition members on two fronts — finalising a new master plan for the city or in getting modified provisions of interim development order approved by the council. In the meantime, Neyyatinkara municipality, the neighbouring civic body, has got the approval from town planning department to get a new master plan notified. The previous session of council meeting had clearly shown how the councillors came ill prepared for such an important agenda although it was repeatedly pointed out by the town planning committee that people were finding it difficult to construct houses in certain areas and modifications were necessary. The councillors had digressed from the topic and even the ruling council clearly hinted that it was not at all interested in getting a move on interim development order. Mayor K Sreekumar has now left it to the consideration of corporation secretary and even that decision came nearly a month after town planning committee finalised the recommendations. The apparent lack of interest from the corporation has left the city with no new master plan and an interim development order which creates lot of hassles for the public. When the corporation goes into vote, the council will face questions over why the civic body failed to finalise a master plan even after five years. The town planning department has made some revisions regarding coverage, FAR, dimension of constructions in IDO to make the norms more flexible. During two previous council sessions, the councillors from ruling and opposition showed scant interest in discussing the detailed agenda prepared by town planning department. With draft master plan 2020 not likely to be finalised during the tenure of present council, crucial changes in IDO alone would relax restrictions imposed on allowing constructions in certain zones. The reluctance of councillors to discuss and get it approved in the council is likely to leave the issues regarding green zones and conservation of areas unresolved. The city corporation which had been jittery towards master plan owing to furore over the draft master plan-2031 finally decided to have a new master plan for the city in 2016. The decision was made as part of implementation of AMRUT scheme which mandates a set of reforms to be implemented by the cities of which GIS-based master plan is a key reform. The civic body had taken the first step by entrusting land use board with the project to prepare land utilisation plan for 100 wards in the city. Besides basic details on land availability and present nature of utilisation were collected and used for preparation of master plan. The town planning committee had nearly completed preparation of new master plan but it was put on hold owing to lack of support from the ruling council. The modification in interim development order was the last resort of the committee to bring some relief to public who were facing difficulties in construction of houses. However despite being included in two council agenda, the council did not make an earnest effort to get the proposed provisions passed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/five-years-on-and-smartcity-fails-to-produce-a-master-plan/articleshow/78898867.cms||Aswin J Kumar
October 28, 2020||Agra||Farmers demand water, power for irrigation||AGRA: Farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union staged a protest outside the Fatehabad sub-division office on Tuesday, demanding immediate release of water in canals and uninterrupted power supply for at least 18 hours a day so that they can irrigate their fields. Farmers also demanded that the last day for taking out potatoes stored in cold storage centres be extended by one month. The state government had ordered clearing of stocks from cold storage centres by October 30. District president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Rajveer Lavaniya said, “Farmers are largely dependent on tubewells for irrigation. We want the state government to ensure at least 18 hours of power supply for operating the tubewells. We also need immediate discharge of water in the canals.” Sub-divisional magistrate Amit Kala said, “Irrigation department officials have been directed to ensure adequate availability of water in canals by November 5. Power supply for irrigation will also be improved. Other demands of the farmers will be pursued with the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-demand-water-power-for-irrigation/articleshow/78897767.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Damaged goods, hospital waste dumped at Shah Hatim Talab||HYDERABAD: After the deluge, Shah Hatim Talab located on the backside of Golconda Fort and the seven tombs is being used as a dumping site by residents and hospitals. Not just construction waste, household goods and hospital paraphrenalia damaged in the recent rains are finding their way into the water body. “Furniture and household goods that could not be salvaged from the floods are being dumped in the lake by the residents,” said Mohammed Mamshad Ali, a resident of Nadeem Colony, a stone’s throw away from the lake. The colony was one of the worst-affected areas in the floods. Praveen, assistant executive engineer, irrigation department, said steps would be taken to clean the mess. “It has come to our notice that damaged items and goods are being thrown into the water. We are in the process of clearing this up. Within a week, the talab will be cleansed,” he said. Throwing light on the larger issue of the shrinking lake due to encroachments and dumping of debris, Mohammed Safiullah of Deccan Heritage Trust said Shah Hatim Talab had an area of 100 acres once. “Now, it has been reduced to about 20 acres. The dumping is happening even as the nearby Nadeem Colony had faced one of the worst deluges in recent times,” he said. Located next to the Naya Qila wall, this water body has been a source of drinking water and contributed to recharge of groundwater in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/damaged-goods-hospital-waste-dumped-at-shah-hatim-talab/articleshow/78900206.cms||Uttara Varma
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Prolonged monsoon makes October hotter||HYDERABAD: The prolonged southwest monsoon has led to an unusually hotter October this year with minimum temperature being on the higher side most days. As per IMD, Hyderabad, normal minimum temperature dips below 20 degree Celsius by mid-October. This year, it remained above 20 degree Celsius with the temperature dipping to 18 degree Celsius only on Monday. “Delay in withdrawal of southwest monsoon also postponed cold and dry north-easterly and northerly winds. Usually, cold winds from north-east and north start persisting over the state by mid-October...,” said A Shravani, meteorologist, IMD. While conditions are now becoming favourable for onset of northeast monsoon by Wednesday, meteorologists forecast there will be a gradual dip in mercury levels. “It will take another 8-10 days for a significant drop. Only strong western disturbance will cause snowfall on western Himalayas following which we can expect colder winds. Cold winds once start blowing from Himalayas sometimes reach Telangana and Rayalaseema as well,” said Mahesh Palawat, VP, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prolonged-monsoon-makes-october-hotter/articleshow/78900212.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||State reports dip in positive cases with 830 new infections||Hyderabad: For the second day in a row, Telangana recorded a dip in positive cases with 837 new Covid-19 positive cases and four deaths on Tuesday, raising the overall toll to 1,315 cases.  Testing remained low at 21,099, mainly due to the Dussehra holidays as the novel coronavirus caseload reached 2,32,671, while 2,13,466 patients recovered from the infection, authorities said.  The number of active cases in the state has further come down to 17,890 on Tuesday, continuing a downward spiral. Telangana has reached a total count of 41.1 lakh tests so far and the number of samples tested per million population stands at 1,10,572.  The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 185 new cases on Tuesday, the highest among districts. TNN This was followed by 76 cases in Khammam, 59 cases in Ranga Reddy, 51 cases in Karimnagar, 48 cases in Bhadadri Kothagudem, 41 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri and 40 cases in Siddipet, even as all the remaining districts also recorded new cases. Meanwhile, the bed utilization in government and private hospitals has both come down further, with 1301 out of 8564 beds in government hospitals occupied. In private hospitals, 1738 beds out of 8827 were taken by coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-dip-in-positive-cases-with-830-new-infections/articleshow/78900237.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Ruins of a fort-like structure found on top of Jawadhu Hills||CHENNAI: Ruins of a fort-like-structure on top of the Jawadhu Hills, discovered by members of Tiruvannamalai District Historical Research Centre, raise an interesting question. How are there ruins of an ancient rock structure deep inside the hills? Some point to the kingdom of Nannan Sei Nannan, who ruled the region during the Sangam era. But no rock structure belonging to the Sangam era was found anywhere so far. However, the team, led by Tiruvannamalai tahsildar S Balamurugan, said the placement of the rock shows the structure to be very old. "We trekked from Keezhpattu (30km from Chengam) to the spot which lies 4km inside the forest. The place is inhabited by Malayali tribes. We met a couple of them who collect honey from inside the forest. It was while walking with them that I noticed the dilapidated structure on my right," said Balamurugan, who has discovered many inscriptions and hero stones in and around Tiruvannamalai. Back home, Balamurugan checked the survey records, particularly during the colonial period, as the British were known for constructing summer homes on top of hills. "I couldn’t find any record of a building. When I showed the photographs to experts, they told me the rock structure seems to date back to the 10th century or older. Further excavations are needed to identify the historical significance of the ruins," he said. Situated on the banks of Cheyyar, Chengam in Tiruvannamalai once attained great significance as it was a trade route for several centuries, connecting the eastern shore further south. Heritage expert and architect Madhusudhanan Kalaichelvan who studied in detail the historic significance of the place, said it has Chola inscriptions, Vijayanagara temples, local legends and colonial vestiges. "The town has been on the main highway connecting today’s Karnataka to the east coast. It has been buzzing with activity since the Sangam period and continued to remain so even till the colonial period," he said. Chengam, according to Kalaichelvan, has its active presence documented in ‘Malaipadukadaam’, a Sangam-era anthology of Pattupattu, describing the route to Chengam cutting across the Jawadhu hills. More than 2,000 years ago, a poet was guided to negotiate this challenging trek, walking parallel to the stream of Cheyyar and reaching Chengam. Balamurugan and his team are planning to survey Jawadhu hills, based on the narration given in ‘Malaipadukadaam’. "This ancient poem provides a great and memorable account of the life in the hills during the reign of king Nannan. We will soon trek to the interiors of the area based on the narration in this ancient text. We want to survey the surrounding areas where we found the ruins of the fort-like structure," said Balamurugan. Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ruins-of-a-fort-like-structure-found-on-top-of-jawadhu-hills/articleshow/78901788.cms||M T Saju
October 28, 2020||Meerut||UP: Baghpat SI should have quit instead of shaving his beard, feel a section of Deoband clerics||MEERUT: A set of clerics in UP’s Deoband town, the seat of country’s biggest Islamic seminary, has taken exception to a Muslim sub-inspector’s decision to shave off his beard, saying the policeman should have quit the job after being suspended over it. Intezar Ali, 46, posted as SI in Baghpat district, was suspended last week for keeping a beard without permission from the department. A few days later, Ali shaved his beard and was reinstated, putting an end to the row. UP Police pays allowances to maintain moustaches, but discourages beard. Ali claimed that he had sought permission to keep the beard in November last year, but Baghpat’s SP Abhishek Singh denied it. But the row refuses to go away. A debate raged on all the social media platforms, and also in the streets of Deoband where a set of clerics didn’t approve of shaving of the beard. Maulana Lutfur Rehman Qasmi, a cleric at Jamia Anglo-Arabic madrassa, said, “It is wrong if a Muslim doesn’t keep a beard. And removing the beard after keeping it is a bigger sin in the eyes of Islam. We are of the opinion that the sub-inspector should have resigned if he was being compelled to shave off his beard.” Another prominent figure, patron of Jamiat Davatul Musleemeen, Maulana Kari Ishaq Gora said, “Religious freedom should be granted in services. And where there is no such freedom, it should be provided through the amendment. It is not good that someone was suspended for following his religious beliefs.” Meanwhile, against the backdrop of the controversy, UP’s director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthi issued a letter to senior police officers in the state, saying, “There have been reports of violation of uniform rules. Shaving is mandatory for all policemen except Sikhs. Even if the permission is granted, the beard should be short and neat. Similarly, mustaches are allowed but they should also be properly trimmed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/baghpat-si-should-have-quit-instead-of-shaving-his-beard-feel-a-section-of-deoband-clerics/articleshow/78897786.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 28, 2020||Agra||SVANidhi scheme: PM interacts with fruit seller of Agra||AGRA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday interacted with street vendors who availed of the ‘PM Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi Scheme (SVANidhi scheme)’ in Uttar Pradesh. The PM also interacted with a fruit seller of Agra district, Preeti, a beneficiary of the collateral-free Rs 10,000 loan to resume business after Covid-19 lockdown. A beaming Preeti greeted the Prime Minister and shared her experience via video conferencing, and PM Modi gave her a patience hearing. The PM also told her about the cashbacks which she can avail of on digital transactions. “During the lockdown, we felt like we were drowning,” Preeti told the PM. She added that with the PM SVANidhi loan she was able to restart her work and set up a fruit cart. A resident of Tajganj locality, 35-year-old Preeti is the lone bread earner in her family. Her husband, Radhey Shyam, helps her in business. The couple has three minor daughters and a three-year-old son. Talking to TOI, Preeti said, “The lockdown period was very difficult for us. With no source of income, we had spent all our savings to survive the lockdown period. The future looked bleak. Meanwhile, I came to know about the PM SVANidhi scheme and I applied for it. The Rs 10,000 loan that I received helped me in resuming my business after lockdown was gradully lifted. Now, I have some steady earning and I have already started repaying the loan. Now, I am able to take care of my family.” “I am feeling motivated after interacting with PM. It was a moment of lifetime for me. I will be promoting the use of digital payment, as suggested by PM Modi,” she said. Preeti also told the PM that her husband is suffering from some problem in the legs. Earlier, he used to work as a daily wager, but now helps her in her business. Sensing an unmentioned plea for help, PM assured Preeti that he would ask officers to sort out her problems. Soon after the session was over, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh, along municipal commissioner Nikil Tikaram Funde, and other officials reached the house of Preeti. Two cheques of Rs 50,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh were handed over to Preeti by the district magistrate for repairing her house under the PM Awas Yojna. DM assured all possible help in the treatment of her husband. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh told TOI, “Preeti had applied under PM Awas Yojna. On finding her eligible for getting benefit under the scheme, two installments of Rs 50,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh have been provided to her for repairing her house. Soon the remaining Rs 50,000 will be issued for the purpose."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/svanidhi-scheme-pm-interacts-with-fruit-seller-of-agra/articleshow/78897821.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL wants turncoat MLAs to pay for bypoll costs||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought directions for recovery of expenditure incurred by the election commission on bypolls for assembly seats from candidates who ditched their political party mid-term and resigned to re-contest from the same constituencies by joining another party. Petitioner advocate K R Koshti named 19 such MLAs of the 77 legislators who were elected on the ticket of the Indian National Congress in the 2017 assembly elections. Of these 19 MLAs who resigned citing personal reasons, most joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and 10 of them either re-contested or are re-contesting bypolls on the same assembly seats. The petitioner urged the HC to direct the Election Commission of India (ECI) to frame rules for recovery of expenses incurred by the commission on conducting elections in assembly constituencies from MLAs who resign from their parties and seek re-election on tickets of other political parties. This is because mid-term resignations cause a loss of taxpayers’ money, which is around Rs 2 crore, for holding bypolls for an assembly constituency. The PIL also demands a rule that mandates candidates to file an undertaking that they will not resign midterm and ditch the public mandate. The petitioner also seeks that such turncoats deposit money with the election commission because other candidates also have to spend money. The petitioner also sought directions to the ECI to place information before the court about expenditure incurred on assembly polls per constituency. The petitioner narrates how the erosion in the Congress began with resignation of Kunvarji Bavaliya in December 2018 and how he went on to get re-elected from the Jasdan seat to become a minister in the ruling BJP. There were 18 others who followed suit and half of them got BJP tickets for bypolls. Koshti contends that though resigning from the legislative assembly is an indefeasible right of an MLA, it cannot be without accountability. Such an MLA must be saddled with the liability for repaying expenses incurred by the election commission for conducting the bypoll and public money should not be wasted for convening re-polling on account of resignations and seeking fresh mandates. The PIL contends that this practice reeks of corruption being perpetrated by law makers. This is only to bypass provisions of Schedule X of the Constitution and anti-defection laws, which are silent on this practice followed by political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-wants-turncoat-mlas-to-pay-for-bypoll-costs/articleshow/78901353.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||Two cheat eight people of Rs 93 lakh||VADODARA: A man living in Subhanpura and his son-in-law were booked for cheating eight people of Rs 92.9 lakh. On receiving complaint from one of the victims Sudhakar Rawal, a case of cheating was registered at Gotri police station on Tuesday against Jairaj Sagar and his son-in-law Balavenkateshwarlu Vasudevrai. Rawal told cops that the duo conned him by promising to help him buy seven shops in Gujarat Housing Board buildings in Laxmipura. Rawal said that since he knew Sagar since 1986, he gave him Rs 75.3 lakh between June 2018 and October 2019 in different instalments. Sagar had told him that the shops are allotted only through draw, but since he had connections, he will ensure that Rawal gets the shops. Meanwhile, the duo also told him that they are running classes for people trying to crack exams for jobs in banks and railways. They said that after training they can assure jobs for the candidates and asked Rawal to refer candidates to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-cheat-eight-people-of-rs-93-lakh/articleshow/78898793.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Doctors buoyed as Belagavi man wins 60-day battle against virus||BELAGAVI: Doctors and healthcare professionals at a hospital in Belagavi are amazed — and motivated — at the recovery of a severely infected 40-year old patient, who got back on his feet after a two-month battle against the novel coronavirus. While there are instances of patients taking longer to recover, doctors at KLE Hospital say the man’s case was nothing short of “miraculous” and are awed by his sheer willpower. They say his chances of improving was in doubt from the very first day when they found, much to their shock, that his lungs were about 80% compromised by the virus. Three doctors — Madhav Prabhu, Gajanana Gavde and Jayaprakash — were immediately pressed into action to save the man, who was wheeled straight into the ICU on the day he arrived. Hope of saving the patient, an employee of JK Cements, began to fade when he failed to respond to a high-value oxygen ventilator. But while he didn’t improve, his condition didn’t deteriorate either The man refused to give in and healthcare professionals who tended him took courage from his zeal to fight on. The patient, who had a spouse and children waiting for his return at home, was later put on a high-intensity non-invasive ventilator. Dr Prabhu, who is also in-charge of corona care at the hospital, said, “Even when he was severely sick he followed our directions to a tee. For example, he was asked to stay in a prone position while sleeping and he followed it strictly.” The prone position — lying on the stomach — improves breathing. Doctors too worked diligently on the man. Early in his stint at the hospital, plasma therapy was conducted on him. However, it appeared to show no signs of aiding the man’s recovery. Doctors then removed infection marks using cytosorb therapy, perhaps for the time on a patient in North Karnataka. Dr Prabhu said most patients lose hope after 10 or 15 days of stay in ICU and a long stay also enhances the risk of picking up ICU-related infections. However, against all odds and contrary to expectations, the man suddenly began to get stronger with each passing day. Buoyed, hospital staff ensured the ICU stayed pristine to avoid infections. With his condition gradually improving, doctors moved him out of the ICU after 45 days and shifted him to the ward where he was put on a low-intensity oxygen ventilator. He was discharged after 15 days in the ward. MV Jali, hospital director, told TOI the man’s recovery was miraculous. “Despite expertise of doctors and high-end medical technology, battling the virus for 60 days is not easy. It is the willpower of the patient which saved him. The patient is now discharged and resting at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctors-buoyed-as-belagavi-man-wins-60-day-battle-against-virus/articleshow/78898888.cms||Shreyas HS
October 28, 2020||Surat||Class XII girl raped in Gujarat's Palanpur||PALANPUR: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raping a girl studying in Class XI in Palanpur town. The accused, Montu Bayad, went to the 17-year-old girl’s house on Monday night when she was studying on the ground floor of her house. “She knew Bayad as he used to often frequent her father’s shop. She thought that he wanted to meet her mother for some work. But he began talking with her and then started making sexual advances,” said police inspector DR Gadhvi of Palanpur(east) The girl told police that her parents were on the first floor of their house. When she resisted, he threatened her with dire consequences and then allegedly raped her. Bayad was booked under the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/class-xii-girl-raped-in-palanpur/articleshow/78897943.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Kanyakumari doctor’s suicide under probe||KANYAKUMARI: The Suchindram police have registered a case under section 174 of the code of criminal procedure and are probing the suicide of doctor Sivarama Perumal, who reportedly ended his life due to alleged torture by a deputy superintendent of police in that district. The doctor, who is the district deputy organizer of the DMK doctor’s wing, left behind a suicide note accusing the police officer and another person for instigating his suicide. The probe is conducted by the inspector of Rajakkamangalam police under the direct supervision of additional superintendent of police Manimaran. The police said that the probe is underway as the suicide note left behind by the doctor was not clear and lacked a connection. Superintendent of police of Kanyakumari district V Badri Narayanan said that appropriate action will be taken based on the findings of the probe. After autopsy, Perumal’s body was handed over to his family for the final rites. He is survived by his wife and two daughters, who are 9 and 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kanyakumari-docs-suicide-under-probe/articleshow/78901381.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for stalking 17-year-old girl in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: City police on Monday arrested a 21-year-old man from Krishnanagar, for allegedly stalking a 17-year-old girl from the Bodakdev area of the city, whom he first befriended on Facebook and later started pressuring to enter a relationship. Inspector V M Desai of Vastrapur police said the accused, Rutvik Gadhvi, was arrested in May 2019 for stalking and sexually harassing the same girl, a Class XII (commerce) student. “The accused befriended the girl two years ago on social media and started chatting with her. He had taken her mobile phone number and started pursuing her to meet him and have a relationship with him,” said Desai. Desai said Gadhvi started lurking around the girl’s school in Bodakdev and followed her whenever she went to school or tuition classes. The girl had in May 2019 told her parents about Gadhvi stalking her. They filed a police complaint after which he was apprehended by Vastrapur police. After his arrest in last year’s case, he stopped stalking her for around a year. From June this year, he resumed loitering around her house and following her whenever she went out. On Monday, he had grabbed her hand and threatened her with dire consequences if she did not enter a relationship with him. Traumatized, she called her parents who approached police and filed a complaint against Gadhvi. Vastrapur police arrested the accused under charges of stalking and sexual harassment and also booked him under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-stalking-17-year-old-girl/articleshow/78901370.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad snaps up 1.5mn sft office space, beats Delhi & Mumbai||HYDERABAD: Beating most cities including Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai to the game, Hyderabad recorded a significant 1.54 million square feet net office space absorption during July to September period. During the previous quarter, this figure stood at 1.18 mn sft, revealed data released by real estate services firm, Jones Lang LaSalle (JLL). With the rise in transaction, the city stood only second to Bengaluru that saw a 504% growth during Q3 (July to September) over the Q2, as net leasing shot from 0.45 mn sft to 2.72 mn sft. In fact, the two south Indian cities led the third quarter office rebound growth by collectively accounting for nearly 80% of the net absorption across India in Q3 2020, which stood at 5.4 mn sft. Apart from absorption, completion of new projects in Hyderabad too witnessed 40% growth during this period as it jumped from 2.38 mn sft to 3.33 mn sft, the report showed. “Growth was mainly driven by pre-commitments in newly commissioned buildings during the quarter,” said Sandip Patnaik, managing director (Hyderabad), JLL India, while also adding how occupiers are reassessing their real estate portfolios – as a fallout of pandemic-struck economy in a bid to reduce costs and review long-term expansions. “Thus, significant churn was also witnessed during the quarter,” he added. Perhaps that explains why, even as absorptions increased, vacancy levels also saw a rise – from 9.2% at the end of the previous quarter to 11.3% at the end of Q3 2020. “Sub-markets of central business district (Banjara Hills-Somajiguda-Begumpet belt), Hi-Tec City and Gachibowli saw increased vacancies due to exits by local business and small IT companies,” Patnaik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-snaps-up-1-5mn-sft-office-space-beats-delhi-mum/articleshow/78900279.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: RGIA first to offer e-boarding to international flyers||HYDERABAD: The city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport has become the first airport in India to roll out e-boarding facility for international passengers flying out of the facility. While the option, developed in-house in the spirit of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, is currently available to flyers of select airlines only — IndiGo and Air India — it will eventually be open to all overseas passengers. According to sources, IndiGo is offering this service on four routes at present – Sharjah, Muscat, Dubai and Bahrain -- while AI’s US-bound flight from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport via Delhi has moved onto the e-boarding platform. “Three more airlines, SpiceJet, AirAsia and Emirates too will soon come on board this system. Subsequently, even Qatar Airways and Oman Air will join,” said a source. Incidentally, Rajiv Gandhi International Airport was also the first to start e-boarding for its domestic flyers in December 2015. “Apart from reducing the waiting time in queues, it enhances overall safety and security, removes redundancies at check points and helps airlines improve their resource utilisation,” stated a release issued by the GMR-led airport. Speaking about this achievement, Pradeep Panicker, CEO, GHIAL, said that it gains more relevance in the present scenario of the pandemic. “Automating passenger journey provides more pleasant airport experience...We are confident that very soon we will get all our international carriers operating out of Hyderabad onto our e-boarding platform,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rgia-first-to-offer-e-boarding-to-intl-flyers/articleshow/78900268.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||NIMS nurses serve strike notice over unfair labour practices||Hyderabad: Nurses of the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) on Tuesday staged a protest over unfair labour practices by authorities. Alleging harassment and non-payment of Covid incentive to many staffers, the nurses demanded immediate resolution of their issues. Nurses affiliated to the NIMS Nurses Union have, meanwhile, given a strike notice to the hospital director citing the reasons for unrest. The issues include arrears for a wrongly deducted amount for family planning from salaries of staff, non-payment of Covid incentive since the month of April for some staffers, non-payment of career progression arrears, non-payment of EL encashment for the year 2019. Also the staffers are demanding continuation of the process of promotions and cadre review of nursing staff. “Though the union has been representing the above issues for the last two years and the administration, in the joint meetings held at the Labour Commission’s office, also had committed itself to resolve them, the issues are still pending. Due to the rigid attitude of the administration and unfair labour practices, the unrest among staff members is fomenting day by day and the employees are in great distress. In protest against the unfair labour activities by the administration, it is proposed to go on an indefinite strike from November 11,” reads the strike notice served by the union. Also nursing staff has been holding lunch hour demonstrations by wearing black badges since the last few days now. “The administration has been turning a deaf ear to most of our problems. So many nurses have worked overtime for Covid duties but not getting the promised incentives is demotivating. While some nurses have got a part of the payments, others have not received a single penny of the incentive money,” said a senior nurse from the hospital, who was among the protesting nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nims-nurses-serve-strike-notice-over-unfair-labour-practices/articleshow/78900286.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Man convicted in Pocso case in Lakshadweep||KOCHI: In the second Pocso case conviction in the history of Lakshadweep, a 42-year-old man was awarded 16 rigorous imprisonment on Tuesday. The convict was identified as Ali, son of Hassan and a resident of Minicoy Island. He was convicted in a Pocso case registered at Kavaratti police station in 2013 for sexually assaulting a minor girl and the verdict was pronounced by special judge (Pocso) Jose N Cyril on Tuesday. According to additional public prosecutor Jibin Joseph, who appeared for the prosecution, the incident pertaining to the case happened in 2013 during the lent season when Ali came to his wife’s house in Kavaratti. "The nine-year-old victim was a relative of Ali and she was taken to the bedroom so that she could watch TV. Later, he took her to the washroom and locked the door to molest and rape her. Kavaratti CI Ali Akber was the investigation officer of the case," Joseph said. The charges against Ali were kidnapping, sexual assault, wrongful containment and attempted rape. The court awarded three years each of simple imprisonment under section 363, 366 and 368 and a fine of Rs.15,000. Under section 5(M)& 6 of POCSO Act, he was awarded 7 years rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs.10000. So, a total of 16 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs 25000; the sentence will run concurrently. The first ever conviction in Pocso case in Lakshadweep happened last month when Mohammed Rafeeq, a 55-year-old Madrassa teacher, was awarded five years of rigorous imprisonment and Rs 50,000 as fine, for having unnatural sex with an 11-year-old boy in 2016. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-convicted-in-pocso-case-in-lakshadweep/articleshow/78901380.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||SUFI to take out rally on Milad-un-Nabi||Hyderabad: The Sunni United Forum of India (SUFI) on Tuesday announced it will organise a rally on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi (Prophet Mohammed’s birthday). SUFI said that they have planned to take out the centralised procession from October 30 after Friday prayers at Mecca Masjid. It is likely to pass through many parts of the Old City such as Pathergatti, Nayapul, Darulshifa, Kotla Ali Jah and Etebaar Chowk. However, the police are bound by the Covid-19 guidelines before allowing processions. “The city police would enforce the central and state government lockdown guidelines, which are still in force, hence, there is no provision for a rally or procession,” said Anjani Kumar, police commissioner, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sufi-to-take-out-rally-on-milad-un-nabi/articleshow/78900301.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Help paddy, cotton farmers: Shabbir to government||Hyderabad: Former Congress minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Tuesday demanded that the state government give compensation to the farmers who lost their paddy and cotton crops in recent rains. Shabbir along with Medak and Kamareddy DCC presidents visited agriculture fields in Narsingi mandal where farmers had set ablaze the fields of damaged crops . He said the TRS government has not given any financial aid to farmers who lost their crops due to natural calamities in the last six years,” Shabbir Ali said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/help-paddy-cotton-farmers-shabbir-to-government/articleshow/78900309.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra set to let teachers board locals in off-peak hours||MUMBAI: The state government is likely to allow school and college teachers to board local trains before 8am, between 11am and 4pm, and after 7 pm. A notification is likely to be issued on Wednesday. “We are gradually allowing people from more sectors that can work during non-peak hours to board trains in order to stagger working hours and reduce crowds in coaches and on platforms,” said a state official. Earlier, the state had allowed 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to go to their institutions for online teaching, tele-counselling or related work from October 15. Meanwhile, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, responding to a tweet, said the state government would take a “decision on starting local train services for all in the next couple of days”. The move follows the decision to permit lawyers registered with the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa and registered court clerks to travel on local trains during non-peak hours on an experimental basis till November 23, At present, employees of the Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Kalyan, Mira-Bhayander and Navi Mumbai municipal bodies, police personnel, railway and BEST staffers, central and state governments and public sector undertaking employees, medical and hospital staffers, bank employees and airport maintenance staffers are allowed to travel during morning and evening peak hours. Dabbawallahs, lawyers and registered court clerks, and women are permitted to travel only during off-peak hours. At present, Central Railway runs 706 services and caters to around 3 lakh passengers daily, while Western Railway runs 700 services ferrying four lakh people every day. In pre-Covid times, around 80 lakh passengers travelled in 3,141 train services every day—1,367 on WR and 1,774 on CR. While WR ferried 36 lakh passengers daily, 44 lakh commuters travelled on CR’s main, harbour, trans-harbour and Seawood-Belapur-Uran lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-set-to-let-teachers-board-locals-in-off-peak-hours/articleshow/78901849.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||Brick kiln owner, two sons arrested for highway firing||Vadodara: A brick kiln owner, his two sons and nephew were arrested in connection with the firing on Vadodara-Mumbai highway near Dumad on October 19. Ayyub Ali Pathan, his two sons Ajmal Ali and Altaf Ali, and nephew Gufran Khan Pathan, were arrested by the Sama police on Tuesday. Ayyub Ali had opened fire from his licensed revolver after a fight broke out between him and a group of rickshaw drivers over ferrying his two workers. Two persons were injured in the firing while two others were injured in the attack by sticks. Ayyub had shot at a group of persons under the Dumad bridge on October 19 when he and his companions came under attack. The reason behind was the assault was a couple working at the brick kiln of Ayyub that had disappeared. While Ayyub was looking for them, one of his employees, Jetram spotted the couple under the bridge and immediately called him. Ayyub asked him to stop the husband-wife duo as they were negotiating fare with an auto driver. When Jetram tried to stop the couple, the auto driver got into heated arguments with him. Soon Ayyub arrived with his sons and the arguments snowballed into major fight. A group of auto drivers then attacked Ayyub who then opened fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/brick-kiln-owner-two-sons-arrested-for-highway-firing/articleshow/78897835.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Mughal era gold flask sold for Rs 9cr||Hyderabad: A Mughal era gem-set enamelled gold flask (surahi) which was in the former collection of the Nizam of Hyderabad was sold at a price of 983,000GBP (Rs 9.47crore approx) on Tuesday. The auction was carried out by Sotheby’s in the United Kingdom. A description on the Sotheby’s website says, “The flask has a spherical gold body set with foil-backed emeralds in hexagonal settings, between thin dividing bands set with rubies.” The neck has with a white enamel ground, decorated with green leafy stems and slightly protruding gem-set flowerheads. The flask weighs 1281.8 gm and is 23.5cm. In its condition report, Sotheby’s says, “Overall (the flask is) in good condition, gems not tested (due to settings) but appear to be consistent with emeralds, rubies and a diamond, some of the gems with minor abrasions consistent with age, very few gems appear to have been replaced with a paste.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mughal-era-gold-flask-sold-for-rs-9cr/articleshow/78900298.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: EP Jayarajan and KT Jaleel to appear in court||KOCHI: The high court, on Tuesday, declined the government’s request to excuse personal appearance of two ministers allegedly involved in 2015 Legislative Assembly ruckus case before the trial court. Justice VG Arun didn’t accede to the government’s demand for excusing the appearance of ministers EP Jayarajan and KT Jaleel before CJM court at Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. On October 15, the CJM court had ordered the six accused persons in the case, which includes the two ministers, to appear before it. On Tuesday, the high court considered a petition (Crl. Rev. Pet. No. 641/2020) filed by the government challenging the CJM court’s order. The court told the government to let the trial proceedings continue and said that the high court is not interfering on the demand for excusing the ministers at this stage. The case was registered against LDF legislators alleging destruction of Legislative Assembly’s property while protesting presentation of 2015’s state budget by finance minister KM Mani. A final report was filed in the case in March 2016 naming six MLAs as accused in the case regarding destruction of public property worth Rs2.5 lakh. In 2018, state government had sought to withdraw prosecution in the case but it was turned down by the CJM court. On October 15, the four other accused, except the ministers, had appeared before CJM court and were granted bails. The CJM court had then directed the ministers to appear on October 28. The HC has now scheduled the case for further hearing on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jayarajan-jaleel-to-appear-in-court/articleshow/78901377.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB opposes Uday Simha’s discharge plea||HYDERABAD: ACB contended that Rudra Uday Simha, an accused in the cash-for-vote case, cannot be discharged from the case because he was among the three accused caught red-handed at the trap scene while they were trying to purchase a nominated MLA with Rs 50 lakh bribe on hand and Rs 5 crore more on promise. ACB special public prosecutor V Surender Rao told this to special judge Sambasiva Rao Naidu of ACB court, who was hearing the discharge plea of Rudra Udaya Simha.  Legislator A Revanth Reddy too was caught at the scene and was arrested for trying to bribe another MLA to vote for TDP’s nominee in the 2015 MLC elections. “If those caught on the spot too are discharged, then it becomes difficult for Anti-Corruption Bureau to get charges framed on other accused who were not there at the crime spot. In fact, a grave suspicion is enough for a trial court to frame charges and send the accused to trial where the veracity of charges would be put for strict scrutiny. At the stage of framing charges, probe agency need not provide all case history with evidence,” he said. The judge posted the case to Thursday for orders. Rudra was given time till Wednesday to put forth his argument. Judge would also hear discharge plea of another MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, another accused in the case, on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-opposes-uday-simhas-discharge-plea/articleshow/78900308.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pristine look for Pritzker winner’s Cept icon||Ahmedabad: The year was 1962 and the then 35-year-old B V Doshi, who had already worked with Le Corbusier and Louis Kahn, dreamed of a school for learning rather than teaching architecture. The result was School of Architecture (1966), the first building which later took the shape of Centre for Environmental Planning & Technology (Cept), and today Cept University.The building is considered one of the iconic creations by the Pritzker Prize winner Doshi, and is included in almost every major work on the architect’s oeuvre.Last week, Cept University officials announced that they will start structural repairs on the building, now identified as Faculty of Architecture (FA). “The building designed by Pritzker Prize winner and co-founder Prof B V Doshi was in dire need of structural repairs for the safety of its occupants,” said a social media post of the university. “The repairs are being carried out in order to conserve the building which is a stellar example of modern architecture in India. The work is expected to be completed by early next year.”Prof Jigna Desai, an expert in conservation and executive director of Centre for Heritage Conservation (CHC) at Cept University, will lead the conservation team. She said that it will be a textbook conservation project in which all norms will be followed.“As it’s a university-led project, it will be a great learning process for all involved, especially students,” she said. The project, which is taken up under the guidance of senior structural engineer Prof R J Shah, will also be an opportunity to understand the elements behind the design and construction, described by faculty members as ‘experimental’ and ‘modernist.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pristine-look-for-pritzker-winners-cept-icon/articleshow/78901391.cms||Parth Shastri
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Discharge me from Jagathicase: YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to CBI special court||HYDERABAD: Stating that CBI’s own chargesheet on investments in Jagathi Publications Private Ltd did not make out any criminal case against him, founder-chairman of Jagathi and AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday urged the CBI special court in Hyderabad to discharge him from this case. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy argued on behalf of the CM when principal special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao took up the discharge plea for hearing. CBI in its chargesheet said three investors — Avanindra Kumar Dandamudi, Madhav Ramachandra and TR Kannan — invested Rs 10 crore, Rs 19.65 crore and Rs 5 crore respectively in JPPL between 2007 and 2009. It said share value of JPPL was fixed at Rs 350 per share because Jagan’s auditor V Vijay Sai Reddy got it artificially hiked through Deloitte consulting firm.  As per CBI, three investors were misled into investing in Jagathi and they neither got any dividend nor any response from company after they made investments. Jagan’s counsel said that this chargesheet depicts shortcomings of CBI in understanding company law.  “No investor had named Jagan in their complaints nor any witness spoke about intervention of Jagan. None of their statements could establish any violation of company law either by Jagathi or Jagan. Jagathi is a company, it has an independent board and it is its prerogative to fix premium of its share,” he argued. Chargesheet wrongly interprets the Companies Act to say that a private limited company cannot get investments from other individuals, Niranjan Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/discharge-me-from-jagathicase-jagan-to-cbi-special-court/articleshow/78900314.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Corrupt officials let off: FGG||Hyderabad: The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has written a letter to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan seeking action after 20 corruption cases involving revenue officials have been closed without prosecution. Stating that a majority of revenue officials caught by the Anti Corruption Bureau have gone scot-free, FGG asked the governor to intervene and ensure that action is taken against the corrupt officials. The 20 officials include village revenue assistants, village revenue officers, revenue inspectors and tahsildars. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said they were basing this information on an RTI reply. He said a large number of corruption cases related to the revenue department were lying with the secretariat. “In most of the cases, permission to prosecute the accused is denied or sent to the commissioner of inquiries or for a departmental action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/corrupt-officials-let-off-fgg/articleshow/78900323.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Wait and watch, say experts, as West Bengal records dip in case load||KOLKATA: Fresh Covid cases in Bengal on Tuesday slipped below the 4,000-mark for the first time since October 20 and remained lowest since October 18. The state on Tuesday reported 3,957 cases and a positivity rate of 8.1%. This is also the lowest one-day number reported since October 18 when it had reported 3,983 cases. While experts hailed it as a positive sign, they warned that it could be a lull before a puja-induced surge that seems imminent. “There is a slight decline in the number of positive cases but this could be just a temporary phase that lasts one or two days. There is no reason to relax as far as testing is concerned because going by what we saw during the puja, we are probably headed for a spike. Going by the crowd on Friday and Saturday, we can expect the number to start rising very soon,” said Bhaskar Nayaran Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. Of the new cases, Kolkata reported 884 and North 24 Parganas 875 cases. The third highest cases were reported from South 24 Parganas, which had 249 new cases. But despite Kolkata and North 24 Parganas reporting the most cases, the discharge rates remained higher at these places with 987 people being discharged in Kolkata and 984 in North 24 Parganas. This reduced the active case load in these two high-prevalence zones. South 24 Parganas, on the other hand, which had reported significantly lesser cases than Kolkata and North 24 Parganas, added the most active Covid cases in the state on Tuesday - 217. Fifty-eight Covid deaths were reported in Bengal with Kolkata reporting 14 and North 24 Parganas 11. Over a third of the 6,604 Covid deaths in Bengal has happened in Kolkata (2,139) which has a significantly higher case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.7% compared to Bengal’s 1.8%. Even though demand for beds remains constant and Covid units occupied, private hospitals across Kolkata fear this status quo could be a lull before the post-puja surge in transmission that could see a scamper for admissions. Puja congregations, even though smaller in scale, is bound to trigger a spurt in numbers for which the city’s health infrastructure is not adequate, they pointed out. With most facilities having extended their Covid units a fortnight before the pujas, a saturation point has been reached, they said. While the waiting list of 12-14 remains unchanged at AMRI Hospitals, the authorities have been forced to refuse patients routinely over the last one month. “We haven’t yet seen a further surge but the existing flow is enough to keep our Covid units fully occupied. We are also being forced to assist critical patients’ families find beds in other hospitals since we have no vacancies. This could worsen in a few days when the puja impact is felt,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. Peerless Hospital had apprehended a greater rush during pujas. But there was no surge in demand, according to CEO Sudipta Mitra. “It was not as bad as we had feared. The rush continued, though and we could manage with 150 beds. But we are expecting things to worsen over the next few days and have kept 20 more beds ready. All our critical care beds are occupied,” said Mitra. Fortis Hospital had to refuse four patients on Monday since it remains full. While the hospital has extended its Covid capacity to 85 beds before pujas, there’s no more room for extension, said the authorities. At Medica, all 160 Covid beds remain taken up. “We must use our satellite facilities and hotel accommodations if there is a further surge,” said chairperson Alok Roy. At RN Tagore, Covid admissions remained unchanged from the pre-puja period. “There was no surge in Covid admissions during the pujas that we had feared,” said zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wait-and-watch-say-experts-as-state-records-dip-in-case-load/articleshow/78898926.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglars strike at farmer’s house||Hyderabad: Burglars broke into the house of a farmer at Shamshabad on Monday and escaped with Rs 3.1 lakh worth property. According to RGI Airport police, the offence took place at farmer M Srinivas Reddy’s house in Adarsh Nagar, Shamshabad on Monday. Srinivas Reddy along with his family members went to a relative’s house on Sunday night. Srinivas Reddy’s father Narsimha Reddy was alone at home. On Monday morning, Narasimha Reddy went to the farm and when he returned home around 6pm, noticed that the main door lock was broken. On entering the house, Narasimha Reddy noticed that almirahs and cupboards in the bedroom were open. He immediately informed Srinivas Reddy. After checking belongings in the house, Srinivas Redddy lodged a complaint with police stating that Rs 15,000 cash, gold ornaments, all worth Rs 3.15 lakh have been stolen by the offenders. Police registered a case under Sections 454 and 380 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglars-strike-at-farmers-house/articleshow/78900312.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre wants legal view on new Krishna tribunal||HYDERABAD: Union water resources ministry will seek legal opinion on whether a new tribunal has to be constituted or fresh terms of reference can be issued to Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal (KWDT)-II to hear water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The Centre will take a call only after Telangana withdraws the case pending in the Supreme Court on KWDT-II. It also decided to notify jurisdiction of Godavari Water Management Board (GWMB) and Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) despite disagreement by Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao during the Apex Council meeting held recently. Principal secretary, water resources department, Rajat Kumar confirmed that the state has received minutes of the meeting and they were studying it. “Most of the issues raised by the Telangana CM were incorporated in the minutes,” he said. Jal shakti ministry has circulated the minutes of the Apex Council meeting, held on October 6 in which Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat and chief ministers of Telangana and AP took part, to the two Telugu states. “For considering the request of Telangana for a tribunal under Section-3 of the Inter State River Water Disputes (ISRWD) Act of 1956, Telangana has to withdraw the case it has filed in the Supreme Court on the subject,” the minutes said. During the meeting and also in a letter to the ministry of water resources (MoWR) earlier, Chandrasekhar Rao had made a representation to the Centre on July 14, 2014 under Section 3 of the ISRWD Act of 1956, asking for an equitable allocation of Krishna water. Being the youngest state, it had a constitutional right to get a fair and equitable allocation of river water. After a year, Telangana approached the apex court. KCR argued, during the meeting, that the working arrangement between the two states was still continuing and until and unless water sharing was finalized by the tribunal, the question of notification of jurisdiction of board should not arise. He also stated that the tribunal matter was pending in SC and sub-judice. Hence on this account also the jurisdiction matter cannot be deliberated. “The Telangana CM expressed his disagreement on this (declaration of jurisdiction of GWMB and KRMB). However, the Union minister clarified that it is the Centre’s prerogative for such notification as per the AP Reorganisation Act (APRA) 2014 and the same will be notified as per the express mandate of the APRA 2014,” MoWR under-secretary AC Mallick said in the minutes. “The jurisdiction of both GWMB and KRMB is requried for their effective functioning,” MoWR opined. MoWR also claimed that both the states have agreed for setting up a Godavari tribunal for adjudicating on sharing Godavari water between AP and Telangana. The Telangana CM said he would send the request immediately for constituting a tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-wants-legal-view-on-new-krishna-tribunal/articleshow/78900322.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 28, 2020||Amaravati||Discharge me from Jagathicase: YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to CBI special court||HYDERABAD: Stating that CBI’s own chargesheet on investments in Jagathi Publications Private Ltd did not make out any criminal case against him, founder-chairman of Jagathi and AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday urged the CBI special court in Hyderabad to discharge him from this case. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy argued on behalf of the CM when principal special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao took up the discharge plea for hearing. CBI in its chargesheet said three investors — Avanindra Kumar Dandamudi, Madhav Ramachandra and TR Kannan — invested Rs 10 crore, Rs 19.65 crore and Rs 5 crore respectively in JPPL between 2007 and 2009. It said share value of JPPL was fixed at Rs 350 per share because Jagan’s auditor V Vijay Sai Reddy got it artificially hiked through Deloitte consulting firm.  As per CBI, three investors were misled into investing in Jagathi and they neither got any dividend nor any response from company after they made investments. Jagan’s counsel said that this chargesheet depicts shortcomings of CBI in understanding company law.  “No investor had named Jagan in their complaints nor any witness spoke about intervention of Jagan. None of their statements could establish any violation of company law either by Jagathi or Jagan. Jagathi is a company, it has an independent board and it is its prerogative to fix premium of its share,” he argued. Chargesheet wrongly interprets the Companies Act to say that a private limited company cannot get investments from other individuals, Niranjan Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/discharge-me-from-jagathicase-jagan-to-cbi-special-court/articleshow/78905195.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Free NEET coaching for students affected by floods and Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Students seeking admission into medical courses, whose families have been affected by floods or have succumbed to Covid-19, will be provided free admission in Shaheen Academy for NEET coaching. Addressing a press conference along with NEET toppers and their parents here on Tuesday morning, founder and chairman, Shaheen Group of Institutions Dr Abdul Khadeer announced that any student who has qualified for free medical seat in any government medical college of India but has limited financial resources will be assisted financially to pursue higher education. “The Shaheen Group of Institutions has also announced educational scholarships worth Rs 5 crore for Shaheen students across its 42 branches throughout India. The scholarship is aimed at helping students whose studies are affected due to financial limitations of their family", said Dr Khadeer. He said that the Covid-19-induced lockdown has affected the ability of impoverished families to educate their children", he added. He also expressed concern over the declining number of boys in higher education, adding that the "trend could tarnish the social fabric and disrupt the balance of the society". He also expressed concern over the vanishing of boys’ section in certain institutes and warned that the trend could be dangerous in the future. NEET Toppers who studied at the Institution including Karthik Reddy who secured first rank in Karnataka State and 9th at All India level with 710 of 720 marks, Mohammed Arbaaz Khan who secured third in Karnataka and 85th rank at national level with 700 of 720 marks shared their success stories while interacting with the media. Dr Khadeer also announced that the educational group will launch Shaheen Civil Services Academy this year, which will offer integrated coaching for civil services right from school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/free-neet-coaching-for-students-affected-by-floods-and-covid-19/articleshow/78900317.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists say man they killed was informer||Hyderabad: The Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Monday claimed that Eshwar, who was allegedly a mole in their ranks, was killed on Sunday as a punishment for helping police personnel shoot down a couple of Maoist cadre on September 7. CPI (Maoist) Bhadradri-Kothagudem-East Godavari divisional committee secretary Azad, in a letter, said that Eshwar was sent as a mole by Special Intelligence Bureau (SIB), an anti-naxal wing of Telangana Intelligence, to become part of Maoist party. “He came in contact with us to help in providing logistics. Constantly he has been sharing the information about CPI Maoist to police. On September 7, two Maoists - Srinu and Ithula- were called by Eshwar to receive some logistics but Eshwar came their along with police, who killed both the Maoists. So, Eshwar was given the death sentence,’’ the letter said. The Maoists said the TRS government and SIB officials were responsible for Eshwar’s death. They also warned people to face the same consequence if they work against Communist Party of India (Maoist). Meanwhile, Telangana police alleged that Eshwar was a courier to important leaders for Telangana Maoist State Committee. Since he refused to become member of dalam, Eshwar was killed. Kothagudem police also requested locals not to support Maoists in any form and persons who support will face strict action as per the law. The police had claimed Eshwar was a courier for the Maoists. A TRS worker was killed in Mulugu on Ocotber 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-say-man-they-killed-was-informer/articleshow/78900331.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Covid claims 5 more docs during Puja, health workers keep up fight||Kolkata: Bengal lost five more doctors to Covid-19 when the rest of the state was celebrating Durga Puja this year. According to various doctors’ organizations in the state, the number of doctors who died after contracting the virus is close to 70 now. The latest one to succumb to Covid-19 infection is Amal Roy, who was posted at Suri District Hospital. The 57-year-old was actively involved in treatment of Covid patients. After testing positive, he was being treated at the Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. According to sources, the doctor wanted to be in home isolation and signed a risk bond to go home. But his condition deteriorated at home and he died on Tuesday morning. The other four were gynaecologist Dilip Bhattachrya of Memari, general practitioner Saibal Dasgupa at Behala, ESI (MB) retired doctor Dilip Biswas and Sujan Mitra, a former medicine specialist at Calcutta National Medical College. “It is really painful to see so many doctors and other healthcare professionals losing their battle to Covid,” said general surgeon Manas Gumta of the Association of Health Service Doctors. While the city was decked up for the festivity and some even indulged in pandal-hopping, this Puja was a stressful time for the frontline workers in hospitals. Many, especially those involved in Covid care, took no off so that patients were attended to. “With more than 140 Covid patients in our hospital and 26 admitted under the Covid team of four senior consultants, all of us had to come to hospital during the Puja,” said tropical medicine and infectious diseases specialist Chadramouli Bhattacharya of Peerless Hospital. “We had a hectic schedule in dealing with Covid suspected or positive cases and also counselling patients in home isolation. Luckily, we did not get accident cases this year else the workload could have been doubled,” said Nishant Aggarwal, the emergency unit in-charge at Charnock Hospital. The likes of Parmial Haldar, a house keeping staff at Fortis Hospital, did not take a day off to ensure cleanliness of Covid wards. “I had a tough time convincing my two kids why I had to go to hospital even during Durga Puja,” said Haldar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-claims-5-more-docs-during-puja-health-workers-keep-up-fight/articleshow/78898933.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Students flay UoH move on fee||Hyderabad: The University of Hyderabad’s move seeking a prescribed admission fee from shortlisted candidates for masters/integrated courses has come under fire from the student community. This year, instead of publishing the main list and waiting list, the university has published an exhaustive counselling list for its courses and has asked all the shortlisted candidates to pay the fees by October 30. The administration has stated that the fees will be refunded if a candidate is not allotted a seat. “We have to close the admissions by November 9. Therefore, instead of having second or third list, we have adopted the counselling system. Counselling is being conducted only for courses which have relatively less fee of up to Rs5,000. Admissions for four courses such as MBA which have fees of above Rs 60,000 will continue to have wait list,” said Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson, UoH. The university said the amount will be refunded within three to four days of finalising the admissions. Despite this, collection of fees from all shortlisted candidates is being questioned. “Without being admitted to a course, how and why a candidate must pay course fees? Considering the difference between the number of vacancies and the number of shortlisted candidates which is huge indeed, forcing every candidate to pay the fees is atrocious,” reads a representation submitted by the UoH students union to the controller of examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-flay-uoh-move-on-fee/articleshow/78900330.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Natural flow blocked, rainwater settled in colonies||HYDERABAD: The recent floods that brought Hyderabad to its knees has put the spotlight back on a major concern looming large over the city – continuous choking of its water bodies through rapid construction activity. A map developed by researchers at Hyderabad Urban Lab (HUL), further highlights the magnitude of the problem. Created through QGIS — an open source platform that allows for analysis of geospatial data — the map shows the lake and water channel network of Hyderabad and how, originally, water from tanks at a higher elevation flowed into tanks at lower elevation via nalas. The water, eventually, flowed into the river. A close look at the map reveals that many of these tanks have multiple channels branching out of them and flowing in different directions. While some of these channels are active, others are dormant and do not have water in them when there isn't enough rainfall. In case of excess rains (such as the recent showers), though, water overflows into these dormant streams too, leading to flooding in areas that are otherwise dry. “That explains why many pockets of the city, which usually do not have a problem of flooding, saw water overflowing outside their homes this time around,” said Kabeer Arora, architect and urban designer who developed the map. This map, when seen together with the second set of satellite images – of the area around Durgam Cheruvu and Gurram Cheruvu – tells the disconcerting story. It establishes how large-scale construction has taken place all around and over these streams, often very close to the water bodies, blocking their natural flow. Result: urban flooding with no space left for lakes to contract and expand according to season. Incidentally, areas around Gurram Cheruvu that breached during the recent rains, were among the worst affected in the city. “As is typical of a city with unchecked growth, people in Hyderabad too have built boundary walls along slopes (going downwards). As a result, the water that could drain onto the slopes now flood onto the roads. This is a result of planning norms that do not respect the region’s topography,” explained architect Srinivas Murthy adding how Vaastu too has a role to play here. “In Hyderabad, it is considered unlucky to have the water channel facing south. So, in most cases a retaining wall is built on that side. That disrupts the water network,” he added Irrigation officials admit to this being a major issue. “If the channels were not blocked, water would have receded much faster without causing so much damage,” said an engineer from the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/natural-flow-blocked-rainwater-settled-in-colonies/articleshow/78900329.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||4 missing after jeep falls into 50-ft agricultural well||Warangal: Four persons are feared dead after a jeep ferrying fourteen people fell into a 50-feet agricultural well on Tuesday. The incident took place at Gavicherla in Sangem mandal in the evening. Rescue workers will work into the night to extract the four missing persons from the well. Revenue staff are removing water from the well. The victims were going from Warangal railway station to Nekkonda mandal when the accident took place. On hearing a loud noise when the jeep fell, passers by called for assistance and rescued ten passengers. Four are missing. The accident occurred when the vehicle’s driver got an epileptic fit and lost control. Rescue operations are underway to help the missing persons. Professional swimmers have been deployed to find them. Several villagers gathered around the spot after the accident. Many played an active role in the rescue work and pulled out 10 of the 14 people who were in the ill-fated car. According to G Shyamsunder, ACP Mamnoor, the jeep started from Warangal railway station at 3.45 pm and reached Gavicherla at 5.30 pm after dropping a few passengers in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-missing-after-jeep-falls-into-50-ft-agricultural-well/articleshow/78900333.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Theft in ATM by switching off power||AHMEDABAD: A manager of a private bank on Monday filed a complaint against two persons alleging that they switched off the ATM just seconds before the cash was ejected from the machine in the Gota area of city. This way, they got the money while the amount was not debited from the account, said an official of Sola police. According to a complaint filed by Manish Rai, 43, manager with Canara Bank in Sola, 24 transactions had taken place between September 24 and October 1 where cash dispensed from the ATM machine but had not debited from the account holder’s bank balance. When Rai checked the CCTV footages of the ATM, he found three men suspicious in the case. He found that two of them entered in the ATM and one stood outside. Two men started transaction and when the cash was about to be ejected, one of them switched off the machine. Watch Theft in ATM by switching off power in Ahmedabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/theft-in-atm-by-switching-off-power/articleshow/78901396.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Law enforcement highest in 2020 compared to last 4 yrs||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh police saw a significant spike in enforcement of special and local laws (SLL) in 2020 as compared to the last four years, reveal latest police data. For instance, number of cases filed under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985 January to September saw a 17% rise this year compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Case numbers in 2020 are at a four-year-high with ganja being the most-seized substance. Elsewhere, police have cracked down on illegal transportation and sale of banned gutka products with enforcement under Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act seeing a 23% jump this year compared to 2019. Meanwhile, the number of cases booked against illegal gambling rackets under the AP Gaming Act, 1974 saw a spike of 59% compared to last year. The most prevalent enforcement activity of the police this year has involved the curbing of illegal transportation and sale of liquor from other states. Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has booked as many as 46,590 cases and arrested 57,901 persons in a bid to curb illegal liquor sales in the state. The SEB has also conducted drives against illegal sand mining and transportation and filed 4,660 cases while arresting 8,877 persons involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/law-enforcement-highest-in-2020-compared-to-last-4-yrs/articleshow/78898396.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Post-showers, tourists flock to a brimming Cumbum tank||ONGOLE: Brimming with water after several decades, the Cumbum tank is now drawing tourists from several districts. The tank, located between the hills, is drawing flood waters from Gudlakamma and Jampaleru rivers flowing from Nallamala forests. Cumbum is the biggest irrigation tank in the country and is considered the second biggest tank in Asia. It is believed to have been be developed by Vijayanagara King Sri Krishnadevarayalu’s wife Varadharajamma, also known as Ruchi Devi, in 15th century. Due to the massive floods and heavy rains witnessed in the last fortnight, the tank is brimming with water. Locals were jubilant after seeing the tank reaching its full capacity of nearly 3.5 tmc. The water reached full capacity to 25ft and authorities are readying to release water to the ayucut. About 20,000 acres in Giddalur constituency are dependent on waters from the tank. With the tank rarely full, farmers in the area have struggled with cultivation. Cumbum tank is also the biggest source of drinking water for 19 villages in Cumbum and Bestavaripet mandals. According to Shaik Ayub, a resident of Cumbum, the tank was filled only eight times in the last 100 years. District collector Pola Bhaskar and MLA Anna Rambabu visited the tank and gave approval for more developmental works. Rambabu said they would develop the area as a tourist spot by setting up a park and providing other infrastructure. The collector directed officials to ready proposals for modernisation of irrigation canals under Cumbum tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/post-showers-tourists-flock-to-a-brimming-cumbum-tank/articleshow/78898425.cms||Samdani MN
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Wear a mask even if you’re alone in car, on bike, says BBMP in new rules||BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Tuesday issued new rules that make it mandatory for all motorists, including those travelling solo in cars or on motorcycles, to wear masks. Failure to comply will result in a penalty of Rs 250. The rules, which come seven months after the pandemic, are aimed at clearing confusion on when and where to wear masks and to reduce the spread of Covid infection. An order to this effect was issued by BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad. According to the rules, wearing of mask is mandatory when a person is driving alone in a four-wheeler with windows rolled up, when there are other occupants in the car, when the vehicle stops at traffic signals and when the rider is alone on a bike. The order stated that wearing of mask is compulsory when two or more persons are engaged in a face-to-face conversation, in close and confined places with poor ventilation, in crowded places and in close-contact settings where many people have close conversations. The order also specifies what type of mask should be worn in different settings and by whom. Prasad said: “Covid is a viral infection that is predominantly transmitted through respiratory droplets while coughing, sneezing and speaking. Widespread and proper use of appropriate facemasks in a community is known to prevent spread of infection.” He pointed that the Covid positivity rate in the city is declining and added: “We need to continue this trend. It’s very imperative there should not be any room for complacency and the same tempo is maintained. One of the most important factors that enables BBMP to bring down positivity rate is strict enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour among citizens, which includes wearing masks and maintaining social distance.” The order exempts children below five years from wearing masks. “This is motivated by a ‘do-no-harm’ approach and considers childhood developmental milestones, compliance challenges and autonomy required to use a mask properly. However, the order is silent on wearing masks while jogging, running and brisk walking on pavements and public parks and gyms. Though some medical experts suggest that masks should not be worn while jogging, the BBMP order, which is based on recommendations of a technical advisory committee, has not elaborated on it. The circular also doesn’t mention what one should do while in yoga classes or gyms. Stay safe while running * When a person is running or jogging, the mask can be lowered. But when the person meets someone or joins a crowd or is speaking to someone, the mask must be worn properly. Dr C N Manjunath | chairperson, Covid experts’ committee * While at a yoga centre or a gym, physical distancing must be followed. Exemption in mask usage while exercising comes with conditions that participants show no symptoms of Covid and wear masks while talking to each other. Prof MK Sudarshan | chairperson, technical advisory committee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wear-a-mask-even-if-youre-alone-in-car-on-bike-bbmp/articleshow/78898835.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Stalker-producer stabs actress on busy road in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 29-year-old model-turned-actress, Malvi Malhotra, was allegedly stabbed in the stomach by a producer, who had been stalking her for months, on a busy road in Versova around 9pm on Monday. Yogesh Kumar Singh (26) also allgedly tried to slash the face of Malhotra, who has acted in TV series ‘Udaan’ and film ‘Hotel Milan’. She was rushed to Kokilaben hospital where her condition is reported to be stable. Police sources said Malhotra was walking home after a work meeting when Singh accosted her and asked her to get into his car. When she refused, he threatened to kill her and also end his life. “Singh pulled out a knife from his pocket and stabbed her. He tried to slash her face, but she shielded it due to which she ended up suffering injuries on both hands. She has suffered three deep injuries for which she will need to undergo surgery. Singh has been following her for one year,” Atul Patel, a family friend of Malhotra, told TOI. She had returned from a photo shoot in Dubai just a day before the attack. The incident took place barely 3 km from Versova police station. Locals, who witnessed the attack, alerted police. Malhotra, who has also featured in a few Malayalam and Telugu films as well as advertisements, got acquainted with the accused, who introduced himself as a producer, after she accepted his friend request on social media in 2019. In her police complaint, Malhotra has said, “I met Singh in January to discuss a music video he was producing. He later proposed marriage. When I stopped talking to him and blocked him on social media, he got annoyed. He used to wait outside my building for hours. I was returning home on Monday when he waylaid me and asked me to get into his car. When I refused, he stepped out and stabbed me. Singh then fled in his car.” Malhotra, who hails from Himachal Pradesh, moved to Mumbai seven years ago. Her parents learnt about the incident after a local resident informed them. “I rushed to the hospital after Malvi’s father, who is a friend, called me up,” said Patel. A case under IPC sections for stalking and attempt to murder has been registered against Singh. Police have launched a search for him. (With inputs from S Ahmed Ali) Watch Actress Malvi Malhotra stabbed thrice by a producer in Mumbai, rushed to hospital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/stalker-producer-stabs-actress-on-busy-road/articleshow/78901851.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
October 28, 2020||Surat||Navsari Civil Hospital surgeon detained||SURAT: The in-charge civil surgeon of Navsari Civil Hospital and two staff nurses were detained on Tuesday on charges of abetting suicide of a young nurse. The police also detained her estranged husband and mother-in-law. Megha Acharya, 28, a staff nurse, had hanged from the ceiling fan at her residence in Vejalpore town. Police had recovered a four-and-a-half-page suicide note from the spot, mentioning the names of seniors whom she accused of tormenting her sexually and mentally for a long time. Her mother Minaxi Acharya had lodged a complaint against five people including the in-charge civil surgeon, Dr Avinash Dubey, two head nurses — Tara Gamit and Vanita Patel — besides Megha’s husband, Ankit Khambhati and his mother Jayshree. In her complaint, the mother alleged that her daughter had parted ways with her husband a year ago after the in-laws started demanding dowry and tortured her mentally. She was also facing mental and sexual harassment by her seniors at the workplace, she alleged. HK Rana, deputy superintendent of police (DySP), Navsari told TOI “We have detained the in-charge civil surgeon, husband of the deceased and mother-in-law. The civil surgeon is accused of sexually and mentally harassing her. The other two hospital staffers named in the FIR are yet to be arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/navsari-civil-hosp-surgeon-detained/articleshow/78897923.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Higher edu council moots blended learning model||VISAKHAPATNAM: After the unprecedented campus shutdowns for almost seven months due to Covid-19, the state universities, engineering colleges and other higher educational institutions in the state are likely to reopen from November 2. The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) prepared a tentative academic calendar to start the new academic year from November 2 and sent those proposals for the approval of the state government. As per AICTE guidelines, the last date of admissions for first year engineering courses has been extended to November 30. The last date of commencement of classes for first year students is December 1. As per the APSCHE’s proposals, the final exams for almost all courses would begin from August 9, 2021 by commencing the even semester classes from March 25, 2021. Exams for the odd semesters will be conducted in March, 2021. APSCHE chairman Professor K Hemachandra Reddy said that a blended learning model would be adopted by the higher educational institutions by having only one-third of the students on the campuses and colleges at any given point of time. “The proposed blended learning model, 10 days of in-person lessons and 20 days of online learning, would be ideally placed to overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic. After completion of 10 days of instruction, students of that batch will leave the campus and hostels to facilitate conventional face-to-face learning for the next one-third of the students,” Reddy said. The chairman added that complete learning material and assignments would be provided for the next 20 days of online learning. “They will also be monitored online on a day-to-day basis. The institutions can plan the classroom instruction as per their available infrastructural facilities,” said Professor Reddy and added that online classes will be facilitated throughout the semester to ensure access to those students who are unable to attend classroom instruction. “All Covid-19 precautions and safety measures should be adhered by the institutions as well as the faculty, staff and students not only during the running of these higher educational institutions, but also before reopening of these institutions,” said the APSCHE chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/higher-edu-council-moots-blended-learning-model/articleshow/78898383.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Six ‘Tad Patri’ gang men booked under GujCTOC||Rajkot: Surendranagar police on Tuesday invoked the stringent The Gujarat Control of Terorism and Organized Crime (GujCTOC) Act six members ‘Tad Patri (tarpaulin)’ gang that is notorious for looting goods from running trucks on the highways. Six of the 13 members of the gang were booked as they are involved in serious crimes like murder, attempt to murder, gangrape, kidnapping, robbery, extortion and other offences under Arms Act and Prohibition Act. The local crime branch (LCB) detained Firoz Jatmalek (26), Mohammed alias Rajbha Jatmalek (45), Harpalsinh alias Kalubha Zala (29), Amjit Khan Jatmalek (32), Siraj Khan Jatmalek (28), Shabbir Hussain Saiyyed (50). Seven others are yet to be arrested. These six persons were involved in managing the vehicles for highway robbery, carrying out the recce of the location, and selling the robbed goods in the market and to other people helping them. The gang mainly executed the crimes on the 180 km stretch between Maliya and Sanand on the Ahmedabad-Kutch highway. The gang members were arrested in the past separately in various offences and then released on bail too. “After coming out of jail, they again resorted to their criminal activities, which had created a terror among transporters and traders who lost their valuable goods,” said Dipak Dhol, police inspector, LCB. Dhol said the gang’s network is spread in Surendranagar, Ahmedabad rural, Rajkot rural, Morbi, Botad, Mehsana and Banaskantha districts. Police haved warned that anyone found helping this gang, giving them shelter or purchasing the robbed goods would also face stringent action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-tad-patri-gang-men-booked-under-gujctoc/articleshow/78898807.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||SC issues notice to govt, TDP on Amaravati office||Vijayawada: The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notices to the state government and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) to file counter affidavits within three weeks on land allocation made for the construction of TDP office in Amaravati region. The three-judge bench headed by Justice Nariman heard the petition filed by Mangalagiri legislator Alla Ramakrishna Reddy challenging land allocation for the construction of TDP’s office. Earlier, the petitioner had moved the AP high court challenging the allocation of rivulet catchment land to the Telugu Desam Party under lease for 99 years. The high court dismissed the petition. The petitioner then moved the apex court seeking cancellation of the lease. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sc-issues-notice-to-govt-tdp-on-amaravati-office/articleshow/78898440.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University members want Promarc ousted from online exams||Nagpur: Even after Amravati University (AU) blacklisted Promarc Software Limited for inept handling of its online exams, the top brass of Nagpur University (NU) continues to shield the firm despite a series of technical blunders. According to officials as well as past and present statutory members, even Gondwana University (GU) discontinued its seven-year contract with the Nagpur firm for “pathetic service”. Officials disclosed that even a tender wasn’t floated before the contract for the MCQ tests was awarded to the firm which operates from Ramdaspeth. As a result, NU’s experiment with online exams turned out to be a big disaster with its officials and members squarely pinning the blame on the company. A majority of over 75,000 final year students continue to face some problem or the other while appearing for the exams. Since October 8, on most days either the ‘Pariksha App’ developed by Promarc crashed or its server in Hyderabad developed snags forcing most of the students to take a re-exam. Even top officials, including vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and board of examination and evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable are facing flak for backing the software firm. Refuting allegations, a senior Promarc official told TOI that AU blacklisted the firm without any official communication. The firm will challenge AU’s move in court as its Rs50,000 deposit was also seized. “Show us any university which isn’t facing problems in online exams. Even reputed ones like Mumbai and Pune are facing several technical glitches and their exams are being rescheduled. Not a single company which is conducting MCQ exams online for the first time has been successful. In fact, NU has managed to successfully conduct most of its exams,” said the official. Defending Promarc, BOEE director Sable said NU didn’t face any major difficulty and hence, the issue of terminating the company’s contract does not arise. “All universities are facing technical glitches. In fact, NU’s position is far better than the others. We did have some difficulties and exams were cancelled, but we successfully re-conducted them with the help of the firm. Since such exams are being held for the first time, problems are bound to occur,” he said. The Promarc official added that the entire procedure, right from developing the app to conducting the exams, was being carried out without a penny being charged to the university. “Since NU is our alma mater, we always do our best to serve it well and that’s the reason why we don’t charge a premium for our other services. A team of 20 is in place and we need to pay them their salaries. Initially, even when we started online evaluation, we did it free of charge. NU didn’t call for a tender as it would have delayed the exams further. We had the entire data of students and so, we needed little time to complete the procedure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-university-members-want-promarc-ousted-from-online-exams/articleshow/78900411.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Congress man held for hurling slipper towards deputy CM||VADODARA: A man from Shinor taluka of Vadodara was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly hurling a slipper at deputy chief minister (CM) Nitin Patel while he was addressing media persons at Kurali village in Karjan taluka of Vadodara district on Monday. The man identified as Rashmin Patel was arrested by the local crime branch of Vadodara rural police on Tuesday evening. Vadodara rural superintendent of police Dr Sudir Desai said, “He (Rashmin) is a Congress party's worker.” Police said he was booked under Sections 153 (provoking riots), 336 (endangering life and personal safety of others) and 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, besides relevant sections of the Representation of the People Act and Gujarat Police Act. The offence was registered at the Karjan police station, based on a complaint given by Yogesh Patel, a BJP worker living in Karjan. Yogesh stated in his complaint that while the deputy CM was addressing media after finishing his speech at a public gathering, an unidentified person hurled a slipper at him which apparently fell on the microphones of the television news channels. He alleged that the slipper was lobbed intentionally to provoke people, to create an atmosphere of fear and harm the deputy CM. Patel was in the village to address a public meeting for the byelections to Karjan assembly seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/congress-man-held-for-hurling-slipper-towards-deputy-cm/articleshow/78898940.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Agra||Tundla bypoll: Slogans against Union minister over lack of development||Agra: Union minister and Fatehpur MP Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti faced opposition from locals over lack of development while she was addressing a rally for the by-election to Tundla assembly seat in Firozabad district on Tuesday. The minister was addressing a rally in favour of BJP candidate Prempal Dhangar when some people raised slogans against her alleging lack of development in the parliamentary constituency of Fatehpur, which is represented by her.The people also alleged that she did not visit her constituency to hear the grievances of the people. While leaving the place, the MoS for rural development gave the assurance that for their plea (of development).Earlier, Jyoti addressed the gathering where she said the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi had constituted a National OBC Commission and that the BJP has worked for everyone irrespective of their caste and background.The Tundla assembly seat in Firozabad fell vacant following the resignation of former UP minister SP Singh Baghel after he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Agra.Polling will be held on November 3 and the results will be declared on November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/tundla-bypoll-slogans-against-union-minister-over-lack-of-development/articleshow/78897892.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: 8 IMK workers held under National Securities Act for vandalising cemetery||TIRUNELVELI: Tirunelveli city police have detained eight Indu Makkal Katchi (IMK) cadres under the National Securities Act (NSA) for vandalising the cemetery of a church, its compound wall and crosses on a few tombstones at Thatchanallur in the city on October 18. The attack on Sacred Heart Church cemetery at Udayarpatti posed a threat to communal harmony and resulted in protests by the Catholic Church. Thatchanallur police registered a case against 10 people under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 297 (trespassing), 427 (mischief causing damage), 294(b) (reciting obscenities in a public place), 353(A) (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant) and 506(ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Police arrested eight people were arrested, while one man obtained anticipatory bail and search is on for the one more accused. The Arrested include prime accused and IMK district secretary Udaiyar and his accomplices Muruganandham, Shankar, Sabari Rajan, Ayyappan, Chairmandurai, Kandhan, Radhakrishnan and Subramanain. They were remended in judicial custody and is lodged in Nanguneri sub-jail. Considering the veracity of the offence, Tirunelveli city police commission Deepak M Damoor passed orders to detain the eight people under NSA on the recommendations of deputy commissioner (law and order) S Saravanan. The order was served to the accused at the sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-imk-workers-held-under-nsa-for-vandalising-cemetery/articleshow/78901426.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Fight over loud music leaves 1 dead, 2 hurt in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 29-year-old man was killed while two of his brothers were injured after they got into a fight with their neighbours over playing loud music in Adarsh Nagar of northwest Delhi on Tuesday afternoon. Police have apprehended four men, including a juvenile, for the murder. The deceased was identified as Sushil Chand, a resident of Sarai Pipal Thala in Adarsh Nagar. According to police, the accused were apparently playing loud music, which triggered the brawl following which they attacked the victims with a knife. However, probe was on to ascertain the exact sequence of events, they added. Additional DCP (North West) Vikram Meena said “The two have been neighbours for a long time. The investigation is under way and statements of both the parties will be examined.” Police said a call regarding the fight was received around 3.15pm. When the cops reached the spot, they found that a quarrel had taken place between the two neighbours and three injured men had been taken to a hospital. One of them, Sushil Chand, died while his brothers, Sushil and Anil, are undergoing treatment. A case was later registered at the Mahendra Park police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fight-over-loud-music-leaves-1-dead-2-hurt/articleshow/78900465.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||TRP ‘scamster’ says was paid by Republic: Mumbai Police||MUMBAI: Mumbai police on Tuesday said in a press release that one of the arrested suspects in the TRP manipulation scam has confessed he has been accepting money from Republic TV and News Nation to distribute among households which were asked to keep certain channels on. The accused, Abhishek Kolwade, who runs a marketing firm named Max Media was the 10th person arrested in the case. The release said, “The tenth person arrested is a resident of Thane. During the course of the investigation, he has confessed that he has been accepting money from at least two news channels (Republic and News Nation) and used to pay certain households through his associates.” Two of his associates were arrested earlier, the release said. Three other channels—Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi and Maha Movie— are also being probed for inflating viewership figures. The press release said investigations have revealed a money trail between a Hansa group company and ARG Outlier Media Private Ltd, the company operating Republic TV. According to police, these “transactions” with “suspect channels” was not revealed to the special investigation team (SIT) by “any of the witnesses from any of the Hansa Group companies.” Republic has countered the allegation saying the payment made by Hansa Vision to Republic is in lieu of on-air advertising done for the period October 2017 to October 2018. “These facts are completely legitimate and in the open, backed by way of documentation for every transaction relating to it. Advertising contracts and payments thereby are a norm in the broadcast news industry, and not an illegality.” Hansa has been contracted by Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC) to install bar-o-meters in homes across the country to track viewership. In Mumbai, some households where the meters were installed have accepted that they have been paid for keeping certain channels on, police said. Police said a team of forensic auditors have been roped in to assist the SIT in the probe into manipulation of viewership figures by channels in order to get extract better rates for advertisements. Police said many of the arrested suspects and some wanted accused were employees of Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, who have misused confidential data entrusted to them. This was done to benefit the channels under probe and resulted in losses to advertisers and their agencies, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-scamster-says-was-paid-by-republic-police/articleshow/78901865.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Monsoon bids adieu to Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The southwest monsoon withdrew from Gujarat on October 26, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials on Tuesday. This was the second consecutive year in which the state recorded 1,000mm-plus rainfall. It was also the third year in the past five in which 100%-plus rainfall was received, revealed figures released by the State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) under the state government’s GSDMA. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that the monsoon receded from Gujarat after the last of the rain spells in October. “While the analysis of the rainfall pattern is still on, almost all regions of Gujarat received ample rainfall. The year witnessed more active systems compared to last year,” he said. It was a landmark year for Kutch and Saurashtra regions that witnessed record rainfall in several areas. Compared to the average 412mm annual rainfall for Kutch, it got 1,162mm. Likewise, all 11 districts of Saurashtra region recorded 100%-plus rainfall. Devbhoomi Dwarka recorded 351% of the seasonal rain, followed by 226% in Porbandar and Jamnagar. In all, compared to the average 677mm rainfall, Saurashtra region received 1,250 mm, which was 85% more than the average. Among the regions, only East-Central Gujarat received less than 100% rainfall this year, with Dahod receiving the least at 78% of the annual average, followed by 93% in Mahisagar and Vadodara districts. Experts pointed out that the rainfall in late September and early October had damaged some crops, especially in north Gujarat region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monsoon-bids-adieu-to-state/articleshow/78900393.cms||Parth Shastri
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Nationalism abusing history often, says Romila Thapar||KOCHI: Nationalism often abuses history by using it as a propaganda tool and historians should stand up and say that such attempts do not portray true history, said eminent historian Romila Thapar. She was addressing the first session of Meet the Historian programme held online by Kerala History Congress on Tuesday. "Just like Eric Hobsbawm rightly said, ‘History is to nationalism what poppy is to an opium addict’. What we are witnessing today is the wild suggestions that are made of the past without reliable evidence. It is an abusive history. So, historians have to take it silently or stand up and say this is not history as it has no historical inclination or reliable, logical or rational evidence. Consequently, this abuse of history will continue until intelligent reading by public happens and they understand that this is not the history we actually had and it can be debated," said Thapar. She added that the big change that should have been brought in by secular nationalism after Independence was that every citizen had equal status and rights. But it did not happen in practice over the past 70 years sufficiently and what happens now is the revival of the colonial idea of two nation theory- the Hindu and Muslim nations, she said. The session was attended by several historians, teachers and student and it was led by historians Kesavan Veluthat and Rajan Gurukkal. "Meet the Historian programme aims at exploring the thought world of historians who have substantially contributed to the field of historiography and set high standards. Kerala History Congress has identified such scholars from all over the world and will interact with them for understanding their methodology and methods of historical research. The upcoming sessions will feature eminent professors like Rajan Gurukkal, Joanna Bourke, Mridula Mukherjee, Aditya Mukherjee, Neeladri Bhattacharya, Kesavan Veluthat among others," said Sebastian Joseph, general secretary of Kerala History Congress. Kerala History Congress is a registered organization of historians, students, teachers and researchers drawn from Kerala and different parts of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nationalism-abusing-history-often-says-romila-thapar/articleshow/78901410.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Record losses this Durga Puja may hit next year’s budget||KOLKATA: Most Durga Puja organizers are set to register a record deficit in their books this year following a substantial dip in revenue from advertisement and sponsorship. This will impact next year’s Durga Puja even if the threat of the novel coronavirus blows away and the economy is back on the recovery path. Durga Puja organizers say at least a quarter of them who do theme Pujas will certainly opt out next year due to the financial condition and the situation may get even more grave if the pandemic persists. Then, less than a dozen organizers will consider roping in artists to do themes. Partho Ghosh, secretary of Sib Mandir Durga Puja and founder of the Forum for Durgotsav, says even if the pandemic is controlled, the financial crisis that most Puja committees will find themselves in will take at least two years of corporate funding to overcome. “Usually, puja committees carry over a budget deficit on to the next year. This gets adjusted with the next year’s income from subscription, sponsorships, advertisements, partnerships and stall rentals. This year, puja committees have reduced the budget by 50%-70%. But even that is difficult to meet as subscription and sponsorships have both been hit by the lockdown. Many organizers will opt for simple pandals to cut down on investment,” said Ghosh. At Kumartuli Sarbojanin Durgotsav in north Kolkata, the organizers could manage sponsorship for only four gates instead of 14 last year. Also, against nearly 5,000ft of hoardings that they were able to attract along either side of the road in 2019, they have been able to get advertisements that cover only 900ft. “Despite slashing our budget by 70%, we will end up with a record deficit. So will all puja committees,” said puja committee secretary Debashis Bhattacharjee. Samaj Sebi, a popular puja off Southern Avenue, has already said it will be unable to finance theme pujas for at least two years to make good the losses incurred this year. “One usually has to make an advance to the theme artist after this year’s Durga Puja for the assignment next year. Given the deficit that we are battling, we cannot afford that,” said organizing committee secretary Arijit Maitra. If the virus continues to be around, many organizers will switch to ghot puja, says Saswata Bose, secretary of Hatibagan Sarbojanin and joint secretary of the Forum for Durgotsav. Even if the situation improves, he is certain that many won’t repeat this year’s mistake that deprived pandal-hoppers from catching a glimpse of the idol at many pujas. “Pandals will be designed differently so that the idol can be viewed from a distance and there is adequate open space in front for rituals like anjali and sindoor khela,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/record-losses-this-puja-may-hit-next-yrs-budget/articleshow/78898994.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Corona dents sales of new vehicles in Navratri, Diwali outlook bleak||Nagpur: The coronavirus pandemic has hit sales of new vehicles in Nagpur during Dussehra, considered an auspicious time to make new purchases, especially vehicles. This year, only 1,419 vehicles were registered during the nine-day-long Navratri festival as opposed to 1,713 vehicles registered in city and east RTO last year.Usually, automobile showrooms and even the RTO remain open on Dussehra. But the registration of vehicles in rural Nagpur too witnessed a southward trend. As compared to Navratri 2019 when 1,517 vehicles were registered, this year the rural RTO office registered 1,344 new vehicles.During festive occasions such as Dussehra and Diwali, the RTO deploys more staff and works overtime to complete the registration of new vehicles. Buyers too prefer deliveries on such auspicious days, resulting in a heavy rush at showrooms across the city.“This year’s Navratri vehicle sales are not satisfactory for us as the numbers are far lower than last year. We hope that these numbers will increase during Diwali. We are well-prepared for the festive season in the coming days,” said a senior official from the transport department.A senior official from the transport department explained that citizens may have spread their purchase over Navratri. City office saw registration of 705 vehicles, while the east office saw 714 during the 9-day period. The figures were lower than last year, when city and east offices recorded 783 and 930 vehicles respectively.Though there was a dip in registration of new vehicles in RTOs, revenue has increased as compared to last Navratri. According to data procured from both the offices, east office generated Rs5.94 crore revenue this year, while last year it was Rs4.72 crore. The city office’s revenue was Rs3.35 crore this year and last year it was Rs3.02 crore. The rural office has collected revenue of Rs5.17 crore this year while last year the figure was Rs4.28 crore.Nikhil Kusumgar, a two-wheeler dealer, said the market, especially in Nagpur, was not good with a drop of 30% to 50% in sale of new vehicles during this Navratri.“Somehow, the city is not good but rural was not so bad,” he said. He said corona hit the salaried class people more, who are major buyers for two-wheelers from the city. According to him, in the last 30 to 35 years this was the worst Navratri.The sale of four-wheelers too is no different. According to dealers, this year sale of four-wheelers during Navratri was the worst of last 10-15 years.Auto dealers feel that sluggish sales will continue during the upcoming Diwali festival too. “The ongoing pandemic situation will not improve overnight, and neither will the economy,” they pointed out.The fear has also led to dealers keeping less stock of vehicles. They are ordering vehicles as per demand, which has also led to delay in delivery of vehicles in many segments, especially in four-wheelers and some sports bikes.New Vehicles During NavratriYear---East---City---Rural2019---930----783---15172020---714---705---1344RTO Revenue During NavratriOffices----2020------2019East—5.94 cr------4.72 crCity---3.35 cr------3.02 crRural---5.17 cr------4.28 cr(Rs in crores)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corona-dents-sales-of-new-vehicles-in-navratri-diwali-outlook-bleak/articleshow/78900389.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Fake Covid negative certificate racket: Karnataka govt suspends three||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) brass on Tuesday suspended three health officials including a medical officer for allegedly rigging Covid-19 tests to provide negative reports. Health minister K Sudhakar said he has directed top officials to file a criminal case against Mahalakshmi, a lab technician, Dr Shailaja, medical officer on contract and Shanthi, an Asha worker. The three were working at Pobbathi maternity hospital near Sajjan Rao Circle, Bengaluru, and Shanthi was allegedly facilitating the racket by approaching people who sought negative test reports, which are needed to fulfil various requirements. She allegedly would assure them of a negative certificate without them having to undergo tests. The certificate is needed to travel to some states and some companies also demand negative certificates from employees who work from office. Taking advantage of the situation, Shanthi would demand anywhere between Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,500 to provide a negative certificate, officials said. She would allegedly collect the phone number of the person, but not collect their swab samples. Once the SRF ID is generated, she and her associates would concoct a swab collection using water. The sample is then sent for tests. Officials said they followed the same procedure for both rapid antigen (RAT) and RT-PCR tests. With this, they were not only making money through bribes, but were also were reaching testing targets set for them, officials claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fake-covid-negative-certificate-racket-govt-suspends-three/articleshow/78899009.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Rajura tiger, blamed for 8 human kills, trapped alive in Maharashtra||CHANDRAPUR: The dreaded tiger of Rajura — identified as RT-1 and blamed for eight human kills — was finally trapped in an ingeniously-designed cage in a narrow culvert under a railway bridge near Sindi village in Rajura and Virur forest reserves of Chanda forest division on Tuesday afternoon. The tiger was moved to Chandrapur transit treatment centre and is likely to be moved to Gorewada zoo in Nagpur later in the night. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has lauded the forest officials for capturing the tiger alive. Operation in-charge, DCF, central Chanda forest division, Arvind Mundhe, informed the teams had designed an automated cage under railway line culvert, which was regular route of the problem tiger in compartment no. 179. “There were actually two routes used by the tiger. We closed down the other route, while activating this special cage after the feline had managed to escape the culvert-turned-trap in compartment no. 170 a few days back,” Mundhe told TOI. He informed that the culvert was 4.5 feet wide and had both sides open. The trap doors were designed in such a manner that both the gates drop simultaneously after pressure mechanism placed in the centre of the 9.1-meter-long culvert is activated. The iron bar doors were concealed from inside with plywood following the recent escape of the tiger from the cage. Foresters were deployed on a camouflaged machan over a tree around 30 meters away to monitor the cage. “The monitoring team alerted the higher-ups immediately after the tiger got captured in culvert-cum-cage. A tranquillizing team, headed by vet Dr Kundan Podshelwar, rushed to the spot and shot the tiger with a sedative dart from the slit in the upper side of the trap door,” Mundhe explained. He claimed no bait was placed inside the cage considering the cunning nature of the tiger. The team was relying on natural instincts of the tiger to pass along its regular trail and the strategy paid off, said a relieved Mundhe. The beast had eluded the hunting teams of forest department for almost eight months. After successive kills for over one year, forest department had issued capturing orders on February 14. The beast had killed over 25 baits laid to lure it, but every time it managed to give a slip to the hunting teams. The efforts to trap the beast in trenches and pits too had failed. The feline had recently got trapped in a specially-designed cage in a culvert in compartment no. 170 of Rajura range, but had managed to break free with sheer might. CCF, Chandrapur, NR Pravin claimed it is a full grown tiger aged around 6 years. It was responsible for eight human kills and mauling of three other people. The tiger was moving in over 20 square kilometres territory and had terrorized dozens of villages. Four tracking teams of STPF jawans and seasoned trackers from villages were on its trail since February this year. “It was very cunning beast and had eluded our every trap. The feline’s movement was mostly during the night and it avoided going near its cattle kills,” he said explaining the delay. There was tremendous pressure on the forest department to capture the RT-1 after people’s representatives including MP and MLAs had started demanding to shoot the problem tiger. While over 100 camera traps were installed in the forest to track the beast’s movement, 35 volunteers from 14 different villages were roped to help the tracking teams in the forest. Four veterinary doctors, shooters led by local forest officials, were directly involved in the operation. Four teams of 25 Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) personnel from Tadoba-Andhari tiger project were also pressed into action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rajura-tiger-blamed-for-8-human-kills-trapped-alive/articleshow/78900400.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Shiv Bhojan thali to cost Rs 5 for six more months in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state government will extend the Shiv Bhojan thali scheme at the cost of Rs5 a plate for six months. A proposal will be tabled at the cabinet meeting on Thursday. It is a pet project of Shiv Sena, a senior partner in the government, and was priced at Rs10 a plate but since lockdown it has been made more affordable. The scheme was applicable at half the price till June 30, which was extended by three months, which ended on September 30. Now, the food and civil supplies department, implementing the scheme, proposed the extension. Officials said it will cost the government nearly Rs 10 crore but as it is getting a good response from people it has been decided to extend it at the same cost. Over 1 crore thalis have been served under the scheme. The thali has two chapatis, a vegetable, rice and dal. It costs the government Rs50 in urban areas and Rs35 in rural areas. Shiv Bhojan scheme draws its inspiration from the highly-successful Amma canteens launched by Jayalalithaa in Tamil Nadu. It has been replicated by Delhi, Jharkhand, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shiv-bhojan-thali-to-cost-rs5-for-six-more-months/articleshow/78900497.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Maruthu brothers’ guru puja held in Madurai, Sivaganga||MADURAI: The 219th Maruthu brothers’ guru puja on Tuesday was conducted without any major incident in Madurai and Sivaganga districts. Hundreds of police personnel were deployed in various places to prevent any untoward incident and to streamline the visits of political party representatives to Kalayarkovil in Sivaganga district to pay homage at the memorial. Minister for khadi and village industries board G Baskaran and MLA S Nagarajan from Manamadurai constituency paid homage at the memorial representing AIADMK party. On behalf of BJP, its state president L Murugan, vice president Nainar Nagendran and former national secretary H Raja paid homage. Sivaganga MP representing Congress party Karti Chidambaram and Mudukulathur MLA Malaysia S Pandian paid homage. Former MP Bhavani Rajendran from DMK, Dr N Sethuraman of Moovendar Munnani Kazhagam, AMMK district secretary Therbogi Pandi and former MLA Umadevan paid homage. Talking to media, minister G Baskaran said that he has approached the chief minister to install a statue for Maruthu brothers and he will take a decision soon on it. Murugan staged a brief protest along with party functionaries at Viraganoor Junction at Ring Road in Madurai after he was stopped by police. Police said that only five vehicles are allowed with each person, but the BJP functionaries demanded them to allow all the 27 vehicles, which came in a convoy. They also wanted to take Thirupuvanam route to reach Kalaiyarkovil, while they had allotted Karuppayurani route for all leaders. After a talk, the BJP functionaries agreed to go via allotted route, police said. Murugan condemned the state police for arresting actress Kushboo, when she was on her way to Chidambaram to protest peacefully against VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan for his remarks on Manusmirti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/maruthu-brothers-guru-puja-held-in-madurai-sivaganga/articleshow/78901436.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Granules, Laurus to inject Rs 700 crore in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In yet another booster shot for India’s lifesciences hub Hyderabad, pharma players Granules India and Laurus Labs have decided to inject fresh investments worth Rs 700 crore in setting up greenfield manufacturing facilities. Granules will invest Rs 400 crore over the next few years to set up a unit at Gagillapur in Medchal-Malkajgiri district on Hyderabad’s outskirts to make 10 billion units annually of finished dosage forms and generate around 1,600 jobs. This new investment is in addition to the Rs 240 crore investment that Granules is already making at its existing Gagillapur facility for manufacturing multiple unit pellet system-based products and other finished dosages with a six billion tablets annual capacity that will create 200 new jobs. The facility is expected to be ready for commercial production in 2021-22. The fresh investment announced will enable Granules to commercialise all new products that are currently under development for the US, European Union and other markets, Granules India chairman and managing director Krishna Prasad Chigurupati told TOI. “A collaborative, win-win engagement between the industry and state government is key to strengthen the industry and create new jobs. It will also further the state and country’s goal for self-reliance in production of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and intermediates, and finished dosages,” Chigurupati said. Granules India, which has manufacturing sites in eight locations and a presence in 75 countries, claims to operate the world’s largest commercial pharmaceutical formulation intermediates (PFI) facility at Gagillapur. On the other hand, Laurus will be investing Rs 300 crore in two tranches of Rs 150 crore each to set up 5 billion units per annum formulations facility with a potential to create 150 jobs in the first phase. Laurus Labs, which makes APIs for anti-retroviral (ARV), oncology, cardiovascular, respiratory, gastroenterological and diabetic drugs, has its R&D facility at the IKP Knowledge Park at Genome Valley. It operates six manufacturing facilities in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. Chigurupati of Granules India and Satyanarayana Chava of Laurus Labs also met Telangana industries & IT minister KT Rama Rao on Tuesday as part of the formal announcement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/granules-laurus-to-inject-rs-700-crore-in-hyderabad/articleshow/78901438.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: NDA strongly positioned in state, claims L Murugan||MADURAI: The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is very strongly positioned in Tamil Nadu and some people are trying to create an illusion that there were problems within the alliance, BJP state president L Murugan has said. Murugan was asked if there was unrest within the NDA alliance, as PMK leader Ramdoss and DMDK were frequently criticizing the AIADMK government in recent times. He said that demeaning of Tamil Nadu women for political gains was unacceptable. “BJP protested throughout the state against VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan for his speech against women of the state and those who supported him. The Tamil Nadu government, which allowed DMK president M K Stalin to protest in front of the governor’s office, was preventing the BJP cadres from protesting against the speech, which was against the women of the state.” “VCK members were present at the Madurai district collectorate premises only to attack the members of the women’s wing of the BJP when they came there,” he added. The BJP had planned a peaceful protest and demanded police should deal with mobs which are trying to unleash communal clashes, he said. He also said that it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government which had deposited Rs 500 each in the accounts of one crore women in Tamil Nadu, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nda-strongly-positioned-in-state-claims-tn-bjp-chief/articleshow/78901442.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||SpiceJet offers RT-PCR tests at home for passengers||MUMBAI: Low-cost carrier SpiceJet on Tuesday announced that its passengers in India and UAE can now book online appointments to undergo RT-PCR tests at home. With more countries requiring passengers to produce a Covid negative test report, getting a test done before departure had turned into a pre-flight requisite. SpiceJet passengers can make a booking using the appointment booking service offered by VFS Global. The airline plans to roll it out for other countries soon. Dubai recently made it mandatory for arriving passengers, including tourists and UAE residents, to take two Covid tests, one before departure with a validity of 96 hours from the date of test and the other on arrival. One of the early countries to make such tests mandatory for passengers from India was France. Under the current norms, passengers from India should either present a negative PCR test result, carried out less than 72 hours before departure, or submit to such a test at the airport upon arrival in France.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spicejet-offers-rt-pcr-tests-at-home-for-passengers/articleshow/78900499.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Poultry farmers to protest against low rearing charges||MADURAI: Poultry farmers in the district have decided to go on strike from October 28 demanding firms to hike rearing charges of chicks to at least Rs 15 per kg. They said that they will only accept and supply chicks from the companies till their demand is met. Madurai District Broiler Poultry Farmers Association president M S Arun Prasath said that major companies like Suguna and Sakthi which supply them with the chicks were not adequately compensating them for rearing the chicks. “When the chicks are given to us, we rear them for a period of 40 to 45 days and give them back to the companies with each bird weighing an average of 2 to 2.5 kg. But what they have been paying us as growing charges (GC) for a kilogram is just Rs 4 which was further reduced to Rs 2.5 during the Covid crisis, when the actual cost of rearing goes up to about Rs 11 per kg,” he said. Rs 4 has been the GC since 2010. Prasath said that a bag of coal which was priced at Rs 400 before the lockdown now costs Rs 1,600. Coconut coir which earlier cost Rs 4,000 per tractor load costs Rs 12,000 now. “We invest about Rs 5 lakh on a 5,000 sqft shed and with the meagre GC we do not get anything in return,’’ he said. Arun Prasath said that a revised GC rate will not impact the market price of chicken, as the companies were making a profit of over 30%. If they increase the GC, the companies stand to lose nothing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/poultry-farmers-to-protest-against-low-rearing-charges/articleshow/78901444.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Tight security in Ramnad for Thevar Jayanthi||RAMANATHAPURAM: More than 8,000 police personnel will be deployed in Ramanathapuram district for the 113th Thevar Jayanthi and 58th Guru Puja to be observed at the memorial of freedom fighter Muthuramalinga Thevar at his native village of Pasumpon. The district has been divided into 13 sectors for the convenience of security arrangement. About 30 companies of police from Tamil Nadu special battalion, nine bomb detection and disposal squads, nine dog squads, 500 traffic police personnel, 16 rapid response force teams and 250 home guards will be deployed. CCTV cameras have been installed at 200 places while 50 hand-held cameras will be used to monitor and record violations. Vajra riot control vehicles, varun water cannon vehicles, ambulances at strategic places and fire tenders have been stationed. In all, 130 places and 151 roads have been identified as sensitive and banned for travel while going to Pasumpon to pay homage. Around 900 barricades have been used along with police deployment. In all, 581 people have been identified as potential threats to law and order and bound over under CrPc sections 107 and 110 as a precautionary measure. A total of 580 villages were shortlisted as communally sensitive and awareness meetings conducted. Police said Ramanathapuram district collector has allowed only five people from each political party and outfit to visit the memorial and pay homage due to lockdown restrictions. Those who have taken prior permission will be allowed at the timings allotted. People should not raise slogans or carry community-related posters and hoardings while travelling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tight-security-in-ramnad-for-thevar-jayanthi/articleshow/78901449.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Targets set for marshals in Bengaluru south zone||BENGALURU: Each marshal in BBMP south zone has been set a target of booking at least 20 people daily for failing to adhere to mandatory mask and social distancing norms in public places, a decision that is causing heartburn. In an order issued on Sunday, Munish Moudgil, secretary, DPAR and zonal coordinator of south zone for Covid-19, cites failure to enforce norms as the trigger. Jayanagar, Basavanagudi, Chamarajpet and KR Market fall under south zone. Speaking to TOI, Munish confirmed the order saying, “It is evident that there are thousands of people who are violating safety rules and putting their lives and that of others at risk. I believe a stronger enforcement in the zone will reduce positivity. More than anyone, it is the public who can prevent the spread of the virus. The decision was made to create a safe environment. The ones who are against it are the ones who are violating norms.” The government has fixed a penalty of Rs 250 for those who do not adhere to safety rules. South zone has reported about 3,522 positive cases in the past 10 days. Of the more than 21.4 lakh contacts of patients in the city, south zone has the highest at 4.5 lakh, including 1.5 lakh primary contacts. However, targets for marshals has not gone down well with some business establishments, especially hotels, as they allege marshals are indulging in corruption and targeting a specific set of people. PC Rao, president of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association, said the intention may be good, but the execution is poor. “Instead of penalising violators, marshals are harassing hotel owners and staff,” Rao said. “We began using eco-friendly disposable plates after Covid-19 hit and it is initially binned and later segregated before being sent to garbage vans. Marshals barge into hotels and demand fines because segregation is not done immediately. We can’t ask customers to segregate waste. Also, if family members are sitting at one table, they are fined for not maintaining social distance.” He said some marshals even demand bribes and threaten to fine hotel owners Rs 10,000 if they don’t pay up. Rao said, “The government should help businesses by easing things, but it has turned out the other way round.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/targets-set-for-marshals-in-bluru-south-zone-causes-heartburn/articleshow/78899109.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s candy man smitten by Rajkot’s chikki||Rajkot: The lip-smacking chikki — a sweet usually made with nuts and jaggery — is in for a bigger role with this traditional confectionery grabbing the eyeballs of India’s candy man Dhanji Patel, who has set the ball rolling for large scale production of Rajkot’s famous chikki through fully automated machines. Patel’s Makson Group is the largest contract manufacturer of candies in India and its clientele include top national and multinational brands such as Cadbury, Nestle, Hershey’s and Parle. “India does not have large automated machines for producing chikki in high volumes. I have developed one such machine and another imported machine from Germany has been provided to me by snacks major Balaji Wafers. These machines can make chocolate-coated chikki,” says Patel, who is also the BJP MLA from Wadhwan constituency in Surendranagar district. In fact, organized snacks firms are now eyeing chikki production. Makson, headquartered in Surendranagar, has bagged contracts to make chikki for at least two leading snack makers, one of them being Balaji Wafer. Rajkot-based Balaji Wafers has been aiming to manufacture this traditional confectionery for a long time. “We wanted to team up with Dhanjibhai. We had machinery and premises ready, but the project could not take off for one or the other reason. This time we are confident that we will succeed,” said Chandu Virani, founder and director, Balaji Wafers, which had initially planned to invest Rs 25 crore for the project. “Unlike other popular snacks and confectionery, the availability of chikki is limited to local markets only. We plan to roll out chikki across regions,” he added. Balaji plans to bring its chikki into the market by the end of this fiscal year. Rajkot is known for its delicious chikkis but they are sold in the local market only with prices ranging from Rs 300-400 per kg. “Rajkot is a home to 250 chikki manufacturers. They make 200-400 kg chikki every day during winter. Very few have the capacity to make chikki round the year,” said Prakash Chotai, owner, Jalaram Chikki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-candy-man-smitten-by-rajkots-chikki/articleshow/78880610.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 28, 2020||Madurai||M K Stalin: CM must apologise over custodial deaths||MADURAI: Expressing shock at the findings of the CBI in the custodial torture of the father-son duo of P Jeyaraj and J Beniks at the Sathankulam police station that resulted in their deaths, DMK president M K Stalin said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami should apologise to the people for lying about their deaths. Citing the agency’s final report submitted before the court on the brutality unleashed by the Sathankulam police, the opposition leader recalled the CM as saying that Beniks suffered breathing difficulty and Jeyaraj fell ill and that they were taken to the hospital where they died without responding to treatment. “The CM who holds the police portfolio has purposely lied to cover up the murder by the policemen,” he said. The DMK president also accused the CM of using law minister C V Shanmugam to cover up the custodial torture deaths. Such acts by the CM and the law minister to protect black sheep in the police force have brought shame and disgrace for honest and sincere police officers, he said. The DMK did not have confidence in the police probe andhad demanded a CBI probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-must-apologise-over-custodial-deaths-stalin/articleshow/78901447.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Meerut||Headless body of woman: No breakthrough for cops yet, CCTV footages scanned, records scrutinized||MEERUT: A day after a woman’s headless body was recovered from a bag near the city's Fatehullapur graveyard, local police were busy entire Tuesday trying to lay hold of any clue which revealed the identity of the woman. The woman, who was most likely in her 30s, was murdered and beheaded. And parts of the body were “set on fire to stop blood flow,” a police officer said. While the head was disposed of somewhere else, the body was cut into eight pieces and dumped near the graveyard. Now, the police teams are scanning missing persons’ records in all nearby police stations and district crime record bureau, “a task equivalent to finding a needle in a haystack”. CCTV footages of the area are also being looked into to get a possible lead on perpetrators. Sharing details after the preliminary medical examination, a senior police officer said the woman is most likely in her 30s, and is a mother. “The murder took place two to three days ago. Burn marks near the chopped edges indicate efforts were also made to control the loss of blood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/headless-body-of-woman-no-breakthrough-for-cops-yet-cctv-footages-scanned-records-scrutinized/articleshow/78897973.cms||Piyush Rai
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Sanjay Dudhe is new NU pro-VC||Nagpur: Chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday appointed Sanjay Dudhe as the new pro-vice chancellor of Nagpur University. The post was vacant since Subhash Chaudhary, who was holding temporary charge, was appointed as VC. The post is, in fact, vacant since Vinayak Deshpande demitted office along with ex-VC SP Kane. Dudhe’s appointment was on expected lines since he’s secretary of Shikshan Manch, having a hold over the NU administration with the VC too hailing from the same organization. While speaking to TOI, Dudhe didn’t reveal his plans for NU stating that he was in a programme. Dudhe had accompanied Chaudhari to union minister Nitin Gadkari’s residence with Shikshan Manch coordinator Kalpana Pande after the VC’s appointment. Since then, there was speculation in NU circles that he would be handed over the pro-VC’s charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanjay-dudhe-is-new-nu-pro-vc/articleshow/78900470.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ghazipur mandi waste to produce power from November||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday inaugurated a 15 tonnes per day (TPD) waste-to-energy plant in Ghazipur, which will produce electricity by combusting biodegradable waste generated at the local poultry and fish mandi. Kejriwal said the capital needed many such plants to ensure recycling of waste instead of it getting dumped in landfills. “The waste generated from this mandi will be combusted to create electricity. Delhi should be clean to be regarded as a national capital. But there are waste dumps all across, and there are three waste mountains in Delhi,” he said. The plant, which will start functioning on November 20, will be able to convert 15 tonnes of organic waste into 1,500 units of power every day. “It is only through this judicious recycling that Delhi can prosper, or these mountains will keep on increasing in the next 10 years. The starting of this plant is a step in this direction,” the chief minister added. Entire biodegradable waste generating at Ghazipur’s fish and poultry markets, which earlier used to be dumped at the Ghazipur landfill site, will now be utilised by the plant. The work to install the plant, costing Rs 4.2 crore, began a year ago. Calling it a first-of-its-kind initiative, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “You cannot expect no waste in any inhabited area. But the government is choosing to use the waste to produce electricity instead of letting it be on the streets or dumping it on garbage mountains. This shows how the government is progressing through the use of technological and scientific advancements.” As Kejriwal himself is an IITian, projects with technological advancements are being implemented by Delhi government, Sisodia added. Underlining that this waste management is also the responsibility of the municipal corporation, Sisodia pointed out Delhi government took it upon itself. “I hope that many such plants will be set up in all mandis across Delhi, and all of them will become zero-waste mandis soon.” Environment minister Gopal Rai called it a move to make Delhi clean and a step to fight pollution. “We are in touch with the Centre to assist us in reaching an effective solution to curb polluting activities outside the periphery of the city,” Rai said. Stressing that the AAP government in Delhi has been instrumental in fighting pollution through out the year, he said, “We have introduced a model that will enable us to produce energy and manure by recycling the waste collected from the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ghazipur-mandi-waste-to-produce-power-from-nov/articleshow/78900494.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 28, 2020||Vadodara||Toll plaza staffer attacks manager in Gujarat||VADODARA: A manager of the toll plaza at Karjan on national highway-48 and his colleagues were attacked by a toll collector and his three accomplices as the latter was served notices for letting vehicles pass without paying toll and remaining away from work. According to the manager Didar Singh Sangdoha, the accused Sangram Singh Parihar came to his office on the night of October 25 along with three other men and asked him to not collect toll from the drivers of vehicles who give his reference. When Sangdoha told him that it is not possible, Parihar and three men started beating him. A traffic marshal and a shift supervisor of the toll plaza tried to intervene, they too were thrashed. Parihar also damaged the CCTV camera of Sangdoha’s office so that his act does not get recorded. The attackers recorded Sangdoha’s video on their mobile phone in which they asked him to narrate that the notices which he had sent to Parihar were all incorrect. They also took Sangdoha’s signatures on two blank papers before leaving. Sangdoha was taken to a private hospital in Karjan where he is still under treatment. Police said that Sangdoha suffered injuries on his head, face and legs and there is also a fracture in his ribs. Sangdoha lodged a case against Parihar and three unidentified persons on Monday for assaulting, causing hurt and criminal conspiracy. In the past, Parihar had threatened Sangdoha when the latter had ordered that vehicles let off by Parihar to pay toll tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/toll-plaza-staffer-attacks-manager/articleshow/78898014.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||RBI pats Maharashtra's rapid action plan for containing Covid in Dharavi||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has lauded Maharashtra for containing Covid-19 in Dharavi, citing it as an example of successful clinical management through public-private partnerships. “The confirmation of the first positive case of Covid-19 in Dharavi on April 1 spread waves of fear and uncertainty in the whole city. Today, however, this slum has turned out to be an example of the success of public-private partnership in the fight against Covid-19 the average growth rate in positive cases is only 0.24%,” RBI said in its report on state finances released on Tuesday. The central bank said public-private partnership and community participation played a crucial role in combating Covid-19 in Dharavi. “The government tied up with local private doctors, hospitals, NGOs, private volunteers and elected representatives and other civil society organisations while following a rapid action plan of accessible testing, proactive screening, early detection, contact-tracing, timely isolation and putting suspected and high-risk contacts in institutional quarantine facilities in large numbers,” said the report. Noting that medical facilities at quarantine centres became possible with active involvement of private medical practitioners, volunteers and civil society organisations, RBI said the Dharavi model was about community support. “Community participation, community kitchens and collective solidarity were key features that helped to contain spread of the virus. Enforcing a strict lockdown and blocking movement of residents, except for essential services, controlled the contagion, RBI said. According to the 2011 census, 42% of Mumbai’s population resides in slums. Dharavi is the biggest slum in Asia spread over 2.4 sq km, with 850,000 residents and a population density of 2.27 lakh per sq km, making it one of the most cramped areas of Mumbai, the world’s fifth most densely populated city. Due to its geography, poor sewage facilities and improper drainage systems, with around 80% of the population depending on community toilets, maintaining physical distancing and sanitation in Dharavi is a challenge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rbi-pats-state-rapid-action-plan-for-containing-covid-in-dharavi/articleshow/78900500.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Madurai||24x7 direct port entry for containers at VOC port in Tuticorin||TUTICORIN: Direct Port Entry (DPE) facility was inaugurated at V O Chidambaranar Port in Tuticorin by Union minister of state (independent charge) for shipping Mansukh Laxman Mandaviya through video conference on Tuesday. The facility will enable direct movement of containers from factories without intermediate handling at container freight stations (CFS). It enables shippers to gate-in factory stuffed exports directly to the container terminal round-the-clock. Earlier, factory-stuffed containers were taken to a CFS or inland container depot in Tuticorin. CFSs operated between 10 am and 8 pm and only on working days, resulting in considerable delay in admitting the containers into the terminals. The facility can handle 18,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) per month. Customs department will generate the Let Export Order (LEO) under a single roof. The port has inked an MoU with the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC) to operate the facility for 30 years. Inaugurating the facility, the minister said it will increase ease of doing business for exporters by increasing efficiency and improve competitiveness of shipper in international trade. Secretary in the ministry of shipping Sanjeev Ranjan, VOC Port Trust chairman T K Ramachandran and CWC managing director Arun Kumar Shrivastava were present at the virtual inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/24x7-direct-port-entry-for-containers-at-voc-port-in-tuticorin/articleshow/78901452.cms||---
October 28, 2020||---||PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi back in Bihar to campaign for Round Two||PATNA: On the day of the first phase of polling in 71 seats across 16 south Bihar districts, PM Narendra Modi will address three physical rallies at Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna on Wednesday. "His rallies will be broadcast on LED screens in eight administrative districts," the party’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said. The PM will be addressing rallies in north Bihar districts, and also parts of Patna, where the polling will take place in the second and third phases — on November 3 and November 7, respectively. “CM Nitish Kumar and JD(U) general secretary Sanjay Kumar Jha will join the PM at Darbhanga and Patna. Another NDA partner VIP chief Mukesh Sahani will also be present on the stage at Darbhanga,” Kumar further said. The state’s air-route and those entrusted to keep security watch on the ground will remain on high alert for four and half hours from 10 am to 3.30 pm, when the PM will be in the state. The PM will address his first rally at the Raj Ground in Darbhanga around noon, the second rally will be near the Muzaffarpur airport, and the third at the veterinary college ground in Patna. In Patna, Dak Bungalow crossings and the roads leading to the airport are decked-up with banners, posters and festoons of BJP. Traffic rules have been changed for the roads leading to the veterinary college ground here. Coinciding with the PM’s visit, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will also be in the state on Wednesday and address a dozen rallies. A day before Rahul tours the state, Congress president Sonia Gandhi released a video message for the people of Bihar on social media platforms. The party’s state spokesman and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra told media persons that Rahul Gandhi’s two rallies will begin from Valmiki Nagar at noon and Kusheshwarasthan in Darbhanga. Incidentally, the PM Modi’s and Gandhi’s rallies coincided in the first leg of their respective rallies on October 23 as well. As the state BJP leader Kumar said, NDA’s Darbhanga, Madhubani and Jhanjharpur MPs will join the PM at Darbhanga, and Union minister Giriraj Singh, along with the MPs of Sitamarhi, Sheohar and Muzaffarpur, will be present at Muzaffarpur. In Patna, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dr C P Thakur, Ram Kripal Yadav and Nand Kishore Yadav will join the PM. Already, reactions have begun to come on the PM’s rallies in the state. While former BJP leader and veteran actor Shatrughan Sinha called the three rallies addressed by the PM on October 23 as “lacklustre,” the CM face of the RJD-led grand alliance Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday posed 11 questions to the PM. A small contingent of Congress, consisting of the party’s MLA Bhavna Jha, among others, courted arrest protesting against the PM’s scheduled rallies on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-rahul-back-in-state-to-campaign-for-round-two/articleshow/78903277.cms||Abhay Singh
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||MPCB sends proposal to govt on closure of Gorewada units||Nagpur: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Nagpur regional office, last week submitted a proposal to the state government to shut all the units in operation inside the Gorewada reserve forest on Katol road as these were not only polluting but also have no consent to operate and mandatory permissions.On October 13, 4-5 labourers had a miraculous escape after a blast at the vacuum pressure impregnation unit installed in the reserve forest by the Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB). The unit chemically treats at least 200 bamboos at a time depending on their size and shape.“All the units were in violation as no pollution norms were followed and ,moreover the MBDB did not have consent to operate. The proposal has been sent to the MPCB headquarters,” said MPCB regional officer AM Kare. Meanwhile, Pallavi Gampawar, deputy director of industrial safety and health, said, “We too got the problem unit tested with the help of a certified engineer and have prepared a report. We also trained the workers there. The bamboo board has no registration or mandatory licences for any of the units set up there under the Factories Act. We issued a show-cause on October 26.”The MBDB is operating three units — a vacuum pressure impregnation (VPI) unit, followed by a fast pyrolysis plant, which converts bamboo waste into oil, charcoal, and gas, and a wood-fired charcoal kiln. One more VPI unit is in the process of being set up. Lakhs have been spent on these units without e-tendering. The entire operation of these plants is energy negative. Fossil fuel is used to run the operations along with electricity. The charcoal kiln uses 500 kg of wood in one stroke and two tonnes of bamboo is converted into charcoal. All these activities are non-forestry and setting them up on reserve forest land needs clearance under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980. After TOI’s report (October 15), the state’s nodal officer Sanjeev Gaur sought a reply on FCA violations but the bamboo board has not replied. The forest department has chosen not to initiate action. The over 1,914-hectare forest land was initially allotted to FDCM for the Gorewada International Zoo but the then managing director and now PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu allotted 31 hectares to MBDB.MBDB set up units to treat bamboo in the name of research and development in the forest where Central Zoo Authority (CZA) had earlier denied permission to set up animal safaris and zoo as the drain would have entered the Gorewada lake from where drinking water is supplied to the city. Rambabu was not available for comments. FDCM managing director N Vasudevan did not respond to repeated calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mpcb-sends-proposal-to-govt-on-closure-of-gorewada-units/articleshow/78900495.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 28, 2020||Patna||PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi back in Bihar to campaign for Round Two||PATNA: On the day of the first phase of polling in 71 seats across 16 south Bihar districts, PM Narendra Modi will address three physical rallies at Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna on Wednesday. "His rallies will be broadcast on LED screens in eight administrative districts," the party’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said. The PM will be addressing rallies in north Bihar districts, and also parts of Patna, where the polling will take place in the second and third phases — on November 3 and November 7, respectively. “CM Nitish Kumar and JD(U) general secretary Sanjay Kumar Jha will join the PM at Darbhanga and Patna. Another NDA partner VIP chief Mukesh Sahani will also be present on the stage at Darbhanga,” Kumar further said. The state’s air-route and those entrusted to keep security watch on the ground will remain on high alert for four and half hours from 10 am to 3.30 pm, when the PM will be in the state. The PM will address his first rally at the Raj Ground in Darbhanga around noon, the second rally will be near the Muzaffarpur airport, and the third at the veterinary college ground in Patna. In Patna, Dak Bungalow crossings and the roads leading to the airport are decked-up with banners, posters and festoons of BJP. Traffic rules have been changed for the roads leading to the veterinary college ground here. Coinciding with the PM’s visit, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will also be in the state on Wednesday and address a dozen rallies. A day before Rahul tours the state, Congress president Sonia Gandhi released a video message for the people of Bihar on social media platforms. The party’s state spokesman and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra told media persons that Rahul Gandhi’s two rallies will begin from Valmiki Nagar at noon and Kusheshwarasthan in Darbhanga. Incidentally, the PM Modi’s and Gandhi’s rallies coincided in the first leg of their respective rallies on October 23 as well. As the state BJP leader Kumar said, NDA’s Darbhanga, Madhubani and Jhanjharpur MPs will join the PM at Darbhanga, and Union minister Giriraj Singh, along with the MPs of Sitamarhi, Sheohar and Muzaffarpur, will be present at Muzaffarpur. In Patna, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dr C P Thakur, Ram Kripal Yadav and Nand Kishore Yadav will join the PM. Already, reactions have begun to come on the PM’s rallies in the state. While former BJP leader and veteran actor Shatrughan Sinha called the three rallies addressed by the PM on October 23 as “lacklustre,” the CM face of the RJD-led grand alliance Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Tuesday posed 11 questions to the PM. A small contingent of Congress, consisting of the party’s MLA Bhavna Jha, among others, courted arrest protesting against the PM’s scheduled rallies on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-rahul-back-in-state-to-campaign-for-round-two/articleshow/78900502.cms||Abhay Singh
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Over 4,000 kids enrol in anganwadi centres||MADURAI: More than 4,000 children were enrolled in anganwadi centres during the drive held for Vijayadashami in the district on Monday. Vijayadashami is considered an auspicious day for beginning formal education as parents enrol their children aged 2-5 at anganwadi centres for pre-school education or early childhood care and education (ECCE). Anganwadi workers also carry out door-to-door surveys, awareness campaigns and drives to ensure that no child is left out. Officials at the district programme office, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme in Madurai, said that at least two or three children were enrolled in all the anganwadi centres in 17 blocks in the district. The district has 2,001 anganwadi centres, including 1,907 main centres and 94 mini centres. Enrolment was carried out following Covid-19 safety precautions like wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Apart from this, children who crossed the age of 5 and already enrolled in anganwadi centres were identified to ensured they children get admissions in government primary schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-4000-kids-enrol-in-anganwadi-centres/articleshow/78901462.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC rap for AAP govt over funds for hiring judicial support staff||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has pulled up the AAP government for making the subordinate judiciary “run from pillar to post” to get funds sanctioned for recruitment of supporting staff. Noting that the process to fill up these crucial vacancies had come to a “grinding halt”, a bench of justices, Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad, demanded to know if the government expected judges to conduct proceedings from “chaupals” adding that 150 judicial officers were due to be posted in a couple of months and their courts would not be functional without the support staff. In an interim arrangement, the high court directed its administrative side to release the requisite Rs 2.5 crore from its budget to the district courts without any delay for the recruitment. It said the court was dipping into its own fund as the government had not provided the amount but made it clear that the amount must be refunded to the court by the AAP government on or before December 31. “150 judicial officers are waiting to be posted in courts. Thanks to no support and no staff. Let Delhi government send the staff on deputation to district courts. Or you want these judges to conduct proceedings by sitting at chaupals (public space),” the bench said. It observed that the judiciary was not doing anything in this regard as it was patiently waiting for the government to release the funds. “You (Delhi government) did not do anything. Probably you took it as a weakness.” The high court further noted that the recruitment process was being held following the Supreme Court’s directions. “Thankfully the high court has its own funds. You are making the subordinate judiciary run from pillar to post (for funds),” the bench told the counsel for Delhi government. The counsel informed the court that he had apprised the authorities about the orders passed by the high court in the case and sought time. However, he was not in a position to state the timeline by which the government would be able to resolve the issues. The high court also pointed out that Delhi government had slashed the budget from Rs 26.3 crore to Rs 5.3 crore and out of this amount, about Rs 2.8 crore had already been incurred and paid towards the expenditure for the ongoing recruitment process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-rap-for-aap-govt-over-funds-for-hiring-judicial-support-staff/articleshow/78900512.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nashik||On day 2, wholesale onion markets wear deserted look||Nashik: The onion prices touched Rs 90 a kg in the retail markets of Nashik on Tuesday as auction of the red bulb did not take place in the 15 Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) for the second consecutive day. Like Monday, neither farmers brought their produce to APMCs and nor the traders were present for auctioning. The two-day closure pushed up onion prices by Rs 10 in a day. The retailers in Nashik said that if the auction does not resume soon, onion prices will further go up in Nashik and elsewhere in the country. The cooperation department had instructed all the 15 APMCs to ensure onion auction takes place on Tuesday but it failed to have any impact. Traders have already given letters to some APMCs in the district that they will not participate in onion auction till their demand is met. However, traders in Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, have not given any such letter. The traders are upset over the imposition of the stock limit on onion for wholesalers and retailers. The Union government has imposed a stock limit of 25 tonnes of onions for wholesalers and two tonnes for retailers. The cooperation department officials and Lasalgaon APMC management held a meeting with the traders, but they are not ready to participate in the onion auction until their old stock is cleared, said a senior official from Lasalgaon APMC. Meanwhile, Maharashtra state onion growers association has warned of ‘rasta roko’ agitations if onion auction does not start at the district APMCs. “We have already urged the deputy district registrar of Nashik to look into the issue and start APMCs immediately,” said Bharat Dighole, president of the association. Farmers have old summer stock and its shelf life is almost over. “Farmers are facing difficulties due to the government decisions and the move of onion traders. We will resort to rasta roko agitation in the district if the onion auction does not resume in the APMCs soon,” said Dighole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/on-day-2-wholesale-onion-markets-wear-deserted-look/articleshow/78898040.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 28, 2020||Nashik||Theft suspect on run held; he’s murder convict: Police||Nashik: A 26-year-old man arrested for his alleged involvement in a series of house break-ins turned out to be a convict in a murder and dacoity case, who was living with a changed name and was on the run for two years. The suspect, Satish alias Satya Jainu Kale, a resident of Vaijapur in Aurangabad district, has been remanded in police custody till Saturday. Police said that after his arrest, Kale identified himself as Shiva Janardhan Kale. However, during the course of the investigation, it was found that he was Satish alias Satya Jainu Kale, one of the 12 criminals who had killed two security guards and decamped with a gold crown from a Lord Ganesh temple in Divegar in Raigarh district. In 2012, a special MCOCA and additional sessions court of Alibaug, Raigarh district, had punished all the 12 criminals after finding them guilty in the dacoity and murder case. Kale was awarded life-imprisonment. Police said that Kale was serving his sentence in a Nagpur jail. In 2018, he was brought to a court in Niphad from Nagpur for his involvement in some other case. When the police was taking him back to Nagpur after the court proceedings, Kale gave the police a slip at Bhusawal railway station and could not be traced since then. Meanwhile, after a series of house break-ins were reported from Kharwandi and Rahadi villages, which fall under the jurisdiction of Yeola taluka police station, on the night of October 19, the Yeola police, under the guidance of superintendent of Nashik rural police Sachin Patil, started looking for the suspects. During the course of the investigation, police received a tip-off that a person was moving suspiciously in Bilwani village in Vaijapur, Aurangabad. Accordingly, police laid a trap for two days and finally nabbed Kale from Bharam village. In the scuffle that ensued to arrest him, Kale even bit three police personnel but was finally apprehended on October 21. Police said they found various sharp weapons and equipment used for house -break ins on searching his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/theft-suspect-on-run-held-hes-murder-convict-police/articleshow/78898089.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 28, 2020||---||Bihar: Over 2 crore to cast votes in 71 seats today||PATNA: The country’s first Covid-era election begins today with the ‘Battle for Bihar’ as Nitish Kumar-led NDA and his younger rival Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s Mahagathbandhan vie for 71 seats in the first phase of polling. More than two crore electors will decide the fate of 1,066 candidates across 71 assembly constituencies on Wednesday. On the NDA flank is CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), which is contesting in 35 of the 71 seats, followed by ally BJP (29), Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM-S (6) and Mukesh Sahni led VIP (one seat). The opposition side has RJD with 42 candidates and its coalition partners Congress and CPI-ML contesting 21 and 8 seats, respectively. Among the outliers is the Chirag Paswan-led LJP, which may queer the pitch for JD (U) with its 41 seats —35 of which are being contested by JD(U). This is in keeping with Chirag’s targeted campaign “Asambhav Nitish” to “dislodge” the JD(U) chief from the CM’s chair. For the 69-year-old Nitish, who is in the power since November 2005 and seeking a fourth consecutive term on the promises of “doing more development works” under his ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’ programme, this election is his “most prestigious battle” so far as Tejashwi (30) is leaving no stone unturned to corner his Nitish ‘Chacha’ on the issue of unemployment. And both warring generals have their respective heavyweight backers in PM Narendra Modi and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Tejashwi has succeeded in making unemployment the main poll with his “10 lakh government jobs” promise. This has led to a huge turnout of enthusiastic youths at Tejashwi’s rallies, causing concern in the rival NDA camp. To counter Tejashwi’s announcement, BJP in its poll manifesto, announced to provide “employment” to 19 lakh youth, giving more push to the issue of unemployment. While Nitish is seeking votes comparing the development done during his 15-year rule vs the rule of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi, ally BJP is making an all-out effort to win this major state after its debacles in Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and not-so-happy performance in Haryana in the recent past state elections. JD(U)’s state working president Ashok Choudhary, who has been accompanying with the Bihar CM in his election campaign, on Tuesday said, “The NDA comprising JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and the VIP, would break all previous records of victory in this assembly election and Nitish Kumar would form the next government with a two-thirds majority.” In the 2015 assembly polls, when Nitish-led JD(U) was an ally of the RJD and the Congress, their Mahagathbandhan then won a thumping victory against the BJP-led NDA, securing 178 seats against the NDA’s 58 seats. But in 2017, Nitish broke away from the grand alliance and joined hands with the NDA. The JD(U), BJP and the LJP, when they were together in the NDA, won 39 of the 40 seats in Bihar in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav said the NDA would repeat its Lok Sabha performance of winning 39 of the 40 seats. “The NDA is going to win this election with a three-fourth majority,” he said. But, the LJP is now out of the NDA. “Whatever votes the LJP will secure in the current election, it will put an adverse impact on the winning prospect of the JD(U) candidates. The LJP may not win too many seats, but it is going to damage the prospect of JD(U) candidates in many constituencies,” said Uday Shankar Choudhary, a poll watcher. For Tejashwi, this election is an opportunity to avenge what the JD(U) did to him in 2017 by breaking the alliance and joining hands with the BJP. Similarly, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP chief Upendra Kishwaha, VIP chief Mukesh Sahni and AIMIM chief Owaisi are making their best efforts to find a toehold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/over-2-crore-to-cast-votes-in-71-seats-today/articleshow/78903064.cms||Madan Kumar
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Cantonment to levy Rs 20 entry fee on radio cabs||LUCKNOW: Commuting on radio taxi from airport, railway station or any part of the city via Cantonment might cost you more. The Cantonment Board has decided to levy an entry fee on app-based taxis passing through its jurisdiction. As per the board order, app-based cab aggregators will have to pay Rs 20 each time they pass through Cantonment area. As many as seven points have been identified for fee collection at Arjunganj, Dilkusha, Telibagh, Jail Road, Loco, Makhniya and Mohal Point. “The Section 67 (e) of the Cantonments Act 2006 empowers the board to impose a fee on entry of vehicles. We have been charging other commercial vehicles and radio cabs are the new addition. It is being done to collect funds for maintenanc,” said Cantonment Board chief executive officer Amit Mishra. The fee for heavy vehicles like trucks, private buses, has been increased from Rs 50 to Rs 150, but for light commercial vehicles remains Rs 10. Private vehicles, ambulances, school buses ferrying school children continue to be exempted from the entry tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cantt-to-levy-rs-20-entry-fee-on-radio-cabs/articleshow/78901496.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Undertrials gang up and plan crimes in jail, execute them perfectly once out on bail||COIMBATORE: Prisoners coming out on bail seem to be giving a headache to the city police by increasingly indulging in crimes. In fact, they gang up in jails, where they hatch plans to commit crimes once they walk out on bail. In one such incident, a private security guard who came out of the city central prison where he was lodged after being caught in a mobile phone snatching case, along with a chain snatcher he befriended in jail and his minor friend, murdered an elderly man to steal gold and cash from him. City deputy commissioner of police (crime) E S Uma said Jebamani Ambrose, 24, of Viswasapuram near Valliyur in Tirunelveli district, was caught for mobile phone snatching three months ago and lodged in the central prison. “He was employed by 83-year-old Krishnasamy, of Trichy Road at Singanallur, as a security guard of his house, where he was staying alone.” In jail, Ambrose befriended R Vikram, 21, of Karaikudi, who was arrested two months ago for chain snatching. “He told the latter that Krishnasamy was residing alone and his daughter was settled in the US. They hatched a conspiracy to murder Krishnasamy once they walk out of jail on bail. On October 1, the duo, along with a 17-year-old boy, murdered Krishnasamy and took away Rs12,000, a car and some gold ornaments,” the officer said. Incidents such as this, Uma said, had forced them to monitor prisoners, who come out on bail, closely. “If they move to other districts, we exchange their information to police there.” Three elderly people were murdered during the burglary attempt in the city in the past two months alone. Pointing out that elderly people were always easy targets of burglars, she said, “If they resist, burglars would murder them. So, we are also closely monitoring the elderly people in the city.” The city law & order police said they had been creating database of elderly couple. G Stalin, city deputy commissioner of police (law & order), said, “We have collected details of around 700 elderly people so far. Some of them are residing alone and others as couples. We have installed the Kavalan mobile application on their mobile phones and they could get immediate help from us if they just shake their mobile phones. Beat police officers are also visiting their residences often.” He also called on people to inform them of elderly people residing alone in their neighbourhood. “It will help us monitor them and protect them from burglars.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/undertrials-gang-up-and-plan-crimes-in-jail-execute-them-perfectly-once-out-on-bail/articleshow/78900607.cms||A Subburaj
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Codissia’s defence innovation centre to open today||COIMBATORE: The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) is all set to inaugurate the Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC) on Wednesday. Defence secretary Ajay Kumar will chair the inaugural function that would be held online at 3pm. According to Codissia, this is the first Atal incubation centre that is awarded to an industrial body. It would be the defence innovation hub on the southern defence corridor. The centre would sign a memorandum of understanding with 5 Base Repair Depot and Air Force, and naval ship repair yard, Kochi, to work on indigenizing their components and products. The Atal Incubation Centre would handhold at least 10 incubates and ensure that at least five graduate every year. It hopes to mentor and guide budding entrepreneurs interested in the field. The inaugural function would be attended by Sanjay Jaju, joint secretary, defence indigenization project, and Puneet Agarwal, joint secretary of land systems, department of defence production. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/codissias-defence-innovation-centre-to-open-today/articleshow/78900573.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Over 2 crore to cast votes in 71 seats today||PATNA: The country’s first Covid-era election begins today with the ‘Battle for Bihar’ as Nitish Kumar-led NDA and his younger rival Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s Mahagathbandhan vie for 71 seats in the first phase of polling. More than two crore electors will decide the fate of 1,066 candidates across 71 assembly constituencies on Wednesday. On the NDA flank is CM Nitish Kumar’s JD(U), which is contesting in 35 of the 71 seats, followed by ally BJP (29), Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM-S (6) and Mukesh Sahni led VIP (one seat). The opposition side has RJD with 42 candidates and its coalition partners Congress and CPI-ML contesting 21 and 8 seats, respectively. Among the outliers is the Chirag Paswan-led LJP, which may queer the pitch for JD (U) with its 41 seats —35 of which are being contested by JD(U). This is in keeping with Chirag’s targeted campaign “Asambhav Nitish” to “dislodge” the JD(U) chief from the CM’s chair. For the 69-year-old Nitish, who is in the power since November 2005 and seeking a fourth consecutive term on the promises of “doing more development works” under his ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’ programme, this election is his “most prestigious battle” so far as Tejashwi (30) is leaving no stone unturned to corner his Nitish ‘Chacha’ on the issue of unemployment. And both warring generals have their respective heavyweight backers in PM Narendra Modi and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. Tejashwi has succeeded in making unemployment the main poll with his “10 lakh government jobs” promise. This has led to a huge turnout of enthusiastic youths at Tejashwi’s rallies, causing concern in the rival NDA camp. To counter Tejashwi’s announcement, BJP in its poll manifesto, announced to provide “employment” to 19 lakh youth, giving more push to the issue of unemployment. While Nitish is seeking votes comparing the development done during his 15-year rule vs the rule of Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi, ally BJP is making an all-out effort to win this major state after its debacles in Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and not-so-happy performance in Haryana in the recent past state elections. JD(U)’s state working president Ashok Choudhary, who has been accompanying with the Bihar CM in his election campaign, on Tuesday said, “The NDA comprising JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and the VIP, would break all previous records of victory in this assembly election and Nitish Kumar would form the next government with a two-thirds majority.” In the 2015 assembly polls, when Nitish-led JD(U) was an ally of the RJD and the Congress, their Mahagathbandhan then won a thumping victory against the BJP-led NDA, securing 178 seats against the NDA’s 58 seats. But in 2017, Nitish broke away from the grand alliance and joined hands with the NDA. The JD(U), BJP and the LJP, when they were together in the NDA, won 39 of the 40 seats in Bihar in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav said the NDA would repeat its Lok Sabha performance of winning 39 of the 40 seats. “The NDA is going to win this election with a three-fourth majority,” he said. But, the LJP is now out of the NDA. “Whatever votes the LJP will secure in the current election, it will put an adverse impact on the winning prospect of the JD(U) candidates. The LJP may not win too many seats, but it is going to damage the prospect of JD(U) candidates in many constituencies,” said Uday Shankar Choudhary, a poll watcher. For Tejashwi, this election is an opportunity to avenge what the JD(U) did to him in 2017 by breaking the alliance and joining hands with the BJP. Similarly, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, RLSP chief Upendra Kishwaha, VIP chief Mukesh Sahni and AIMIM chief Owaisi are making their best efforts to find a toehold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-2-crore-to-cast-votes-in-71-seats-today/articleshow/78900611.cms||Madan Kumar
October 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha records 13 Covid-19 deaths in 24 hours||BHUBANESWAR: The number of fresh Covid cases in the state continued to fall and remain below 2,000 for the ninth consecutive day on Tuesday with 1,247 testing positive in the last 24 hours. But the mortality rate continued to rise as 13 more Covid patients died on Tuesday taking the toll to1,272. Doctors advised people to be cautious as winter is the season of flu and transmission of the virus. “The corona situation is as we had predicted. It reached its peak in September and now it has started declining. As per our calculation we are expecting the end of corona by February next year,” said Dr Jayant Panda, technical spokesperson of health and family welfare department. Panda said since winter is a conducive season for the spread and transmission of virus we cannot take it for granted. “We cannot compromise with safety guidelines like wearing masks, hand washing and maintaining social distance as there are high chances of a second wave of infection like it happened in Kerala,” he said. On October 18, the state had logged 2019 cases after which the number had not crossed 2,000 mark and has been falling gradually. However, the number of tests has also been reduced from above 50,000 to nearly 35,000 per day in the last fortnight. People have also started taking Covid-19 lightly and are taking medicines with mild symptoms and staying in home isolation without doing tests leading to less number of detections in the last few days. “Over the last few months we have known many things about the disease and people have learned living with the disease. But we are not advising people to avoid tests as it may lead to complications in persons with comorbidities. The mortality rate is, however, a cause of concern for the state government,” said Panda. Among the deceased four were from Bhubaneswar in Khurda district while three were from Nuapada, two each from Jharsuguda and Keonjhar and one each from Malkangiri and Sundargarh districts. The total number of Covid positive cases in the state increased to 2, 83, 942 of which 16, 512 were active and 2, 66, 105 have recovered so far. Among the new cases reported from 29 districts, 729 are in quarantine and 518 are local contacts. Gajapati district did not report any case in the last 24 hours. Khurda topped the tally with 206 new cases, followed by Cuttack (105), Sundargarh (96), Mayurbhanj (71), Angul (69), Balangir (68), Jagatsinghpur (54), Kendrapada (49), Keonjhar (41), Dhenkanal (40), Kalahandi (40), Nuapada (38), Boudh (37), Jharsuguda (35), Bargarh (32), Jajpur (32), Koraput (26), Sambalpur (24), Balasore (23), Puri (22), Sonepur (18), Ganjam (17), Deogarh (16), Nayagarh (14), Nabarangpur (12), Kandhamal (11), Malkangiri (11), Bhadrak (7) and Rayagada (4). Besides, the state pool has 29 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/state-records-13-ncov-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/78899281.cms||Minati Singha
October 28, 2020||Pune||Covid testing plunges 43% in district, 26% across Maharashtra||PUNE: The state's Covid-19 testing in October has fallen 26% compared to levels last month, health department officials said. The slump, in fact, is worse in Pune district, which has recorded an overall testing drop of nearly 43%. According to numbers released by state health authorities, the state had carried out 24.09 lakh tests in September. But this month (in data recorded until October 25), the state has carried out a relatively low 17.69 lakh tests. Overall in the district, there were 3,93,890 tests last month. But October has seen just over 2,24,104 tests. The drop in testing has also caused daily averages to fall — from nearly 91,000 tests every day in September to about 70,000 this month. State officials attributed the dip to the fewer positive cases and shortage of staff at private labs during the festival season, which has also led to delayed reports and a decrease in tracing and testing of patients' contacts. Sunday, October 25, recorded one of the sharpest drops in testing with just 59,407 samples analysed in the state. In Pune, on that day, that number was around 3,141. The last time there was such a fall in daily averages was on September 28, again a Sunday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said officials need to work out a testing strategy. “We cannot fall behind in testing. We were testing over 90,000 samples every day. I will ask district authorities to ensure testing is ramped up ahead of the winter and upcoming festivities," he said. In Pune district too on Sunday, labs tested only about 3,100 samples compared to the daily normal of 6,000 to 7,000 tests, officials said. “We were testing nearly 13,000 to 14,000 samples daily in September. That has now dropped to nearly 5,000. The number of new cases is down, but the 'weekend drops' in tests has impacted contact tracing," a district health official said. Disease surveillance officers said contact tracing remains key in Maharashtra. "Cases have dropped since September-end. So naturally, testing will be low. But low testing has in turn impacted contact tracing programmes, which should not be the case. The Centre has asked the state to keep up intensive testing within communities — we need to track down high and low-risk contacts to prevent spread," said a surveillance expert. Officials said contact tracing has now reduced to just five to seven persons per patient. According to rules, that number should be 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-plunges-43-in-district-26-in-state/articleshow/78900617.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 28, 2020||Pune||Over 2k test +ve in 2nd phase of home-to-home survey||Pune: As many as 2,268 of the total 16,759 symptomatic people identified during the house-to-house surveillance have tested positive for Covid-19 in Pune division at the end of the second phase of ‘My family, my responsibility’ campaign, which will go on till October 31 now as against the earlier deadline of October 25. “Nearly 14% of the total identified people in our door-to-door campaign have tested positive in the division. So far, nearly 80% of the population (15.85 crore) has been covered in the second phase of the campaign. We will cover the remaining by the month-end,” a health official said on Tuesday. The official said they were able to identify 24,077 persons with severe acute respiratory infection/influenza-like illness (SARI/ILI) symptoms during the campaign. Over 6,100 teams were formed in Pune division for the second phase of the campaign. However, heavy rains had delayed the commencement of the drive, but it later picked up, the official said. Of the positive cases, the maximum were from Satara, followed by Solapur and Pune. The Pune division has also registered details of comorbid people in their survey, the official said. Sanjay Deshmukh, the deputy director of health services for Pune region, told TOI that besides early detection of cases, the drive was able to track details of the total number of diabetics, hypertension patients and those with chronic kidney and liver diseases. “This will be additional data to what we have and it will help track citizens better by the local administration,” Deshmukh said. While the state has registered a decline in cases, Maharashtra health officials have been directed by the state task force and the Centre to be ready for a spike in cases during winter. According to the state’s data on Tuesday, there were 1.31 lakh active cases in Maharashtra, with its recovery rate being 89.4% and a case fatality ratio of 2.63%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-2k-test-ve-in-2nd-phase-of-home-to-home-survey/articleshow/78900636.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 28, 2020||Nashik||5 held within few hours of dacoity||Nashik: The Nashik city police arrested five criminals soon after getting information about an armed dacoity in Panchavati area on Monday. The suspects have been remanded in police custody for five days. Armed with a firearm and sharp weapons, the suspects had barged into a house in Laxman Nagar around 11am on Monday. They beat up five to six members of the family and threatened them. The suspects thendecamped with Rs 6,000 cash. Owner of the house Soni Jadhav immediately rushed to Panchavati police station and lodged a complaint. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey and deputy commissioner of police (crime) Sangramsinh Nishandar gave instructions to crime branch unit 1 to probe the case. Senior inspector Ananda Wagh of crime branch unit 1 immediately alerted their informers to check the whereabouts of the five suspects, who were on their records. A team of the crime branch police rushed to Mhasrool Adgaon link road and found the suspects on an open plot near the Mhada building. As the police walked towards them, the suspects started to escape on their bikes but were nabbed.-Santosh Sonawane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-held-within-few-hours-of-dacoity/articleshow/78898106.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow vendor gets PM’s call, shows gratitude with ‘bhelpuri’ promise||LUCKNOW: ‘Namaskar Bahadur ji, main Pradhan Mantri bol raha hoon, kaise hain aap?’ When Vijay Bahadur, a vendor, heard these words, he could not believe for a few seconds that he was directly in conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Quickly gathering his wits, he replied, “Ji sir...Namaskar”. Bahadur, who runs a bhelpuri stall in Chowk, was one of the three street vendors from UP who were selected for ‘virtual samvad’ (video conferencing and telephone conversation) with the PM on Tuesday. The programme was organised by the government to collect direct feedback from the beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme which was launched to help vendors whose business was hit during coronavirus lockdown. The PM enquired about the well-being of Bahadur’s family and asked him how the scheme helped him. “I told the PM that financial crisis due to lockdown left me disappointed and uncertain about my future. But after receiving Rs 10,000 under the scheme, I restarted my bhelpuri stall in Chowk,” the 28-year-old vendor told TOI while narrating the five-minute conversation. “The PM also asked me about other people who have benefited from the scheme. I told him that after suffering losses, many were making their ends meet by borrowing money or selling assets, but the scheme came as a major relief to them,” said Bahadur, who lives with his wife and two kids in a rented accommodation in Chowk. “The PM also asked about the popularity of bhelpuri. I told him that college students and children loved it a lot. He told me that he too would also like to taste my bhelpuri some day. I promised to make a special bhelpuri for him,” he said. Bahadur told TOI that when he had to discontinue his stall during lockdown, he started working in a house as a cook. However, he had to quit after a few days due to personal reasons. “All my savings were exhausted within a couple of months. I had to borrow Rs 17,000 from a relative to survive. Then I came to know about the scheme and applied at the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) in July. I received Rs 10,000 in my account on August 20. I used the money to restart my work on a bigger scale,” he said. Bahadur was among 81 beneficiaries who were invited by the LMC at its Lalbagh headquarters for the virtual programme. The PM first addressed the vendors through video conferencing and later had personal interaction with three vendors – one each in Agra, Varanasi and Lucknow. So far, about 43,000 vendors have registered themselves with the LMC under the scheme. Of these, over 15,600 have received Rs 10,000 each till date. Of the total amount, Rs 4,000 is the grant from the government while the remaining Rs 6,000 will have to be repaid in six equal instalments of Rs 1,000 after March 2021. Ghanshyam Tiwari, a tea vendor from Yahyaganj, who had also come to listen to the PM, said: “Earlier, I used to sell tea on a bicycle. Now, with the money, I have decided to set up a permanent stall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-vendor-gets-pms-call-shows-gratitude-with-bhelpuri-promise/articleshow/78901505.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Cuttack||Cuttack: ‘Bagala Dharmasala resthouse being moved to unsuitable site’||CUTTACK: The Shri Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has been accused of shifting the proposed Bishram Sthali (resting house) out of the Bagala Dharmasala land in Puri to an alternative land that is not suitable for providing affordable accommodation to 500 pilgrims. The accusation has been made in a rejoinder to the counter affidavit SJTA had filed in the Orissa high court in response to a PIL that was against allowing the land of Bagala Dharmasala to be used for rehabilitation and resettlement of lodge owners or individuals likely to be evicted from the Shri Jagannath Heritage Corridor (SJHC) being developed around the 12th century shrine. Jagannath Bastia, a resident of Puri, had filed the PIL. In a counter affidavit, SJTA had informed the high court that an alternative plot of two acres had been allotted by it to the Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) for the construction of the Bishram Sthali. The petition is scheduled for next hearing on November 2. In a rejoinder to SJTA’s affidavit, Bastia alleged that the land allotted by SJTA at Matitota for the Bishram Sthali is situated in a remote area of Puri town, about 3 km from the Jagannath Temple. According to the rejoinder, SJTA had initially given a no objection certificate (NOC) to ITDC for construction of the Bishram Sthali in the Bagala Dharmasala land. The construction work was stopped by the Puri collector in September 2019. But by then, a major portion of the Bagala Dharmasala had been demolished by ITDC and around Rs 2 crore spent on reconstruction and construction of the Bishram Sthali, the rejoinder said. In the rejoinder, Bastia said SJTA had so far not taken any step to stop the sale of Bagala Dharmasala land to six lodge owners. In his counter affidavit, SJTA administrator (development) Ajay Kumar Jena stated that SJTA had made operational three Bhakta Niwas — Neelachal Bhakta Niwas and Niladri Bhakta Niwas at Bada Danda and Gundicha Bhakta Niwas near Gundicha Temple — which can together accommodate 600 pilgrims. In his rejoinder, Bastia said, “The room rent for these three Bhakta Niwas ranges from Rs 600 to Rs 1440 plus GST per day. It is almost the same as the rent of private hotels and lodges of Puri town. It is not affordable for the poor, economically backward and middle-class pilgrims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/bagala-dharmasala-resthouse-being-moved-to-unsuitable-site/articleshow/78899326.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 23 old cars gutted in scrap godown||COIMBATORE: Twenty-three old cars and a crane were gutted in a major fire that broke out in a scrap godown on Mettupalayam-Sirumugai Road in the wee hours of Tuesday. Fire and rescue services personnel from Mettupalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam, Annur and Coimbatore South rushed to the spot around 4am and doused the fire at 11.30am. Fire and rescue services personnel said that the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/23-old-cars-gutted-in-scrap-godown/articleshow/78900648.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Monsoon finally set to withdraw from Odisha today||BHUBANESWAR: The southwest monsoon is expected to withdraw from the state by Wednesday, according to the latest forecast by the IMD. “Conditions are becoming favourable for the withdrawal of monsoon,” said a bulletin from IMD. According to the IMD, the monsoon has completely withdrawn from eight districts and some parts of eight more districts in the state. Complete withdrawal has taken place from Sundargarh, Jharsuguda, Deogarh, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Subarnapur, Balangir and Nuapada. Director of the IMD’s regional centre, H R Biswas, said the withdrawal process was delayed this year due to three successive low pressure systems that caused widespread rain in October. He said usually monsoon withdrew by mid-October. Biswas said a similar delay was also witnessed in the state in 2010. The IMD director said the monsoon, which hit the Odisha coast on time this year, caused good rainfall not only during the monsoon period from June to September but in October too. He said by Tuesday, the state witnessed 71% excess rain compared to normal during October, while during the monsoon period, rainfall stood at 99% compared to normal. The IMD director further indicated that the minimum night temperature in the state is likely to fall. This indicates the advent of winter. Dry weather is likely to prevail across the state during the next five days, the forecast said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/monsoon-finally-set-to-withdraw-from-state-today/articleshow/78899330.cms||Siraj Mohammad
October 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bhubaneswar: VIMSAR freezer glitch, plasma collection hit||SAMBALPUR: Plasma collection has been badly hit at the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, as the refrigerator meant for storage of plasma at the hospital’s plasma bank has been lying defunct. Official sources said the bank was inaugurated by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on August 5. However, the plasma storage refrigerator became defunct on October 20. Associate professor of the department of transfusion medicine of VIMSAR C R Prasad said, “We have already intimated the firm that installed the refrigerator and asked them to repair the freezer at the earliest. We have also intimated our higher authorities,” he said. According to an official of the bank, the plasma units are stored below -80 degree Celsius. There were around 30 plasma units in the freezer when it went out of order. Those plasma units were immediately stored in another designated freezer used for storage of blood and blood products. Around eight hospitals of the district of Sambalpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Bargarh depend on the VIMSAR plasma bank for supply of plasma units used in plasma therapy to cure Covid-19 patients. Prasad said around 12 plasma units were being collected daily at the plasma bank in VIMSAR here. Similarly, around 10 plasma units were being given to different hospitals for plasma therapy. “We have been managing the situation with the plasma units, those were collected before the ultra low temperature freezer went out of order. However, if the freezer, where the plasma units were being stored, is not repaired within 2 to 3 days, we will face severe problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/vimsar-freezer-glitch-plasma-collection-hit/articleshow/78899315.cms||Subrat Mohanty
October 28, 2020||Bareilly||Four days to go for crushing season, Pilibhit sugar mills owe Rs 136 cr as cane dues||PILIBHIT: Three of the four sugar mills in Pilibhit owe farmers Rs 136.19 crore as cane dues from the previous year even as current year’s crushing season is to begin here from November 1. Slamming the BJP government for failing farmers, national convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee VM Singh said, "Chief minister Yogi Adityanath should be ashamed of his failure to comply with Allahabad High Court’s orders to the state government ensure payment to farmers within 14 days from the date of sugarcane’s procurement." According records of the district cane department, the Barkhera sugar mill of Bajaj Hindusthan group owed farmers Rs 95.12 crore on the closing of October 26 while Bisalpur cooperative sugar mill was to pay Rs 23.96 crore and Puranpur cooperative sugar mill's Rs 76.66 crore. The LH sugar mill in Pilibhit city was the only mill to clear all dues to the tune of Rs 734.34 crore on October 15. Jitendra Kumar Mishra, district cane officer, said, “The administration is making all-out efforts for clearing the cane dues. The present backlog is the outcome of unprecedented dip in the demand for sugar during the lockdown period. The slump continued even after this period."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-days-to-go-for-crushing-season-pilibhit-sugar-mills-owe-rs-136-cr-as-cane-dues/articleshow/78896175.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Pandemic-seasonal illness coinfection claims 44 lives||PUNE: The state recorded as many as 44 deaths in which Covid patients also had seasonal diseases such as leptospirosis, dengue, malaria and typhoid at the same time. Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Maharashtra, said presence of another disease, along with Covid-19, can increase mortality risk. "Data shows that 10 deaths in Maharashtra were linked to a Covid-leptospirosis co-infection. Another 20 deaths were the result of Covid-malaria co-infection; 12 were caused by Covid-dengue and two others died of Covid-typhoid co-infection." Awate said the monsoon season saw an increase in co-infection cases. “But with winter approaching, we may see a drop in such cases." The data on co-infection deaths (part of a state health department report) is significant, especially in the backdrop of alerts by the Union ministry, which warned states of the pandemic mixing with seasonal diseases. Experts said that both dengue and chikungunya cases were on the rise following heavy showers in the city. Pune-based critical care expert Subhal Dixit, said, “There has been a recent rise in dengue and chikungunya cases in Pune. So until these seasonal diseases recede, chances of Covid co-existing with these illnesses remain high. Doctors have had patients who had both dengue and the coronavirus." A source from the state-run Sassoon General Hospital said, “Co-infections increase severity of the diseases and trigger causing an increase in morbidity as well as mortality.” A recent study by the TN Medical College and BYL Nair Charitable Hospital, Mumbai, and the ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai, had also urged physicians to keep an eye out for co-infections of malaria and dengue in pregnant women with the coronavirus. The study said co-infections can be misdiagnosed easily as delayed Covid onset when they are in fact, presentations of dengue or malaria, which require a completely different treatment protocol. Misdiagnosis can have life-threatening consequences for the patient and the fetus, the study said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/44-deaths-in-state-were-covid-co-infections/articleshow/78900653.cms||Neha Madaan
October 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Poor enrolment: 433 schools to be merged in Ganjam||BERHAMPUR: As many as 433 primary and upper primary schools in Ganjam district will get merged with nearby bigger schools due to poor enrolment. This includes 425 primary and 8 upper primary schools. The government has asked the district authorities to complete the merger before the schools reopen so that the students can adjust comfortably in new lead schools. “The process has already begun in the district after the government approved the proposal,” district education officer (DEO) Amulya Kumar Pradhan said. Sources said since there were no students in the schools, identified to be merged with nearby schools, only documents would be handed over by the concerned headmaster or headmistress. Sources added that the building of such schools would be utilized in consultation with the concerned panchayats. The government has decided to merge upper primary schools with the high schools functioning on the same campus for proper management and utilization of intellectual resources of both the institutions. Patrapur block will see 42 upper primary schools getting merged — the highest — followed by Bhanjanagar (41), Digapahandi (34), Chikiti (32), Jagannath Prasad (27), Kukudakhandi (25) and Belaguntha (22). Only five schools will be clubbed in Sorada block. However, several villagers of different blocks have strongly opposed the move to merge the schools. They are not in favour of shutting schools in their respective villages. The residents of Chasa Kanamana village in Chhatrapur block recently staged a dharna against the closure of a primary school in the village. “We demand that the government reconsider its decision,” S Chakrapani Reddy, a local sarpanch, said. The villagers were convinced after the block education officer (BEO) assured them to bring the matter to the district administration’s notice. “We have received several complaints against the merger. The district administration will take a final call after reassessing students’ enrollment in the schools,” the DEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/poor-enrolment-433-schools-to-be-merged-in-ganjam/articleshow/78899342.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
October 28, 2020||Erode||Erode: Boy addicted to PUBG ends life||ERODE: A 14-year-old boy committed suicide by hanging at Kallipalayam near Punjaipuliyampatty in Erode district on Monday night. Police said K Arun, 14, a native of Sulur in Coimbatore, was addicted to PUBG game and was getting treatment in a hospital to get over the game. PUBG was one of the Chinese apps banned by the Centre in the September first week. “He was playing the game on his mobile phone. He was very upset when the game was banned. So he was coming to a hospital at Sulur to come out of the influence of the game,” Arun’s father Kandavel said. Kandavel is working in a private company in Vandalur near Chennai and the boy was studying in a school there. As doctors suggested new place would do good for his son, Kandavel rented a house at Kallipalayam and sent his son and wife Ramaprabha there. On Monday evening, Ramaprabha went to Punjaipuliyampatty to buy grocery items leaving her son alone in home. When she returned around 9pm, she found her son was hanging from the ceiling using a nylon rope. With the help of neighbours, she brought Arun down and took him to a private hospital nearby. However, doctors declared that he was brought dead. After being alerted by hospital authorities, the Punjaipuliyampatty police registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/boy-addicted-to-pubg-ends-life/articleshow/78900684.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Mission Shakti covers workplace cases too||LUCKNOW: Under its ‘Mission Shakti’ initiative, the UP government has not only set up 1,535 women help desks at police stations across the state and launched women patrols, but has also ensured their safety at the workplace. In the last one week nodal women officers in different districts interacted through webinars with different sections of society and ensured that each workplace must have an internal committee to enquire into cases of sexual harassment. Women and girls were also educated about the same. The campaign was aimed at spreading awareness among women and girls about steps being taken by the state government for their safety. Under the campaign, many industrial associations and trade bodies organised webinars, seminars and interactive events to ensure maximum outreach to drum up awareness about workplace safety. Industrial development authorities were roped in for the purpose. In their tweets, many entrepreneurs appreciated and supported the state government’s initiative and expressed their resolve to make the workplace safe for women employees. The Indian Industries Association (IIA) tweeted, “As we worship shakti during this auspicious nine-day festival, IIA stands with GoUP in this pioneering initiative of Mission Shakti, empowering the women and ensuring a safe and work healthy atmosphere. ” Prominent organisations that participated in the campaign were CII, FICCI, ASSOCHAM, PHDCCI, IIA, and Laghu Udyog Bharti, Retailers Association of India, National Restaurant Association of India and several others. Meanwhile, in Barabanki on Tuesday women welfare department and UNICEF Action Aid organised awareness programme at BP Intermediate College where girl students were informed about Kanya Sumangala Yojana, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and helpline numbers 181, 1098, 1090, 112, 1076.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-shakti-covers-workplace-cases-too/articleshow/78901513.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||PMR records 1,235 recoveries, set to hit 3 lakh-mark today||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday recorded 1,235 recoveries, more than double the day’s cases (549), pushing its total discharges above 2.99 lakh. Besides, 34 more patients succumbed to the coronavirus-related complications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking the toll to 7,767. Among the day’s recoveries, as many as 639 patients were discharged in the Pune municipal limits, 431 in the rural areas and 165 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas. As for the total cases in PMR, the caseload surged past 3.20 lakh on Tuesday, with the PMC areas’ caseload crossing 1.60 lakh-mark and its recoveries reaching 1.50 lakh. Among the fatalities in the last 24 hours, the PMC limits recorded highest 22 deaths on Tuesday. As many as eight patients succumbed to the infection in the PCMC limits, while four deaths were recorded in the rural and Cantonment areas. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the active patients’ count in the region stood at 13,146 on Tuesday night, with 6,207 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 6,939 in home isolation. PMC health officials said 620 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits, including 346 on ventilator support. The numbers of patients on oxygen support dropped to 1,667 on Tuesday, the officials said. Meanwhile, daily sample testing in the region continued to remain between 5,000 and 6,000. On Tuesday, as many as 5,567 samples were tested in the region, pushing total tests to 13.90 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-1235-recoveries-set-to-hit-3l-mark-today/articleshow/78900686.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 28, 2020||Nashik||Wear face mask for festival shopping or pay Rs 200 fine||Nashik: With just weeks to go for Diwali, the civic administration has decided to implement the ‘No mask no entry’ drive in market places across the city between November 1 and 20. As part of the drive, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will be authorised to take action against errant citizens and slap a fine of Rs 200 on them if they are found without face masks. The NMC will also hold shopkeepers accountable if they give entry to customers without masks and penalise them.“The drive will be implemented to curb the spread of Covid-19 as chances are high that the markets will be very crowded on account of Diwali. Moreover, we can take no chances as the second wave of the pandemic has been projected in November and December,” said municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. “We have already deployed squads of sanitary inspectors, led by the divisional sanitary inspectors, in each of six divisions of the city. They will visit the market places during peak hours on the festive days and fine those spotted without masks,” said the civic chief. Jadhav said he would write to the commissioner of police Deepak Pandey for to ensure the effective implementation of the drive.Civic chief visits Nashik Road Central Jail Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav visited the Nashik Road Central Jail along with health officials on Tuesday to ensure the Covid safety norms are being adhered to by the prisoners as per the government guidelines. Jadhav also visited the kitchen and different areas of the central jail and interacted with the prisoners.171 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths in districtAs many as 171 Covid-19 cases, including 125 from the Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening, taking the tally of positive cases to 92,427.The district also reported 12 deaths, of which three were from the city limits. The death toll stands at 860 in the city and 1,655 in the district.As many as 386 patients were discharged from across the district on Tuesday, of which 219 were from the city.At present, the district has 5,465 active cases, of which, 2,647 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wear-face-mask-for-festival-shopping-or-pay-rs-200-fine/articleshow/78898123.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 28, 2020||Meerut||Trader kidnapped in Baghpat, captors demand Rs 1 cr but release him after 'mistaken identity'||Strap: Police, however, claim 'swift action compelled kidnappers to release him'Meerut: In a dramatic turn of events, a prominent iron trader kidnapped in UP's Baghpat district on Monday morning followed by a Rs 1 crore ransom demand, was surprisingly released unharmed a few hours later.While the trader, Adeesh Kumar Jain, 52, said three kidnappers took him away "accidentally", police claimed, swift action and massive force cordoning off the area compelled the men to release him.Senior cops, including additional director general (ADG) of Meerut zone Rajeev Sabharwal and IG of Meerut range Praveen Kumar, who rushed to the spot, heaved a sigh of relief. Traders were planning a massive agitation after the latest development. Notably, another trader dealing in cement was shot dead recently.The latest incident had occurred in Baraut town. Speaking at a press conference, ADG Sabharwal said, "We recovered Adeesh Jain from near Rataul village. Since police had cordoned off the entire area and a large force was mobilized along with deployment of drones, the captors were left with no option, but to release him. We have also found vital clues about them. There were two teams working in the abduction operation. We will nab the culprits soon."A visibly relieved Adeesh Kumar also spoke to the media. "I was on the way to my godown when the incident occurred. It was a lonely stretch. There were three men in a van, two of whom overpowered and blindfolded me, and took me to an unknown location. Later, I was told they had kidnapped the wrong person and someone else was their target. They even offered me a glass of water and then released me near Rataul."Ever since former district president of BJP Sanjay Khokhar was shot dead during a morning walk on August 11, Baghpat has been in the news for all the wrong reasons. Despite a change of local police brass and more than two dozen police encounters and as many arrests, crime continues unabated in the West UP town along the Haryana border.The last incident was just a fortnight ago, when on October 9, a cement trader Pradeep Atre was fatally wounded. Criminals shot at him when he resisted burglary at his business establishment. Atre later succumbed to his injuries in the hospital. Police, on Sunday, arrested a sharpshooter of dreaded Udham Singh gang for the murder.Meanwhile, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took another jibe at the Yogi government, on Monday, after the latest kidnapping incident. She tweeted, "An iron trader was kidnapped in Baghpat this morning. Women are not safe in UP. Traders are not safe."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/trader-kidnapped-in-baghpat-captors-demand-rs-1-cr-but-release-him-after-mistaken-identity/articleshow/78890333.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||2 pvt hosps asked to refund Rs 24L to 76 patients||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has directed SevenStar Hospital (Jagnade Square) and Viveka Hospital (Subhash Nagar) to refund Rs23,96,040 to 76 Covid patients within two days or face action. The two private hospitals have allegedly recovered excess charges from patients under different services which are not permissible as per state government regulations. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B passed an order on Monday after holding their replies to show cause notices untenable. As per the order, SevenStar Hospital had recovered excess charges of Rs5.99 lakh from 26 patients. “Auditors have found patients were charged for biomedical waste handling, Covid staff management and hospital control, housekeeping care and hygiene maintainence etc. The hospital stated that these charges were recovered under ‘exclusion criteria’ prescribed in the government’s order. There are no such provisions in this particular head,” said Radhakrishnan. The civic chief said the hospital had violated norms. “This is loot of the patients and also defeats the purpose of the government notification. The hospital did not exclude and reduce the charges despite two letters issued by auditors,” said Radhakrishnan. In August, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had levied a fine of Rs5 lakh on SevenStar for the same reasons. Police had also registered an offence on NMC’s complaint against the hospital. Hospital spokesperson Dr Sadashiv Bhole said, “We are looking into the legalities of the notice.” Viveka Hospital had recovered Rs17,97,040 extra from 50 patients for nutritional screening, housekeeping, linen handling, PPE kit, sanitization, bactorub, face shield, Covid utility kit, gloves, biomedical waste bags etc. Viveka Hospital representative said he will speak to TOI on Wednesday. “After six letters, the hospital had assured to refund the excess charges but did not do so,” said Radhakrishnan. The NMC has asked both hospitals to refund excess charges within two days and submit a compliance report. “In case of non-compliance, appropriate action will be taken,” he said. Earlier, the NMC had issued notices to 16 hospitals. “Many have complied with the orders,” said additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma. Joseph George, president of NGO Together We Can, said, “A proper audit will reveal hospitals recovered more than the findings of the auditors.” IN A NUTSHELL * SevenStar and Viveka Hospitals recovered excess charges under various heads * Did not reduce or refund excess charges despite letters issued by NMC auditors *Show cause issued, replies submitted * Civic chief finds them untenable * Hospitals directed to refund Rs23,96,040 within 2 days or face action||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-pvt-hosps-asked-to-refund-rs-24l-to-76-patients/articleshow/78900710.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 28, 2020||Pune||IMA wants phase-wise resumption of non-Covid care in private hospitals||Pune: The Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s Maharashtra chapter has sought phase-wise resumption of non-coronavirus treatment in private hospitals that have been turned into Covid care facilities. IMA state unit president Avinash Bhondwe said, “When the pandemic had started in April, we were told to treat only emergency patients and postpone surgeries and treatment of patients suffering from ailments such as hernia, hypertension and diabetes. In May, around 80% beds in private hospitals were acquired for Covid-19 treatment. These beds are still reserved for Covid patients, though the number of positive cases has reduced by almost 75%.” Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “There are 701 hospitals registered in the PMC limits, of which 80 are treating Covid-19 patients. These 80 hospitals also include government facilities, so the claim that non-Covid treatments are not available is not true.” Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) additional commissioner Santosh Patil said, “If there is no surge in the number of cases, the private hospitals can always resume their routine treatments. But for now we to wait and watch how the situation unfolds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-wants-phase-wise-resumption-of-non-covid-care-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/78900709.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 28, 2020||Pune||1,100 PMPML employees relieved of nCoV duty||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to send back over 1,100 employees of Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) deployed on Covid-19 duties since the last few months. The decision was taken owing to a consistent drop in new Covid-19 cases in the last four weeks. All these employees, mostly drivers and conductors, have been told to rejoin work at their respective depots. Even school teachers are now working in rotation and those who have completed 30-day Covid-19 duty have been told to resume work in the school department. The employees from other departments of the civic administration and state government were roped in for Covid-19 related work in the last six months in a phased manner. This work force was primarily engaged in on-field surveys, data collection drives, management of Covid centres, call centres established by the health and disaster management cells and in providing assistance at war rooms established by the civic administration at various levels. The civic officials said that they are in the process of releasing the employees from Covid-19 duties, but their help will be sought again as per requirement. Officials said, “The administration has recently shut operation of some Covid Centres after a drop in the number of positive cases. The home visits have also reduced. Some swab collection centres have been shut. The demand for manpower has reduced because of an overall drop in Covid-19 related work.” The civic administration had also sought help from non-governmental organisations and contribution from individual volunteers at the jumbo hospital and other treatment facilities when the pandemic was at its peak. The administration has reduced assistance taken from other organisations in the last one month. A senior official from PMC said, “The PMPML employees and primary teachers were engaged in large numbers in Covid-19 related work. Another reason from relieving PMPML employees from Covid duty is because the transport utility has increased the frequency of bus service and now requires more drivers and conductors to operate the buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1100-pmpml-employees-relieved-of-ncov-duty/articleshow/78900689.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19 cases come down to double digits in Bhubaneswar||BHUBANESWAR: After more than three months, the number of daily Covid positive cases reported in Bhubaneswar came down to double digit with just 91 cases being reported on Monday. The last time the city reported double digit was on July 22 after which cases surged exponentially. In October first week, the figure was less than 300, in the second week below 200 and now it is less than hundred, indicating a steady decline. City authorities hope it will go down further like it happened in Ganjam, which for the past one and half months has been reporting a few cases. On Tuesday, the capital city reported 88 cases against recovery of 230 patients. The number of active cases has gone below 2,000. With 26,607 recoveries and 158 deaths, the city now has 1,996 active cases. The number of patients recovering daily is more than double of the fresh cases. The city’s total Covid count jumped to 28,782. “The number of fresh Covid cases are on the steady decline. We have not yet reduced sample testing. People are still voluntarily coming to give their swab sample. People’s adherence to Covid norms and enforcement strategies have helped bring the fresh cases down,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. He said the result of the third phase serological survey will come out on Wednesday, which will reveal the extent of infectivity (apart from the total positive cases) in September among the people here. The last sero survey had indicated formation of antibodies in 5.15% people, which was considered to be very low, in August. From August 29 to September 9, the positive cases here had fluctuated between 400 and 580. From September 10 till October 10, it had reported 300-odd cases on a daily basis. Ajay Parida, director, Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) said it is a heartening trend that Bhubaneswar is not reporting large number of cases as it used to report in August and September. “It has come down to double digit. But, we need to be watchful as many people, who had gone to their homes for Dussehra vacation, will return now. They need to go for test even without having any symptom as testing is available so that infected ones can be filtered and isolated to check further spread”, he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-cases-come-down-to-double-digits-in-capital-city/articleshow/78899341.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Electronic showroom told to pay compensation of Rs 1 Lakh||COIMBATORE: The district consumer disputes redressal commission recently directed an electronic showroom in the city to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh along with interest to a consumer for indulging in unfair trade practices. According to sources, complainant R Roshini, a resident of Nilgiris, had visited the Sony showroom on Avinashi Road to inquire about the price of a 55-inch UHD 4k Sony TV. A salesperson in the showroom had informed her that the MRP of the TV was Rs 1.84 lakh but sold at the rate of Rs 1.6 lakh after discounts. When she checked the price of the TV on e-commerce websites, the salesperson had offered her another discount of Rs 50,000. “When she attempted to leave the showroom after informing him that she would visit later, the in-charge of the showroom along with the salesperson had asked for her credit card to check the EMI eligibility particulars. Shortly, she was asked to enter her card pin number in the swiping machine. When she hesitated, they had insisted on entering the pin number. The moment she entered, Rs 47,000 was debited from her account. The authorities had also charged her Rs 940 for using credit card and gave her a receipt,” the source said. After a long argument, the shop authorities had agreed to return Rs 47,000 and assured her that it would be credited in her account within a day, the source said and added that the amount was credited on July 21, but they had refused to repay Rs 940. The complainant had sent a legal notice to the showroom on July 26 demanding them to return Rs 940, but she received no reply, the source added. On October 8, the president of the commission AP Balachandran had termed their practice as unfair. He further directed them to reimburse Rs 940 along with an interest at the rate of 15% per annum from July 12, 2019. For delaying refunding Rs 47,000, the commission had directed the shop to pay the interest alone at the rate of 15% pa on Rs 47,000 for 10 days from July 12 to 21, 2019. He said, “The commissioner directed them to pay Rs 1 lakh along with the interest at the rate of 9% pa as a compensation for creating mental agony and Rs 2,500 towards the cost of the litigation. The compensation should be paid within two months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/electronic-showroom-told-to-pay-compensation-of-rs-1l/articleshow/78900698.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nashik||23 locations identified for firecracker stalls||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has identified 23 locations across the six divisions of the city for setting up stalls to sell firecrackers for the upcoming Diwali festival. As many as 311 stalls are to be auctioned on November 3 at the divisional offices of the NMC. Those who get the stalls will have to pay the “Clean Environment Charge” of Rs 3,000 each as per the directive of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in order to help the civic administration to collect and treat firecracker waste in the interest of public health. The NMC has been levying clean environment charges for the past five years. Of the 311 stalls, 18 are located at four locations in Nashik East division, 50 at two locations in Nashik West, 52 at five locations in Panchavati, 133 at seven locations in Nashik Road, 25 at one location in Satpur division and 33 at four locations in Cidco division. Last year, the NMC had received the minimum and maximum bid rates of Rs 10,000 and Rs 22,000, respectively, for the stalls collecting a total revenue of Rs 25 lakh. The stalls will be allotted for a period of 10 days — between November 9 and 18.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/23-locations-identified-for-firecracker-stalls/articleshow/78898141.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: A surprise which wasn’t pleasant at all for Ram Gopal||LUCKNOW: The sudden emergence of Prakash Bajaj, as an SP-supported independent candidate at the last moment was surprising not only for party workers and rivals, but also for its official nominee, Ram Gopal Yadav. MLAs close to Ram Gopal shared with TOI that he was upset as with another candidate getting support from the party, there would always be a lurking fear that MLAs were getting deviated. With party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav getting old and other senior members of the family, Shivpal Yadav turning estranged, Ram Gopal is the senior most member of the clan active in politics. That’s why Akhilesh gave him another term in the Upper House, says a political analyst. However, the last-minute surprise wasn’t at all pleasant for him, say his supporters. “Majority senior party members did not know about the move and even Ram Gopal Yadav was seen inquiring about the credentials of Prakash Bajaj and the strategy and logic behind his nomination,” they say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-surprise-which-wasnt-pleasant-at-all-for-ram-gopal/articleshow/78901521.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Class XII girl raped in Palanpur||PALANPUR: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raping a girl studying in Class XI in Palanpur town. The accused, Montu Bayad, went to the 17-year-old girl’s house on Monday night when she was studying on the ground floor of her house. “She knew Bayad as he used to often frequent her father’s shop. She thought that he wanted to meet her mother for some work. But he began talking with her and then started making sexual advances,” said police inspector DR Gadhvi of Palanpur(east) The girl told police that her parents were on the first floor of their house. When she resisted, he threatened her with dire consequences and then allegedly raped her. Bayad was booked under the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/class-xii-girl-raped-in-palanpur/articleshow/78898213.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nashik||Widening of Nashik-Pune road resumes after 18 months||Nashik: The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has resumed widening works on the stretch between Alephata and Khed after a span of 18 months. The work, once complete, will provide seamless commute to people travelling between Nashik and Pune. “Owing to problems related to land acquisition and concessionaires, the work on the by-pass road was pending for more than one-and-a-half years,” a senior NHAI official said. The stalled work was leading to traffic snarls on the 50-km stretch between Alephata and Khed. “New contractors have been appointed for completing the widening of the road. The work between Khed and Manchar by-pass has already begun, while the work between Kamal and Alephata by-pass would be soon taken up. The work of realignment of the Khed ghat is also 70% complete, while the work of Narayangaon by-pass is nearing completion,” he said.He said the entire road widening process on the highway between Alephata and Khed would take another 18 months. Owing to the incomplete stretches on the highway, an MLA from Junnar had shut the Chalakwadi toll plaza two years ago. Senior officials said the operator concerned has been told to re-start the toll operations. Over the past one decade, road transport has increased tremendously on the Nashik-Pune highway given the large number of industrials estates that have been set up along the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/widening-of-nashik-pune-road-resumes-after-18-months/articleshow/78898171.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||With schools closed, special educators visit houses of disabled kids to teach||COIMBATORE: When the state government decided not to reopen schools in June, the mother of 13-year-old girl from Kinathukadavu here was worried. Her daughter who has multiple disabilities – intellectual disability and cerebral palsy – had been getting her regimen of physiotherapy and speech therapy at the Kinathukadavu Government Higher Secondary School while studying there. But special educators and physiotherapists came to rescue and started visiting their house. “We were really worried because we did not know anything about my daughter therapies. We were relieved only when special educators and physiotherapists from the government started visiting our house from July,” Roseline Mary said. Since visiting every such student was not possible, the therapists taught Mary certain exercises that her daughter needs to do regularly. Mary also went a step ahead and started training her daughter to walk and claim steps. As many as 64 special educators and 12 physiotherapists, who are working under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) of the school education department, have been visiting houses of students with intellectual disabilities and other physical disabilities on a daily basis. An official from the department said the district has 4,440 disabled students, including around 3,000 students with intellectual disabilities, from Class I to VIII in the academic year 2019 – 2020. The officials are now collecting details from government schools about the newly enrolled students with disabilities. “All the special educators have been visiting at least two students every day. As each block has only four or five special teachers and just one physiotherapist, it is difficult to visit the houses of all the students in regular intervals. But, we have been doing our best to ensure that the education of these students is not interrupted,” the official added. Special educator N Annapoorani said she like other educators has been giving reading and writing assignments to the students through WhatsApp when she could not visit students’ houses. Parents would send the video of the finished assignment, she added. Geetha, a resident of Selvapuram and mother of a special child, said educators had visited her house twice in the past few months but they have been giving assignments like drawing, colouring and writing simple words and names regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-schools-closed-special-educators-visit-houses-of-disabled-kids-to-teach/articleshow/78900739.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 28, 2020||Pune||17-year-old sustains fracture in attack over WhatsApp post||Pune: A 17-year-old school dropout from the Kagdipura locality in Kasba Peth sustained a fracture to his left hand and other injuries after he was attacked by two men over a video clip he had posted on their WhatsApp group, mocking at one of the assailants. The Faraskhana police on Monday arrested Ramesh Rayappa Koli (29) and his accomplice, Prashant Koli (23), on the charges of causing grievous hurt, intentional insult and common motive after the teenage victim’s father (49) lodged an FIR naming the duo behind the attack. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Faraskhana police said the victim was part of a WhatAapp group of local youths and had posted a video of Ramesh on it on Sunday with a comment mocking at his style of walking and how to beat him up. The latter did not take this kindly and accosted the victim in a narrow lane around 11am, the same day. Along with Prashant, the duo assaulted the victim with wooden planks, Kalaskar said. The teenager has been admitted to a local hospital. Kalaskar said, “Both the arrested men are unemployed. A case has been registered for offences under Sections 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 504 (insult) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.” Since January this year, the police have registered six incidents of such violence over social media posts. Psychologist Aarti Pendse said, “People, including youngsters, are extensively using smartphones these days. Everyone wants to quickly reach out to others. While doing so, they do not care for the words they choose. In personal communication, emotions are on display. During communications on social networking sites, no emotions are displayed. But people react to these messages.” She said, “Youngsters do not care while forwarding messages in the form of text or photographs to others or on social groups. They do not follow ethics of the social media sites while forwarding messages that may be objectionable in nature. At the same time, instead of neglecting such messages, the rival group members decide to deal it with fists. This culminates in violent acts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17-year-old-sustains-fracture-in-attack-over-whatsapp-post/articleshow/78900729.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Dreaded Rajura tiger finally trapped||Chandrapur: The dreaded tiger of Rajura – identified as RT-1 - was finally trapped in a specially-designed cage in a narrow culvert under a railway bridge in Rajura forest range on Tuesday afternoon.A team headed by vet Dr Kundan Podshelwar rushed to the spot and tranquillized the tiger. The tiger was moved to Chandrapur transit treatment centre and is likely to be moved to Gorewada zoo in Nagpur later in the night.“We had set up an automated cage under a narrow railway culvert on the regular trail of the tiger in compartment no. 179 in Rajura range. The cage had both the sides open with a bait inside to lure the feline,” said officials involved in the operation.“Lured by the bait, the tiger walked into the cage and the barriers on both the sides dropped at once trapping the beast inside,” said the officials.The beast had eluded the hunting teams of forest department for almost eight months. After successive kills for over one year, forest department had issued capturing orders on February 14. However, the tiger grew aware of the hunting schemes of the forest department and dodged every trap and tranquillizing efforts.Officially, the beast had killed over 25 baits laid to lure it, but every time it managed to give a slip to the hunting teams. The efforts to trap the beast in trenches and pits too had failed.The feline had recently got trapped in a specially-designed cage in a culvert in compartment no. 170 of Rajura range, but had managed to break free with sheer might.CCF, NR Pravin, ratified the caging and tranquillizing of the RT-1. DCF, Arvind Mundhe, who headed the operation, termed it as success of the collective efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dreaded-rajura-tiger-finally-trapped/articleshow/78894027.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: List of top 100 property tax defaulters released||COIMBATORE: The city corporation on Tuesday released a list of top 100 defaulters who had failed to pay a sum of Rs 21 crore in total as property tax and had warned them to pay the due amount immediately. The civic body had compiled a list of top 20 defaulters in each zone and some of them had not paid the property tax from as early as 1998. The defaulters list includes educational institutions, hotels, companies, supermarkets and a shopping complex. The pending property tax that needs to be paid by the top 20 defaulters is Rs 5.66 crore in east zone, Rs 1 crore in west zone, Rs 2.14 crore in south zone, Rs 4.58 crores in north zone and Rs 7.59 crore in central zone, according to the list. Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian in a statement directed all the defaulters to pay their pending amount immediately if not drinking water connection would be disconnected as per the Section 204 (1) of Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981. If they failed to pay the amount even after disconnecting the water supply connection, movable properties would be seized by the corporation, he added. A civic body source said most of the defaulters had not paid the tax amount since 2017 and in some cases years before that. “The defaulters have already crossed the deadline to pay their due amount and now only grace time – a week or so – is given to them. If they fail to pay, we will take action.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/list-of-top-100-property-tax-defaulters-released/articleshow/78900711.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||Porbandar panchayat’s out-of-the-box idea hits Covid on the head||RAJKOT: When the messages of Covid awareness started falling on practically people’s deaf ears, Porbandar district panchayat came out with a unique way to make rekindle interest in Covid hygiene and help spread awareness. It packed a power punch inside a standy box that delivered the message and Covid guidelines straight on the face, literally. Under its ‘appropriate behaviour’ during Covid time scheme, the central government gave the local administration work of IEC (information, education and communication). Porbandar district panchayat knew that it had to be said and straight on the face and so created a box on a standy. “Do you know who can save you the most from corona? Open the box for the answer” – was the bait which lured people to open the lid and see themselves in the big mirror placed inside. It actually did not need the caption “you yourself” written below, but the authorities didn’t seem to want to take any chances! The box has not only achieved its purpose, but turned into a centre of infotainment as well with viewers making a beeline to get a glimpse of “the risk factor” while visiting the district panchayat office for personal official work. District development officer of Porbandar, V K Advani told TOI, “We tried to give the same old message in a different manner to cut down on the monotony of regular sermonizing. People know how to protect themselves from getting infected and familiarity breeds contempt and people become careless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/porbandar-panchayats-out-of-the-box-idea-hits-covid-on-the-head/articleshow/78898879.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Dreaded Rajura tiger finally trapped||Chandrapur: The dreaded tiger of Rajura – identified as RT-1 - was finally trapped in a specially-designed cage in a narrow culvert under a railway bridge in Rajura forest range on Tuesday afternoon. A team headed by vet Dr Kundan Podshelwar rushed to the spot and tranquillized the tiger. The tiger was moved to Chandrapur transit treatment centre and is likely to be moved to Gorewada zoo in Nagpur later in the night. “We had set up an automated cage under a narrow railway culvert on the regular trail of the tiger in compartment no. 179 in Rajura range. The cage had both the sides open with a bait inside to lure the feline,” said officials involved in the operation. “Lured by the bait, the tiger walked into the cage and the barriers on both the sides dropped at once trapping the beast inside,” said the officials. The beast had eluded the hunting teams of forest department for almost eight months. After successive kills for over one year, forest department had issued capturing orders on February 14. However, the tiger grew aware of the hunting schemes of the forest department and dodged every trap and tranquillizing efforts. Officially, the beast had killed over 25 baits laid to lure it, but every time it managed to give a slip to the hunting teams. The efforts to trap the beast in trenches and pits too had failed. The feline had recently got trapped in a specially-designed cage in a culvert in compartment no. 170 of Rajura range, but had managed to break free with sheer might. CCF, NR Pravin, ratified the caging and tranquillizing of the RT-1. DCF, Arvind Mundhe, who headed the operation, termed it as success of the collective efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dreaded-rajura-tiger-finally-trapped/articleshow/78894050.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 28, 2020||Pune||PMC collects Rs 85cr from property tax defaulters||Pune: The civic body has raked in Rs85 crore from property tax defaulters, who took advantage of the 80% penalty waiver offered under the amnesty scheme. PMC has waived off Rs41 crore penalties owed by around 37,000 property owners. The civic body had to recover Rs4,500 crore from defaulters — dues of Rs2,100 crore and Rs2,400 crore in penalties.The defaulters must pay a 2% levy on pending tax. Those who have defaulted the tax include owners of small homes as well as large commercial properties, well-known developers, industrial units and hotels, PMC officials said. PMC had introduced the amnesty scheme to provide relief in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic.“The deadline to pay tax is November 30. We are likely to introduce a penalty on defaults later, so the overall benefit of the amnesty will be reduced. So people should ideally pay the tax before October 31 to avoid last-minute hassles,” Vilas Kanade, head of PMC property tax department, said. As per PMC data, 10.5 lakh properties are registered, of which around four lakh have yet to pay taxes. Taxpayers have the option of paying the taxes both offline and online. “The civic body aims to recover the maximum tax from defaulters. The amnesty scheme is a step to appeal to the defaulters and make them pay their dues,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the civic standing committee, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-collects-rs-85cr-from-property-tax-defaulters/articleshow/78900742.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Soon, Mapusa market to be fully operational||Saligao: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) on Tuesday resolved to start Mapusa market to its “100 per cent capacity” by following all the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as precautionary measures against the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. At the meeting attended by Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza, the council also resolved to recommend to the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA) to revoke the order issued to the administrator of comunidade (north zone), Mapusa, for sub-division of land at Cunchelim, and also decided to send notices to NGPDA’s member secretary. On the Cunchelim playing field issue, councillors Sandeep Falari and Shekar Baidkar said the open space on the Mapusa land use map cannot be shown as a settlement zone. Referring to the Mapusa sewerage line and sewage treatment plant, MMC’s chairperson Ryan Braganza told the councillors that the deadline to complete the project was May 2021 which he said was decided at a meeting with the Mapusa MLA and PWD’s superintending engineer Mapne Vaigankar. MMC chief also agreed to councillor Madhummeta Narvekar’s suggestion to re-open the Lohia garden by following all SOPs so that citizens could do their morning walks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-mapusa-market-to-be-fully-operational/articleshow/78901572.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Durga Puja brings back happy times to Kolkata restaurants||KOLKATA: Restaurants and bars in the city did brisk business in the last three days of Durga Puja, registering the highest footfall on Navami. At some leading eateries, food was served till 4 in the morning on Navami. Sudesh Poddar, the president of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI), pointed out that for most restaurants, business on Navami topped 80%-85% of the pre-Covid level. “At my restaurants Songhai and Manthan, the business was good on Navami,” he said. According to him, the business was around 75%-80% and 75% of the pre-Covid level on Ashtami and Dashami, respectively. However, compared to last few years, the business was not that good on Panchami, Sasthi and Saptami. Nitin Kothari, owner of Peter Cat and Mocombo, said he had full house on all Puja days and Navami was exceptionally good. “There were many waiting outside. Under this circumstances, it was very good and we are satisfied,” he added. Pradip Rozario, owner of Mio Amore and K K’s Fusion, added: “We never thought that there will be so good crowd. The business was 70%-75% of pre-Covid level. The crowd peaked on Navami and there was good crowd on Dashami as well.” Charles Mantosh, the owner of Floriana, Waldrof and Moulin Rouge, was happy with the footfall as well. “Initially I thought people would not take the risk but the last three days of Puja proved me wrong. We thank the state government for making every effort to lift the spirits of the public by lighting up Park Street,” he said. Speciality Restaurants chairman Anjan Chatterjee agreed that the footfall has surpassed expectations during the Puja. Aminia director Kabir Azhar pointed out that Friday, Saturday and Sunday went very good for them. “Dashami was also good, especially in the evening,” he added. According to Azhar, some of their outlets served food till 4 in the morning on Ashtami and Navami. “Due to Covid, we have reduced the seating capacity. So there was a long waiting period,” he added. Debaditya Chaudhury, MD of Chowman, Oudh 1590 and Chapter 2, was apprehensive about Puja sales this year said that Durga Puja is always a great time for them. But this year, because of the pandemic, they were quite apprehensive about sales. “Up to Saptami, the sales were a little low. But it picked up Ashtami onwards and we received huge orders on the last three days, bringing us quite close to our last year’s sales,” he said. Earlier this month, HRAEI had introduced ‘Dine out to help out’ initiative to boost the industry on weekdays and non-Puja days. According to the scheme, the participating establishments can offer a flat 20% discount on food and non-alcoholic beverages to all their patrons from Monday to Thursday till November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/puja-brings-back-happy-times-to-restaurants/articleshow/78899434.cms||Udit Mukherjee
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Corporate lawyer upsets calculations||LUCKNOW: By supporting an independent candidate, the Samajwadi Party has not only ensured that there would be voting to elect the 10 new members of the Upper House from the state, but also thrown a spanner in the plan of BJP and BSP to have a smooth sail through an ‘undeclared’ alliance. The fact that BSP fielded a candidate despite having just 18 MLAs officially (much less if one counts out rebels) and BJP didn’t field an additional candidate despite having 16 volts to spare after smooth sail of their eight candidates clearly reflected a tacit plan of the two parties to ensure the victory of BSP candidate Ramji Gautam without any contest. However, by filing his paper just before the 3 PM deadline, corporate lawyer Prakash Bajaj has upset this calculation. Son of a former MLA, he is a close relative of prominent businessman Sanjay Dalmia, who has been SP Rajya Sabha member and treasurer in the past. The sudden arrival of Bajaj has thrown up curious circumstances, even BJP insiders are baffled at the party’s decision to let the ninth seat go without contest. In 2018 RS polls, the party had just eight spare MLAs and the opposition was united, still it went for the additional seat and won, they say. Now, the dilemma that the BJP faces is that it can’t openly appeal to its surplus MLAs to vote for the BSP candidate. The BSP candidate, on the other hand, can’t be sure of unflinching support of the surplus MLAs of BJP and ally Apna Dal (Sonelal). Therefore both the parties have a job in hand to guard their forts. Their worst nightmare: With 12 surplus votes, if SP manages to woo over MLAs from Congress, SBSP, independents and some of the rebels from BSP, it would be in a striking distance from the 10th seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corporate-lawyer-upsets-calculations/articleshow/78901565.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Infantry Day observed at Madras Regimental War Memorial||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Wreath laying ceremony at the Madras Regimental War Memorial at Wellington near Coonoor here marked the Infantry Day celebrations on Tuesday. It was on this momentous day in 1947 that the first infantry air-landed in Kashmir Valley and routed Pakistani invaders from Srinagar air field, saving that from falling into enemy’s hands, said an official with the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC). Lt Gen YVK Mohan, AVSM, SM, VSM, Commandant, Defence Service Staff College (DSSC) and Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, SC, SM, Commandant, MRC, paid their obeisance by laying wreaths at the war memorial to mark the day. The monolith war memorial was constructed in 1950 to honour the supreme sacrifice of the ‘Thambis’ of MRC since World War-II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/infantry-day-observed-at-mrc/articleshow/78900749.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed after boulders hit a dumper in Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: Two persons died after heavy boulders fell on the dumper truck they were travelling in. The accident took place at Gurna in Pithoragarh on Monday night when the truck was heading towards Tanakpur. Soon after the accident, the SDRF along with the local police launched a search and rescue operation. The teams could recover the bodies after a three-hour-long exercise. The victims have been identified as Naveen Kumar (25), the driver, and Suraj Kumar (20), the helper. Both the victims were residents of Champawat district. According to locals, the accident took place at the site of all-weather Char Dham road where the road cutting work was ongoing. On Tuesday, Anand Singh Dhami, the owner of the dumper truck, gave a written application to lodge an FIR against the National Highway Authority of India and the road construction company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-after-boulders-hit-a-dumper-in-pithoragarh/articleshow/78898243.cms||Prem Punetha
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Disabled girl students to get pending stipend||COIMBATORE: As many as 1,049 girls with disabilities who are studying in government schools in the district will get Rs 200 per month as stipend for five months starting from June. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government stipend was not disbursed to the students since the start of the academic year. Now, the government has allotted a fund to distribute the stipend for five months since June and it would be transferred to students’ bank account directly soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/disabled-girl-students-to-get-pending-stipend/articleshow/78900764.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||GST evasion: Be cautious in jailing people, Gujarat HC tells courts||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered lower courts to be cautious in sending a person accused of tax evasion to judicial custody. It warned the courts to be vigilant holding that the GST commissioner has “drastic and far-reaching powers” to arrest a person merely on a reason to believe that the person is involved in tax evasion and has illegally claimed input tax credit (ITC). The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice B D Karia opined that since GST officials have wide powers of arrest and the court cannot interfere at the stage of arrest, “such power should be used sparingly and only on substantive weighty grounds and reasons”. The HC made it clear that such arrests should neither be used as a tool to harass the assessee or to harm their business. Arrest must not be made unless it is necessary and justified, the court said. The HC had made the ruling in petitions in which traders expressed apprehension of harassment and arrest by state GST officials after they received summons to explain anomalies in ITC. Since a GST commissioner or his officer making an arrest is not a police officer, court cannot interfere, opined the HC and said further that the magistrate must peruse the arrest memo in detail. It also said that the arrest memo is a key safeguard against illegal arrest. The high court suggested that the GST department should have a standardized format for arrest memos. The format must contain all the mandatory requirements and the memo must incorporate information about allegations. For courts, the HC ordered, “It would be the duty of the concerned magistrate to check that an arrest memo has been prepared and duly filled. In a given case, if the magistrate finds that the arrest memo is absent or improperly filled or bereft of necessary particulars, then the magistrate should decline the production of the arrested person.” The HC has ordered the circulation of this judgment in all subordinate courts across Gujarat and to the state tax commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-evasion-be-cautious-in-jailing-people-hc-tells-courts/articleshow/78900763.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Patna||3 IEDs recovered in Imamganj on poll eve||GAYA: A day before the first phase of state assembly election, security personnel recovered three improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from two different places in Imamganj area of Gaya district on Tuesday. DM-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said the security personnel recovered the three IEDs from different places during area domination exercise. Later, the bomb and the IEDs were diffused. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi and former assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Chaudhary are contesting from Imamganj. The CRPF and the CoBRA jawans recovered two IEDs in the form of can bombs planted in a culvert at Manjari village and another from Aanjan village, both under Roshanganj police station area in Bankebazaar block in Gaya district, which will go to the polls in its all 10 assembly segments on Wednesday. The block is considered Maoist-infested. However, this time the Maoists have not claimed to have planted the IEDs. No pamphlet was recovered from any of the two places. The places from where the IEDs were recovered is around 10km from the Jharkhand border. “Around 18,000 CRPF, ITBP, SSB and the CoBRA jawans have been deployed at the polling stations in the district. The administration has made adequate security arrangements and people should come and vote without fear,” the DM said and added that a helicopter will be used for air surveillance during the polls on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-ieds-recovered-in-imamganj-on-poll-eve/articleshow/78900776.cms||---
October 28, 2020||India||After cementing ties with US, India focuses on key European partners||NEW DELHI: A day after high-level engagement with the US, India is turning its attention to its key strategic partners in Europe. Harsh Shringla, foreign secretary, heads out on Thursday to London, Paris and Berlin where he is expected to hold wide range of consultations with foreign offices, parliamentarians and academia. The idea, according to sources familiar with developments is to restart intensive engagements in European capitals after over six months of Covid-imposed isolation. In its second term, the Modi government has placed special emphasis on Europe for its foreign policy outreach. That was tested after the Indian decision to abrogate Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and the consequent imposition of restrictions in the union territory, particularly on the issue of human rights, detention of political leaders and cutting off of communications. However, India has still to help shape the European view on a couple of key foreign policy and security issues — China and Indo-Pacific, while building up greater development and security relationships on defence, climate and energy. Covid has sharpened the need for closer cooperation on healthcare, officials said, as well as global economic recovery post-pandemic. The growing closeness between India and US also means that India is taking a greater interest in transatlantic relations. The Trump administration had an on-again-off-again relationship with Europe, but a potential Biden administration could recast the US-Europe relationship, opening up many more opportunities for India. Shringla will address think tanks Policy Exchange in London and IFRI in Paris, as part of his public outreach, as well as meeting business leaders in these countries. From a virtually uncritical embrace of China, European countries have been nuancing their positions, particularly on the issue of technology access and 5G communications. From France to Poland, Sweden to UK, there is an open rejection of China’s Huawei for 5G. From France to Germany and UK, there is also a greater understanding and acceptance of the Indo-Pacific as a geo-political reality. In the past new months, both Modi and Jaishankar have engaged with Europe virtually, holding a virtual India-EU summit after it was cancelled in March due to Covid. India signed a green strategic partnership with Denmark, a rising partner in India’s development ambitions. There have been regular virtual consultations both at the official and political level. But it is believed in government that the time has come to go back to old-fashioned physical meetings and diplomacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-cementing-ties-with-us-india-focuses-on-key-european-partners/articleshow/78902236.cms||Indrani Bagchi
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC quashes AMC’s Rs 5.15 crore tax demand from TransStadia||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has quashed a demand notice issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) seeking Rs 5.15 crore in tax from the company that has built and is managing the sports complex and club at Maninagar, SE Transstadia Pvt Ltd. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice B D Karia junked the AMC’s demand notice on the ground that the civic body had not finalized the objections raised by the company with regard to calculating carpet area and use of spaces for the purpose of levying property tax. While the AMC has been seeking tax for 1,06,779.39 square metres, the company has been requesting it to remeasure the area. It also sought certain concessions under the law, which the AMC did not grant. The HC has ordered AMC to re-adjudicate within three months the company’s complaint that tax has not been levied properly. A sports stadium and club were constructed on the closed Abad Dairy land near the Kankaria lake by Transstadia on public-private partnership basis using the design, build, operate and transfer model. It invested Rs 550 crore in the project and obtained partial BU permission in 2016 because an international tournament was to take place at the sports complex. AMC has been issuing it tax bills since 2016-17. In March 2019, AMC issued a demand notice of Rs 5.15 crore for taxes for three years. The company paid a certain amount under protest and kept demanding re-measurement of the carpet area, re-assessment of places being used etc. The AMC did not heed the objections. While quashing the demand notice, the HC said that the AMC could not have done it without finalizing the notice under Rule (2) Chapter-VIII of the GPMC Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-quashes-amcs-rs-5-15-cr-tax-demand-from-transstadia/articleshow/78900778.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Health department suggests sanitation measures for school reopening||KOCHI: The district health department has started giving suggestions to schools in Ernakulam regarding the guidelines to be followed if schools are reopened after more than seven months of lockdown due to the pandemic. The department is recommending schools to consider a document written by a city-based disinfection firm on how to safely conduct classes at schools post reopening. The document was created by Saif Hamza, owner of Protect&Disinfect, a sanitation provider in the city, based on the studies conducted by World Health Organisation (WHO) on how foreign countries are handling the post-Covid school scenario. A letter recommending the measures suggested by Hamza, signed by the district medical officer (DMO), has been sent to all the schools in Ernakulam. The company officials will make a presentation on what all should be done at schools and help the school management prepare an action plan of school reopening. “The government’s decision on reopening school is pending but all schools have to prepare for it. It is an initiative by the company as their commitment to social service and the presentation will be done free of cost. The document they created mentions safe ways to conduct classes amid the pandemic and we sent the letter suggesting them to talk to them. Interested school can contact them for help,” said Ernakulam DMO N K Kuttappan. The presentation will talk on how to disinfect the school premises and buses, types of chemicals to be used, what to do if a student turns Covid-19 positive, the following contact tracing, how to make cleaning staff and teacher aware of the protocols, etc. The measures suggested were created taking into consideration the financial and infrastructural limitations of the schools. “The disinfection should be done daily after the class. It is impossible for any school to do the disinfection daily by hiring a private sanitation service provider as the cost involved is high. So, we help the schools to train their cleaning staff to do the job. Every day, WHO conducts virtual conference regarding Covid-19 and we have attended all of them,” said Hamza. Hamza said that schools should open only those blocks and classrooms which will be used as only higher classes are likely to be permitted on reopening. Moreover, there should not be more than 20 students in a classroom and the timing should be from 8am to 1pm so that the lunch session. He said the extra-curricular activities should be avoided till the pandemic is over. “So far, we have interacted with the officials of more than 20 schools. These are mostly private schools, including those under Bhavan’s Kochi Kendra and Rajagiri Public School,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-suggests-sanitation-measures-for-school-reopening/articleshow/78898262.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Students of 84 govt schools to learn green technology||PANAJI: Eighty-four government high schools and higher secondary schools will soon get training in green technology, right from how to make grey water potable to vermicomposting and using solar energy. The initiative, which is being taken up under a Union education ministry programme, will also introduce students to ways of preventing soil erosion and methods of water harvesting. Schools will form committees comprising local agriculturists and other experts to provide community support to the initiative. “Green technology is associated with sustainable uses of environmental resources. This programme will give students the opportunity to make a career in green technology. The programme will begin soon in all government high schools in Goa. The involvement of the local community around the school will play an important role in making its implementation more effective,” a state official said. School management and development committee members and parents will be roped in to participate and put the green technology into practice. Institutes will teach students how to develop solar panels, which will be later used to run the systems in their office. “This will help the entire village and the school to get regular support from parents and community. During the first year, the programme will concentrate on ways to prevent soil erosion and methods of rainwater harvesting by using local processes. Students will be taught use of solar energy with the help of reflectors to save electricity and how to prepare the landscape to reduce heat radiation,” the official said. Conversion of grey water into potable water using natural processes and methods of vermicomposting will also be part of the programme in its first year. “For successful development of this project at the school level, a committee will be constituted in which civil engineers, agriculturists, farmers, technicians from the community will work together on this project at the school level and train the whole community to implement it at the village level,” the official said. The project is expected to serve a dual purpose. Other than introducing students to a career in green technology, it will also help maintain green and clean school premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-of-84-govt-schools-to-learn-green-technology/articleshow/78901580.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP workers arrested, party seeks Siddipet CP transfer||Hyderabad: A day after the furore over cash seizure at BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao’s relative’s house in Siddipet, high drama continued on Tuesday with BJP activists trying to lay siege to Telangana Bhavan and seeking transfer of Siddipet commissioner of police Joel Davis. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and the National Commisison for BCs sought details on Monday’s incidents leading to the arrest of Telangana BJP chief, Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar. While dozens of state-level leaders were put under house arrest, a team of BJP leaders rushed to chief electoral officer Shashank Goel to lodge a complaint and demand a CBI probe into cases registered by police against their leaders. Speaking to reporters after submitting memorandum, senior BJP leader N Indrasena Reddy said they do not have faith in state police who are biased towards the ruling TRS and sought deployment of paramilitary forces for the November 3 bypoll. “Goel had told us that he will seek a detailed report on the incidents,” BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao said. The BJP state unit later submitted a memorandum to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, urging her to seek an explanation from chief secretary Somesh Kumar and to ask DGP M Mahendar Reddy to transfer police officials involved in Monday’s incident. The leaders also sought the governor to send a team of observers to Dubbak to file a report on the ground situation and advise the CEO to initiate action against the officials concerned. In a related development, Kishan Reddy called the DGP and sought details on the incidents, including preventive arrest of Sanjay Kumar. The BC commission took up suo motu the issue of Sanjay Kumar’s arrest and asked the CS and the DGP to give an explanation by November 5 as to why an MP belonging to a BC community was stopped from going to Siddipet. The commission also asked the higher authorities as to why no action was taken against erring police officials for their high-handed behaviour. Earlier during the day, party national vice-president DK Aruna, Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind and Ramchander Rao were arrested and confined to their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-workers-arrested-party-seeks-siddipet-cp-transfer/articleshow/78900805.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Saleem Sherwani rejoins SP, to be Muslim leadership face||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s preparations for the 2022 assembly elections got a major boost when veteran Congressman Saleem Iqbal Sherwani, a close associate of Rajiv Gandhi, joined the party on Tuesday. A host of former Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs and coordinators also joined SP at the party headquarters in Lucknow. Five-time Congress MP from Badaun, Sherwani had been Union minister of state but had quit Congress after Babri Masjid demolition and joined SP. He, however, went back to Congress in 2009 when he was denied ticket from Badaun to accommodate Dharmendra Yadav from the seat. Political pundits say Sherwani will be top Muslim leader of SP since Mohammed Azam Khan is in jail with nearly 100 FIRs of land grabbing lodged against him by government. “It is highly unlikely that the government will let Azam Khan off the hook till assembly elections,” said a political analyst, explaining the importance of Sherwani’s return to SP. Addressing the media, Akhilesh welcomed Sherwani and other leaders in the party and termed the development as preparation for 2022 assembly elections. “This coming together of leaders and political beliefs will define the future of the state and the country in the days to come,” Akhilesh said. Referring to the prevailing atmosphere in the country and in UP, Sherwani said, “It is politics of hate and conspiracy by pitching one brother against another, sowing suspicions with lies. At such a juncture, I decided to stand with Akhilesh who believes in brotherhood, peace and prosperity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/saleem-sherwani-rejoins-sp-to-be-muslim-leadership-face/articleshow/78901576.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
October 28, 2020||Goa||Goa CM raps bureaucrats, says don’t harass citizens||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday asked heads of departments to play a bigger role in improving the service delivery scheme system in the state so that the common man doesn’t have to make several trips to government offices to get work done. Speaking at the vigilance awareness week function held at the secretariat, Sawant came down heavily on senior officers, especially HODs and even secretaries, for their style of working. “It’s the responsibility of HODs to ensure that the citizen is not harassed”, he told them. “You have to work hard and bring a change. You must think out-of-the-box. The central government is pushing for providing information to the people on the digital platform. But here, more than 70 % of the government websites in Goa are not working. HODs have to take responsibility and deliver,” he said. Sawant said that he was shocked when the department of information and publicity submitted the report on government websites, which he had asked for, as it showed that websites of most departments were either non-functional or not updated. “This shows that the HOD concerned has not paid attention to this aspect,” he said, adding that he had to ask the chief secretary to look into it. “It is the responsibility of the respective head and not the chief secretary to get such things done,” Sawant said. He said that if Goa has to be developed on the lines of Satark Bharat Samridh Bharat then bureaucracy has to play an important role and not politicians. “Politicians make policies, but the implementing authority is bureaucrats,” Sawant said. “If bureaucrats are active then it will help Goa to become samridh,” he said, calling upon department heads to delegate powers and work towards improving the system Sawant said that it has also come to his notice that some government employees never come to office and that even the HOD does not question such staff. “The reason I can say this is because other office staff tell me what is happening,” he said. Sawant said when he speaks to the peon, or staff or even the person who moved the file, he learns of what is happening and that files are kept pending. “Why should the common man make trip after trip to government offices for their work? I request officers that we give good administration,” he said, adding that red tape was making it difficult for some to get toilets for their houses under the government scheme. Sawant said that it is unfortunate that officials do not help native Goans with implementation of schemes and other work that they come with. On the other hand, some officials go out of their way to help those coming from outside the state, he said. The chief minister said that the government will work towards making Goa a corruption-free state even as he sent out a subtle warning that he has “a connect” with the people and learns of “what is happening on the ground”. Sawant asked the secretaries to monitor the working of their respective departments and directed them to visit some taluka-level offices to get first-hand information on the situation. The chief minister said that during the pandemic the state government suffered a huge impact on revenue collection. In this light, the government is working to reduce expenditure and the bureaucracy has to go out of its way to achieve it, Sawant said. “It is up to the head of department decide how to plug revenue leakages and reduce expenditure under the leadership of secretaries concerned,” he said. Sawant said that in order to achieve Swayampurna Goem the state government has selected swayampurna mitrs. “More than 220 officers have been identified. It is not only officers who will go to village panchayats, but we too have to go, including secretaries,” he said. He also said that training for the swayampurna mitrs will commence from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-raps-bureaucrats-says-dont-harass-citizens/articleshow/78901582.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kochi||KSEB’s power generation plan hits unexpected hurdle||IDUKKI: KSEB’s decision to increase power generation at Moolamattom power plant witnessed a setback after three of the six power generators experienced some problems. In October first week, KSEB had decided to increase power generation (up to 10 mu/day) and reduce water levels in Idukki reservoir before northeast monsoon began. While water level continues to increase in the reservoir, generators two, three and four are under repair while one, five and six are generating power, said officials. KSEB director (transmission, system operation and REES) Rajan P said, "The annual maintenance of generator number three was completed and it is expected to be used for power generation soon. After repairs, generator two showed glitches during trial run. Number four was overheating and hence more time is needed to complete repair." The district administration had issued a blue alert after water level in the dam crossed 2,390.85ft on Oct 13. The blue alert level till Oct 31 –as per the new rule curve level fixed by Central Water Commission – is 2,390.85ft. Water level in the reservoir on Tuesday was 2,393.9ft. "If heavy it rains heavily during northwest monsoon, we need to open shutters of the reservoir," said the official, adding that as per the new rule curve, the new opening level in November is fixed 2,399.9ft||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksebs-power-generation-plan-hits-unexpected-hurdle/articleshow/78901584.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pleas against AMC licence fees on hoardings rejected||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has rejected petitions filed by various outdoor advertising firms challenging a 2018 decision of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation’s standing committee approving the levying of licence fees for hoardings erected on private properties. The group of advertisers were also seeking a declaration that after the introduction of goods and services tax (GST), the AMC cannot collect any tax on advertisement hoardings in private properties and cannot collect any licence fees in the garb of tax. The HC rejected this demand also. The bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice B D Karia also refused to accept the advertisers’ challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 386(2) of the Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporation Act. After hearing the case, the HC noticed that the advertisers had been consistently paying the licence fees which was revised from time to time since 1992 and they had never challenged the power to levy the licence fees. Moreover, at one point of time, they had even waived their right to challenge this power. The HC concluded that the fees to be charged as per the provisions of Section 386(2) of the GPMC Act cannot be said to be having unbridled or unfettered power.  The municipal commissioner’s decision is sanctioned by the standing committee. While refusing to quash the arrangement, the HC said that if the advertisers are aggrieved with the amount of the licence fees they may approach the government to fix the fees. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pleas-against-amc-licence-fees-on-hoardings-rejected/articleshow/78900789.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Rajkot||30-year-old woman raped at knife-point in Gujarat's Rapar, 2 booked||RAJKOT: Two men were booked at Rapar police station on Monday for allegedly raping a 30-year-old woman, a resident of Vallabhpar village on knifepoint. The accused kidnapped the woman around 12 days ago and raped her at the outskirts of the village. Police booked Bharat Koli and Prakash Koli for allegedly raping the woman, a farm labourer. In the complaint lodged by the survivor the accused were booked for rape and criminal intimidation. The accused are yet to be arrested. The woman alleged in her complaint that she did not register complaint earlier since she was threatened to be killed. She alleged in the complaint that she was working in a farm when the accused came on a motorcycle. Showing a knife they forcefully took the survivor with them away from the village to an isolated location and raped her. Both raped the woman and threatened to kill her if she complained. “One of the accused is a relative of some powerful persons of the village, hence the survivor did not approach the police earlier, out of fear. Police are working to trace the accused,” said a police officer at the Rapar police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/30-year-old-woman-raped-at-knife-point-in-rapar-2-booked/articleshow/78898283.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man who stole gold from house arrested||COIMATORE: A 31-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for stealing gold ornaments weighing 16 sovereigns from a house at AKG Nagar near Singanallur here on October 18. The Singanallur (crime) police identified the accused as H Muthukrishnan, of Ramanujapuram in Thoothukudi district. He was a driver with a call taxi and a private motorcycle taxi. A police officer said Muthukrishnan used to roam around the city to select houses for burglary. On October 18, he entered the house at AKG Nagar through the back door using the original key, which the occupants had kept near a window. “He took away the gold ornaments that were kept in a wardrobe on the ground floor of the house. The occupants, 72-year-old Mani, a retired professor, and his wife, were asleep on the first floor,” the officer said. The next day, when Mani came to know about the burglary, he informed the Singanallur (crime) police, who registered a case and arrested Muthukrishnan on Tuesday. Police have recovered the stolen gold ornaments from him. The officer said three cases were already pending against Muthukrishnan at Peelamedu and Saravanampatti police stations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-who-stole-gold-from-house-arrested/articleshow/78900791.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC begins sero-surveillance across city||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started Covid-19 sero-surveillance across the city from Monday. The target is to collect samples of 2,000 people within a week. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Sero-surveillance will help know whether there was community spread, and cluster of cases also in areas from where cases were less. Samples of 2,000 people, who have never tested positive, and were not low or high-risk contacts of positive patients, will be collected.” Joshi added 80 staffers have been engaged for the drive. “Samples will be submitted to GMCH for testing,” he said. Dr Uday Narlawar is nodal officer for the sero-surveillance. He prepared list of areas to be covered under the survey and submitted it to the civic body. Joshi said, “Samples of three persons from slums and two from non-slum areas will be taken in each of the identified localities.” Zilla parishad had started a similar survey to cover 2,000 people in rural parts of the district. The drive to collect samples is almost nearing completion. The blood samples will be tested to look for IgG antibodies. If detected in any person, IgG antibodies will indicate the person was infected but did not realize it as he or she was asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. This is the second such survey in the district. The first survey was conducted in July, which covered around 2,500 persons. At that time, survey was conducted in containment zones as well as non-containment zones. The results had shown 4.64% of total tested persons had IgG antibodies, as cases were low and community spread was not there in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-begins-sero-surveillance-across-city/articleshow/78899518.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 28, 2020||Goa||Admissions at ESI hosp ‘significantly reduced’||Margao: The Covid-19 caseload at the ESI-Covid hospital has significantly reduced with the facility now having only 50 % occupancy. The ESI hospital whose capacity was increased to 220 beds during the initial phase of the pandemic, now has only 110 patients admitted, some of whom are critical. “The situation is much better than earlier,” Dr Vishwajit Faldesai, medical superintendent of the ESI hospital told TOI on Tuesday. “The overall admissions in the Covid hospital have reduced significantly.” Though Faldesai said that the lesser number of admissions was one of the first indicators of the curve getting flattened, he warned against lowering the guard. “There’s no room for complacency. We have the festival season coming soon, and we have to watch out for any spike in cases,” he said. While the scale of Covid tests has been reduced, medical experts are of the view that the tests will have to be scaled up as the winter season sets in. “It’s possible that influenza virus and SARS-COV virus, which causes Covid-19, may both spread in the winter. As there’s nothing much to differentiate between the symptoms of the two, it’s imperative that symptomatic patients go for tests immediately to rule out Covid-19 infection,” a doctor said. The months between November-December to April-May period is when flu illnesses usually spreads. Medical experts said that drastic reduction in case count, coupled with a steep fall in daily deaths and a lower positivity at a high testing rate suggests the slowing down of the spread. There is, however, a risk of an equally abrupt reversal if people drop their guard amidst the rush of a festive season that lies ahead. Admissions in the south Goa district hospital Margao is also markedly less, sources said, adding that the health department was in the process of ramping up the infrastructure, manpower and other medical facilities in a staggered manner, anticipating the possibility of a “second wave.” A post-Covid treatment facility has already been set up at the Hospicio hospital Margao for patients who have recovered from the infection. In GMC, however, the Covid wards are full.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/admissions-at-esi-hosp-significantly-reduced/articleshow/78901593.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Centre should give Rs 12k crore grant to civic bodies: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Calling the non-payment of salaries to doctors and healthcare staff by North Delhi Municipal Corporation “shameful”, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said that the Centre should release grants to the civic bodies so that they can pay their employees. Of the three municipal corporations, generally the north and east civic bodies stay in the limelight for not paying salaries to their employees, including sanitation workers. “The doctors of north corporation are on strike due to non-payment of salaries for months now. They risked their lives to protect, treat and serve us. This is not right. It is a very sensitive matter and there should be no politics over it. Since 2015, the AAP government has been paying the corporations two-three times more than the previous governments. Corruption is to blame for their poor financial health,” Kejriwal said. Rejecting the claim of the BJP-led corporations that the AAP dispensation was starving them of funds, a government official said that since April Rs 1,752.6 crore had been released to the three civic bodies under the 5th Delhi Finance Commission recommendations. Also, Rs 180 crore more funds had been sanctioned to them. “The three corporations together owe Rs 8,604 crore to Delhi government, Rs 6,008 crore as loan and Rs 2,596.3 crore as Delhi Jal Board dues,” said the official. Kejriwal said that the central government should pay the corporations Rs 12,000 crore as grants. “The Centre gives grants to all municipal corporations across the country on the basis of Rs 485 per person in their respective areas. However, Delhi municipalities have not been paid for years. The population of Delhi is 2.25 crore. Based on the calculations, the amount of grant comes to around Rs 1,200 crore per year, or Rs 12,000 crore for 10 years. If the central government doesn’t give this fund to the corporations, how will they function?” he asked. “We analysed the situation regarding funds disbursement to the corporations after some people said that Delhi government had not paid its dues. But we have disbursed more funds than what is required according to the Constitution,” said the CM. Mentioning that the corporations couldn’t run with financial mismanagement and blatant corruption, Kejriwal said they should learn from Delhi government, which saved money by completing many projects in less than the estimated cost. “The budget for the corporations is Rs 12,000 crore and for salaries Rs 6,000 crore. If they get the funds, why can’t they pay their staff? Why do doctors need to protest when they should be treating our children and families in the hospitals?” asked Kejriwal. Remarking that Delhi government was also suffering economic losses due to low tax collection during the pandemic, Kejriwal said, “We have still paid salaries to our officials, teachers, doctors and workers on time. If Delhi government had the funds, I would have paid the salaries of municipal doctors irrespective of what is written in the Constitution. I appeal to the municipal corporations to stop corruption.” The CM appealed to officials of the municipal corporations to let the local bodies function effectively. Giving an example of effective utilisation of financial resources, Kejriwal said, “I inaugurated the Seelampur-Shastri Park flyover day before yesterday. It had a budget of Rs 303 crore. But we completed it in just 18 months in Rs 250 crore and saved Rs 53 crore. In the last six years, we have saved funds on all flyover projects.” “On the other hand, Rani Jhansi flyover, which was started by the municipal corporation in 2006 and was to be completed by 2010, took 12 years to get completed. The initial cost of the project was Rs 178 crore, but it was built in Rs 750 crore. Where did the extra Rs 570 crore go? Due to corruption and mismanagement, the corporations are at a loss as people do not want to pay taxes,” added Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-should-give-rs-12k-cr-grant-to-civic-bodies-cm/articleshow/78900835.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Challenges galore for school managements||KOCHI: Even though the government is considering the reopening of schools by December, school authorities say it will be a challenging task to conduct classes amid the rising Covid-19 cases and a lot of planning is needed from both schools and the government. Most city schools are chalking out a plan to conduct classes with strict adherence to Covid protocols once schools are reopened. As the restrictions of social distancing prevail, students of each classroom has to be split into two which demand more classrooms. This will not be possible if students of all classes are allowed to come to schools as there will be space constraints to allocate two classrooms for each grade. The daily sanitation and disinfection of classrooms will be an additional responsibility for the management. A whole new timetable will have to be drafted to match the new academic schedule. But all these could be planned only if the government confirms the reopening date in advance, thus giving enough time for schools to prepare. Most principals and teachers opined that the plan to partially reopen schools for higher classes and providing students with option of either coming to school or attending online classes will not be effective. They said it will lead to further confusion in covering the portions and also disrupt the conduct of online classes, which has been going systematically over the last five months. Moreover it will give additional workload to teachers . “Accommodating full strength of the school is impractical and the only option is conducting classes on rotational basis. But this will turn ambiguous if not all students are present in the classroom and some parents decide to continue online classes for their ,” said Juby Paul, principal of ToC H Public School, Vyttilla. The risk factor of infection is a major challenge pointed out by managements. If any of the students turn Covid-19 positive, the entire classroom or the school will have to be shut.  “There are many schools which are struggling to survive as parents are yet to pay the fees. For such schools, reopening schools would be very difficult unless they increase fees ,” said T P M Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE schools management association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/challenges-galore-for-school-managements/articleshow/78898278.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Fliers abroad seek evening flights to & from New Delhi||COIMBATORE: Frequent fliers to the US from the region have shot off a letter to Air India, demanding evening flights to the city from New Delhi and back. While the country has created an air travel arrangement with the US, only Air India is flying to that country that too from New Delhi. Given the timing of flights to the national capital from the city, many exporters and professionals in the region say they are forced to wait 13 hours at the Delhi airport to take the flight to the US at 4am. To take the return flight to the city from New Delhi after landing from the US, there is a 16-hour layover. Manoj Kumar, a city resident who is planning to fly to San Francisco in November-end for a month-long trip, has no other option but to choose Air India to reach Delhi. “Only United Airlines and Air India are flying, and I had to choose Sunday, because Air India is operating direct flights to New Delhi from the city only five days a week. During my journey to the US and way back, I need to stop in New Delhi for 13 and 16 hours, respectively.” Frequent fliers between the two countries say it would be very helpful if Air India operates late evening flights between the city and New Delhi. “If we have a flight that departs from New Delhi at 5pm or 6pm and reaches the city at 9pm, it would help people flying in from the US or Europe. And if we have a flight that departs to New Delhi from the city at 6.30pm and reaches there at 9.30pm or 10pm, it will reduce the layover to a large extent,” says Varun Dharam, a city-based lawyer, who flies to the US regularly. R Girija, Air India station manager, says she has received the letters and is in talks with the headquarters. “We are operating only at 70% capacity and trying to bunch multiple flights into a single trip. So, there are some issues in operating a new evening flight. But we have forwarded the letters to the headquarters and asked if something could be done to make the New Delhi connection more convenient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fliers-abroad-seek-evening-flights-to-from-new-delhi/articleshow/78900802.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||CCP bans fireworks, processions for Narkasur||PANAJI: In order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 during Diwali, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has capped the height of the Narkasur effigy at 8ft and banned related programmes and processions in the capital city. The corporation has also urged people to avoid home visits and asked them to instead use technology to wish friends. Fireworks have been banned both on Diwali eve, November 13, and on Diwali day, November 14. The SOP released by the CCP has stated that there will be an “absolute ban” on use of DJ/amplifier/ amplified sound system within its jurisdiction on November 13 and November 14. Panaji will also see a similar ban on entertainment programmes and competitions on the two days. Large gatherings have also been prohibited near Narkasur effigies. “No person or club of any organisation shall set fire to the Narkasur effigy on the road,” the SOP stated, adding that protocols of wearing masks, social distancing and washing and sanitising hands must be followed throughout the celebrations. “All the persons involved in the above activities shall maintain social distancing all the time so that Covid pandemic is not spread during the festival season,” the SOP stated. “For Diwali celebrations, as far as possible, home visits to friends and neighbours may be avoided and instead greetings on social media or telephones may be adopted,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-bans-fireworks-processions-for-narkasur/articleshow/78901592.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Firecracker vendors need NOC from fire dept to acquire cracker license||Dehradun: This Diwali, vendors and businessmen looking to secure cracker licenses will need a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the fire department. The decision was taken at a meeting between officials from the district administration and members of the Vypaar Mandal here on Tuesday. “No Fire NOC would mean no license,” stated additional district magistrate Arvind Pandey, adding, “the sites to set up cracker shops must have proper approach roads for the entry of fire tenders, if needed.” Other mandatory conditions necessary to set firecracker shops state that the shops must come up in concrete buildings, stay away from any kind of electrical junction boxes and that no other product be sold at places where firecracker stalls or markers are set up. Officials stated that like the previous years, no cracker markets can come up in sections of Kotwali and Ghantaghar, the stretch from Ghamawala Bazar Kotwali to Adhatbazaar Check, Moti Bazar section between Paltan Bazar and Purani Sabji Mandi area. Likewise, in the Hanuman Chowk area – sections between Hanuman Chowk and Jhanda Mohalla, Ramlila Bazaar to Band Bazaar, Anand Chowk to Lakshman Chowk, Dispensary Road area, Ghantaghar Chakrata Road to Hanuman Mandir, Survey Check to DAV PG College and Karanpur Main Market. Officials also pointed out that the shops will have to display a copy of their license, issued by the administration, at their shops. They will also be expected to make adequate arrangements to douse fire on their premises, should one break out. Apart from that, all Covid-19 related protocol has to be followed at cracker outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/firecracker-vendors-need-noc-from-fire-dept-to-acquire-cracker-license/articleshow/78898322.cms||Abhijeet Singh
October 28, 2020||Goa||‘No understanding of Goa’: Michael Lobo slams govt's tourism masterplan||CALANGUTE: Minister for waste management and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo criticised the recently approved tourism masterplan saying that it has been prepared “some people sitting in air-conditioned offices in Bangalore” without having an understanding about Goa. “It just makes some vague suggestions that we should shift the focus to hinterland tourism and other activities without understanding the ground reality. We don’t need an outside agency, which is paid crores of rupees, to tell us Goans how to take tourism forward. It is for us Goans to take tourism forward,” he said. “We don’t want this master plan,” Lobo said. Speaking at the launch of the ‘Smart Street’ initiative at Baga, Calangute, on Monday, he said tourism has developed in Goa through the efforts of Goans “who initially started by offering homestays to tourists in their houses” and then set up restaurants and pubs, which are today iconic establishments. Talking about the tourism scenario in Goa, Lobo said, it was important to understand what the state’s requirements after looking at what is happening. He said that to get the best tourists the state has to see what other international destinations like Sri Lanka are offering visitors. ‘It will make clear where we are lagging,” Lobo said, adding that it was not necessary to bring in a “big agency” to decide “how we are going to run our tourism”. Stating that tourism is Goa has always been run by Goan stakeholders, Lobo said, “Calangute became world famous decades ago because of the hospitality of the Goan people. Restaurants like Souza Lobo’s, Britto’s, party spots like Tito’s, which are today world famous, were all started by Goans and are still owned by Goans.” He said the ‘Smart Street’ concept at Tito’s lane in Baga has been conceptualised to revitalise the image of Calangute, which has been negatively affected in recent years. “A lot of unwanted and illegal activities were happening here, which brought a bad name to Tito’s lane and Calangute. As part of the Smart Street initiative there are now CCTV cameras monitoring the lane, which will enable early detection of any crimes and create a safe environment for tourists,” he said. As part of the Smart Street development, 30 digital signboards have also been installed in the lane, besides solar-powered blinkers on the road and LED street lights, which can bathe the lane in five different colours at intervals. Lobo said all other streets in Calangute would also be similarly developed to turn it into a world-class destination again, and hoped that other tourist places in Goa are also developed on the same lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-understanding-of-goa-lobo-slams-govts-tourism-masterplan/articleshow/78901594.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 recovery rate reaches 91% in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 422 people recovering from Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, the recovery rate reached 91.2% in Uttarakhand. A total of 55,610 people have defeated Covid-19 virus in the state so far. The state has tested around 10 lakh Covid-19 samples since March this year. Meanwhile, the state also reported 213 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday. WIth this, the total case tally reached 60,957 in the state. “The maximum of 58 cases were reported from Dehradun, followed by 29 from Tehri, 21 from Nainital, 21 from Pauri, 12 each from Uttarkashi and Udham Singh Nagar, nine from Rudraprayag, eight from Bageshwar, seven from Pithoragarh, six each from Chamoli and Champawat, and one in Almora,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. The official added that six more fatalities on the day pushed the toll of Covid-19 to 1,007 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-recovery-rate-reaches-91-in-ukhand/articleshow/78898351.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: DMK throws prohibitory orders to wind to protest against AIADMK||COIMBATORE: Flouting social distancing norms, DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin on Tuesday led around 1,500 party cadres, 200 of them women, and staged a protest in front of the south taluk office here on Tuesday, condemning the ruling AIADMK for defaming the party leaders by putting up posters with their caricatures and funny slogans in the city. Udhayanidhi said the party was ready to put up posters to tarnish the image of AIADMK leaders. Coming down on municipal administration minister S P Velumani, he said the DMK had enough evidence to prove corruption charges that were levelled against the minister. “In the 2019 general elections, we had performed well in the Kongu region. We are expecting good vote share in the upcoming assembly polls as well. People will dethrone the AIADMK government. Once we come to power, corrupt AIADMK leaders will face the music.” He said corruption was rampant in projects that were being carried out by the city corporation. Pointing out that former chief ministers M Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa were against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), he said the present AIADMK dispensation had failed to protect the welfare of students in the state. Referring to the CAA, NEET and 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical admissions, Udhayanidhi said the state government has been losing its rights one after another. Earlier, the DMK’s plan was to stage a protest against Velumani at Kaniyamuthur. However, the city police denied them permission and allowed the party to stage the protest in front of the south taluk office. When DMK cadres attempted to set up a stage on Huzur Road on Tuesday morning, police stopped them. Following this, DMK MLA N Karthik and party functionaries staged a road roko. Later, the party was allowed to erect the stage. Around 200 police personnel were deployed at the protest venue to prevent any untoward incidents. It is to be noted that Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure has been in force in the state since March 25. Since the DMK has violated the prohibitory norms, the city police have sought a legal opinion to register a first information report against Udhayanidhi and others, who participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-throws-prohibitory-orders-to-wind-to-protest-against-aiadmk/articleshow/78900839.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: 2km road only on paper: Former chief engineer held||KANPUR: The city police on Tuesday arrested a former chief engineer of the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA), Arun Mishra, with regard to a road construction scam of 2012. In a case registered against him in 2012, he was accused of getting an amount of Rs 2.11 crore passed against construction of a road between Chakeri and Pali, that was shown on papers by fraudulent means. “Arun Mishra was arrested from Ramadevi in the Chakeri area on Tuesday,” SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal informed TOI on Tuesday. Recently, the state government had sanctioned the prosecution of Mishra and several others, including then assistant engineer Nagendra Singh and junior engineer S K Verma, Agarwal added. The other accused had approached the Allahabad high court, which had stayed their arrest, the police officer said. In 2009, UPSIDA had constructed a three-km road from Prayagraj National Highway to Chakeri industrial area via Pali village, said an official. The 1,940-metre road ahead of it was built by the public works department (PWD), but the officers of UPSIDA including Mishra had shown the PWD portion of the road also in their construction project, the official added. The then executive engineer Ajit Singh of UPSIDA, assistant engineer Nagendra Singh and junior engineer S K Verma were involved in sanctioning of Rs 2.11 crore in January 2009, stating that the road was constructed by Karthik Enterprises firm. This amount was paid in two instalments from UPSIDA. When the case came to light, Mohammad Iftekharuddin, the then managing director of UPSIDA, got registered an FIR in 2012 at Chakeri police station against Mishra and others, besides Karthik Enterprises, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2km-road-only-on-paper-former-chief-engr-held/articleshow/78901586.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid infections show downward trend as positivity rate dips to 11%||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 positivity rate dropped to 11% on Tuesday, the lowest in 10 days. The tally of active cases came down to 2,382, with recoveries exceeding fresh infections. The day reported 345 recoveries as against 215 new cases. As many as 1,961 samples were tested in one day, a jump when compared to a few days prior, when the daily average of samples tested had dropped below 1,500. On October 19, just 742 samples were tested. Taking into view the unpredictability of the virus, health minister Vishwajit Rane last week had declared that 2,000 to 2,500 samples will be tested daily. Covid-19 has shown a downward trend in October and the positivity rate over the past 10 days has hovered between 19 and 24%, less than the past two months. The government has repeatedly warned people that it is not the time to take Covid-19 lightly and that they should continue to take precautions. Centres that witnessed a continuous rise since August, such as Porvorim and Panaji, are also seeing a decline in cases. Porvorim’s active caseload on Tuesday was 169 and that of Panaji and Chimbel was 103 and 114 respectively. Margao urban health centre has the highest cases, 228, followed by Ponda with 155. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said last week that even as cases seem to be reducing, people will have to follow the measures set in place to prevent the spread of the virus for a long time. On Tuesday, three people succumbed to the virus. A 39-year-old man from Curchorem, who was diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome, was declared brought dead to Hospicio in Margao. A 64-year-old woman from Vasco and a 73-year-old man from Porvorim having comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension, also died of Covid-19. The woman had developed ARDS shortly after hospital admission, whereas the man had Covid-19 pneumonia at the time of admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-infections-show-downward-trend-as-positivity-rate-dips-to-11/articleshow/78901603.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Illegal vendors crowd Connaught Place, spark infection fear||NEW DELHI: Unlocking of the economy may have brought some cheer to shopkeepers in Connaught Place, but at the same time the increase in number of hawkers in the corridors and pedestrian walkways in the inner circle is putting lives at risk as crowding has increased the chances of getting infected by the novel coronavirus. The situation is scarier during the weekends as visitors are forced to walk in close proximity. Moreover, the hawkers surround buyers violating social distancing norms with impunity. “The civic body claims that its teams have been visiting markets frequently and penalising people for not wearing masks, but at the same time major violations are occurring right under their noses. I visited Connaught Place on the weekend and found hawkers sitting right at the entrance of A-Block. They were not only interrupting the movement of pedestrians, but clogging the entire corridor. Most importantly, none of them were wearing masks properly,” said a visitor. Many visitors also claimed that most of these hawkers had come to the area in the recent past and were occupying public spaces illegally. Traders of the area said even they had approached New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) to curtail their numbers and regulate them. New Delhi Traders’ Association president Atul Bhargava said, “The worst thing is that these vendors don’t maintain distance. Recently, I saw them selling clothes and other items and cooking momos in the inner circle, which was not the case earlier. Though NDMC claims that it is carrying out anti-encroachment drives, there is no change on the ground.” “The number of hawkers doubles in the evening. As soon as they get a hint of the arrival of enforcement teams, they hide in the back lanes with their wares. There may be a nexus between the hawkers and NDMC staff as marshals are deployed permanently in the corridors. We are going to write to the LG and the NDMC chairman regarding this issue,” said Bhargava. A senior NDMC official, however, claimed that action was being taken regularly. “Not just NDMC staff, teams from the SDM office and police also conduct random checks and issue challans to violators. Last weekend, we carried out a drive in the evening and seized the wares of illegal hawkers on the request of the traders’ association,” added the official. “We have been issuing 100-125 challans every day to violators. In Connaught Place alone, a team of 10-12 officials takes rounds every day. Even we don’t want illegal vendors in the market. We are going to intensify the drive during the festive season and conduct random checks, especially on the weekends. Except for select tehbazaris, including pan kiosks and vendors who have taken a stay from the court, others are illegal and liable for action,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/illegal-vendors-crowd-cp-spark-infection-fear/articleshow/78900852.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Non-immune high risk groups need vaccination first: Doctors||Nagpur: Unexposed health workers, high risk groups, children and even asymptomatic Covid recovered patients must be on vaccination priority, say city doctors. With the health ministry asking local bodies to get ready for Covid vaccination drive, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has asked all clinics, and hospitals to furnish details of health care workers. Doctors in the city feel that health workers who are yet to be infected with Covid, cops, elderly people and children must be the priority while some also cast doubts if vaccination for all could actually be possible, whenever it happens. Some doctors said it is difficult to say at this moment who should be vaccinated as Covid is a new disease and researchers still don’t have full knowledge about it. Asked about vaccinating recovered patients, senior pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat said how common reinfection has become needs to be found out first. “It is also a matter of research if a person infected 6 months ago is fit for vaccination now,” he said. Dr Arbat added that health workers who are yet to be infected must get it on first priority followed by elderly people and children. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said Covid immunity is for three months as per available literature. “Reinfection is possible just like any other viral infection. Firstly, all asymptomatic recovered Covid patients who have crossed three months duration from date of infection need to be vaccinated. Their antibody test can be done. As per vaccinology, those who are non-immune must be preferred. It is generally seen that majority of asymptomatic patients don’t develop antibodies. In general, non-immune health care workers, and classical risk group which are 65 above, special population like those having transplants are priority groups,” he said. Consultant pulmonologist at Kingsway Hospitals Dr Vikram Rathi said recovered may not need the vaccine. “Since they have developed antibodies, vaccine’s potency and efficacy won’t be conclusive. If we need to see the effect of vaccine in patients who have contracted infection, antibody assessment will play an important role,” he said. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra too said those who are more susceptible and among high risk groups must be on priority list. Asked about recovered patients, he said most of them already have antibodies. “Purpose of vaccination is to create antibodies. Beside chances of reinfection are negligible,” he said. A government pulmonologist said unless there is specific study on reinfection in the city, it is hard to say if recovered patients need it. “Covid is a new disease and little is known about it. We need data and scientific studies to decide who actually needs vaccination,” the pulmonologist added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/non-immune-high-risk-groups-need-vaccination-first-doctors/articleshow/78899575.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Udhayanidhi Stalin, other party netas booked||COIMBATORE: The Race Course police have registered a case against DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin for violating the prohibitory orders and other offenses. He was booked based on a complaint lodged by Race Course police sub-inspector Rajinikanth stating the actor-turned politician and other DMK cadres had violated the probhibitory orders that were put in place to contain the pandemic by assembling unlawfully at one place to stage protest, without maintaining social distancing. The complainant said many protestors were not wearing face mask as well. The cop said Udhyanidhi had also spread wrong information about NEET among the rural students and requested to take action against him and other DMK leaders. The Race Course police subsequently registered a case against Udhayanidhi, Singanallur MLA N Karthik, Pollachi MP Shanmuga Sundaram and others under sections 143, 269, 341, 504 and 505 (i)(b) of the Indian Penal Code. They were also booked separately for not allowing a public servant to do his duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/udhayanidhiother-party-netas-booked/articleshow/78900849.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Arhtiyas are undesirable for farm produce and credit markets: Study||CHANDIGARH: The existence of commission agents or arhtiyas in Punjab is undesirable for both farm produce markets as well as credit markets as interlocking practised by arhtiyas makes these markets non-competitive and exploitative. Therefore, abolition of the institution of arhtiyas is needed and states like Madhya Pradesh had taken such steps in the 1980s itself. Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad’s Professor Sukhpal Singh has made these recommendation in his study on reforming agricultural markets in Punjab, which is part of the policy series by the Punjabi University’s Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies. “The interlocking of the credit, input and output markets by the arhtiyas in the state has led to farmer indebtedness in the context of poor institutional credit reach which is both inadequate and costlier due to higher transaction costs despite its lower interest rate,” says the study. Prof Sukhpal mentions that the system of payment for the farmer produce through arhtiyas is the root cause of trouble for farmers as arhtiyas do unregistered and informal money lending at high rates of interest and supply farm inputs and groceries to farmers on seasonal credit. Besides, arhtiyas get the commission from public and private agencies for facilitating sale of farmer produce to them and recover their loans from farmers through this system of payment though the farmer produce is mostly bought by state agencies like the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and those authorised by them. “It is in this context that the issue of direct payment to farmers for their produce has been hanging fire for so many years now and remains unresolved despite the Union government pushing for the same,” says the study. It points out that the Food Corporation of India had been eager to pay directly to farmers but the state government does not want this to happen. Abolition more feasible nowEmphasising on abolishing the institution of arhtiyas, the study recommends that this should be much more feasible now as there can be more alternate agencies like producer companies, primary agricultural co-operative societies (PACS), warehouse receipt system or electronic marketing platforms at APMC level which can take up the role of facilitating farmer produce handling in mandis or outside. These agencies can obviate the need for informal sector credit as there would be prompt payment for produce or loans against produce through the warehouse receipt system. In fact, PACS already buys from farmers at their doorsteps in many states like Bihar and Madhya Pradesh and payments are directly made into farmers’ bank accounts, says the study. “Unfortunately, the recent draft farmers’ policy of the state (Punjab) does not deal with the reform of existing markets in the state – neither in terms of examining the model agricultural produce and livestock markets... nor in terms of improving the regulation and governance of existing markets or their restructuring,” the study has found. The way forwardThe best bet for making the commission agents irrelevant would be to diversify the farm sector of the state as when wheat, paddy and cotton reduce in importance, the commission agents and the state’s vested interest agencies would tend to wither away, says the study. Prof Sukhpal is of the opinion that the formal credit system would need to have better reach and more simplified procedures besides being bribe free to make a dent in the farm sector, especially for small and marginal farmers. “The design of more innovative financing products for farm and allied sectors is what is needed for making institutional credit deliver,” he says. The study also found that despite a committee of the Punjab government recommending direct payments by procuring agencies, besides lowering the number of commission agents in APMC markets in 1998, there has been no movement forward on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/arhtiyas-are-undesirable-for-farm-produce-and-credit-markets-study/articleshow/78900846.cms||Sanjeev Verma
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Six members of a joint family get apt complex||KOCHI: Six members of a joint family in North Paravur have got their individual houses under the under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) and Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission scheme. Six of the seven children of Dakshayani had applied for houses under PMAY-LIFE scheme and the idea of constructing an apartment complex with six dwelling units was designed to minimize the land requirement. Minister for local self-government A C Moideen inaugurated the handing over of the keys of the houses through a virtual ceremony on Tuesday. Now, families of Sasi, Rajesh, Kannan, Selvan, Premkumar and Vijaya have got their own houses. It is in the land owned by their mother Dakshayani that the apartment complex was constructed. It was in 2019 that the government allotted 4.25 lakh each to six children of Dakshayani under the PMAY-LIFE scheme. The two BHK units have a built-up area of 450 sq ft each. The total cost of construction of the complex is 25.25 lakh. While Rs 9 lakh has been allotted from PMAY scheme, the state government allotted Rs 3 lakh. Paravur municipality allotted Rs 12 lakh and Rs 1.25 lakh was granted from employment guarantee scheme. The handing over of the keys of houses to 11 more families in North Paravur was also conducted on the day. The 11 houses were constructed using the corporate social responsibility fund of Housing and Urban Development Corporation (Hudco). All the 11 families had lost their houses in the 2018 floods. It was two construction groups floated by Kudumbashree which constructed the houses. Hudco had given Rs 5.6 lakh each for the construction of the houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/six-members-of-a-joint-family-get-apt-complex/articleshow/78898369.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 cases spike by 81 in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris saw a surge in Covid-19 cases on Tuesday when it reported 81 new cases, up from 38 on Monday. With this, the tally has gone up to 6,490, of which 296 are active cases. At least 29 patients were discharged on the day, taking the number of recovered patients to 6,156. The recovery rate now stands at 94.8%. Eight people were tested positive for the virus from Ooty town and three from Coonoor. The remaining cases were reported from rural areas. Among the new cases were two girls aged below 10 years and a 72-year-old woman. Twenty of the new cases had a travel history to other districts. The remaining new patients were contacts of earlier positive cases. Dr P Balusamy, deputy director of public health, said, “There is no specific reason for the increase in Covid-19 cases today (Tuesday). The cases were spread across the district. We will continue to test 2,000 swab samples a day.” Of the 296 active cases, seven are being treated at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore and the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, while 32 are in home quarantine. The remaining cases are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and Covid care centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-cases-spike-by-81-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78900872.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Amritsar||Road blocks across India, march to Delhi in November||BATHINDA: A 4-hour countrywide road blockade on November 5 and gathering farmers in Delhi on November 26-27 will take farm unions’ agitation against three new central laws beyond Punjab. The farm unions have put the state’s Balbir Singh Rajewal on a five-member committee that will suggest how to widen the struggle. The state’s 31-organisation front sent representatives to Tuesday’s Delhi gathering called by All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), a conglomerate of 200 farms unions of the country. Host V M Singh, Kisan Swaraj convener Yogendra Yadav, Kavitha Kuruganti of the Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture, and Narmada Bachao Andolan founder Medha Patkar were prominent names at the meeting. V M Singh and Yogendra Yadav said hundreds of farm unions had come together to save agricultural land from corporate and multinational takeover. Yadav said: “The way Punjab’s farmers have sustained the struggle has shown the way to the country.” Rajewal and fellow Punjab farm unionist Darshan Pal said the Centre had stopped freight trains to Punjab to cause dissensions among farmers and malign their image when they had cleared all railway lines in the state, except the internal tracks of two private thermal electricity plants. BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh said: “The railways’ divideand-rule policy will not work in Punjab. We need fertilisers, coal, and many other essential items. By stopping the trains, the union government wants to bring us under pressure.” At the gathering’s request for a revolutionary poem, Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal got up and recited ‘Mashalan baal ke chalna jado tak raat baki hai’ (keep the flame burning until darkness is gone). BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner, who has received two remissions in a murder case under public pressure, also came up with a poem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-countrywide-road-blockade-delhi-march-in-nov/articleshow/78900870.cms||Neel Kamal
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS is jittery, fears losing Dubbak seat, says Bandi||State BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar is livid. After he was prevented from going to Siddipet and placed under house arrest in Karimnagar, Sanjay says the TRS is worried and wants the Dubbak bypoll postponed. He tells Sribala Vadlapatla that the TRS government’s misuse of power has been exposed with Monday’s incidents at Siddipet. Excerpts: n What is at stake for your opponents in Dubbak poll? The TRS is scared of losing the election on November 3. It wants to threaten the voters, our activists and party candidate Raghunandan Rao. Monday night’s searches at the house of a close relative of our candidate are uncalled for. These threats will not deter us. With the election date nearing, the ruling party is in jitters. Siddipet episode is not just a one-off incident. n TRS says your party is unnecessarily making an issue out of Siddipet incident after your man was caught with money What money has been recovered? When the elections are happening in Dubbak, how can officials go randomly without any warrant to people’s houses and start searching. They should apply the same logic and conduct searches at CM’s farmhouse in Erravelli, which is also in Siddipet district. I am the star campaigner for BJP. But, they (police) stopped me at Siddipet. Is there any logic to their actions? I am going to move a privilege motion in Lok Sabha. It is the TRS which is rushing leaders from every corner of the state to Dubbak and not us. n What do you think about the chances of BJP winning the bypolls? We are sure of a win. Dubbak constituency has been ignored by the TRS. The government diverted the funds meant to be spent here to Gajwel and Siddipet. Unemployed youngsters are complaining to us about lack of jobs. Paddy farmers are very disappointed. The election promise of 2-BHK houses has not materialised. n Will BJP have any alliance with Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party in Telangana? We have not thought about it either for Dubbak or forthcoming GHMC elections. I suspect the TRS may not want to go ahead with GHMC elections now and may even postpone them. But, we are ready for the elections. We are doing a ward-wise analysis on people’s issues and winnable candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-is-jittery-fears-losing-dubbak-seat-says-bandi/articleshow/78900868.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Dreaded Rajura tiger finally trapped||Chandrapur: The dreaded tiger of Rajura – identified as RT-1 - was finally trapped in a specially-designed cage in a narrow culvert under a railway bridge in Rajura forest range on Tuesday afternoon. A team headed by vet Dr Kundan Podshelwar rushed to the spot and tranquillized the tiger. The tiger was moved to Chandrapur transit treatment centre and is likely to be moved to Gorewada zoo in Nagpur later in the night. “We had set up an automated cage under a narrow railway culvert on the regular trail of the tiger in compartment no. 179 in Rajura range. The cage had both the sides open with a bait inside to lure the feline,” said officials involved in the operation. “Lured by the bait, the tiger walked into the cage and the barriers on both the sides dropped at once trapping the beast inside,” said the officials. The beast had eluded the hunting teams of forest department for almost eight months. After successive kills for over one year, forest department had issued capturing orders on February 14. However, the tiger grew aware of the hunting schemes of the forest department and dodged every trap and tranquillizing efforts. Officially, the beast had killed over 25 baits laid to lure it, but every time it managed to give a slip to the hunting teams. The efforts to trap the beast in trenches and pits too had failed. The feline had recently got trapped in a specially-designed cage in a culvert in compartment no. 170 of Rajura range, but had managed to break free with sheer might. CCF, NR Pravin, ratified the caging and tranquillizing of the RT-1. DCF, Arvind Mundhe, who headed the operation, termed it as success of the collective efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dreaded-rajura-tiger-finally-trapped/articleshow/78894198.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 28, 2020||Goa||New transformer in Tivim to improve power to North Goa||Panaji: A new 50 MVA transformer at Tivim likely to be commissioned by mid December is expected to improve the power situation in North Goa. The new transformer will replace the existing 40 MVA transformer that was being loaded to around half its capacity because it was old. “The old transformer was very old could not be loaded,” an electricity department engineer said. “Besides getting 10 additional megawatts, we will also be able to feed an additional 20 to 25 megawatts from this new transformer,” the engineer said. North Goa, especially the coastal belt, will be benefit from the new transformer. Problems are felt during the tourism season and especially during the summer months every year. “Due to Covid there are no problems now. But after two to three months when the hotel industry is up and running the new transformer will be useful especially Candolim, Calangute Vagator,” the engineer said. Meanwhile the Tivim/Karaswada industrial estate is receiving its own substation. The industrial estate that was receiving power from Mapusa will now receive power from this substation. Other areas including Cuchelim, Karaswada, Duler and Siolim will also be fed from the new substation once ready. Besides improving the quality of power supply the new substation will help the department restore power quicker in case of an insulator failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-transformer-in-tivim-to-improve-power-to-north-goa/articleshow/78900862.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Rain, snow in the offing in U’khand hills from October 31||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Tuesday issued a forecast of snow and rainfall in the higher reaches of the hill districts of Uttarakhand on October 31 and November 1. "There is a western disturbance approaching and will have an impact on the weather in Uttarakhand. Hill districts of Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, and Chamoli will be more affected," said Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre. The places situated at an altitude of 3,500 metres and above, especially in the above mentioned districts, are likely to receive snowfall, while rain could be witnessed in the rest of places. As a consequence of precipitation, the maximum temperatures, which are settling above normal presently, are likely to drop. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 30.7 degree Celsius, three notches above normal on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-snow-in-the-offing-in-ukhand-hills-from-october-31/articleshow/78898387.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 28, 2020||Goa||Who owns mkt land, ask Vasco fish vendors||Vasco: The issue pertaining to the new fish market project in Vasco took a new turn on Tuesday after vendors questioned the municipality about the ownership of the land on which the market exists. The vendors have also asked the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) to furnish in writing an assurance that they will be accommodated in the new market complex. Advocate Fr Michael Fernandes, who represents the fish vendors, said, “We have written to the municipality about 15 days ago regarding the land’s ownership, but we have so far not received a reply. We fear that the project might stop midway and the vendors will be left with no shelter.” When contacted, MMC chairperson Nandadeep Raut said, “Form D is in the municipality’s name, so we become the owners. Secondly, this is all politically motivated. There are forces who do not want the complex to come up, hence these objections are raised.” Raut said that the construction of new fish market will commence by November 15, before which a temporary shelter will be set up for the fish vendors. “Since the funds to be used for the project are from the 14th Finance Commission, which is meant for ward-wise development, MMC has to clarify whether these funds can be utilised for a single project,” said Fernandes. Fernandes also said that the new council, which will be formed after the forthcoming civic polls, may not agree with the assurances given by the existing one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/who-owns-mkt-land-ask-vasco-fish-vendors/articleshow/78900881.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Old temple rebuilt using bamboo at Sai Mandir premises||Nagpur: Bamboo has long been used for building shelter, houses, weapons, and also as a food. The city-based Shree Saibaba Seva Mandal, Nagpur, has made bamboo sacred by building a temple out of it. “The 200sqft temple built inside the Sai Mandir (Wardha Road) premises out of bamboo is the first such in the region replacing the earlier concrete structure. The ‘Prana Pratishtha’ (bringing life to the temple) was held on Monday to reinstall idols of Maa Durga, Lord Ganesh, and Dattatraya,” said Avinash Shegaonkar, secretary of the temple. The bamboo temple is the result of joint efforts of Green Planet Social Foundation (GPSF), an NGO promoting bamboo development, Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB), temple trustees, and Ganesh Harimkar, an architect who designed the temple. “It’s a small dream come true for us. We had earlier planned a bamboo walkway from the entrance to the temple point at Shirdi. Somehow it did not materialize. When the structure at Sai Mandir was to be replaced, bamboo concept came to our mind. We approached the MBDB, which readily agreed,” said Yashodhara Dhanwatey, director, Green Planet. “This is God's work commissioned by the divine in every sense of the word and we are a mere channel of delivery sent to reconstruct what was destined to be. The humble bamboo is stronger than mild steel and has multiple uses,” Dhanwatey said. “City’s Sai Mandir is the only temple trust to have reconstructed old temple completely with bamboo. In less than a day, the design iterations were presented and approved and in less than a week the reconstruction started. It took 25 days to complete the work costing Rs 8 lakh. MBDB provided artisans while labour cost was borne by the trust and know-how provided by Green Planet,” said Anand Fiske of GPSF. The temple depicts arches, domes, delicate weaves, and bends. The structural potential of bamboo is explored by the use of arches and curved support members. The roof is supported by bamboo arches from the front and both sides and rested on the existing wall at the rear side. Traditional bamboo weaving is used as an infill panel between arches. Cutouts for shikhar (domes) are left in the roof keeping in mind the philosophy of temple architecture. The three shikharas are conceptualized from the form of coconut and made out of bamboo weaving layered with epoxy varnish and cloth from inside. The arched back panel is made using bamboo mat board finished in polyurethane and bamboo weaving grill is bordered in arched profile and is backlit with LED. A platform for idols is cladded with bamboo plyboard and bamboo wood flooring is used for flooring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/old-temple-rebuilt-using-bamboo-at-sai-mandir-premises/articleshow/78899589.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Air quality may remain in ‘very poor’ category||LUCKNOW: Air quality is likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday and the situation will remain same till November 1, as per the meteorological data and forecast for Lucknow, Varanasi, NCR and Delhi. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the UP pollution control board (UPPCB), more than stubble-burning incidents, pollution caused by vehicles has worsened the air quality in the state. UPPCB’s action taken report (ATR) for the week starting October 19 said polluting vehicles were the biggest defaulters followed by construction and demolition activities, brick kilns and incidents of crop residue burning. Though incidents of crop residue burning are decreasing in UP year after year since 2017 (as per UPPCB data), air quality index (AQI) in non-attainment cities (where air pollution levels are higher than the national standard) of UP has remained and continues to remain in the ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ category for the most part of October. The ATR for October 2020 (from October 1 till October 25) showed a total 702 incidents of crop residue burning in non-attainment cities. Compared to this year’s data, 1,025 incidents of crop residue burning had taken place during the corresponding period in 2019. In 2018, 1,623 such incidents were recorded and in 2017 the number was 2,367. As per the ATR, till October 25 as many as 325 cases were registered against the crop burning incidents in non-attainment cities. Penalty worth Rs 1.3cr has been imposed and Rs 6.4 lakh recovered. Also, action has been taken against 227 officers and staff members. UPPCB has acted against seven ‘key’ sources of air pollution and the crop residue burning is one among it. Water sprinkling on roads and mechanical sweeping of roads are being done to control the air pollution, said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/air-quality-may-remain-in-very-poor-category/articleshow/78901599.cms||Neha Shukla
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farmers booked for bid to murder cops||CHANDIGARH: Within a fortnight of a murder case against BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, the farmers who obstructed cops at Shahbad Markanda in Kurukshetra district on October 25 are charged with attempt to murder. Highly placed officials in the state government confirmed the registration of the case at Shahabad but kept the details, saying it was a “sensitive matter”, especially when farmers were on a warpath with the government. Charuni and his team have a mention in the case file but the cops haven’t named the accused. When contacted, Charuni said: “We also know little beyond what the locals and the media reports say. I wonder how my name came up in the case, as I was in Lakhnaur Sahib that day.” On Sunday, which was Dussehra, the BKU farmers had planned to burn the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at Pipli. At the last minute, they decided to take it outside the house of former minister and CMO adviser Krishan Kumar Bedi, where they reportedly tried to attack the cops on duty and run them over with tractor-trailers. On October 15, Charuni and his team were booked for murder when an aged BJP worker died in the party’s BKU-confronted tractor yatra commandeered by Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini. Police had sought a month to complete the investigation. For intensifying the agitation against three new agri-marketing laws, the farmer unions now plan to block all the main state and national highways on November 5 and have a mass gathering in New Delhi on November 26 and 27. “Our focus is now on the November 5 protests,” Charuni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shahabad-farmers-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-cops/articleshow/78900877.cms||Manvir Saini
October 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Handle your waste yourselves, corporation tells restaurants||COIMBATORE: The Coimbatore Corporation has instructed restaurant owners to find ways to handle waste generated in their outlets. As a first step, they were instructed to segregate waste into organic compostable food waste and inorganic waste, some of which may be recyclable. As a stop-gap arrangement, the corporation has agreed to collect organic waste from restaurants and transport them to composting plants, but the restauranteur must bear the expense. Corporation commissioner Kumaravel Pandian held a meeting with restaurant owners in the city on Tuesday. “Restaurants have to dispose of the waste on their own. But unless their composting plants work perfectly, it can raise a stink and may lead to protests by neighbours and create law and order problem,” he said. “As a first step, we have asked them to segregate the waste into organic and inorganic as we find many restaurants handing over the waste mixed together in one big bag,” he added. The civic body as a stop-gap arrangement has agreed to collect the segregated organic waste, which can be transported to a composting plant. “However, the expenses involved in collection, transport and composting will be levied on restaurants. It will be a nominal charge,” Pandian said. “Regarding handling of recyclable waste, we are studying options to handle them and have also asked for suggestions from restauranteurs on the same. We will take a call,” he said. However, restaurants form only one component of waste generators. The corporation plans to call educational institutions, gated communities and large apartment complexes also for discussions regarding the same in batches next week. The corporation said the National Green Tribunal was also being extremely strict in implementation of the 2016 solid waste management rules immediately. From July 2019, the corporation had asked institutions, hotels and buildings who generate more than 100kg of garbage a day to start disposing of their own waste, calling them bulk generators. They were also conducting meetings with residents’ associations, hoteliers, and other educational institutions to guide them on how to dispose of waste. Many gated communities and apartments had even begun tying up with service providers and larger institutions to collect and dispose of the waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/handle-your-waste-yourselves-corporation-tells-restaurants/articleshow/78900882.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Cardinal clarifies Pope statement over gay unions||Mumbai: Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias on Tuesday issued a clarification about Pope Francis’ remarks on same sex unions which were incorporated in a recent film ‘Francesco’. He said there was “no change in the Church doctrine at all, and all the Pope had said was to show compassion, reach out to the peripheries, protect the weak”. He iterated that this did not amount to the Catholic Church’s recognition of gay marriages. A section of the Catholic community in India had sought the cardinal’s views on the Holy Father’s remarks which appeared to sanction homosexual union or marriage. Cardinal Gracias released the statement as president of Catholic Bishops Conference of India (CBCI). “What did the Holy Father actually say? Homosexual persons have a right to a family. It is clear that he is referring to the family of birth. He further said the person should not be thrown out of the family just because of his sexual orientation.” “Regarding civil unions, he has said some protection should be given to those who are living together. This is not a call for gay marriages to be recognised, and certainly not the Catholic Church’s recognition of them. Church doctrine is clear and has in no way been diluted. Pope Francis expresses concern that these people can be in distress and seeks some civil protection to safeguard their interests, for example, insurance, social security, etc. The Pope has been misunderstood and misinterpreted.” Association of Concerned Catholics, which sought a clarification, welcomed the cardinal’s statement, said secretary Melwyn Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cardinal-clarifies-pope-statement-over-gay-unions/articleshow/78900009.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||FYJC students from Maharashtra board fret about academics & time lost||PUNE: Apprehension, and a state of being resigned has taken root in parents and state board students seeking admission to the First Year of Junior College (FYJC). The admission process was put on hold after the Supreme Court stayed the Maratha reservations. The FYJC admissions could not progress beyond the first round. Three months have gone by without any classes for the state board students going to standard XI, whereas other boards like CBSE and CISCE have already completed their admissions and begun classes in August. Principals across education boards said standard XI syllabus is more tough for students and it is important to begin the classes and teaching at the earliest. A parent, whose son is in standard XI, said, “Most parents have admitted their children to tuition centres because they are afraid that there will be no time to finish the syllabus once the college starts. Many others have not got admission to any college, and hence do not even know if they will get into their choice of college, and faculty or if they would need to change their choice of stream. There is all-round confusion.” Another parent, whose daughter got admission in the zero round, said she is worried that teachers will rush through the syllabus if there is not enough time to complete it. “The syllabus has been slashed but it is not enough. In many subjects, they have left out cut introductions to chapters. They may have cut some portion which may be important for JEE or NEET. I have not sent my daughter for tuitions and I am worried that she would not be able to cope with the syllabus. Teachers will want to finish the syllabus without checking whether there is any understanding among students,” she said. A student said this long gap in their studies was not healthy for the studious ones. Their exams got over in March, and the vacation has stretched beyond six months . “Studies need a rhythm. We do not know when colleges will start for us. Time spent away from studies can foster laziness, and an attitude that hampers hard work,” said a student.Many have started self-study bu borrowing books from senior students they know . Megha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said she has been getting calls from parents wanting about beginning of classes for standard XI. “Only one-fourth of the students have been admitted after the first round. We cannot begin classes without clear orders from the state government. It is a slightly disadvantageous for the state board students as there have been no classes. Other students from the other boards have some regular classes. One good thing is that no classes have started across the state board schools/junior colleges. So parents are hoping that the government will take a decision which will be in favour of all the students,” Sinnarkar said. C Madhavi, principal of CBSE board affiliated DAV Public School, said their classes began in August. After the results were announced, the admission process was completed swiftly by the school and classes began by the end of August. “There is a huge transformation in the content of the syllabus after standard X in the three streams in standard XI. It appears tough in the beginning, but students cope. Since NEET and IIT JEE are based on standard XI-XII syllabi, the difficulty levels are higher. The board has cut 30% syllabus keeping in mind the lost time, so students will be able to cope without any trouble,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fyjc-students-from-state-board-fret-about-academics-time-lost/articleshow/78900885.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 28, 2020||Trichy||Green park, where garbage trucks park||TRICHY: Even as more than Rs 2.5 crore has been pumped into Panchapur green park, it remains underutilised and locked on most days leading to its deterioration. The park with well-grown trees was redeveloped multiple times in the last three years, but has now been reduced as a parking space for the corporation’s waste collection trucks. Poor connectivity and lack of efforts from the corporation to promote it has been cited as reasons for the park’s poor patronage. “Except for a section of residents from E Pudur, people from the rest of the city rarely visit the park. Poor connectivity is the reason and the expensive park was not promoted much,” sad T Saravanan, a resident of Karumandapam. Poor patronage has left the infrastructure crumbling, from broken walking tracks to weeds invading the play area and amphitheatre. Panchapur green park was built on a 23 acre triangular piece of land sandwiched between Trichy-Madurai NH and E Pudur road at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore in 2013. Around 1,500 saplings were planted through a public contribution drive, making the green park a model to emulate. Even as the patronage was staggering, the civic body in 2017 introduced bicycle rides free of cost with bicycle tracks. As the park does not have a proper bus stop, people who do not have independent vehicles rarely visit the park. Despite the setbacks, the civic body invested another Rs 1 crore in 2017 to build an amphitheatre and additional walking track. The amphitheatre that has a capacity to accommodate 100 people was hardly used since its inception. Locals have sought a revival plan from the local body to utilise the public park. “Maintenance work shall be taken up to overhaul the existing play area and amphitheatre. Due to the lockdown, as all other public parks were closed the green park also remained shut,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/green-park-where-garbage-trucks-park/articleshow/78899598.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Rao: TRS treating oppn like thieves||Hyderabad: BJP candidate N Raghunandan Rao, who was in the eye of the storm over cash seizure, on Tuesday said the ruling TRS was treating opposition leaders as thieves. He said TRS was scared of a defeat and is creating hurdles for BJP. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rao-trs-treating-oppn-like-thieves/articleshow/78900891.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||15-year-old writes to MLA, wants Taleigao fields saved||PANAJI: While most teenagers would find themselves busy outraging about how their social life has come to a brief halt owing to the pandemic, 15-year-old Nathan D’Souza from Taleigao has taken a stand to save the village’s fields that have been taken up by the local panchayat to build a new panchayat ghar. In a letter personally submitted to Taleigao MLA Jennifer Monserrate on Tuesday, D’Souza demanded her intervention in the matter. He has also sought an appointment with chief minister Pramod Sawant in this regard. “Although we already have a functional panchayat ghar, our tenable fields are being snatched from us to construct another panchayat ghar. My family field has always yielded great produce and it is our only source of income,” the letter to Monserrate states. Though D’Souza is still studying in school, now online due to the pandemic, he doesn’t fail to participate in the silent protest at Taleigao every Thursday. He spends his free time kitchen gardening microgreens and mushrooms at home. “It’s not just my family field that has been lost, but that of many other farmers in the village. When the government constantly claims to promote farming why aren’t the pleas of a young farmer like me not being heard?” he told TOI.  “We want people’s support in this matter, without which we cannot do anything. The government already gives various schemes and trainings to farmers. But students like me require workshops, and if possible, a farming course in our curriculum to further popularise this activity.” he added. The land cultivators have filed a criminal complaint against the present sarpanch and the then sarpanch and other people connected with the case with the Panaji police. They have appealed to the state government to take cognisance of the case and immediately stop the illegal land filling. The panchayat authorities have said earlier that they have violated no rule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-year-old-writes-to-mla-wants-taleigao-fields-saved/articleshow/78901614.cms||Nida Sayed
October 28, 2020||Nagpur||Sustained Chinese demand pushes up iron ore, steel prices in India||Nagpur: Domestic demand is yet to reach pre-lockdown levels but steel prices have jumped 7% in last one month. Increase in steel prices is one of the indicators of infrastructure and realty growth. This time, however, the rates are riding high on export demand, with China playing an important role. Traders say for most of the lockdown period Indian steel mills survived on Chinese demand, which continues to hold steady. Any reduction in Chinese buying is likely to bring down steel prices too. China has been buying huge quantity of iron ore, which is the basic raw material for making steel. Hectic Chinese buying has led to prices of iron ore rising by over 20% in little over a month in India. This, in turn, has left an impact on steel prices too, say traders. Traders told TOI the rates of iron ore range from Rs4,500 to 6,000 a tonne, while steel products range from Rs35,000 to Rs40,000 a tonne. If iron ore prices are up by more than 20%, steel rates have increased by 7%. Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said the current rates of various types of steel products like TMT bars, structural steel and flat products is in the range of Rs35,000 to Rs40,000 a tonne. This is an increase of over Rs2,000 in a month. Not only is China buying heavily, it has also stopped the dumping of end products in India, leading to further supply crunch. An increase of 5% to 7% is substantial for steel prices, he said. Sohan Srivastava of Mahavir Steel Company, an industrial supplier, said prices of hot rolled steel have touched Rs42,000 to 44,000 a tonne. This month there has been a hike Rs2,000 to 4,000. There was a similar hike in the previous month. Lately, apart from iron ore, China has also started purchasing semi-finished iron ore hot rolled steel from India as it finds it cheaper here. Nikunj Turakhia, president of Steel Users Association of India (SUFI), said, “Iron ore futures, which usually are in the range of $70 to $80, are ruling at $115 for January contracts. There is a major export demand in India. China made hectic purchases from April to June. Now, Chinese buying has come down to 20%. India continues to be a major exporter to Vietnam, apart from Europe,” he said. China is an important factor in this trade so any let down in buying by it can have an impact on rates, he said. Turakhia suggested that India should also open up its markets by making imports easier. At present, there is an anti-dumping duty and quality restrictions on the commodity. Rajesh Sarda, vice-president of Vidarbha Steel Chamber, said China, which was earlier buying from Brazil, diverted its purchases to India in the post-Covid period, leading to increase in iron ore prices. There has been a slight improvement in domestic demand too. However, the government must intervene and curb exports from India. The current rate of iron ore is beyond the means of steel producers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sustained-chinese-demand-pushes-up-iron-ore-steel-prices-in-india/articleshow/78899606.cms||Shishir Arya
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Our preparations in right direction for 2022 polls: Cong incharge Devender Yadav||Dehradun: On his first visit to Uttarakhand after being made the state Congress incharge, Devender Yadav met with a battery of senior party members, including former chief minister Harish Rawat and state chief Pritam Singh, to take stock of the situation and get their feedback on various issues. Thereafter, he also interacted with state units and district teams to get updates on the ground-level situation. A high number of Congress leaders, including MLAs, leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh, former MLAs, state unit members, and district unit members came to party headquarters at Rajpur Road to meet Yadav on Tuesday. After the meetings, the 48-year-old Congress leader told reporters, “During my three-day stay in Uttarakhand, I will collect the updates and information on the efforts required for future plans and discuss them with the top leadership. It will help us prepare better for the 2022 assembly polls.” Yadav added that besides meeting the senior members of the state, he would also interact with the grassroot-level workers. “It will help in better understanding of the actual scenario,” he added. A former Congress MLA from Delhi, Yadav termed the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led BJP government as a “complete failure”. He stressed, “If we look into various factors – be it migration, development, employment or inflation – the BJP government of Uttarakhand has proved to be a complete failure. It is our duty to take their failures to the common man and inform them about their poor performance.” He opined that the Congress stood a good chance of winning the 2022 state polls. “We have a good team in the state and are confident of winning the next elections,” added Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/our-preparations-in-right-direction-for-2022-polls-cong-incharge-devender-yadav/articleshow/78898394.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Modi govt destroying country’s federal structure: Jakhar||Ropar: Earlier, one nation used to put economic restrictions on the other but for the first time in the history of the country the Narendra Modi government has unleashed this regime against the states. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar levelled these allegations on Tuesday, adding that to hide its failures, the NDA government at the Centre was hell bent upon destroying the federal structure of the country. While interacting with the farmers, arhtiyas and labourers as part of a mass contact programme in Ropar district, he said that the Acts passed by the central government would hit farmers and labourers hard. He said they were now trying to making the people aware of how the Bills passed by the chief minister Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government would safeguard the interests of farmers. Jakhar said by not giving the share of the state in GST to Punjab and now by stopping the movement of goods train, the Union government was targeting Punjab as its farmers were raising voice against the “draconian farm Acts”. This attitude of the Modi government was the blatant violation of the country’s federal structure, Jakhar alleged. Commenting on SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, the Congress leader said without knowing about the serious repercussions of these Acts, the Akali top brass the move for three months and called these a boon for farmers. The foundation of this anti-farmer move was laid by the Akalis during their regime when they converted the 31,000 crore scam wheat scam into a loan and put the state in a whirlpool to repay it in 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/modi-govt-destroying-countrys-federal-structure-jakhar/articleshow/78900895.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Two held for organising dhirio at Benaulim||Colva: Acting on a complaint by senior advocate Norma Alvares against the bullfights organised on October 18 at Benaulim, police have registered a case and arrested two person under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. During the fight, one buffalo had fallen unconscious and after recovery was allegedly sold for slaughter. Accused Manjunath and Anacleto Francis Pereira, both from Varca, have been arrested under Section 429 read with 34 IPC and 11(a)(m)(n) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. According to enthusiasts, both the animals came charging from either ends of the fields and banged their heads. The impact was such that one bull went down. The fight was witnessed by hundreds of enthusiasts, who collected their bets and left after the animal collapsed. Sources told TOI that the animal was unconscious for a while and that when it recovered its owner sold it to a slaughter house. Further investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-held-for-organising-dhirio-at-benaulim/articleshow/78900888.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Pune||Five held for vandalizing six vehicles||Pune: The Khadak police on Tuesday arrested five men and booked seven others on the charge of rioting and vandalizing two cars and four motorcycles at PMC colony in Ghorpade Peth around 1.30pm on Monday over a pre-existing dispute. Senior inspector Bharat Jadhav from the Khadak police said complainant Kedar Khandagale’s brother had a dispute with one of the suspects in Dattawadi in 2017. The suspect and his aides, armed with sickles and sticks, accosted Khandagle and inquired about his brother’s whereabouts. When told that he had shifted to Lohiyanagar, the suspects told the complainant that his brother had taken up the role of a ‘bhai’ and threatened to teach him a lesson.” Jadhav said, “After local residents came out to check on the ruccus, the suspects sensed trouble and started running away but not before vandalizing six vehicles and brandishing weapons while referring themselves as ‘bhai’. They created a reign of terror among the local residents. We have arrested five suspects and are searching for the rest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-held-for-vandalizing-six-vehicles/articleshow/78900902.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Private plant to suspend power generation in Punjab||PATIALA: With farmers continuing their agitation on rail tracks near power plants in Punjab, cutting off their coal supply, one of the two operational plants announced suspension of its operations on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) officials confirmed that their plant would suspend power generation as their coal stock was exhausted. TSPL suspended operations a few days ago but resumed power generation on the instructions of PSPCL after it received five coal rakes when farmers ended their rail-roko agitation. However, a day after farmers called off the rail roko agitation, one of the farmer unions blocked a rail track near the gate of Rajpura and Mansa power plants. PSPCL officials claimed that coal crisis has hit the state despite decline in power demand after change of season. On Tuesday, officials said demand for power in the state stood at 5,300 MW. GVK Goindwal Sahib power plant officials claimed their power generation has been suspended since October 23 but they have three days worth of coal stock. NPL Rajpura officials said only one of the two units remained operational on Tuesday and that too at half capacity. NPL is also left with very little coal stock. By Tuesday evening, 710 MW was being withdrawn from private power plants. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said, “Coal is the need of the hour for power plants. We have faced acute shortage. TSPL suspended operations while only a single unit of NPL Rajpura is operating. PSPCL is facing huge losses.” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said, “We are protesting against the corporate sector under which only a separate rail track towards the private power plants in Rajpura and another in Mansa have been blocked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pvt-plant-to-suspend-power-generation/articleshow/78900886.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||17-year-old from Pune sustains fracture in attack over social media post||PUNE: A 17-year-old school dropout from the Kagdipura locality in Kasba Peth sustained a fracture to his left hand and other injuries after he was attacked by two men over a video clip he had posted on their WhatsApp group, mocking at one of the assailants. The Faraskhana police on Monday arrested Ramesh Rayappa Koli (29) and his accomplice, Prashant Koli (23), on the charges of causing grievous hurt, intentional insult and common motive after the teenage victim’s father (49) lodged an FIR naming the duo behind the attack. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Faraskhana police said the victim was part of a WhatAapp group of local youths and had posted a video of Ramesh on it on Sunday with a comment mocking at his style of walking and how to beat him up. The latter did not take this kindly and accosted the victim in a narrow lane around 11am, the same day. Along with Prashant, the duo assaulted the victim with wooden planks, Kalaskar said. The teenager has been admitted to a local hospital. Kalaskar said, “Both the arrested men are unemployed. A case has been registered for offences under Sections 326 (causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 504 (insult) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code.” Since January this year, the police have registered six incidents of such violence over social media posts. Psychologist Aarti Pendse said, “People, including youngsters, are extensively using smartphones these days. Everyone wants to quickly reach out to others. While doing so, they do not care for the words they choose. In personal communication, emotions are on display. During communications on social networking sites, no emotions are displayed. But people react to these messages.” She said, “Youngsters do not care while forwarding messages in the form of text or photographs to others or on social groups. They do not follow ethics of the social media sites while forwarding messages that may be objectionable in nature. At the same time, instead of neglecting such messages, the rival group members decide to deal it with fists. This culminates in violent acts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17-yr-old-sustains-fracture-in-attack-over-social-media-post/articleshow/78900901.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Ladakh man gets 10 years RI for raping foreigner at Arambol||PANAJI: The North Goa sessions court has sentenced Tenzin Dorje, a native of Ladakh, to ten years rigorous imprisonment for the rape of a foreigner at Arambol beach in December 2015. The court found that the accused, 31, “misused his position as a friend of the survivor, (and) subjected the survivor not only to sexual assault, but also caused her injuries”. “In such a situation, a sentence below the minimum sentence prescribed would be unmerited and would not reflect the conscience of society. It is to be stated that there is no mitigating circumstance to show any leniency to the accused,” judge Sherin Paul said in response to Dorje’s counsel, who pressed for a lenient sentence. The court was told that the survivor met the accused on the beach, and the accused had volunteered to show her around. The court stated that it had no reason to disbelieve the medical evidence in support of the survivor. When Dorje’s counsel argued that the complaint was false and lodged so that she could claim insurance for being raped (which is covered by the insurance company for persons travelling abroad), the court held that the “medical evidence produced by the prosecution clearly establishes the fact that the survivor sustained injuries, (and the) evidence corroborates the testimony of the survivor”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ladakh-man-gets-10-yrs-ri-for-raping-foreigner-at-arambol/articleshow/78900899.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Techie falls for overseas job offer bait, loses Rs 20.64 lakh||Pune: A 40-year-old software engineer, who was looking for a job opportunity in Europe or US, lodged an FIR with the Alankar police station on Monday stating that unidentified telecaller/s duped him of Rs20.64 lakh after promising to help him secure a job overseas or with other companies in India. The techie, who works with a city-based IT company, told the police that he transferred money in phases since June 2019. The fraudsters allegedly told him that the funds were required to finalize the job. Police inspector Rajesh Tatkare said, “The techie was looking for opportunities in foreign companies or within India. In April 2019, he posted his resume on a well-known job portal and the fraudsters took his details from the portal. A few days later, they contacted him over the phone, presenting themselves as executives of a placement consultancy firm and offered to search a job for him. Later, they told him about the availability of a ‘project manager’ position at an offshore company, held a tele-interview and told him about their fee structure.” Tatkare said, “The suspects contacted him using different phone numbers and e-mail IDs, seeking fees for document verification, processing, consultancy, etc. They also provided their bank account details for the transfers. In July this year, the techie finally turned suspicious about their behaviour and approached the cybercrime police station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-falls-for-overseas-job-offer-bait-loses-rs-20-64-lakh/articleshow/78900894.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Ramdas Athawale tests positive day after event; Sunil Tatkare too||MUMBAI: Union minister of state for social justice and RPI (A) leader Ramdas Athawale (60) and NCP leader and Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare (65) have tested positive for Covid-19. In the initial days, Athawale’s ‘Go Corona, Corona Go’ chant had gone viral. He was admitted to a Mumbai hospital on doctors’ advice. He said his health was good and there was no need to worry. His aide said that as he had a cold and bodyache he decided to take the test. As he has a co-morbid condition doctors advised him to get admitted as a precaution. He attended an event to induct actor Payal Ghosh into his party on Monday. Tatkare, admitted to a hospital here, said his condition was fine and urged all who had come in contact with him to get themselves tested. Tatkare was a star campaigner for NCP for the Bihar elections. This week, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis tested positive and are undergoing treatment. Over 15 ministers have tested positive but they recovered and resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-after-public-event-athawale-tests-ve-tatkare-too/articleshow/78900006.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Amritsar||As sanctions disrupt exports, exotic basmati sells cheaper than paddy in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: With US-led sanctions on Iran disrupting Indian export of Basmati to the country this year, the Basmati 1509 rice variety, one of the most commercially successful, is being sold cheaper than paddy in Amritsar grain markets. “It’s like gold and silver being sold at the same price. Farmers are helpless and have no option but to take solace in whatever price they are getting, even if it is much lower than the cost price,” said Harinder Kaur, a woman farmer and winner of the Krishi Karman Award. Kaur said paddy is being sold for Rs 1,900 per quintal whereas farmers are getting just around Rs 1,800 for Basmati 1509, which is a superior variety of Basmati rice with longer grain. President, Aarhati Welfare Association, Bhagatanwala grain market, Amandeep Singh Chhina said Basmati variety 1509 and paddy are being sold for around Rs 1,800 and Rs 1,888 per quintal respectively. However, another Basmati variety, 1121, which is greatly in demand in Gulf countries, is being sold for Rs 2,600 per quintal. “The steep fall in the price of Basamti varieties of rice can be attributed to poor exports to Iran,” said Chhina, adding that last year, Basmati varieties 1509 and 1121 fetched Rs 2,400 and Rs 3,100 per quintal. Talking about costs, farmer Balkar Singh said he had taken 6 acres of land on contract for Rs 40,000 per acre annually. He spent nearly Rs 15,000 per acre on growing Basmati variety 1509 from sowing to taking the produce to the market. The yield was around 19 quintals per acre. “Accordingly, produce per acre is sold for Rs 34,200 as against the expense of Rs 35,000. It is not a profitable proposition unless we get good rate in the market,” he said. Executive director, All India Rice Exporters’ Association Vinod Kaul explained that due to US-led sanctions, there was payment disruption with Iran, therefore, Basmati was not being exported to that country. He said Iran used to buy 30% of the total export of Basmati from India. “Till date, 2.5 lakh quintals of basmati rice is stranded in the custom godowns in Iran,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/as-sanctions-disrupt-exports-exotic-basmati-sells-cheaper-than-paddy/articleshow/78900904.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 28, 2020||Goa||‘ABVP’s threat an assault on dignity, academic freedom’||Panaji: The representation made by the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) is an assault on the dignity and academic freedom of all teachers, assistant professor at V M Salgaocar College of Law, Shilpa Singh, has told the institute responding to the complaint against her ABVP. She has asked the institute to examine the matter judiciously while taking any action and to restore her dignity as a teacher. “I am surprised to see that an organisation that has no locus standi to dictate teaching standards, deems it fit to sit in judgement upon the ambit of a teacher’s autonomy to frame their own pedagogical framework in a classroom,” she said. ABVP had written to the college on October 9 alleging that Singh was ‘promoting hateful thoughts against a particular religion’ during her online lectures. “I feel the nature of the demands made in the representation from ABVP on the basis of groundless, meritless, general allegations, at the very least, correspond to the criminal offence of criminal intimidation and defamation,” Singh, 31, has told the college, which had given her time till Monday to respond. The teacher of political theory for first-year students at the law college has told the institute that the demand for her termination from the job is ‘an assault on my right to livelihood on the basis of an illegally obtained recording’. “I fear, given the insulting, belittling and threatening language of the letter, it is also within the realm of possibility that the recordings referred in the letter can be twisted and circulated to incite violent crimes and action against my bodily integrity or reputation,” Singh has said. ABVP’s representation alludes to supposed instances of ‘hate speech’ during the lectures, but the allegations are not backed with any concrete instance, Singh has said. “As a teacher, I use contemporary and historical examples to highlight and explain political theory. I have been ever ready to clarify any confusion arising in the course of lectures delivered by me. As a matter of practice, I have insisted and encouraged my students to approach me regarding any doubts, queries and clarifications related to my lectures,” Singh has stated. Despite the presence of a grievance committee in the college, someone has unethically chosen to record the proceedings of an online lecture and transmitted it to ABVP without any regard for the due process and procedure established in the college to assist students, Singh has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/abvps-threat-an-assault-on-dignity-academic-freedom/articleshow/78900906.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Campaigning for JMC Heritage ends||Jaipur: Campaigning for Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, ended at 5pm on Tuesday. Polling will be held on October 29 and till then, candidates can personally get in touch with the public. Imtiyaz Khan, a Congress candidate from JMC, Heritage, said campaigning with dhol and loudspeakers were no longer permissible but door-to-door meetings with people will continue. “I will personally go with two more supporters and meet people at home. These are small elections and candidate’s face value is important. So, being in constant touch with people is necessary,” said Khan. Candidates have started to focus on social media and WhatsApp groups. Candidates who do not have much knowledge of technology have made their family members responsible for updates on social media. Candidates are targeting to reach every household personally while following all social distancing protocol.The civic problems of residents, work done by former councillors who are contesting this time have been put on social media and WhatsApp groups of colonies. Vasudev Devnani, JMC, Heritage, election in-charge of BJP, said his party was focusing on door-to-door meetings. “Candidates will meet people personally at their houses or through small group meetings at community halls. Our IT teams are also busy in updating about our candidates and the work done at the time of our board,” said Devnani. While addressing the public meetings in support of Congress candidates in various wards of Jaipur, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariwas said BJP leaders would not be able to confuse people gthrough false propaganda as they have understood the double character of BJP and the politics of deception.“The BJP wants votes from people by making false promises that will be the reason of their defeat in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur. None of the promises made by the central government till date has been fulfilled. The whole country is trapped in the clutches of inflation, unemployment and corruption. Our party is the hope for people and we are sure of our victory this elections,” said Khachariyawas. Officials of JMC, Heritage, will start shifting to their own building in next 10 days. At first, important files and a few officers will take charge followed by more people. Majority of the renovation and restoration of headquarters are complete, officials said. Mayor’s office will be room No. 101 and commissioner will sit in room No. 201. JMC, Greater headquarters, will function from the current headquarters at Lal Kothi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/campaigning-for-jmc-heritage-ends/articleshow/78900939.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Air quality monitoring system to be inaugurated||TRICHY: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will inaugurate the air quality monitoring system installed at St Joseph’s College (SJC) and Bharathidasan University (BDU) campus here on Wednesday through video conferencing. The facility, each built at a cost of Rs 2.3 crore, will provide real-time information of particulate matter (PM 2.5, 10) and other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, ammonia and carbon monoxide for the public. A digital board has been erected at both the campuses so that people passing by can view the information. The facility will be maintained by Tamil Nadu Pollution Control board (TNPCB) and students will have access to the ambient air quality data for their research after the system is in place, said S Senthil Kumar, dean, school of life sciences, St Joseph's college. Then chief minister J Jayalalithaa had made the announcement in 2015 to install air quality monitoring system in 2015 in 25 institutions across the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/air-quality-monitoring-system-to-be-inaugurated/articleshow/78899611.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Trichy||Trichy jewellery heist mastermind, Murugan, dies in Bengaluru hospital||TRICHY: The mastermind behind Trichy Lalithaa jewellery heist S Murugan, 46, against whom several burglary cases are pending in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, died at a hospital in Bengaluru early on Tuesday due to health issues. His counsel P Hari Bhaskar told TOI that Murugan was undergoing treatment at a government hospital in Bengaluru for the last 15 days. He died at the hospital around 4 am on Tuesday, he said. “We are preparing to take his body to his native village Seera Thoppu in Tiruvarur district after finishing official procedures. His funeral will be held in his village on Wednesday,” he said. Owing to his poor health condition, Trichy court granted him bail in May in the jewellery heist case. He was also sanctioned bail in the Punjab National Bank (PNB) burglary case by the District Munsif and Judicial Magistrate court. Despite getting bails, Murugan’s release was put on hold as more than 160 cases had been pending against him in Karnataka and he was housed in a prison in Bengaluru, sources said. Tiruvarur Murugan, his nephew P Suresh, 28, whose mother P Kangavalli, 57, from Seera Thoppu in Tiruvarur, their accomplices C Ganesan, 35, from Vadipatti in Madurai and E Manikandan, 34, of Tiruvarur were accused of looting around 29kg of gold, diamond and platinum jewellery worth Rs 13 crore from Lalithaa Jewellery at Chathiram bus stand in Trichy on October 2 last year. Police arrested him on November 26, 2019. A gang led by Murugan broke into Punjab National Bank at Pikshandarkovil in Trichy and took away 470 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs 19 lakh in cash from three lockers in January, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-jewellery-heist-mastermind-murugan-dies-in-bengaluru-hospital/articleshow/78899629.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Two booked under Official Secrets Act||Pune: The Dehu Road police on Tuesday registered an offence against two criminals on their records under the Official Secrets Act. They were recording a conversation at the police station. Inspector Rajkumar Rajmane said the suspects, who have cases of molestation and thefts against them, had been summoned to the police station on Monday evening for completing the necessary formalities for preventive action against them. “Our police constable noticed that one of them was recording the audio of the conversation,” Rajmane said. When they checked the phone, a recorded audio was found. “We have registered an offence against them under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” Rajmane said. The act extends to all matters of secrecy and confidentiality in governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-booked-under-official-secrets-act/articleshow/78900907.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University apologizes for using ‘wrong words’ in online exam||PUNE: A question-answer with religious connotations that was part of the final year online examination last Friday forced Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) to tender an apology for ‘inadvertently using wrong words’. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “Though the specific examination was confined to only one course at one college, the very question is unacceptable to the university. This happened due to oversight on the part of the question-paper setters, which should not have happened. Having said that, on the behalf of the university, we unequivocally apologize for the same.” The university in its apology on Tuesday also mentioned that it has sent a show-cause notice to the head of the subject committee that came up with the question paper. “The question is prima facie from the Defence Budgeting subject in the final year Bachelor of Commerce faculty exam that was held on Friday. We apologized for this oversight and we have also sent a show-cause notice to the chairman of the paper setting committee,” said a university official, who did not wish to be named. Meanwhile, students pointed out more blunders in the examination held today. The university officials stated that they would first check the veracity of these claims. Karmalkar said the university will first check the veracity of the claims of the alleged inaccuracies in the MA Geography paper as pointed out by students before taking appropriate action. A varsity official further said that such a blunder should not have happened as each question paper is planned and executed by one chairman and 2-3 expert teachers. Hashim Ansari, a student of BA Political Science, said a similar politically incorrect question was part of the Modern History exam. A senior SPPU official said that there are similar questions circulating on social media and the university has found just one of them from their question bank. “The remaining questions have been doctored for nefarious purposes. Hence, we will file a police complaint against the miscreants spreading rumours on social media,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-apologizes-for-using-wrong-words-in-online-exam/articleshow/78900941.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 28, 2020||Goa||Willing to modify Canacona civic bldg plans, says minister||Poinguinim: Urban development minister Milind Naik has said that his department is willing to modify the drawings of the proposed Canacona municipality building if necessary. He was referring to the demand put forth by the NGO, Goenkar, that the Portuguese-era building be restored instead of constructing a new one. Naik made the statement after laying the foundation stone for the new Rs 11 crore Canacona Municipal Council’s (CMC) administrative building at . He also laid the foundation stone for a Rs 1.3 crore bio-methanation plant at the garbage treatment plant in Dumanem. The new three storey administrative building, being built on an area of 2,100sqm, will have several facilities such as municipal offices, a conference hall and a public hall, commercial shops, an ATM and a canteen on the ground floor. Referring to the demand put forth by the NGO, for the restoration of the heritage building, Naik said, “Whenever projects are forwarded for approval, changes can be suggested, but things can be finalised only by discussing across the table. Just opposing developmental projects may not serve the purpose.” Lauding the NGO for its contributions in tackling the garbage problem in Canacona, Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes advised them to approach him for any grievance regarding the project. “The foundation stone has been laid, but nothing is final. We can sit across the table, discuss possible changes if required, and then, after resolving it, go ahead with the proposed project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/willing-to-modify-canacona-civic-bldg-plans-says-minister/articleshow/78900943.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||MLA flats: JDA will transfer land to RHB after cabinet’s nod||Jaipur: The state government has started the process to transfer 22,260 square metre land for the construction of multi-storeyed MLA apartments in Jyoti Nagar.The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will transfer the land to Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) after the cabinet’s nod.An official informed, “A meeting by the chief secretary was called to discuss the issue. Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal will send a proposal to the cabinet for approval. Once a nod is received, the possession of land will be taken over by the general administration department (GAD) and then transferred to the RHB,” he said.The RHB will take possession of 54 MLA bungalows and sell it off after demolition. A meeting on November 5 is also scheduled to draft a proposal of 24,810 square metre land of MLA quarters in Jalupura. The revenue earned after selling the land of these bungalows at Lal Kothi and Jalupura will be utilised to construct the apartments.An official informed that the RHB has proposed to construct an eight-storey building in the periphery of legislative assembly to accommodate 160 MLAs. Considering the project as a special case, the 28-metre building height has been proposed against the 15-metre mentioned in the building bylaws.Although, the design has received in-principle approval, the final nod to provide relaxation in the bylaws will be received by the urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal, as for the assembly’s structural dominance, in the 100-metre periphery, the height of the buildings is restricted up to 15 metre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-flats-jda-will-transfer-land-to-rhb-after-cabinets-nod/articleshow/78900944.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Onion, shallot prices down by Rs 20/kg||TRICHY/MADURAI: The prices of shallot and Bellary onion have come down slightly compared to last week, as the cooperative department has brought 11 tonnes of Bellary to Trichy from Maharashtra, according to tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan. To help the general public, onion will be sold through 14 farm fresh outlets in Trichy from Wednesday at Rs 45/kg, the minister said here on Tuesday. “The cooperative department has placed an order for another 20 tonnes of Bellary from Maharashtra,” the minister added. Bellary sales began at these outlets on October 22. As the supply from Maharashtra was very low, the officials have so far sold 2 tonnes of Bellary in the farm-fresh outlets, a senior official from the cooperative department said. Meanwhile, wholesale traders from the Gandhi Market said that the steps taken by the Union government have helped in bringing down the skyrocketing prices slightly. “Compared to last week, the wholesale price of one kg of shallot is Rs 80 and Bellary onion Rs 60. It is being sold for Rs 100 and Rs 80 respectively in retail shops, as the supply from Maharashtra was increased,” general secretary of Trichy Onion Commission Mandi Traders’ Association A Thangaraj said. The Union government has warned the traders from Nasik in Maharashtra of stern action against hoarding onion. If they continue to supply onion without hoarding, the price would not go up till Diwali, he said. “As the imported onion was not well received by customers in Chennai, Dindigul and Madurai, we are not thinking of importing it,” he said. Meanwhile, Madurai Central vegetable market president P S Murugan said that onion price has come down by about Rs 20 in the wholesale market on Tuesday. The onion that was sold for Rs 85 to Rs 90 per kg on Sunday, sold for Rs 50 to Rs 70 on Tuesday. One reason was that there was some supply to the markets. It may go up during Diwali, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/onion-shallot-prices-down-by-rs-20/kg/articleshow/78899659.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Lack of water supply force locals to depend on water tankers||Dehradun: Forced to remain dependent on water tankers for at least six months in a year, the residents of Doon Vihar, Jakhan, and other nearby localities await installation of water pipelines in their areas. The locals allege that their demand for tube well and overhead water reservoir has not been met since 2014. And though the proposal was cleared in 2017 by late Prakash Pant, who was the then state finance minister, the construction never started. Area locals say that several meetings with officials of Jal Nigam have also not fetched them any positive outcome. The approved proposal, if implemented, will benefit more than 600 families living in Doon Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Krishna Vihar, and Engineers Enclaves. A budget of Rs 1.78 crore was also sanctioned for the project. In 2019, an assistant engineer-level officer had also inspected the proposed site but the work on ground never started. Ram Singh, a resident of Doon Vihar, said, “As the water supply in the area is irregular, the residents are left with no option but to stand in queues to fill water buckets from the public supply. Many senior citizens, who do not have the strength left to bring water for every day use, also live in the area. Nonetheless, even they can be seen standing in queues.” Talking to TOI, Sanjay Nautiyal, ward councillor, Doon Vihar, said, “The project for regularising water supply to the houses and construction of an overhead water reservoir has been lying pending for the past six years. During this period, I wrote to the chief minister, chief secretary, and also to the officials from the Jal Nigam. However, the work has not been initiated.” When contacted, the officials from Jal Nigam said that the development work has come back on track after the coronavirus-induced lockdown and the works at Doon Vihar and other localities will be initiated soon, bringing relief to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lack-of-water-supply-force-locals-to-depend-on-water-tankers/articleshow/78898436.cms||Abhijeet Singh
October 28, 2020||Hyderabad||People’s welfare is my agenda, says reality show contestant||Hyderabad: ‘Bigg Boss’ Telugu season 1 contestant and TV host Kathi Karthika has forayed into Dubbak bypoll battle to test her political fortunes and to bring about a change in the political system. Calling herself a ‘bahujana bidda’, Karthika says Dubbak has not seen development at all though it is located close to Gajwel and Siddipet, represented by chief minister and finance minister respectively. “There are no industries. There is not even a single degree college for seven mandals. While the unemployment rate is high, women labour as beedi workers. The constituency has no hospital,” she complained. Karthika is contesting on All India Forward Block ticket. “Hereditary politics and money power are ruling the roost. I came here as a people’s voice. All major political parties are supplying beer and biryani to the voters,” she alleges. She says, “My agenda is bahujana agenda. Around 90% of population consists of SCs, STs, BCs and minorities. Where is the proportionate representation for them in the legislature. If all bahujans are united, I can win the election,” says Karthika, while doing a door-to-door campaign in Dubbak. On her alleged affiliation to TRS, she said: “It’s fake propaganda that I filed nomination to help TRS candidate under guidance of Harish Rao.” Karthika claimed her driver had been beaten up and she had been receiving threatening calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peoples-welfare-is-my-agenda-says-reality-show-contestant/articleshow/78901036.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 28, 2020||Goa||‘NCP’s graft claims a stunt’||Saligao: The Mapusa block of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday protested outside the Mapusa municipality alleging that a councillor from the civic body was “demanding money to raise questions at the council meeting”. When contacted, MMC’s chairperson Ryan Braganza said the allegation made by NCP pertaining to a councillor demanding money was “only a political stunt”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncps-graft-claims-a-stunt/articleshow/78900936.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: ‘Allow Aadhaar data use for dead bodies’||SHIMLA: To ensure proper last rites of unidentified bodies found in Himachal Pradesh, state police chief Sanjay Kundu wants access to Aadhaar data so that identity could be ascertained using biometrics in such cases. DGP Kundu has written to the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) requesting sharing limited data, stating around 100 unidentified bodies are found every year in Himachal Pradesh. Kundu said, “Since India is a welfare state, we must endeavour to hand over dead body to family or relatives so that their respectable last rites are performed.” He said, “The right to privacy of an individual is a natural, cherished, inseparable, and inalienable right, which is born with a human being and extinguishes with it. Indian laws and jurisprudence are explicit in the interpretation of the legal term ‘person’, which includes living person and association of persons but not a body.” “As soon as a person dies he or she ceases to be legal personality. However, right to human dignity is not restricted to living human beings but is available even after death. The Supreme Court has held in past that it is the obligation of state to give a decent burial to the deceased person as per his or her religious belief,” he added. In his letter to UIDAI chief executive officer, Kundu said identification of unclaimed bodies through Aadhaar data would resolve social, economical, cultural and emotional issues of relatives of deceased persons. To meet the ends of justice, limited data access should also be considered for insane persons and minor children, who were lost, to enable their return to their families. He has requested some mechanism to grant limited access to Aadhaar data for Himachal Pradesh Police for its bonafide use only to identify the unidentified bodies and to reunite the lost insane persons and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/allow-aadhaar-data-use-for-dead-bodies/articleshow/78900942.cms||Anand Bodh
October 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Roads, study plans to raise standard of 300 ZP schools in Maharashtra||PUNE: As many as 300 zilla parishad (ZP) schools in Maharashtra will have better infrastructure, enhanced academic efforts and administrative parameters to make them model schools. The schools will get new approach roads, toilets, drinking water system, science labs, an environment for ere quality education and focus on reading, writing and mathematics. Principal secretary of the state education department Vandana Krushna issued a notification on Monday. Krushna said, “A budgetary allocation for the model schools was announced in the 2020 March budget. The first phase will have 300 schools from standards 1 to VII. The ZP education officers have been told to send a list of the schools in their jurisdiction by November 6.” Roads will be constructed on priority for better approach. Separate toilets for girls and boys, facilities for drinking water, classrooms in good condition, attractive school building, sports equipment, science laboratory and a library will be provided. In the academic component of the model schools, all necessary elements that would create a conducive atmosphere for education will be provided, Krushna said. The teachers will be instructed to teach beyond textbooks and reading, writing and maths topics should be thorough with the children in this component under this scheme. Teachers will also encourage group study apart from self-study and the lessons will be recreated to enforce such learning Most ZP schools in the state are in a neglected with the bare minimum to foster any education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/roads-study-plans-to-raise-standard-of-300-zp-schools/articleshow/78909452.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farm fires: 2,139 new cases reported||BATHINDA: Punjab registered 2,139 incidents of stubble burning across the state on Tuesday, taking the overall count this season to 18,647. This was the biggest one-day count till now in the ongoing season. The state had registered 2,047 incidents of stubble burning on Monday. The incidents of burning of paddy residue, were concentrated in the Majha region in the initial period, are now pouring in from the entire Malwa region. The Malwa hinterland districts of Sangrur, Bathinda, Mansa and Muktsar all witnessed the stubble burning on Tuesday even as all the 22 districts of Punjab contributed to the problem. Ferozepur recorded most incidents of stubble burning on Tuesday at 258, followed by Sangrur at 256. On the other hand, Pathankot recorded one case of stubble burning, SAS Nagar reported six cases and SBS Nagar and Roopnagar, both registered sight cases each. Punjab is witnessing large-scale stubble burning compared to the previous three years despite the Supreme Court taking serious note of the issue. The Union government on Monday had informed the top court that it would come up with a strategy in four days to tackle stubble burning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-farm-fires-2139-new-cases-reported/articleshow/78900945.cms||Neel Kamal
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP women's wing to gherao Punjab CM's residence on October 28||CHANDIGARH: Punjab BJP women’s wing will gherao chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s official residence in Chandigarh on Wednesday as a mark of protest against the deteriorating law and order situation in the state and poor power supply. The demonstration, led by mahila morcha president Mona Jaiswal, will start from Shivalik View hotel in Sector 17 at 12 noon. Members of the Mahila Morcha said they want to highlight the miserable plight of women, both in terms of safety and security in the wake of repeated incidents of rape in Punjab, which reflect complete breakdown of law and order machinery in the state. They said the rape and murder of a 6-year-old Dalit girl at a village in Hoshiarpur district and three similar incidents in the recent past shocked the state and raised questions on the safety of girls and women in the state. Mahila morcha demonstrators will also highlight the collapse of the power supply system in Punjab. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-women-wing-to-gherao-punjab-cm-residence-on-oct-28/articleshow/78900931.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Probe official to submit report in 7 days||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has appointed Dr Harikumaran Nair G S, special officer, directorate of medical education, as the inquiry officer into the alleged medical negligence incident regarding the death of a Covid patient at Kalamassery medical college hospital. In his order Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health) has asked the special officer to submit the report within seven days. The inquiry is related to the allegation of medical negligence raised by Jalaja Devi, nursing officer and Dr Njama Salim, with regard to the death of a Covid patient. The government has asked the inquiry officer to find out the details on the management of both Covid and non-Covid patients at the medical college hospital. The quality of service provided by this institution will have to be checked by the inquiry officer. After the allegation was levelled by a nursing officer and doctor, more people have come out with complaints against the medical college. In this backdrop, the government decided to constitute an inquiry commission to probe into medical negligence allegations. Earlier, the government had asked the director of medical education to submit a preliminary report into the allegations. In her report the director of medical education Dr Remla Beevi had urged the government to go for a detailed inquiry to find out the lapses on the part of hospital authorities. The DME had rejected the explanation given by hospital authorities which said no such medical negligence had occured in the hospital. The nursing officer and the doctor had alleged that the Covid patient had died after struggling for oxygen due to disconnection of ventilator tubes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/probe-official-to-submit-report-in-7-days/articleshow/78898448.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Roads, study plans to raise standard of 300 ZP schools in Maharashtra||PUNE: As many as 300 zilla parishad (ZP) schools in Maharashtra will have better infrastructure, enhanced academic efforts and administrative parameters to make them model schools. The schools will get new approach roads, toilets, drinking water system, science labs, an environment for ere quality education and focus on reading, writing and mathematics. Principal secretary of the state education department Vandana Krushna issued a notification on Monday. Krushna said, “A budgetary allocation for the model schools was announced in the 2020 March budget. The first phase will have 300 schools from standards 1 to VII. The ZP education officers have been told to send a list of the schools in their jurisdiction by November 6.” Roads will be constructed on priority for better approach. Separate toilets for girls and boys, facilities for drinking water, classrooms in good condition, attractive school building, sports equipment, science laboratory and a library will be provided. In the academic component of the model schools, all necessary elements that would create a conducive atmosphere for education will be provided, Krushna said. The teachers will be instructed to teach beyond textbooks and reading, writing and maths topics should be thorough with the children in this component under this scheme. Teachers will also encourage group study apart from self-study and the lessons will be recreated to enforce such learning Most ZP schools in the state are in a neglected with the bare minimum to foster any education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/roads-study-plans-to-raise-standard-of-300-zp-schools/articleshow/78900947.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 28, 2020||Trichy||Many Postgraduate seats vacant in BDU as admissions set to close||TRICHY: While admissions to 36 postgraduate programmes offered by Bharathidasan University will conclude by October 31, seats in many of the courses remain vacant and are unlikely to be filled this year. Though this has been the case in the last few years which saw less patronage for some rare programmes, there has been little effort from faculty members to fill the seats. Academicians point out that the university has been avoiding transparency in publicising vacant seats in each department on the website. “The university was refusing to divulge details of admission to avoid embarrassment as some of its programmes have been consistently getting less patronage,” said former AUT president K Pandiyan. When colleges have to display the status of admissions and vacant seats on a daily basis on the notice board according to admission guidelines, why is no such transparency shown by the university governing these colleges. How will the candidate know how many seats are vacant in the department, he asked. It is unfortunate that the university has issued a newspaper advertisement on Vijayadashami giving details of the courses it offers and colleges affiliated to it. But there was no mention about the vacant seats and other relevant details, he added. Data accessed by TOI reveals that not even a single student has been admitted to some of the programmes like Geology and Adult Education whereas some courses have admitted students in single digit against the sanctioned strength of 40. BDU registrar G Gopinath told TOI that seats have been filled in 16 of the 36 programmes. “If students are unable to file an online application for a particular programme through the university website, it means that all seats are filled. A few unique programmes still have to attract more students and we admit students case by case. We are not open for everybody which is the reason for vacant seats in some departments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/many-pg-seats-vacant-in-bdu-as-admissions-set-to-close/articleshow/78899661.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Roads, study plans to raise standard of 300 ZP schools in Maharashtra||PUNE: As many as 300 zilla parishad (ZP) schools in Maharashtra will have better infrastructure, enhanced academic efforts and administrative parameters to make them model schools. The schools will get new approach roads, toilets, drinking water system, science labs, an environment for ere quality education and focus on reading, writing and mathematics. Principal secretary of the state education department Vandana Krushna issued a notification on Monday. Krushna said, “A budgetary allocation for the model schools was announced in the 2020 March budget. The first phase will have 300 schools from standards 1 to VII. The ZP education officers have been told to send a list of the schools in their jurisdiction by November 6.” Roads will be constructed on priority for better approach. Separate toilets for girls and boys, facilities for drinking water, classrooms in good condition, attractive school building, sports equipment, science laboratory and a library will be provided. In the academic component of the model schools, all necessary elements that would create a conducive atmosphere for education will be provided, Krushna said. The teachers will be instructed to teach beyond textbooks and reading, writing and maths topics should be thorough with the children in this component under this scheme. Teachers will also encourage group study apart from self-study and the lessons will be recreated to enforce such learning Most ZP schools in the state are in a neglected with the bare minimum to foster any education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/roads-study-plans-to-raise-standard-of-300-zp-schools/articleshow/78908294.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||IAF’s Chinook helicopter begins transporting machines for development work in Kedarnath||Nainital: The Chinook helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) started its sorties from Gauchar helipad early on Tuesday morning to transport heavy machines needed for the redevelopment of Kedarnath. The helicopter had reached Gauchar on Monday and started its work on Tuesday. The local officials told TOI that it will take three days for the entire machinery – tractors, dumpers and JCBs — to be transported to Kedarnath. The machines will be used for the second phase of redevelopment work in Kedarnath. “It is not possible for us to transport these machines to the high altitude areas of Kedarnath and therefore, the state government had asked for the IAF’s help which sent its transport helicopter to Gauchar on Monday. The work has begun and we expect it to be completed in the next few days,” said Pradeep Karnwal, executive engineer of PWD disaster management. The Kedarnath shrine is located over 3,550 metres above sea level and does not have any motorable road. Therefore, the state government had asked the help of the Air Force to shift these machines needed for the second phase of development work in the area which got completely washed away in the flash floods of 2013. The officials said that all the machines have been stationed at the Gauchar helipad and they are being taken to Kedarnath in parts where the engineers would assemble them. “There are operational difficulties in carrying complete machines together. Thus, we have decided to take them in parts and assemble them at the location,” the official said. Notably, this is not the first time that the Air Force has stepped in to help the development work in the Kedarnath region. During the floods of 2013 which killed thousands in the upper Himalayan region, the IAF had sent its MI-17 helicopters for rescue work. In 2015, during the first phase of redevelopment work in Kedarnath, IAF’s MI-26 helicopters were used to transport the machines to Kedarnath. A MI-17 helicopter had even crashed near Kedarnath in 2018, injuring six people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iafs-chinook-helicopter-begins-transporting-machines-for-development-work-in-kedarnath/articleshow/78898435.cms||Prashant Jha
October 28, 2020||Goa||Virtual exams for Bal Bhavan’s courses likely||Panaji: Soon after the nationwide lockdown was imposed, Bal Bhavan centres across the state took the online route for its various courses in art, dance and music. Now, after nearly six months of digital classes, about 200 students across Bal Bhavan centres have filled their form for the exams by Akhil Bhartiya Gandharva Mahavidyalaya Mandal. While the dates may be announced later, the exams are likely to be conducted online. “We are not letting the pandemic affect the students’ exams. Even the western music students have been asked to appear for the exams with Royal Trinity school of music however we were told that the institute has not yet invited applications for an online exam,” said Shashikant Punaji, the programme officer at Bal Bhavan. Most of the centres are conducting classes online while in areas where there are connectivity issues, the teachers prepare videos and send them to the parents of the children so that they can learn. The virtual classes are conducted for tabla, guitar, harmonium, violin, drawing, craft, story-telling, drama and photography at all the kendras. For clay modelling, only Panaji, Nagargao, Sattari, Margao and Pomburpa kendras are carrying out the activities. Parents are being allowed to come to the Bal Bhavan premises to collect the clay and take it home for their children to attend the online classes. “It was difficult to adopt the online platform to carry out these classes however over the past six months, we have overcome various hurdles and have successfully carried out the lessons.” Punaji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/virtual-exams-for-bal-bhavans-courses-likely/articleshow/78901618.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||GFP appoints Kandolkar as working prez||Margao: President of Goa Forward Party (GFP) Vijai Sardesai on Tuesday appointed BJP’s former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar as the working president of the regional outfit. After quitting the BJP last week, Kandolkar had joined the GFP at a function held at Assonora on Monday along with his supporters. “His invaluable experience and leadership will further our efforts to take Goa Forward,” GFP said on its official Twitter handle. BJP’s move of inducting the sitting MLA Nilkant Halarnkar into the party along with nine other Congress MLAs in July 2019 had antagonised Kandolkar. He had earlier said that he would work with Sardesai to defeat BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-appoints-kandolkar-as-working-prez/articleshow/78900949.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||DSP arrested for ‘rape’ of dismissed ASI’s wife||BATHINDA: A deputy superintendent of police (DSP), deputed with the Special Task Force (STF), has been arrested for allegedly raping the wife of an assistant sub-inspector who was dismissed a few months back after the STF seized 121g heroin from the ASI’s car. Bathinda police arrested DSP Gursharan Singh under Section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The ASI, his wife and son are facing a case under the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act as they were travelling in the car from which the contraband was seized on July 22. Subsequently, the ASI was arrested. As the case was registered through the STF, a wing of Punjab Police created specially to tackle drug menace in Punjab, DSP Gursharan Singh was investigating the case. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Bhupinderjit Singh Virk said, “In her complaint, the wife of dismissed ASI alleged that the DSP raped her on September 13 and again called her at a hotel in Bathinda on Monday.” The officer said the woman alleged that a false NDPS case was registered against her, husband and son as the DSP wanted to sexually exploit her. The DSP had threatened if she declined his advances, the STF would ensure that the entire family faces sentence from the court. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dsp-arrested-for-rape-of-dismissed-asis-wife/articleshow/78900952.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Housing complexes celebrate virtually||Kolkata: People living in housing complexes had a fulfilling Durga Puja—adda in festive clothes, cultural events and —all on online platforms. They did not have to step out of the safety of their homes to be part of the festivity. While community dining was ruled out this time, many big complexes made arrangements with caterers to deliver pre-ordered breakfast, lunch and dinner, according to a set menu. The Ashtami bhog, too, was packed and sent to every flat. At the end of it all, while meeting online for the Bijoya get-together, residents were all smiles. “We live-streamed the whole puja since Shashti on You Tube and all the 1,672 flats came together. Even the pushpanjali was held in front of screens with flowers that we sent the previous evening…” said Prasanta Banerjee, spokesperson for South City Residential Complex. Those who did come down with offerings, had to hand them to volunteers waiting at the mandaps as they could not go inside. Only priests and a handful of organisers were allowed entry inside pandals. In some complexes, those who stepped out on the ground, wore masks and gloves and sat away from each othere. “We had a prefixed online schedule for the cultural programmes, apart from live-streaming of the puja. Most people decided not to cook but avail of the pre-ordered food,” said Sudeep Ganguly of Upohar complex. For rituals like, “boron”, only one woman was allowed near the idol at a time. Sindoor khela was a strict no-no in many complexes, like at Ruchira Residency. “To keep it safe, we offered packed dry fruits as prasad,” said Kaushik Mitra, spokesperson. The endearing kola-kuli, too, gave way to masked namaskar. “This time only eight people accompanied the idol for immersion,” he added. In some complexes, like Silver Spring, virtual programmes had a lot of variety to involve everyone. “We had quiz, antakshari, drawing and rangoli that saw a huge participation,” said Indranil Chowdhury, secretary of the residents’ association. Merlin Warden Lakeview outsourced everything, from arranging for puja accessories to cooking bhog, said Deepak Jaiswal. Many complexes kept subscriptions optional. A large part of what was collected was spent on philanthropy, like at Greenwood Sonata, where masks and clothes were distributed among the needy, food was sponsored for a boarding school and money was given for animal welfare, said Sudipta Mukherjee, spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/housing-complexes-celebrate-virtually/articleshow/78900960.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Bail denied for man arrested for killing daughter, son-in-law||MADURAI: Taking into account the offence of caste killing, Madras high court has dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested for murdering his daughter and son-in-law in Tuticorin district in 2019. The case of the prosecution is that petitioner Alagar’s daughter, who belonged to a scheduled caste (SC) community, fell in love with Solairaj belonging to an intermediate community in SC. After they got married on April 16, 2019, the petitioner and his relatives had threatened them. On July 4, he murdered his daughter and son-in-law using bill hooks while they were sleeping at their house. Alagar was arrested by Kulathur police the same day. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that as the police had completed investigation and filed the final report before the trial court, his client be granted bail. The government advocate submitted that it was a case of caste killing and the petitioner had committed a double murder. The petitioner’s daughter was two months pregnant during the time of occurrence. Justice G K Ilanthiraiyan observed that taking into consideration the gravity of offence, which is caste killing, he was not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner and hence dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bail-denied-for-man-arrested-for-killing-daughter-son-in-law/articleshow/78900956.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||State needs a full-time home minister: Ex-MLA||Jaipur: Former Jhotwara MLA Rajpal Singh Shekhawat has blamed the Congress government of deteriorating law and order situation in the city. He said Jaipur ranked second in rape cases among cosmopolitan cities after Delhi. “CM Ashok Gehlot was busy spying and framing its own leaders in sedition cases while the law and order problem went for a toss. Seeing ruling party members framed by ACB and SOG, the criminals have a free run,” said Shekhawat. He said in the 20 months of the Gehlot government, around 4.75 lakh cases have been filed including 12,000 on Dalits. “Congress doesn’t feel that the state needs a full-fledged home minister. I feel pity on their functioning,” said the former minister.BJP state spokesperson Ramlal Sharma said the Congress’s move to make wearing masks mandatory was a tool to fleece money from citizens. Referring to media reports, he said if this idea turned true, the state would become the first state to legalise fleecing of money. “It shows that the state has given up on fighting Covid. Gehlot said that vaccine will work 40% and the mask will work 95% in the fight against the virus is making a plot for introducing this law of open loot,” said Sharma. BJP has filed a complaint against the transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas for violating the model code of conduct by misusing state machinery in the polls. The BJP legal cell’s Surendra Singh Naruka said on October 11 the minister displayed government department banners and posters to influence voters. “A complaint has been filed with the state election commission in this regard,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-needs-a-full-time-home-minister-ex-mla/articleshow/78900950.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19 patient rape case: Kerala police file chargesheet||KOTTAYAM: Police filed chargesheet in the case in which a Covid-19 patient was raped inside an ambulance in Pathanamthitta. The chargesheet, which clearly lays out all evidence to prove that the incident was a rape, was submitted before the district court in Pathanamthitta on October 23. The chargesheet was filed on the 47th day after the incident. According to R Binu, DSP, Adoor, who headed the investigation, the chargesheet was delayed as most of the witnesses were either Covid-19 patients or doctors who had gone on quarantine. The survivor too was tested positive and was under mental trauma following the horrific incident. She had also attempted to take her own life on a couple of occasions, which had forced the probe team to go slow. The court had to be closed in between as Covid-19 cases were reported. In the shocking incident, the 20-year-old girl was allegedly raped by the driver of the ambulance at Aranmula in Pathanamthitta while she was being taken to hospital. The ambulance belonged to Kaniv 108 ambulance service of the state government. Police arrested ambulance driver Noufal V, 25, the next day. The accused has been charged under IPC sections 366 (kidnapping), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376 (rape) and under SC/ST Atrocities Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-file-chargesheet/articleshow/78898470.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ludhiana||After facing flak, SAD drops Izhar Alam’s wife from Istri Akali Dal||JALANDHAR: After facing flak for appointment of former DGP Izhar Alam’s wife, Farzana Alam as general secretary of Istri Akali Dal, the party has dropped her name. Announcing more appointments on Tuesday, Istri Akali Dal president Bibi Jagir Kaur said Farzana has been dropped and Parveen Nusrat has been appointed as vice-president in her place. Former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general secretary Kiranjot Kaur, who was also appointed general secretary of Istri Akali Dal, questioned Farzana’s appointment, pointing out serious human rights violation allegations against Izhar Alam. She posted a strong message against Farzana’s appointment and said she did not want to be in the same list. After this, several Sikh netizens criticised Akali Dal. This quick climbdown is in complete contrast with the earlier approach of the SAD on the Alams. Voices were raised against Alam and the ticket to his wife in the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections but SAD did not bother. Initially, Akali leaders proposed to give the ticket to Izhar Alam, who retired as DGP (Prisons), in the 2012 assembly elections but after facing opposition from Sant Samaj and human rights groups, SAD top brass took the middle path and gave the ticket to his wife. She also remained chief parliamentary secretary during the previous SAD-BJP regime and was again fielded in 2017 but lost the election. Despite opposition, then Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal appointed Alam as chairman of Punjab Wakf Board. He was later appointed vice-president of Shiromani Akali Dal. A cable from the US embassy in Delhi sent on December 19, 2005, which figured in Wikileaks, reflected that US diplomats in Delhi strongly believed that in Punjab, a personal paramilitary force, “Alam Sena of Black cats” existed during the days of militancy and it staged “encounter killings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-facing-flak-sad-drops-alams-wife-from-istri-akali-dal/articleshow/78900954.cms||IP Singh
October 28, 2020||Trichy||BDU’s undergraduate final year students to get pass marks for arrears||TRICHY: While arrear papers in undergraduate courses have become a hurdle for many students to join post graduate courses, Bharathidasan University(bdu) has decided to clear the arrear papers of final year students by allotting them marks based on their internal assessments. The university will declare the results for arrear papers on October 31. The decision was taken at a meeting of deans and heads of departments of the university on Tuesday. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had in August this year cancelled arrear exams of all college students except for final year students. A month before that, he had cancelled semester examinations too for all students except for final year students. While final year students appeared for end semester examination online, no decision was taken on the arrear papers of these students till now. This has turned out to be an issue, especially for students with arrears who had applied for postgraduate courses in many colleges. Since there wasn't any clear direction from the state government, arts and science colleges were putting the candidates with arrears in the waiting list while admitting candidates without any arrears. Speaking to TOI, BDU registrar G Gopinath said that results of arrear papers of BDU affiliated college students will be announced on October 31. He said marks for the arrear papers will be evaluated on the basis of the marks secured by them in internal assessments. However, students with poor internal marks too will be passed by giving grace marks. Saying that similar decisions have been taken in a few other state universities, he said the move is to ensure that students wanting to join postgraduate courses are not affected. Gopinath said that they are also looking into the possibility of extending the last date to file online application from October 31 to a few more weeks as there have been requests from principals of many affiliated colleges. While the decision of BDU is only limited to affiliated colleges, some of the autonomous arts and science colleges haven't taken any decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdus-ug-final-year-students-to-get-pass-marks-for-arrears/articleshow/78899669.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||NCP rules out tie-up with Cong for 2022 state assembly polls||Margao: NCP’s national general secretary Praful Patel on Tuesday ruled out having any alliance with the Congress in the 2022 assembly elections in Goa, even as he kept his options open of aligning with “other smaller like-minded parties” with a view to defeat the BJP. He, however, called AAP the “B team of the BJP” which had “different views and ideas.” “Our primary focus is to build the NCP and to offer a credible alternative to the people of Goa. NCP, alongwith some other like-minded parties, (without) Congress and BJP, will definitely be in a position to build the trust of the people of Goa,” Patel said while addressing a press conference, after inaugurating the party’s block office in Vasco. Pointing out how “tables have turned” in Maharashtra where the NCP has been able to have an alternative government where “Congress also had a chance to be a part of the government, Patel accused the Congress of “squandering the opportunity” of forming the government in Goa in the last assembly elections, and thus “giving the government to the BJP on a platter.” “I am very sure we would have formed the government with a majority of 21 and more between Congress and NCP itself. We had agreed to join and support the Congress to form the government in Goa. Goa Forward Party (GFP) was also waiting for the alliance to happen,” Patel said. While he accused the BJP government of doing nothing for the development or betterment of Goa for the last five years, Patel said the Congress had been “marginalized” after 10 of its MLAs joined BJP leaving it with just 5. Fielding questions, Patel said that NCP would offer a “credible alternative” to the people six months before the 2022 elections. “We are open to discussion with like-minded parties. There are some other smaller parties. I have already been approached by many parties, including by MLAs from both the big parties,” Patel said. He maintained that the NCP’s lone MLA in Goa, Churchill Alemao, hadn’t given any formal support to the BJP government. “Ideologically and fundamentally, Alemao has always and always been against the BJP.” To another query, Patel said that NCP was with the people of Goa over the anti-coal agitation and committed to protecting the environment. “For Goa, most important is tourism. Without environment, tourism will be finished in Goa. Like we scrapped the Aarey project to protect environment and green cover of Mumbai, on the coal project, we will want to protect the environment of Goa. We are with the people of Goa and nobody should use Goa to as some landing point to be able to supply (coal) to the rest of the country, and destroy the environment and ecology of Goa,” Patel said. Stating that NCP will soon start a major membership drive, Patel said that the party will work in every constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-rules-out-tie-up-with-cong-for-2022-state-assembly-polls/articleshow/78900953.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||FEMA case: Raninder skips ED summons, called again||Jalandhar/Ludhiana: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh did not appear before the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a case related to Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) on Tuesday in Jalandhar. Besides seeking adjournment of the summons, Raninder, through his counsel, also sought an explanation from ED on what grounds the summons were issued to him. ED later issued fresh summons to Raninder for November 6. His counsel Jaiveer Shergill said Raninder had sent an application expressing inability to appear before the ED and sought a fresh date. “Raninder, president of the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI), was invited for a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee in the Rajya Sabha to discuss preparations for Olympics 2021, on Tuesday,” Shergill said in a video statement. “We have also told the ED that that summons doesn’t convey anything about which papers, which evidence were required and in which case he has been called. We sought those details while sending the application for adjournment,” the counsel said. Raninder had last appeared before the ED on July 21, 2016 in a case under the FEMA and now he has been summoned again after a gap of over four years. Recently, ED had also sought to inspect some fresh records filed by the income tax department in three alleged tax evasion cases against the Punjab CM and Raninder. While a lower court had allowed ED’s application, a sessions court had restrained the ED from inspecting the I-T records. Congress’s general secretary and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat had sought to link Raninder’s summoning with Amarinder’s strong opposition to the central farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fema-case-raninder-skips-ed-summons-called-again/articleshow/78900948.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||296 candidates in fray for 80 wards of Jodhpur North||Jodhpur: Campaigning for Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (North) came to an end on Tuesday. Polling for the 80 wards of the north zone will take place on October 29. Around 3.87 lakh voters across these 80 wards will decide the fate of 296 candidates including 98 women. In all, 625 polling booths have been set up by the administration in adherence to Covid guidelines.The administration has identified 150 booths as sensitive and has roped in adequate measures to ensure free and fair polling.Candidates had their own style of canvassing in their wards to impress voters. BJP candidate from Ward No. 21, Shiv Dutt Vyas, a dentist by profession, suddenly rushed to his clinic after he received a phone call during campaigning.“I got a call from a patient who had a severe toothache. My first loyalty is towards my profession. So I rushed to the clinic and treated him before resuming my campaigning,” Vyas said.Renuka Purohit, who is contesting from Ward No. 57 as an independent, has placards appealing to people to follow SOPs to ward off corona infection.“This is a major threat these days and has affected all of us and the way we live. So, this has to be the priority for candidates,” said Purohit. She has been promising to residents of her ward that she would take all measures to keep the infection at bay in her ward by ensuring proper sanitation and hygienic environment.In order to make an impact on voters, all candidates are making sure that they strictly follow the Covid guidelines like wearing masks and social distancing.Of these 80 wards going to poll on October 29, 17 have a direct contest between BJP and Congress candidates. Over 40 rebels from both the parties have thrown their hat in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/296-candidates-in-fray-for-80-wards-of-jodhpur-north/articleshow/78900955.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Ticlo retained as chairman of GIDC board||Panaji: After a month-long delay, the state government reappointed Aldona BJP MLA Glenn Ticlo as the chairman of Goa Industrial Development Corporation on Tuesday. While issuing the notification announcing the reconstitution of the GIDC board, the industries department retained Purti Kathpalia as a director on the board. At a recent press conference, Ticlo said that he was not aware how Kathpalia was appointed as GIDC director and said that industries minister Vishwajit Rane was better placed to explain Kathpalia’s credentials to be on the board. The other members of the board are secretary industries J Ashok Kumar, secretary finance Puneet Kumar Goel, director of industries Deepak Bandekar, president of Goa State Industries Association Damodar Kochkar, president of Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Manoj Caculo and architect Chandan Paraab. Jaivant Desai, a party worker and close aide of Ticlo has been re-appointed as director on GIDC’s board, while the managing director of GIDC Derrick Neto is the chief executive officer. The GIDC board was last reconstituted on September 28, 2017, with Ticlo appointed as the chairman. The three-year term of the board ended in September. The file to extend the term of the board was stuck with the industries department, headed by Vishwajit Rane, for over a month. On October 23, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that he would look into the delay and ensure that the notification was issued soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ticlo-retained-as-chairman-of-gidc-board/articleshow/78900961.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs CBI to file FIR & probe corruption allegations against CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday, exercising its powers under Article 226, directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file an FIR and investigate the allegations of corruption levelled against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat . The allegations were made by Umesh Kumar Sharma, owner of local news channel “Samachar Plus”. Sharma had said that an amount of Rs 25 lakh was deposited into the bank account of a relative of the chief minister when demonetisation was announced in 2016 allegedly to facilitate appointment of the man — who paid the money – as the chairman of Gau Seva Aayog of Jharkhand. Notably, CM Rawat was the BJP state in-charge of Jharkhand at the time. Taking cognisance of the seriousness of the allegations, the bench of Justice Ravindra Maithani said that it would be appropriate to “unfold the truth”. “This court is of the view that considering the nature of allegations leveled against Trivendra Singh Rawat, the chief minister of the state, it would be appropriate to unfold the truth. It would be in the interest of the state that the doubts are cleared. Therefore, while allowing the petition, this court proposes for investigation also,” read the court order, a copy of which is available with TOI. Justice Maithani further said that “the court is of the view that CBI should be directed to file an FIR and investigate the allegations against the CM in accordance with the law.” The court, therefore, directed the SP Dehradun and CBI to register the FIR and “investigate the case in accordance with law, with promptitude” while adding that the entire paper-book be sent to the CBI within two days both through e-mail and hard copies. After Sharma made these allegations, several FIRs were filed against him and he was later charged with sedition as well. The state argued that Sharma’s intention is to create a turmoil in the state. The court, however, said that the addition of section 124-A (sedition) manifests that an attempt is being made to “muzzle the voice of criticism” and it is “beyond comprehension why the section was added.” “Whatever the allegations against the petitioner, they do not remotely connect with section 124-A of the Indian Penal Code. Offence under Section 124-A IPC is not, prima-facie, made out. Why this section is added, it’s beyond comprehension. Whatever is stated on behalf of the state, on this aspect, has no merit at all,” the order further added. The court also quashed an FIR filed against Sharma in 2020 in which he was charged with criminal conspiracy, cheating, and forgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-directs-cbi-to-file-fir-probe-corruption-allegations-against-cm-rawat/articleshow/78898473.cms||Prashant Jha
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sees sharp fall in Covid testing||Chandigarh: If the number of fresh Covid-19 cases have come down in Punjab, it’s no cause for relief as the daily testing has also sharply declined over the last 10 days. Before this, the state had breached the 30,000-mark on several days in the first half of October. Punjab is using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen test for testing, which health experts consider as one of the most vital factors in controlling the spread of the virus by identifying infected people early and isolating them. From October 1-17, a total of 458,714 tests were conducted, an average of 26,983 tests a day. However, there was sharp decline from October 18-26 when the daily average of tests came down to 21,453. During the said period, a total of 193,079 individuals were tested for the virus. On October 26, only 15,038 tests were conducted, which is the lowest number since August 24. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Punjab government has been making efforts to increase the coverage of testing and has also managed to enhance its testing capacity. Despite that, it is still lagging behind many states. The dip in testing in recent days has further pushed Punjab in the list of worst-hit states and it has been overtaken by states like Jharkhand and Bihar in testing. From 10th spot on October 10, Punjab has further slipped two spots. With a testing rate of 82,605 tests per million against the national average of 76,810, Punjab is 12th on the list of 20 most-affected states. National capital Delhi leads the tally with 218,220 tests per million followed by Andhra Pradesh 145,584, Tamil Nadu 125,230, Kerala 123,669, Karnataka 111,842, Odisha 100,420, Uttarakhand 88,229, Haryana 86,967, Gujarat 84,452, Jharkhand 84,040 and Bihar 83,465. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar attributed the decline in numbers of samples collected and tested to the festive weekend. "Team deployed in collection of samples were working without a break for a long time. Some of them were given a much-needed break during this period," he said, adding that testing will again pick pace as all the teams are working with full strength. Punjab has capacity of conducting 19,750 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests a day. Of the total testing capacity, over 98% of testing is done in seven state government-run institutes - GMCH Patiala (5,500), GMC Amritsar (5,500), GGMCH Faridkot (5,500), GADVASU Ludhiana (1,000), RDDL Jalandhar, Punjab Biotech Incubator Mohali (1,000) and Forensic Science Lab Mohali (500). The contribution of the central government testing laboratories is less than 2% — PGIMER (150) and CSIR-IMTECH Chandigarh (100). A small number of tests are also done by private accredited laboratories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-sees-sharp-fall-in-covid-testing/articleshow/78900965.cms||Vinod Kumar
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Capt’s defence of guv shocks Bir Devinder||Chandigarh: A day after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh reacted to Bir Devinder Singh’s statement on the governor, the former deputy speaker called it a shocking endorsement of Raj Bhawan’s “callous superciliousness”. Bir Devinder had questioned Raj Bhawan’s disallowing visitors because of the Covid-19 protocols. On Monday, the CM had condemned this criticism of governor V P Singh Badnore as “denigration of the constitutional gubernatorial office”. On Tuesday, Bir Devinder issued a press statement that: “It is a manifestation of colonial mindset and I do not expect any better expression of thought from a… scion of the colonial era… who asked the Tarn Taran district administration for an air-conditioned canopy when coming to grieve (on August 7) for the breadwinners lost in a hooch tragedy.” The former deputy speaker of the assembly alleged: “The bizarre eruption of Amarinder Singh in defence of the indefensible hubris of the governor and Punjab Raj Bhawan is understandable, because he is trying to bargain some kind of reprieve from the BJP dispensation. The enforcement directorate of revenue intelligence has summoned his son, Raninder Singh, for questioning in Jalandhar. The case is about a serious violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema), of stashing abroad assets amassed in the previous stint of his father as Punjab CM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capts-defence-of-guv-shocks-bir-devinder/articleshow/78900963.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Man-son robbed off Rs 1.5L in Shahpura||Jaipur: A father-son duo were fired at and robbed off approximately Rs 1.5 lakh in Jaipur’s Shahpura on Tuesday evening around 7:30 pm when they were returning home from work. The victims were identified as Omprakash Aggarwal and his son Anil. Rakesh Kumar, SHO, Shahpura police station said, “Three masked men stopped the moped on which the duo were travelling. They asked them to hand over the bag but when the victims resisted, one of the accused shot Anil in the foot and hit his father on the head with the butt of the firearm.” Both the victims are out of danger and in stable condition. Shops will be shut in protest today. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-son-robbed-off-rs-1-5l-in-shahpura/articleshow/78900959.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Dharamsot should apologise for equating CM with Guru Nanak: AAP||Patiala: Workers of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Patiala on Tuesday demanded immediate dismissal of cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore postmatric scholarship scam and equating Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh with Guru Nanak Dev during a recent Congress rally in Patiala. AAP leaders and workers staged a protest in front of the minister’s residence and asked him to apologise to devotees of Guru Nanak across the world. Earlier, party leaders and workers burnt the minister’s effigy near Patiala Gate. Party leaders and volunteers also staged a protest in front of the minister’s residence against mistreatment by the police. They rejected the clean chit given to him and demanded a time-bound investigation into the multi-crore scam by the CBI under the supervision of the high court. State secretary Gagandip Singh Chadha, treasurer Nina Mittal, Patiala (Rural) district president Megh Chand Sher Majra, Patiala (Urban) president Jasvir Singh Gandhi, local leader Dev Mann, Jassi Sohianwala and Brinder Kumar Bittu led the protest. They alleged that the shoddy way in which Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was given a ‘clean chit’ in the Rs 64 crore scholarship scam had established beyond doubt that ‘slush’ money had been reaching the chief minister. AAP leaders said Sadhu Singh Dharamsot had lost his mental balance after getting the clean chit, which was why he equated chief minister Amarinder Singh with Guru Nanak Dev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dharamsot-should-apologise-for-equating-cm-with-guru-nanak-aap/articleshow/78900958.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Pay pending payouts under schemes: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Tuesday protested outside the office of the director of women and child development and demanded that the government release payments to beneficiaries of the Laadli Laxmi scheme, which has been pending for the past two years, as also beneficiaries of the Griha Aadhar scheme, which has been pending for eight months. Party vice president Sankalap Amonkar said that the government was playing vote bank politics and wants to stop the Laadli Laxmi scheme. He said no income limit fixed for beneficiaries under the scheme when it was announced. “Later an income limit of 8 lakh was introduced and now the income limit is Rs 3 lakh. Nobody can get the benefit of this scheme,” he said. He also highlighted the plight of people queuing up at the office of mamlatdars to get life and income certificatess to renew the griha adhar scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-pending-payouts-under-schemes-cong/articleshow/78900957.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||‘Centre must resume int’l flights to Goa’||Vasco:Nationalist Congress Party general secretary and ex-civil aviation minister Praful Patel on Tuesday said that the Centre should start international flights and facilitate arrival of tourists to Goa as the state’s economy rests largely on tourism and presently unemployment is a problem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-must-resume-intl-flights-to-goa/articleshow/78900966.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Help widows of miners who died of silicosis: NHRC to Raj||Jaipur: Koyal Devi’s husband Dina Ram used to work in sandstone mines in Jodhpur. He was diagnosed with silicosis in March 2011 and died in January 2014. She not only lost her husband, but also the family’s only bread-earner. But she is still waiting to get monetary relief from the state government.There are many examples like Koyal Devi. Bhuri Devi’s husband Dalaram, worked in a mine, died of silicosis in December 2017. Dalaram’s widow has not yet received any monetary relief.After falling to get state government’s relief, widows of 21 mine workers approached the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to intervene. The commission had sent the complaints to the district collector and the state chief secretary to take appropriate steps urgently and provide relief. It had given four weeks to the state authorities to send the commission an action taken report.Since the state government has not complied with its letter, NHRC again on October 16 wrote to Jodhpur district collector and chief secretary for submission of requisite report to the commission within four weeks. In the letter, the commission said it might invoke its coercive power under provisions of Section 13 of the PHR Act, 1993 for personal appearance of the authorities concerned if the state authorities do not submit the report by November 23, 2020.In a similar case in 2010, 21 widows of mine workers were given ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh after the intervention of the commission. Mine Labour Protection Campaign was instrumental in drawing the attention of the commission to the plights of the poor people.After the commission intervened and took the matter with the chief secretary then, the relief was immediately provided from the chief minister’s relief fund.Founder trustee of MLPC Rana Sengupta said that sole bread earners of many families have died due to silicosis but there is no recognition by the state authorities. Sengupta said, “There is no other way than to approach the NHRC. It is because of the intervention, some families could get some monetary relief. We had to approach again the commission to take up the cases of the poverty-stricken families who have lost their bread earners and help them get the government relief.”As per the silicosis policy announced by the state government, mine workers affected with silicosis get Rs 4 lakh for treatment during illness and Rs 1 lakh ex-gratia if a patient dies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/help-widows-of-miners-who-died-of-silicosis-nhrc-to-raj/articleshow/78900964.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Con call centre kingpin held from Prahladnagar||AHMEDABAD: The man believed to be one of the pioneers of call centre scams operating from Ahmedabad and Mumbai, Nirav Raichura, has been arrested by Ahmedabad city police from his office in Prahladnagar and booked in cases relating to prohibition, gambling and Arms Act violations, late on Monday night.  Ahmedabad district police subsequently raided his house in Sarkhej, where they found a bar and a revolver stowed in his high-end SUV. His wife, Krishna, had fled the house “with some documents and cash” and the cops found only his father, Harshad Raichura, at the house, police officers said. According to the three separate FIRs filed with Anandnagar police, cops received an input that Raichura, 38, a resident of Riviera Greens near Shantipura Circle and two others — Santosh Chosla, 44, a resident of South Bopal, and Rahul Purabia, 27, a resident of Anandnagar — were drinking liquor at his office in Safal Profitaire in Prahladnagar. Police also seized five liquor bottles, worth Rs 34,500, from Raichura’s office. Police then checked their mobile phones and found that Raichura was also involved in cricket and football betting. DCP Zone 7 Premsukh Delu said he had been keeping watch on Raichura’s activities and caught him red-handed when he was drinking liquor at his office. “We found applications and websites on his mobile phone using which he was taking bets on the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket and La Liga football matches. We have also found certain hawala transactions and began an investigation into them,” said Delu. Delu said police have also found records of transactions of cryptocurrency worth $10,000 from his phone. When police questioned Raichura, a team of Changodar police raided his house and found a bar there, with five bottles of premium imported liquor, worth Rs 36,000. “By the time the cops reached his house, his wife had fled with documents and some cash is what his father told us,” said a cop. About the call centre scams by Raichura, Delu said, “We have sent his mobile phone to the FSL to know more and as further investigation is under way, we will certainly book for such call centre offences.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/con-call-centre-kingpin-held-from-prahladnagar/articleshow/78900981.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Cautious Kolkata: Metro records low footfall this Durga Puja||KOLKATA: It was an unprecedented Durga Puja for Metro Railway. Instead of being chock-a-block with a sea of passengers, the transport system witnessed merely 27,032 people taking a ride on Navami. Around 8.5 lakh people had travelled by Metro on Navami last year, when services were on through the night during the Pujas. Officials said Metro was happy with the way things worked out during the Pujas and that people heeded the court order and mostly stayed indoors. Commuter count dropped from 34,409 along the north-south corridor on Saptami to 23,794 on Dashami. The East-West Metro, which was unveiled only in February, is yet to record meaningful footfall. Ridership was down to 227 on Dashami from 285 on Saptami, not even clocking 300 people on any of the four Puja days. This year, trains ran from 10am to 10pm at 20-minute interval. Metro had intended to run some special trains from Saptami to Dashami, but changed its plans after high court barred entry of visitors inside pandals. Metro Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi had told TOI earlier, “We are going by the spirit of the HC order. The court doesn’t want crowding. We can’t work in contrary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cautious-kol-metro-records-low-footfall-this-durga-puja/articleshow/78900973.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Demand for textile goods rising||Jaipur: Festival demand for apparel and home furnishing items is witnessing a rising trend in the past couple of months. While traders and manufacturers in the Pink City said sales are unlikely to hit last year’s levels, the pace of demand recovery is encouraging.“We are not out of the woods as yet but demand revival is underway. While online sales have picked up fast, people have started visiting standalone showrooms. What we expect is an increase in footfall in malls which is the missing piece,” said Vimal Shah, president of Garments Exports Association of Rajasthan.During the weeklong Diwali festival, women buy multiple pieces of dresses to use on different occasions. Gaurav Gupta, director of an apparel company, said that may be some will sacrifice a little keeping in mind erosion in purchase power due to the pandemic.“The demand has come back to about 70% of the previous levels. Though premium items are yet to see high demand, offtake of medium range items have been good. As we closer to the Diwali days, the sentiment will further improve,” said Gupta.Shah said that fabrics prices have been cheaper by 10%. Even though the customers will not get direct benefit of the reduction in prices, it would provide some bit of comfort to the manufacturers.“Manufacturers are in a spot of bother now. Raw material suppliers are not extending credit. In this situation, the reduction in prices provides some comfort. It will slightly increase the margins,” said Shah.Shah said that the unorganized sector demand is increasing even though branded products still face the impact of Covid.“The negative sentiment is less now. People have started feeling positive and confidence is coming back. This is the pattern we have to go through before we reach the pre-Covid levels. The reorganized sector demand is encouraging even as the performance of branded products remains patchy,” added Shah.Gupta said if Covid cases keep falling as has been witnessed in the past few days, the industry would be in a better position to build on the gains made during the festive season.“We would like to see the pickup in demand during the festive season getting extended in December and January. Most likely this will happen if the new Covid cases keep falling. The sentiment is changing for the better and we expect the momentum will continue even after the Diwali,” added Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-for-textile-goods-rising/articleshow/78900972.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sister pays Rs 22,000 on man’s behalf, receives lewd pictures||PUNE: The Talegaon Dabhade police on Monday booked two fraudsters for duping a 36-year-old woman of Rs22,000 and sending obscene pictures to her when she demanded her money back. While the police have registered a case against two persons, investigations are on to ascertain whether there were two men involved in the crime, or a single person used two cellphone numbers to dupe and later harass the woman by sending her obscene photographs. The men have been booked under sections 420(cheating), 354-D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act. Assistant inspector of the Talegaon Dabhade police D R Sali told TOI that the woman’s brother had recently purchased a machine from Salem in Tamil Nadu. “He had secured a transport operator’s number from an online portal for transporting the machine to Maharashtra,” Sali said. The officer said the man who posed as the transport operator demanded advance payment of the charges via online mode. “The complainant’s brother was running short of Rs22,000. So, he contacted the woman on October 12 and requested her to transfer Rs22,000 to the suspect. The woman immediately transferred the amount,” Sali said. The officer said when the woman’s brother did not receive the machine, the latter and the woman started calling the transport operator’s number, but to no avail. “Last week, the suspect answered the call and promised the woman that he would transfer the money immediately. He had also told the woman’s brother that he would send him the screenshot of the transaction,” Sali said. “The woman, however, was shocked when she received obscene photographs from another number,” Sali added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sister-pays-rs-22000-on-mans-behalf-receives-lewd-pics/articleshow/78900982.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Public bus operators threaten to go to court over tax waiver||PANAJI: The All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association has threatened to go to court if the state government fails to waive off their taxes for the lockdown months. The association’s general secretary, Sudeep Tamankar, pointed out how operators of taxis, buses, motorcycles and auto-rickshaws have been devoid of income during the pandemic. “We want the passenger tax and road tax waived. We have already sent several representations to the state government in this regard, to give us tax relaxation for the lockdown months, yet there is no response. Has the government quarantined itself?” he said. Tamankar said the financial dent to their businesses, caused by the imposition of tax, may compel some to suspend operations. As a result, he said, ancillary services such as mechanics, tyre changers and other small workers solely dependent on public transport for a living, will also be affected. Further, he said private bus operators have on multiple occasions personally visited the transport department to share their grievances, but to no avail. “The transport director refuses to come out of his cabin. His officers don’t let anyone in and the peon lies saying there is no one inside. Such is the treatment meted out to us. We have even asked the chief minister for an appointment multiple times, but there has been no response,” he said. “What is left now for us is to demand help from Prime Minister Narendra Modi since he imposed the lockdown, thus affecting our business. If state government officials don’t respond to us, we will either have to petition the government in the high court or undertake a protest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/public-bus-operators-threaten-to-go-to-court-over-tax-waiver/articleshow/78901625.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman among four held in Shiv Sena leader’s murder case||PUNE: The Pune Rural police on Tuesday arrested four persons, including a woman, in connection with the murder of Shiv Sena’s former Lonavla city unit chief, Rahul Shetty, on Monday. “Those arrested include Ibrahim Yusuf Khan (28) of Kondhwa, who is seen in the CCTV footage attacking and firing shots at Shetty on Monday,” Navneet Kanwat, sub-divisional police officer (Lonavla), told TOI. “Shetty’s wife Soumya, in her complaint, named Deepali Bhilare (39), Suraj Agarwal (42), Mohan ‘Thapa’ Debbahadur Malla (47) and two others [involved in earlier attacks on Shetty] as suspects. We have arrested Bhilare, Agarwal and Thapa and are searching for the others. All are from Lonavla,” Kanwat added. He said police were also exploring the angle of a love affair gone wrong. Bhilare and Agarwal were produced before a magisterial court in Vadgaon Maval and remanded in police custody till October 31. “Khan and Thapa were formally arrested in the evening. We will seek their custodial remand on Wednesday,” police said. “We have arrested Khan within 24 hours on the basis of human intelligence and technical evidence,” Kanwat said. An officer associated with the investigation said Khan was a sharpshooter. “A clearer picture should emerge from interrogation, verification and recoveries,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-among-four-held-in-sena-leaders-murder-case/articleshow/78900971.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 28, 2020||Jaipur||Despite NGT order, laying of power lines on in GIB habitat||Jaisalmer: Despite NGT Bhopal prohibiting laying of electricity lines by the power companies in Degrai Temple pasture land in Jaisalmer, which is a habitat of the Great Indian Bustard (GIBs) and many other rare species, such activities continue unabated. The villagers are annoyed over the violation of NGT orders. For the last three to four days, the villagers have been trying to stop the work going on in the pasture land, but the companies are continuing nevertheless. Degrai Oran Samiti main member Sumer Singh Bhati said that the Rasla gram panchayat in Fatehgarh sub-division and Shri Degrai temple trust filed a petition at the National Green Tribunal, Bhopal bench, which ordered on October 14 to prohibit cutting of trees and laying electricity lines in the pasture land. Bhati alleged that the NGT orders were being violated at different places.Bhati claimed that at present, three solar energy companies were laying the electricity wires and the villagers apprised them about the NGT order, but despite that the companies continued with the work. The NGT had made a committee of Jaisalmer DFO and pollution board members to see to the execution of its order. DFO GK Verma said that the phone of the regional officer of pollution board was switched off and after he comes, will go to pasture land and will submit their report and as far as work going on in the pasture land is concerned, he is trying to get information in this regard. Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi said that the in pasture land registered in revenue record, the work of laying electricity line has been stopped. If again the work has been started, then necessary action will be taken after obtaining information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-ngt-order-laying-of-power-lines-on-in-gib-habitat/articleshow/78900975.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Of 1,892 new cases in 3 states, 1,248 in Hry||Chandigarh: The three states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh reported 1,892 new Covid-19 cases and 31 fatalities. Haryana and Punjab recorded 13 fatalities each, while five patients breathed their last in Himachal. Haryana recorded the highest number of new cases, 1,248. It was followed by 353 new cases in Punjab and 231 in Himachal Padesh. In Haryana, the total number of cases has risen to 1,60,705 and the fatality count to 1,750. While 1,48,503 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases is 10,452. Of them, 203 patients are critical and on oxygen or ventilator support. Among the new deaths in Punjab, three were in Jalandhar, two each in Ropar and Ludhiana, and one each in Amritsar, Fazilka, Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Mohali. There were 50 new cases in Ludhiana, followed by Hoshiarpur (42), Patiala (34), Amritsar (26), Jalandhar (25), Fazilka (25), Mohali (20), Muktsar (18), Kapurthala (16), Bathinda (!5), Ropar (!2), Gurdaspur (11) and Tarn Taran (!1), Sangrur (8), Mansa (7), Faridkot (6), Fatehgarh Sahib (6) and Barnala (6), Ferozepur (5) and Pathankot (5), Moga (3), and Nawanshahr (2). Among the deaths in Haryana, four were in Hisar, three in Ambala, two in Gurgaon, and one each in Jind, Palwal, Kurukshetra and Panchkula. Among the new cases, 14 are from Bilaspur, three from Chamba, two from Hamirpur, 39 from Kangra, 15 from Kinnaur, 48 from Kullu, four from Lahaul-Spiti, 51 from Mandi, 38 from Shimla, eight from Sirmaur, five from Solan, and four from Una.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/of-1892-new-cases-in-3-states-1248-in-hry/articleshow/78900969.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Goa||Court grants Kamat, wife relief in ED case||Panaji: The high court has granted relief to former chief minister Digambar Kamat and his wife Asha Kamat in a money laundering case registered by Enforcement Directorate (ED) against them. The court set aside the conditions imposed by the tribunal for “raising attachment” of the immovable properties. ED had attached the property and fixed deposit receipts (FDR) amounting to Rs 1.19 core. A division bench comprising justice MS Sonak and Justice MS Jawalkar observed, “The ED in the peculiar facts of the present case should have accepted the statements made by Kamats and Alemaos (Churchill Alemao and Maria Alemao) rather than to seek to dispossess them from their immovable properties even before the conclusion of the criminal proceedings pending against them.” Referring to the order passed by tribunal dealing with the cases under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, the court held that “most of the directions in the order like calling upon the parties to furnish indemnities, etc. are not even contemplated under the scheme of the PMLA.” Such directions could not have been issued merely on the basis that the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) had made some allegations against Kamats and Alemaos and that prosecutions were pending against them. Such directions could not have been issued in the name of “striking balance” between the interests of the ED as well as the accused persons, the court said. On August 07, 2015, the ED had started proceedings under PMLA and attached properties, and FDRs of Kamats amounting to Rs1.19 crore and Rs75 lakh of the Alemaos. The aggrieved parties challenged the attachment before the tribunal. The attachment in respect of immovable properties was raised, subject to certain conditions by the tribunal. The attachment in respect of fixed deposits was confirmed and directed to continue. Digambar and his wife had approached the High Court. Alemaos did not file an appeal. “Accordingly, the conditions imposed by the tribunal for setting aside the attachment of the immovable properties deserve to be set aside. So also, the continuance of the attachment of the FDRs by the tribunal deserves to be set aside,” the court noted. The appellants told the court that they will not sell, transfer, alienate, encumber or liquidate or encash the attached properties or the fixed deposits until the conclusion of the case pending before the special court. Parag Rao, advocate for Kamats contended that the tribunal could not have, in the name of “striking balance”, continued with the attachment of the FDRs or imposed conditions for raising attachment in respect of immovable properties. Advocate Nikhil Vaze, counsel for ED while refuting the contentions of Rao submitted that the entire reasoning of the tribunal was flawed and that the tribunal in the present case ought not to have raised the attachment of the immovable properties, even conditionally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-grants-kamat-wife-relief-in-ed-case/articleshow/78900974.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Rims junior docs threaten strike after dead patient’s kin thrash female colleagues||Ranchi: In yet another incident of scuffle between patient’s kin and junior doctors at the state’s largest government-run hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), a junior doctor was allegedly attacked by a few members of a dead patient on late Monday night. According to hospital sources, a second year PG doctor of the medicine department was attacked by the patient’s kin of Pramod Singh, a resident of Dhanbad admitted around a week ago with chronic kidney and heart ailments. The patient was provided consultations of specialists from cardiology and nephrology department. When he passed away, the patient’s kin attacked the on-duty doctors alleging negligence. On Tuesday, a representative of Junior Doctor Association (JDA) met dean and director of Rims and demanded adequate security at hospital premises at all times and said they go on a strike from Tuesday midnight if their demands are not met. They also threatened to not report for OPD duties. Talking to TOI, Dr Anitesh Gupta of JDA said, “The patient was already admitted with serious kidney and heart complications and he died of natural cases during treatment. No one can be blamed for this. But, the manner in which the patient’s kin attacked three female doctors on duty is totally unacceptable and we have submitted a written complaint to Bariatu police station and have demanded immediate arrest of culprits.” Meanwhile, the patient’s kin alleged that they did not misbehave with the doctors and their patient passed away as proper care wasn’t provided to him. They also said that the doctors kept the dead body till Tuesday afternoon just to “harass” them. “We didn’t misbehave with any female doctor. Only a few ladies from our side had tried to confront the female doctors as they hadn’t taken proper care. In fact, the doctors threatened us that they will ensure that the dead body isn’t released,” said a family member of the dead patient. Bariatu police station in-charge Sapan Mahatha said, “No case has been registered yet and we are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-junior-docs-threaten-strike-after-dead-patients-kin-thrash-female-colleagues/articleshow/78901221.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Abducted & killed, no breakthrough in sibling murders yet||GUMLA: Two siblings — a brother and his sister — were abducted in their own car and killed by unidentified persons under Ghaghra police station of Gumla on Sunday night. Identified as Sanjiv Ranjan Bhagat (27) and Mamta Khakha (22), their bodies were found from two different places on Monday, police said. While Sanjiv’s body was recovered from a playground, Mamta was found floating in a pond nearby at Chundri Navatoli village, police said. According to reports, Sanjiv and Mamta were returning from Lohardaga district to their native village Kotamati under Ghaghra police station when the incident occurred. Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan on Tuesday said they are trying to crack the case. “It wasn’t a case of loot or rape. It was a a planned attack, but reasons are yet to be known and the investigation is on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/abducted-killed-no-breakthrough-in-sibling-murders-yet/articleshow/78901294.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Will drive out BJP with lathis: Jharkhand CM||Dumka: Chief minister Hemant Soren, who is currently camping in Dumka, on Tuesday said he will drive away BJP with lathis (sticks) and dandas (batons). Hemant and his father, JMM chief Shibu Soren, are both engaged in hectic campaigning for Basant Soren, who has been fielded by the tribal party in Dumka. Party insiders said Hemant will also visit Bermo and parts of Bihar to campaigning in favour of the candidates of parties in alliance. Hemant reached here last evening and addressed eight meetings in Dumka sadar block area on Tuesday. “The bypoll result in no way will affect our government as we already have 50 MLAs. Yet your support in the bypolls will strengthen our might to the extent to drive away BJP with lathis and dandas,” Hemant said while addressing a gathering at Lakhikundi locality. Hemant’s offensive against the saffron party is in the backdrop of BJP’s claims of replacing his government after winning the bypolls from both the seats. Hemant also addressed election meetings in the outskirts of the sub-capital town, including in Asansol, Kumrabad, Kesiyabahal, Baskichak, Basjora, Kusumdih and Mahua Dangal till late evening on Tuesday. Shibu, who arrived here on a chopper, sought blessings from the electorate for Basant. “Guruji will be meeting with party cadres and common people at his Khijuriya residence and accompany Hemant to places where choppers cannot land from tomorrow (Wednesday) onwards,” Vijay Kumar Singh, the central committee member of JMM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/will-drive-out-bjp-with-lathis-jharkhand-cm/articleshow/78901139.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||17-year-old dies in remand home in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 17-year-old boy from the Isanpur area of the city died in a remand home in Khanpur in the wee hours of Tuesday. His family has alleged that he died after being beaten by Isanpur police first and later by staffers at the remand home. Ritik Parmar, a resident of Komal Park in Isanpur, was apprehended by Isanpur cops along with two others including a 16-year-old boy, in a case of assault on October 23. He was sent to the remand home the same day where he remained for four days and died there, said Isanpur police inspector J M Solanki.  Ritik’s uncle, Gangaram Parmar, said, “A drunk man was abusing Ritik and two others near our house after which they got into a scuffle. The man later filed a police complaint and Isanpur police summoned Ritik.” According to the law, a minor cannot be summoned and rather his or her parents are given notice to remain present. Gangaram further said, “When Ritik went to Isanpur police station, he was beaten by four cops who later sent him to his house to get his Aadhaar card to find out whether he was a minor. Ritik, when he came home, told his family members that he beaten badly.” After the cops allegedly thrashed him at Isanpur police station, he was sent to the remand home where he was kept alone in a separate room where the staffers of the remand home also tortured him, Gangaram said. “On Tuesday at around 6am, a staffer from the remand room called Ritik’s parents, telling them that he was critically ill and was taken to the Asarwa Civil Hospital. When they rushed there, they found their child dead,” said Gangaram. A panel postmortem was done and police registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/17-year-old-dies-in-remand-home/articleshow/78901018.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Officers will be liable for answers, says Jharkhand DGP||Ranchi: Police officers, including SPs, will be held accountable in case of crimes against women in their respective areas of jurisdiction, DGP M V Rao said on Tuesday. Addressing media persons at the state police headquarters here, Rao said, "Police officers must ensure that such crimes do not happen by working on actionable information promptly. He further said, "If such crimes like suspicious deaths of women and girls do happen, the SPs concerned must visit the spots and conduct probes without delay so that the cases reach the court soon. Chargesheets must also be filed on time to fast-track the hearings. These actions will reduce police negligence." Rao added, "The SPs are accountable for timely investigation and submission of chargesheets in crimes against women. A standard operating procedure is being prepared for the purpose." Highlighting that chief minister Hemant Soren has assured to provide the necessary resources for investigation into crimes, particularly against women, the DGP asked all ranks and files of the force to be deligent in their work. He also said a WhatsApp number for women and children facing harassment or any sex-related crime to file complaints has been floated a week ago. "So far, we have received 108 complaints and most of them were related to abuses. Will study the complaints for the next six to eight weeks to identify the trends, hotposts, target groups and other aspects for framing policies." Stating that the number of cases related to stalking, sexual harassment and blackmail are very few so far, Rao said, "There are several complaints related to blank calls, which we are investigating.” Rao, however, said, "There were nearly a dozen complaints related to sexual exploitation on the promise of marriage. We have started filing cases and investigations into them." Among the districts with highest cases recieved through the WhatsApp number are Ranchi (28), Giridih (18) and East Singhbhum (12), he added. Warning the public against any wrongdoing, he said, "We will take strict action against those who try to suppress rape cases by holding khap panchayat-like meetings." The top cop also said anyone found engaging in rash driving would be taken to task. "We have CCTV cameras installed at all strategic points. Moreover, interceptor vehicles are always on stand-by to identify and catch the violators," he said. "Moreover, DSPs will be held responsible for rash driving in their areas. They will also be held accountable if any illegal liquor and drug sale in their areas," Rao said. On Bihar election, the DGP said police and para-military forces have carried out intensive operations in districts bordering the neighbouring state for the past several days and seized large scale amounts of contraband items. Notably, police have set up 50 checkposts along the border with Bihar to prevent inter-state smuggling of illicit liquor and drugs, and movement of criminals and extremists. Rao said in the past one month, they have seized several weapons, including seven country made pistols, 103 ammunition, 100 detonators and 200 gleatin sticks. As many as 13 persons have been arrested in connection with the seizures. Further, police have seized 4,642 litres of country made liquor, 1,495 litres of foreign liquor and arrested 89 persons. As many as 1,093 non-bailable warrants were filed while property attachments were done in 85 cases. In addition, 86 kg of ganja, 537 kg of doda, over 18 kg of opium, 62 gram of brown sugar and five pieces of hasish were also recovered. Rao said police would also start a two-week drive against sale of narcotics and illegal liquor from November 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/officers-will-be-liable-for-answers-says-jharkhand-dgp/articleshow/78901199.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||318 fresh Covid cases, 4 deaths reported in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Tuesday reported 318 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the cumulative caseload in the state past the one-lakh mark. The tally is now 1,00,224 cases. The state also reported four deaths, taking the toll to 876. Notwithstanding the high number of recovered cases, health experts have expressed concern saying a large number of people had violated the safety guidelines during the festive season and could result in a spurt of new cases. As of Tuesday morning, the state reported 93,874 recovered cases. Public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rims, Dr Devesh Kumar, said, "The increase in the number of recoveries in the worst-affected districts of Ranchi and East Singhbhum is a good sign, but people have thronged the roads and other public places during the Durga Puja in violation of the guidelines. We need to be very careful for the next two weeks and see whether it is going to contribute to the caseload.” Meanwhile, the state's recovery rate (93.66%) continued to be above the national average of 90%. Ranchi continued to be on top of districts with the highest number of fresh cases at 127. The district also reported 179 cases of recoveries. East Singhbhum reported 43 new cases while Bokaro reported 28 cases. The number of active cases also came down to 5,474 as of Tuesday evening. Among four casualties on Tuesday, one each each was reported from Ranchi, Bokaro, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/318-fresh-covid-cases-4-deaths-reported-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78901115.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 28, 2020||---||3 IEDs found in Gaya day before Phase-I of vote||GAYA: A day before the first phase of Bihar assembly election, security personnel recovered three IEDs from two different places in Imamganj area of Gaya district on Tuesday. DMcum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said security personnel recovered the three IEDs from different places during area domination exercise. Later, the bombs and the IEDs were diffused. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and former assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Chaudhary are contesting from Imamganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/3-ieds-found-in-gaya-day-before-phase-i-of-vote/articleshow/78902254.cms||Alok Kumar
October 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Nursing student turns mason to save for fees||MANGALURU: Buddana Gowda of Bagalkot, who hopes to become a medical professional, is currently laying the foundation for his education - almost literally, by working as a mason in Udupi to save up for fees. The 21-year-old from Badami taluk is in Udupi with his parents, who are both daily-wage labourers. Buddana says he has dreamed of becoming a doctor for as long as he can remember. He gave his best shot at NEET and CET but his ranks were not high enough to secure a government college seat. He has enrolled for a BSc nursing course at a prestigious college in Hangal in Bagalkot. "Though I have a will and passion, my financial condition is a hurdle. The course fee for a year is around Rs 60,000 and my parents cannot afford to pay. So I decided to save up the fee money by becoming a helper for a mason in Udupi. They pay me Rs 550 a day for 9 hours' work," Buddana told TOI. He worked as labourer to fund PU courseI couldn’t do well in the entrance exams this year due to lack of coaching and difficulties in the lockdown. I may try again next year,” Buddana said. His parents Chandappa and Yamunavva have been working in Udupi for the past 20 years and live in a rented house. “After SSLC too, I worked as a labourer to fund my PU course, which was comparatively less. I continued to work till I finished the course. I have been working over the past month and I am confident of earning the money required,” he said. “He is punctual and dedicated in his work,” said Buddana’s employer AP Bhat, retired principal of Poornaprajna College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-nursing-student-turns-mason-to-save-for-fees/articleshow/78902264.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Land acquisition for NH projects put on fast track||Ongole: The Covid-19 outbreak and subsequent lockdown for nearly six months has paralysed the construction of several new national highways including Amaravati-Anantapur expressway in the state. The delay in land acquisition has badly hit the progress of works across the state. Many projects that were inching closer to the completion were put on hold due to the delay in handing over of the land by the district administrations. With the Covid-19 positive case load gradually coming down, the state government has directed district collectors to focus on the completion of the National Highway projects. While the resumption of NH works would not pose any financial burden on the state exchequer, it would however help it make the development visible in all the districts, noted a senior official. Since NHAI has sufficient funds to complete the ongoing projects, the state government has set its focus on making use of the funds available with the central government agency. Many of the major inter-district linking roads in the state were already declared as National Highways and several other new projects were also on the cards. Following the instructions of R&B principal secretary MT Krishna Babu, all the district collectors held special meeting with revenue divisional officers and tahsildars on the issue of pending land acquisition for the NH projects. “We have put the land acquisition for all the identified NHs including Amaravati-Anantapur on fast track. We will settle all the pending claims for payment of compensation within a fortnight,” said Prakasam district collector Pola Bhaskar. Bhaskar said that they have settled around 2,288 claims for compensation on Amaravati-Anantapur stretch before the Covid-19 outbreak and taking measures to clear the pending claims of the total 4,257. He said that about 119 people have complained about non-receipt of compensation even after the approvals issued by tahsildars. He said that they would complete the land acquisition on the 120km stretch between Porumamilla (Kadapa)-Chandrasekhara Puram (Prakasam) shortly. Similarly, process of land acquisition on 151km long stretch between Yerragondapalem-Pamuru would be completed with a cost of Rs 9.91 crore. About 1,145 acres would be acquired between Giddalur-Tripuranthakam spread over nearly 102km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/land-acquisition-for-nh-projects-put-on-fast-track/articleshow/78898683.cms||Samdani MN
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Hoping for Covid vaccine by early 2021: Karnataka minister||BENGALURU: Karnataka can hope for a Covid-19 vaccine by early 2021, health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday, adding that the government will ensure that it reaches every part of the state, with priority to those who need it most. The state will soon set up a committee to look into vaccine-related issues, the minister said, and will include technical and logistics-related representatives from the private sector. The minister and members of the Covid technical advisory committee met representatives of pharma major AstraZeneca which is developing a vaccine in collaboration with Oxford University. Clinical trials have shown that it generates immune response within 28 days of being administered, Sudhakar said. BATTLING COVIDThe Anglo-Swedish pharmaceutical major has tied up with Serum Institute, Pune, which has been conducting trials in India. The team apprised the minister and the Covid team of the progress in research and initial results of the trials. “The first-level trial was conducted 56 days ago. Second and third level trials will be conducted on 1,600 people. We have asked the company to conduct trials on more number of persons,” said Sudhakar. He said the company projected supply of doses for 100 crore people. “The vaccine is still under trial, hence pricing was not discussed. AstraZeneca has said that they are not producing it for profit.” Vaccine still under trial, hence pricing not discussed: MinisterAsked if the state government will provide the vaccine to all free of cost, the minister said the decision will be taken by the Centre. “The government is committed to provide vaccine for all. The state government will take a decision based on the Centre’s guidance,” he said. The first beneficiaries of the vaccine, if and when it is ready, will be healthcare workers, followed by the elderly, vulnerable people with comorbidities and pregnant women, he added. While Covid-19 numbers are down, Sudhakar cautioned that people must continue to follow distancing and other safety measures to curb the spread of the infection, especially in the next three winter months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hoping-for-covid-vaccine-by-early-2021-karnataka-minister/articleshow/78902282.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Gang of four beats beggar to death with brick in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: A 40-year-old beggar was allegedly beaten to death with a brick by a group of four people near RTC Complex under Two Town police station limits in Vizag on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as G Appala Naidu. According to the police, the deceased had reportedly taken a loan of Rs 3,000 from four people. When the group asked him to return the money, he said that he couldn’t. On Monday night, the four entered into a heated argument with Appala Naidu over the delay in payment of the loan. Tempers flared and the four allegedly beat him to death with a brick. Police suspect that the accused are from Seethammadhara and one of the accused is a woman. A case was registered and investigation is on. The body was sent for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gang-of-four-beats-beggar-to-death-with-brick-in-vizag/articleshow/78898700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports 2,901 new Covid-19 cases, tally rises to 8.11 lakh||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,901 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,11,825. The toll increased to 6,625 as 19 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease on Tuesday. As many as 4,352 patients were declared cured. There are 27,300 active cases with the 7,77,900 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 95.8%. Kurnool, Nellore, and Vizianagaram districts achieved over 98 percent recovery rate. Krishna, which is believed to be in the midst of the second wave of Covid-19, was the only district to record less than 90 percent recovery rate. However, Krishna has the lowest caseload among all the districts of the state. West Godavari recorded 555 fresh infections on Tuesday, followed by East Godavari 464 and Krishna 411. Four districts reported fewer than 100 cases with Kurnool reporting as low as 55 cases. Despite recording nearly 60,000 cases, there are only 262 active cases in Nellore district. Andhra Pradesh tested 74,757 Covid-19 samples on Tuesday and detected 2,901 new cases with a case positivity rate of 3.9%. The case positivity rate came down to less than five percent in the last few days. Of the 19 deaths reported on Tuesday, four are from Kadapa, three each from Chittoor and Krishna, two each from East Godavari and Prakasam, and one each from Anantapur, Guntur, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 76.96 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 10.5%. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-2901-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-8-11-lakh/articleshow/78898713.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Subsidy helps onions return to common man’s kitchen||VIJAYAWADA: Measures taken by the agriculture marketing authorities seemed to bear fruit on Tuesday as onion prices dived to Rs 60 a kilo. Officials said that the prices will come down further over the next few days. The agriculture marketing department intervened after onion supply was hit over the last month as onion prices had gone up to Rs 130 per kilo amid the Dasara season. Onion supply to Andhra Pradesh was hit due to rain in Maharashtra as well as in Kurnool, according to local traders. The rise in prices had people worried. NK Padmaja, a homemaker who was shopping for veggies on Tuesday, said, “Onion prices are fluctuating like the stock market. Wholesalers seem to be at liberty to hike prices. Middle and lower-middle class families have had to give up on onions.” Taking cognisance of the high onion prices, the state government had started sale of subsidised onions in rythu bazaars. People could buy these onions at Rs 40 per kilo by showing their Aadhaar card. “We procured onions directly from farmers and sold them at a subsidised price. The move saw a positive response from the public,” said Chandra Mohan, estate officer at a rythu bazaar in Vijayawada. The subsidy offered by the government made a severe dent on retail onion sale in the city. As citizens rushed to buy onions at rythu bazaars, onion retailers were forced to reduce prices to attract buyers. Marketing authorities said that a few wholesale traders and created an artificial shortage of onions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/subsidy-helps-onions-return-to-common-mans-kitchen/articleshow/78898724.cms||Venu Lanka
October 28, 2020||Vijayawada||ACB raids M’patnam town planning office||VIJAYAWADA: Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted surprise checks at the town planning office in the Machilipatnam Municipal Corporation building in Krishna district on Tuesday. According to addition SP of ACB Maheshwara Rao, the bureau has received complaints of alleged corruption at the office which led them to run checks. ACB officials reached the spot at around 9am and conducted inspections till the evening. The checks revealed a number of irregularities including poor maintenance of approved plans and registers. Officials said that the bureau seized some ‘crucial’ documents pertaining to the alleged irregularities. Bureau officials also found unaccounted cash of over Rs 16,000 from 10 employees within the premises. They said that the ACB would submit a report on the irregularities to the director general’s office in ACB headquarters after which action could be recommended. ACB officials further said that there were a few long-pending requests for building plan approvals at the office. Town planning wings of several urban municipal bodies have been facing heat from ACB since last year after the bureau found irregularities in many of them. On February 17, the ACB had conducted state-wide raids on town planning offices. One of the most common issues that came to notice was the lack of enforcement against unauthorised buildings and constructions with the jurisdiction of these offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/acb-raids-mpatnam-town-planning-office/articleshow/78898750.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry plans 10% medical quota for govt students||PUDUCHERRY: The Puducherry government has decided to provide 10% internal reservation for government and government-aided school students, who clear NEET, in medical courses. Chief minister V Narayanasamy said the government has sent the file to lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi for approval on Tuesday. If approved, the policy will come into effect immediately. Narayanasamy told reporters on Tuesday that the government has sent a file conveying its decision to lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi for her approval. If approved, the reservation policy will be published in the government gazette and will come into force immediately. If not approved by the lieutenant governor, the elected government will commence the fight for the reservation policy, he said. Narayanasamy pointed out that only 94 students from government and government-aided schools had cleared Neet in 2018-19 when compared to 1,846 students from private schools. “Only 16 students from government and government-aided schools joined medicine while 243 students from private schools joined medicine last year. Of the 16, 11 are from Mahe, three from Karaikal and two from Puducherry," he said. He pointed out that private school students, who follow CBSE pattern and undergo exclusive coaching and training clear NEET easily, while students from government and government-aided school lag behind without proper coaching and training. The Congress government has taken the 'executive route' of passing an order reserving 10% seats in medicine for students from government and government-aided schools and seeking the approval of Bedi and the Union government instead of introducing a bill in this regard. A cross-section of political pundits and legal experts opined that Narayanasamy has scored on the political ground by making such a populist announcement, which may not pass the test of law. It may be recalled that the Tamil Nadu government decided to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation for students from government schools, who clear NEET, in medical education. The Tamil Nadu legislative assembly unanimously passed a bill in this regard and sent it to governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent. Purohit had insisted four weeks’ time to seek legal opinion before taking a call on the issue. Political leaders including BJP irrespective of party lines have urged Purohit to give assent to the bill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/puducherry-plans-10-medical-quota-for-govt-students/articleshow/78902286.cms||Bosco Dominique
October 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cardiovascular diseases account for quarter of all deaths at KGH||Visakhapatnam: Cardiovascular diseases were primarily responsible for nearly a quarter of all deaths at King George Hospital, the largest tertiary hospital in Visakhapatnam district, between January and August 2020, according to data collected through electronic mortality software (e-Mor), a death register maintained by Andhra Medical College-King George Hospital (AMC-KGH). The second biggest contributor to deaths was respiratory disease. According to e-Mor data, a total of 2,732 deaths took place between January and August 2020, of which 657 were related to cardiovascular diseases, 24%. Diseases related to the respiratory system led to 373 deaths, 13.6%. Meanwhile, 278 deaths, 10%, could be attributed to foetal health or in the perinatal period. Diseases of the nervous system, digestive system, genitourinary system, injury plus poisoning and other consequences, infectious and parasitic diseases are among other significant causes of death. Dr Y Padmasri, professor at the department of community medicine, said that there has been a considerable rise in deaths due to cardiovascular diseases from 176 in 2019 to 657 in 2020 so far. “There are two reasons for the rise in numbers: first, cardiovascular diseases have gone up triggering need for further investigation into lifestyle diseases and second, even if the underlying cause is something else like snakebite or Covid-19, often the immediate cause of death (cardiac or respiratory failure) finds mention in the death certificate,” said Dr Padmasri while adding that she and the team are trying to rectify misclassification and sensitise medical staff. Dr Devi Madhavi, head of the department of community medicine at KGH, who is associated with National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) under which the register is maintained, said, “The various causes of death recorded through e-Mor is aimed at strengthening medical certification of the cause of death and maintaining information on institutional deaths.” “The project, initiated in December, 2018, will end on November 30 this year. The purpose is to sustain and develop a national research database on cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and stroke through recent advances in electronic information technology with a national collaborative network,” said Dr Madhavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cardiovascular-diseases-account-for-quarter-of-all-deaths-at-kgh/articleshow/78898779.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 28, 2020||India||Ajit Pawar-led co-op bank sold mill to kin at a discount: ED||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) says it has found transactions which establish that members of deputy CM Ajit Pawar’s family bankrolled a bid to purchase a sugar mill at a discount when it was put up for auction by the Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank (MSCB) while he was its director. MSCB auctioned the mill in 2010 at a “throwaway price” to a bidder who received funds from a company owned by Pawar’s maternal uncle, which in turn had received Rs 20 crore from a firm where Ajit Pawar’s wife was a director, the ED said. It flagged this conflict of interest before a special court while opposing closure of the MSCB case involving loans to sugar mills that were written off. The ED has, in an application before a special court on Tuesday, intervened and opposed a closure report filed by Mumbai police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) after looking at large loans to sugar mills which were written off by the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB). The ED cited a Bombay HC order that found material evidence disclosing ‘cognizable offence’. The EOW has opposed the ED plea and said it did not have the locus standi to intervene and that the interference was unwarranted. The ED’s application cites bids placed by Ajit Pawar’s family to acquire sugar mills that were auctioned by the bank while he was its director. It has underlined this conflict of interest between Pawar’s role as an MSCB director and his family’s businesses in more than one instance. In the first case, Jarandeshwar Sugar Cooperative was acquired by a bidder who was financed by Pawar’s family, the agency said. The bidder later handed over the mill to a company owned by Pawar’s maternal uncle Rajendra Ghadge on lease, it added. In the second instance, when the bank auctioned the Kannad Sugar Cooperative mill, it was Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Rohit Pawar’s company Baramati Agro which purchased it. There were two bidders shortlisted and the second bidder Hitech Engineering’s Rs 5-crore deposit for bid participation was funded by Baramati Agro, the ED said. The ED has also listed auctioning of five more sugar mills bought by different entities who paid money to the bank after a year. One of them paid the money after three years. All of them paid an initial 25% of the auction amount a month after the auction. The reserve prices for the auction was in the range of Rs 17-26 crore, but sale was concluded at lower rates in all five cases. On Tuesday along with the original complainant, businessman Surinder Mohan Arora, three members of sugar factories sold by MSC Bank, Shalinitai Patil, former MLA and widow of former state CM Vasantdada Patil, former NCP member and ex-MLA Manik Bhimrao Jadhav, and Kisan Kewad also filed protest petitions against EOW’s 70,000-page closure report. Urging the court to reject the report, they sought time to move HC to seek transfer of investigations to the CBI or any other||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ajit-pawar-led-co-op-bank-sold-mill-to-kin-at-a-discount-ed/articleshow/78902284.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 28, 2020||Faridabad||Faridabad murder: Accused wanted Nikita Tomar to convert, marry him||GURUGRAM: A BCom final-year student was shot in the head from point-blank range by an alleged stalker outside her college in Faridabad on Monday afternoon. The shooting of the girl, who died on the spot, triggered protests in the NCR city and a political row in Haryana after CCTV footage showed the shooter to be a cousin of Congress’ Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed. Read AlsoNikita Tomar murder: 'Touseef had been harassing her for months'Nikita Tomar’s father Mool Chand Tomar has alleged that Touseef was harassing her for several months and she had filed a molestation complaint against him in September.The main accused, identified as Touseef, the MLA’s cousin, and Rehan, were arrested from Nuh on Tuesday and remanded in police custody for two days. The victim, 20-year-old Nikita Tomar and Touseef had known each other since they were children – they went to the same school. In September, however, Nikita had filed a molestation complaint against Touseef. Fbd killing: Accused wanted girl to convert, marry himNikita had gone to appear for an exam at Agarwal College in Ballabgarh area of Faridabad at 1pm on Monday. A chilling 23-second video, taken from footage of around 4pm, captures Nikita and one of her friends coming out of the college, Touseef and Rehan arriving in a white car and trying to drag her inside the vehicle, Nikita managing to free herself from his grip and Touseef pulling out a pistol from his pocket and shooting her. बल्लभगढ़ वाला अपराधी पकड़ लिया गया है और उसे बख्शा नहीं जाएगाhttps://t.co/XyGlqUO4Y7 https://t.co/0DX049wuto— Manohar Lal (@mlkhattar) 1603816340000Nikita’s friend, who was with her at the time, told TOI that she was in shock and feared for her own safety. “We were waiting for an auto when the car stopped and two people stepped out. Before we could understand what was happening, they tried to drag Nikita in. It all happened in a matter of a few seconds, before anyone could even react,” she said. The woman’s family members and others blocked the Faridabad-Mathura road on Tuesday morning in protest. As police appealed for calm, Haryana home minister Anil Vij announced the setting up of a special investigation team (SIT), led by ACP crime Anil Kumar, to ensure “quick investigation and a time-bound trial”. Nikita’s father Mool Chand Tomar alleged Touseef had been harassing her for several months now and she had filed a molestation complaint against him in September. “He had been persistently calling her up for the past few weeks and pressuring her to convert to Islam and marry him, but she had refused,” Tomar said. Other family members told TOI that even Touseef ’s mother had called up Nikita several times to ask her to convert. Touseef and Nikita studied in the same school in Faridabad and were batchmates. Nikita, her family members said, was among the school toppers in the Class 12 boards and was preparing for the civil services exams. In 2018, after they completed school, the two went to different colleges, with Nikita taking up commerce and Touseef pursuing a physiotherapy course. According to police, that same year, Touseef had allegedly abducted Nikita. A case had been registered back then but was withdrawn by Nikita’s family later after a panchayat was held, police sources said. Nikita’s family members alleged they had been pressured to do so by Touseef’s relatives, who wield considerable political influence in Nuh and that Nikita’s family had been assured Touseef would not trouble her anymore. On the molestation complaint and the family’s allegations, Faridabad police commissioner O P Singh said they were looking into the matter. Singh said 10 teams had been formed to catch the accused, who had fled to Nuh via Palwal. An FIR against Touseef and Rehan has been registered at Ballabgarh police station under IPC sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) and relevant sections of the Arms Act. The countrymade pistol that was used for the murder and thrown at the spot has been recovered, police said. Taking cognisance of the matter, Haryana Women’s Commission sought a detailed report from police, with chairman Preeti Bhardwaj saying the incident “highlights faults in our system, which needs fixing”. Watch Shocking! Girl shot dead in broad daylight by assailant in Haryana's Ballabhgarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/mlas-cousin-kills-girl-he-was-stalking-in-faridabad/articleshow/78902295.cms||Bagish Jha
October 28, 2020||India||CPM nod for barring CBI from probes in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:The CPM politburo endorsed the recommendation by party’s state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan to direct the CPM-led LDF government to withdraw ‘general consent’ for probe given to CBI in Kerala. The politburo directed the Kerala unit of the party to discuss the suggestion in LDF and take a decision. Kerala is among the states which still retains the ‘general consent’ given to CBI probes under the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946. The ‘general consent’ is a nod for the agency to probe scheduled offences specified in the DSPE Act. Even without this consent, the agency can probe serious crimes mentioned under specific acts like violation of FCRA norms. CPM leaders found the demand topical in the backdrop of Maharashtra government withdrawing ‘general consent’. Sources said CBI’s bid to put the Kerala government in the dock by taking up a probe against Life Mission and its refusal to take up the Titanium case probe were reasons that underlined CPM’s suspicion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cpm-nod-for-barring-cbi-from-probes-in-kerala/articleshow/78902306.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Salem||Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu on steady decline||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 2,522 new cases and 27 deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Tuesday that pushed the case tally to 71,4235 and cumulative death toll to 10,983. After 4,029 discharges in the past 24 hours, the number of active cases came down to 27,734. After testing 69,344 people for the viral infection, the eleven northern districts together reported 51% fresh cases and 40% deaths on Tuesday. The zone also had the highest number of active patients – 13,720. After north, fresh cases were highest in the eight western districts (732) followed by the south zone (247). New cases in the central districts were the lowest at 236. Officials say by early next week, if fresh cases continue to decrease, the active cases in the state will go below 8,000 in northern districts and within below 5,000 in the west. Active cases were the lowest in the central zone (2,189). While the west had 8,999 people still under treatment, there were 2,824 in the south. All districts continued to report fresh cases, and hot spot Chennai continued to be on top of the table with 695 cases. Four other districts –Coimbatore (209), Salem (146), Chengalpet (144) and Tiruvallur (115) – reported cases in three digits. There were five districts that reported cases in single digits --Tenkasi and Ariyalur has five cases each, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram reported three cases each and Dindigul two cases. All 27 people whose deaths were reported on Tuesday had co-morbid conditions such as seasonal asthma, diabetes, hypertension, liver disease, cardiac diseases, anaemia and hypothyroidism. A 60-year-old woman from Salem with Type 2-diabetes and hypertension was declared brought dead by doctors at Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Sunday, three days after she was tested positive for the viral infection. On Tuesday, deaths were the highest in Chennai (7) followed by Tiruppur (5), and Salem (3). Three districts – Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Madurai – reported two deaths, and six others – Cuddalore, Erode, Kallakurichi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai – reported one death each. Twenty five of the 37 districts reported no deaths. Active cases in Chennai dropped to 8,096 from 8,856 on Monday. The number of active cases was in the four digit mark in four districts – Coimbatore (3,580), Chengalpet (1,203), Salem (1,178), and Tiruvallur (1,166). The number of Covid-19 patients still under treatment was the lowest in Perambalur (71), Ariyalur (78), Theni (106) and Tenkasi (103).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/active-cases-in-tamil-nadu-on-steady-decline/articleshow/78908329.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu on steady decline||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 2,522 new cases and 27 deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Tuesday that pushed the case tally to 71,4235 and cumulative death toll to 10,983. After 4,029 discharges in the past 24 hours, the number of active cases came down to 27,734. After testing 69,344 people for the viral infection, the eleven northern districts together reported 51% fresh cases and 40% deaths on Tuesday. The zone also had the highest number of active patients – 13,720. After north, fresh cases were highest in the eight western districts (732) followed by the south zone (247). New cases in the central districts were the lowest at 236. Officials say by early next week, if fresh cases continue to decrease, the active cases in the state will go below 8,000 in northern districts and within below 5,000 in the west. Active cases were the lowest in the central zone (2,189). While the west had 8,999 people still under treatment, there were 2,824 in the south. All districts continued to report fresh cases, and hot spot Chennai continued to be on top of the table with 695 cases. Four other districts –Coimbatore (209), Salem (146), Chengalpet (144) and Tiruvallur (115) – reported cases in three digits. There were five districts that reported cases in single digits --Tenkasi and Ariyalur has five cases each, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram reported three cases each and Dindigul two cases. All 27 people whose deaths were reported on Tuesday had co-morbid conditions such as seasonal asthma, diabetes, hypertension, liver disease, cardiac diseases, anaemia and hypothyroidism. A 60-year-old woman from Salem with Type 2-diabetes and hypertension was declared brought dead by doctors at Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on Sunday, three days after she was tested positive for the viral infection. On Tuesday, deaths were the highest in Chennai (7) followed by Tiruppur (5), and Salem (3). Three districts – Chengalpet, Coimbatore and Madurai – reported two deaths, and six others – Cuddalore, Erode, Kallakurichi, Ramanathapuram and Sivagangai – reported one death each. Twenty five of the 37 districts reported no deaths. Active cases in Chennai dropped to 8,096 from 8,856 on Monday. The number of active cases was in the four digit mark in four districts – Coimbatore (3,580), Chengalpet (1,203), Salem (1,178), and Tiruvallur (1,166). The number of Covid-19 patients still under treatment was the lowest in Perambalur (71), Ariyalur (78), Theni (106) and Tenkasi (103).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-cases-in-tamil-nadu-on-steady-decline/articleshow/78902305.cms||---
October 28, 2020||India||Former minister Dilip Ray gets HC relief in coal scam case||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday granted relief to former Union minister Dilip Ray and suspended his sentence, a day after a CBI court handed him a three-year jail term. Ray was convicted in a coal scam case pertaining to irregularities in allocation of a Jharkhand coal block in 1999. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also issued notice to the CBI and sought its response on the appeal filed by Ray, challenging his conviction and sentence in the case. The HC listed the matter for further hearing on November 25. A special CBI court had on Monday sentenced Ray to three years in jail and fined him Rs 10 lakh for his role in the illegal allocation of Jharkhand’s Brahmadiha coal block to a Bokarobased company in 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-minister-dilip-ray-gets-hc-relief-in-coal-scam-case/articleshow/78902315.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: MLC elections for 4 seats today under Covid cloud||BENGALURU: Karnataka goes for its first elections on Wednesday for four legislative council seats — two each from teachers and graduates constituencies — amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The retirement of four members of the council necessitated the election, which should have taken place before June 30. However, in the wake of the pandemic, it was postponed indefinitely. Subsequently, the Election Commission in September decided to conduct the elections on October 28. The polls are taking place for Karnataka South-East Graduates, Karnataka West Graduates, Karnataka North-East Teachers and Bengaluru Teachers constituencies which fell vacant due to the retirement of R Chowda Reddy Thoopalli, SV Sankanur, Sharanappa Mattur and Puttanna respectively. Forty candidates are trying their luck in four seats. Voting will take place from 8am to 6pm and voters who have tested positive for Covid-19 will be allowed to vote in the last hour. Voters must wear masks compulsorily and maintain social distancing at polling booths. Thermal scanning of every voter is mandatory. Counting will be on November 2. The results of these elections, in which 2.3 lakh voters spread over 15 districts will choose their representatives, will have no political significance except the fact that they will help all three major political parties improve their tally in the council. Currently, the BJP has 27 members in the 75-member house, Congress 28 (excluding chairman), and JD(S) 14. This has left the ruling BJP at the mercy of the opposition. It was evident during the monsoon session last month when Congress and JD(S) together defeated the labour reforms bill (Karnataka Industrial Disputes Amendment Bill, 2020). The results will not reflect the prevailing mood, say political pundits, as these polls are fought mostly on individual relationship of candidates with voters. “Since the electorate is very small in these constituencies, candidates who have better contact with them normally win, irrespective of political affiliations,” said a senior BJP leader. Notwithstanding this view, parties have left no stone unturned to woo voters by taking up active campaigning by roping in all their prominent leaders for electioneering. Of these four seats, JD(S) had won two (Bengaluru Teachers and South East Graduates seats) last time. The Congress had bagged the North East Teachers constituency and BJP had romped home in the West Graduates seat. All parties have fielded their winning candidates, except Puttanna, who had won the Bengaluru Teachers seat for three consecutive terms on a JD(S) ticket and is now the BJP nominee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-mlc-elections-for-4-seats-today-under-covid-cloud/articleshow/78902317.cms||---
October 28, 2020||World||Stop spreading discord, China tells Pompeo||BEIJING: China on Tuesday urged US secretary of state Mike Pompeo to stop sowing discord between Beijing and countries in the region, undermining the regional peace and stability, amidst his visit to India for a dialogue aimed at further ramping up their overall defence and security ties, and boost strategic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. Pompeo arrived in India on Monday along with defence secretary Mark T Esper for the third edition of the US-India 2+2 dialogue with their counterparts, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/stop-spreading-discord-china-tells-pompeo/articleshow/78902337.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Madurai||P Jeyaraj, J Beniks tortured for seven hours, blood stains match their DNA: CBI||MADURAI: The CBI has established that traders P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks were subjected to brutal torture by police at the Sathankulam station between 7.45pm on June 19 and 3am on June 20. Citing the expert opinion received from Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), New Delhi, the agency said in its final report that the blood stains found on the wooden lathis used by the policemen and on the walls of the police station were confirmed to be those of the two victims. DNA profile generated from the exhibits lifted from the station were consistent with that generated from the bloodstained clothes of the duo. The CBI said the materials proved that the policemen had deliberately inflicted injuries on them knowing well that they were sufficient to cause their death. The findings of Kovilpatti judicial magistrate (JM) after his inquest and the post-mortem report confirmed that both of them died due to complications from blunt injuries. According to the sequence of events reconstructed by the CBI, after Jeyaraj was detained at the police station, son Beniks went there asking for the reason for his detention. As a scuffle ensued between him and policemen, inspector S Sridhar asked other policemen to teach Beniks a lesson on “how to behave with police”. The two of them were subjected to several rounds of torture and their clothes were removed to add brutality to their torture. Father-son had not violated lockdown norms: CBI reportBoth Jeyaraj and Beniks were made to bow down on a wooden table in their underwear and their hands and legs were held down by the policemen. They were subjected to several rounds of beatings using wooden lathi on their buttocks, back and other parts of their body. Investigation also revealed that during the torture, Beniks was askedtoclean thebloodthat oozed from their wounds and blood stains on the floor of the police station with his own vest. This apart, Sridhar also asked the sweeper to clean the floor of the main hall and other places at the police station the next morning to destroy the evidence. On June 20, when they were taken to the Sathankulam government hospital, medical officer Dr Vinila had declared that they were “fit for remand” though she found several injuries on their body. Blood-stained clothes were changed twice before taking them to the hospital and their clothes changed at the hospital before taking them for remand. All these clothes were dumped in the hospital dustbin. It was also revealed that Jeyaraj and Beniks had not violated the lockdown norms and there was no altercation between them and the police officers at Kamarajar Salai at Sathankulam on June 19. Investigation revealed that a false case was registered against them. Since special sub-inspector Paldurai has passed away, the CBI had filed the final report against nine suspended policemen – inspector Sridhar, SIs Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh, head constables S Murugan and A Samadurai, constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, X Thomas Francis and S Vailmuthu before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate court on September 25. Apart from its findings, the CBI also mentioned the findings of Kovilpatti judicial magistrate (JM) after his inquest which revealed that the father son duo died due to torture. The JM in his report had stated that the duo was illegally arrested and assaulted the entire night at the police station. He also stated that 18 injuries were found on the bodies of the deceased during the inquest. Taking into account the opinion of the doctors who performed postmortem and statements of witnesses, the JM held the duo died due to injuries inflicted by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/p-jeyaraj-j-beniks-tortured-for-seven-hours-blood-stains-match-their-dna-cbi/articleshow/78902345.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Highest single-day Covid-19 case spike at 4,853||NEW DELHI: At 4,853, the capital recorded the highest single-day Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, breaching the 4,000-mark for the fourth time in the last five days. The number of containment zones also crossed the 3,000 mark for the first time with 3,032 such pockets. According to the daily Covid-19 update released by the health department, Delhi conducted 57,210 tests, taking the cumulative count to 44.5 lakh and the total positive cases to 3.6 lakh. The current positivity rate stands at 8.48% against the overall rate of 8.18%. The capital saw a major jump in the number of active cases. Compared to 25,786 active cases a day ago, the count on Tuesday was 27,873. The city also reported 44 fatalities against Monday’s 54 and 2,722 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Though a marginal increase in the bed occupancy rate has been reported, large numbers of beds are vacant in Covid hospitals. On Tuesday, 5,453 beds were occupied against 5,404 on Monday. Delhi has 15,765 Covid beds in government and private hospitals. Dr Mahesh Verma, a member of Delhi government’s Covid-19 expert panel, ruled out that the third Covid wave had hit the city and attributed the rise to more daily tests, including RT-PCR ones, weather change and festival-related gatherings. The central government-formed expert committee, headed by Dr V K Paul, early this month expressed apprehensions that festival-related gatherings, winter months and outside patients could lead to a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases. After the successful containment of the first surge in June, the city witnessed a second surge in September when nearly 4,500 cases were reported on September 16. After remaining in the 2,000-3,000 range for some time, it again breached the 4,000 mark on Friday. A total of 6,356 Covid-19 patients have died in Delhi. On Sunday, the positivity rate was 8.4%, the highest in the past 48 days. The number of RT-PCR tests has increased with 14,573 such tests and 42,637 rapid antigen tests in the last one day. RT-PCR count has been growing since the government revised its management strategy following several high court observations to focus on the “gold standard” of testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-highest-single-day-covid-19-case-spike-at-4853/articleshow/78902352.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 28, 2020||India||For 1st time in 3 years, 2+2 talks specifically mention South China Sea||NEW DELHI: With concerns mounting over Chinese behaviour in southeast Asia, the 2 +2 Indo-US bilateral dialogue for the first time in 3 years specifically mentioned the South China Sea (SCS), where China continues to assert authority over disputed waters, in the joint statement while calling for freedom of navigation. The statement said that the Code of Conduct (CoC) in the SCS should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law. China and Asean nations are hoping to complete negotiations for the CoC by 2021 but there's a fear that China could use its influence to twist the implementation of the CoC to suit its own interests. In an apparent dig at China, the 2 sides reiterated their commitment to maintaining a free, open, inclusive, peaceful, and prosperous Indo-Pacific built on, among other things, sustainable and transparent infrastructure investment and mutual respect for sovereignty. The third 2+2 engagement also saw substantive talks on issues ranging from counter-terrorism to space cooperation, health, trade, energy, higher education and innovation. Read Also2+2 talks: India, US clinch defence pact on satellite dataNEW DELHI: India is set to sign a military agreement with the United States for sharing of sensitive satellite data, the defence ministry said on Monday, as New Delhi tries to narrow the gap with the powerful Chinese military. The deal will be signed amid top-level 2+2 dialogue between the defenceLike in 2019, India and the US named Pakistan and called on it to take immediate, sustained and irreversible action to ensure that no territory under its control is used for terrorist attacks, and to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators and planners of all such attacks, including 26/11 Mumbai, Uri, and Pathankot. Read AlsoUS Secretary of State Pompeo, Defence Secretary Esper call on PM ModiUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark T Esper called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, defence minister Rajnath Singh, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and US Ambassador to India Ken Juster were also present during theThe joint statement denounced the use of terrorist proxies and strongly condemned cross border terrorism in all its forms, while emphasising the need for concerted action against all terrorist networks, including al-Qaeda, ISIS/Daesh, LeT), JeM and Hizb-ul-Mujahideen. "The Ministers also committed to continued exchange of information about sanctions and designations against terror groups and individuals, particularly in light of recent legislative changes in India, as well as countering the financing and operations of terrorist organizations, countering radicalism and terrorist use of the internet, cross-border movement of terrorists, and prosecuting, rehabilitating, and reintegrating returning terrorist fighters and family members," said the statement. Read AlsoUS, India must focus on threat posed by China: Secretary of state Mike PompeoUS secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Tuesday stressed on the need for Washington and New Delhi to work together to counter the threat posed by Beijing to "security and freedom". Pompeo's comment came during the crucial 2+2 dialogue between India &amp; the US. Defence secretary Mark Esper too focussed onSources said cooperation between India and the US in counter-terrorism has seen considerable progress with enhanced information sharing and operational cooperation. The bilateral Joint Working Groups on Counter-Terrorism and Designation Dialogue also meet regularly to enable cooperation in pursuing sanctions and designations of terrorist groups and individuals, they said. The 2 countries also discussed, in the middle of the ongoing peace process in Afghanistan, their "shared interest" in promoting a sovereign, peaceful, united, democratic, inclusive, stable and secure Afghanistan, including support for an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process. Faced with the likelihood of Taliban joining the government in Kabul, India, which has supported the peace process, again shared its concerns over the possibility of Afghanistan being used to carry out anti-India activities. "They applauded India’s development assistance, and efforts to build trade linkages and multi-modal connectivity infrastructure for Afghanistan to enhance its regional connectivity to sustain growth and development over the long term," said the joint statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/for-1st-time-in-3-years-22-talks-specifically-mention-south-china-sea/articleshow/78902360.cms||Sachin Parashar
October 28, 2020||India||India can now get long-range armed drones from the US but cost will be a factor||NEW DELHI: The combination of two foundational pacts inked with the US, COMCASA in 2018 and BECA on Tuesday, has paved the way for India to acquire armed drones like Reapers or Predators for long-range precision strikes against hostile targets on land and sea. The Indian armed forces have been pushing for the acquisition of 30 ‘hunter-killer’ weaponized Sea Guardian or MQ-9 Reaper drones, which would cost around $3 billion, with fast-track procurement of six of them amidst the ongoing military confrontation with China, as was first reported by TOI. “With the legal technology enabling pacts in place with the US, procedural hurdles for acquisition of these high-altitude, long endurance armed drones have been cleared. The question now is of money, which is being examined,” said an official. Read AlsoMathura, Kashi claims worry Sunni waqf panelAYODHYA: Amidst the Kashi and Mathura shrines being dragged into fresh legal dispute, just months after the apex court’s Ayodhya verdict, Sunni Central Waqf Board expressed concern over moves to reclaim religious structures and sought strict implementation of Places of Worship Act, 1991, which wasThe Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) allows India access to advanced military platforms with encrypted and secure communications and data links like the armed drones. The Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA), in turn, provides for real-time exchange of geospatial intelligence through advanced satellite imagery, topographical and aeronautical digital data for long-range navigation and pinpointed strikes against enemy targets. Read AlsoIndia, US can jointly deter China’s tyranny: Mike PompeoWe can be force multipliers and deliver really good outcomes not only for the people of India or the Indo-Pacific but for the entire world, Mike Pompeo said, indicating US support at a time when India is facing a major security threat by way of Chinese aggression along the Line of Actual Control inDefence minister Rajnath Singh, on his part, described the signing of BECA, after the military logistics pact LEMOA in 2016 and COMCASA in 2018, as “a significant achievement” on Tuesday. Apart from the proposed acquisition of unmanned combat aerial vehicles (UCAVs), which are controlled by satellite links to bomb targets far away, India is also set to work with the US in developing small-sized “drone swarms” that can overwhelm and destroy an enemy’s air defence systems. “India and US have identified priority near-term projects for joint development, which need to be fast-tracked under the defence technology and trade initiative (DTTI),” said Singh. Read AlsoAfter cementing ties with US, India focuses on key European partnersNEW DELHI: A day after high-level engagement with the US, India is turning its attention to its key strategic partners in Europe. Harsh Shringla, foreign secretary, heads out on Thursday to London, Paris and Berlin where he is expected to hold wide range of consultations with foreign offices,The “short-term” projects under DTTI include the air-launched small aerial systems or drone swarms, light-weight small arms technology and ISTAR (intelligence, surveillance, targeting and reconnaissance) systems. A long-term one is anti-drone technology called “counter-UAS rocket, artillery and mortar systems”. The two countries on Tuesday also decided to further crank up their already expansive defence cooperation, military interoperability and intelligence-exchange through the maritime information sharing technical arrangement (MISTA). In addition to increasing the scale and complexity of bilateral combat exercises, the Indian armed forces will now enhance ties with the US Central Command and Africa Command, in addition to the Indo-Pacific Command that covers India, to “promote shared security interests”. There will also be regular interaction between the Special Forces of the two countries. “We also explored probable capacity building and other joint cooperation activities in third countries, including our neighbourhood and beyond. We have convergence of views on a number of such proposals and will take those forward,” said Singh. The two sides also shared assessment of the security situation across the Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China’s expansionist and aggressive behavior. “We reaffirmed our commitment to peace, stability and prosperity of all countries in this region,” he said. “We also agreed that upholding the rules-based international order, respecting the rule of law and freedom of navigation in the international seas and upholding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of all states are essential,” he added. Watch Military pacts pave way for India to acquire long-range armed drones from US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-can-now-get-long-range-armed-drones-from-the-us-but-cost-will-be-a-factor/articleshow/78902384.cms||Rajat Pandit
October 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi icon that offered taste of Kashmir shuts||For 64 years it stood at the confluence of two Delhis, the old and the new. The pandemic, however, has now taken its toll on the iconic Hotel Broadway, the city’s first high-rise hotel and a landmark for the culturati from the 1960s to well into the 2000s, forcing it to close its doors. Tucked away in the then quiet boulevard of Asaf Ali Road, Hotel Broadway opened in 1956 — the same year as the five-star hotel Ashok — and will be best remembered for its restaurant, Chor Bizarre, that made Kashmir’s wazwan and palak patta chaat fashionable, even as it hosted artists, politicians and writers. Hotel Broadway fades into nostalgiaHotel Broadway opened when a businessman from Kashmir, Tirath Ram Amla, bought the building in the hope of converting it into a summer home for his family. “My nana had not read the fine print of the auction, it was only later that he realised that the mandate was to run it like a fourstoreyed hotel,” says restaurateur Rohit Khattar, Amla’s grandson, who also owns the famous Indian Accent. Khattar’s mother Vijay Lakshmi inherited the hotel from her father and ran it till recently when the family had to take the tough call of shuttering it. Because the hotel depended on foreign tourists keen to experience a vanishing slice of Delhi, the family does not foresee enough business to keep operations afloat. “It was an emotional decision but necessary. We live to fight another day,” says Khattar stoically, as he remembers his trips into the kitchen for western treats such as Chicken a la Kiev that were the speciality of old cooks from his grandfather’s time. Vijay Lakshmi Khattar, his mother, meanwhile, speaks nostalgically about the stunning views of the old city the coveted back rooms of the hotel afforded, even as its front faced a newer more energetic Delhi symbolised by its stock exchange housed in a neighbouring building. “There used to be sports like kite flying and pigeon fighting well into the 1970s,” she says. In fact, many films including Imtiaz Ali’s Love Aaj Kal that have tried to bring back that nostalgia have been shot at the hotel’s picturesque premises. In 1990, as 22-year-old Rohit Khattar returned to India after studying hospitality management in the United States, he toyed with the idea of opening “something like TGIF” in Delhi. His mother mentioned this to art curator Rajeev Sethi, along with the quip that “my son likes to collect kabaad (junk)”. It was Sethi who suggested the theme of chor bazaar—sourcing old bric-a-bac from traditional “thieves’ markets” in the country for the decor. Khattar punned on bazaar to come up with “bizarre”. The rest as they say is history. A collector of antiques, Khattar and his wife Rashmi scouted markets in Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata and came back with everything from mismatched chairs and crockery to an old car and a four-poster bed. They furnished the restaurant with all this, dispensing chaat from a live counter inside the car, turning the bed into one of the most coveted tables in the city and serving delicious tabak maaz and such delights to guests who included influential Dilliwalas. Broadway also had Thugs, the drinking hole that wouldn’t dent your pocket. However, by the late 2000s, Asaf Ali Road lost some of its sheen, impacting Chor Bizarre. In 2016, however, Khattar opened a second outpost of the restaurant with the same food and similar décor at Bikaner House, India Gate, a restaurant that has proved to be as much a best-seller as the original. “We will be opening Chor Bizarre Bikaner House next month, though we do not know what we will do with Broadway Hotel and the restaurant there. We will take a decision the new way forward when things become better,” says Khattar. Tough times call for tough measures but for now, an icon is lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-icon-that-offered-taste-of-kashmir-shuts/articleshow/78902392.cms||Anoothi Vishal
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Driving licences suspension rule triggers demand for kids' helmets in Karnataka||BENGALURU: With the transport department and traffic police suspending driving licences of helmetless two-wheeler riders for three months, there's an uptick in demand for the headgear, particularly for kids. Transport officials said helmets are mandatory for pillion riders, including children aged above 4. According to Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, riding without helmet attracts a fine of Rs 1,000, apart from three-month licence suspension. While the government reduced the fine amount to Rs 500 after public outcry, the suspension rule was never enforced. However, the transport department recently decided to take stringent action against errant bikers. KT Halaswamy, joint commissioner for transport (Bengaluru Urban), said: "Both riders and pillion riders, including children, have to wear helmets. If they don't, we will suspend the DL of the two-wheeler rider." Shops at Lalbagh Road and JC Road are witnessing a surge in sales of helmets for kids. Shopkeepers say there are only a few varieties, which cost Rs 500-Rs 1,000. Ramesh N, a shop owner on JC Road, said: "Normally, there is no demand for helmets for children, so the varieties are limited. Business has been dull due to Covid-19, but many customers are now seeking small helmets because of enforcement." Surendra R, an electrician who came to buy a helmet on Lalbagh Road, said: "My child doesn't want to wear a heavy helmet for a long time. But it's difficult to find light ones for kids. I have only a two-wheeler to commute and can't afford to lose my DL." Children are more vulnerable to accidents, particularly serious head injuries, brain damage or sudden death. Activists say many parents don't bother to buy helmets for kids. In many foreign countries, riding a bicycle without a helmet is also a punishable offence. According to the latest report by the Union ministry of road transport and highways, 11,168 kids (including 460 in the state) lost their lives in road crashes in 2019. As many as 1,546 two-wheeler riders and 711 pillion riders died due to helmetless riding in the state last year. Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation, said: "Child fatalities in India are increasing and helmetless pillion riding is one of the major causes...Accompanying adults should be held accountable for not procuring helmets for kids. States like Karnataka should come up with child-safety provisions to ensure these rules."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/driving-licences-suspension-rule-triggers-demand-for-kids-helmets-in-karnataka/articleshow/78902403.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 28, 2020||India||Mathura, Kashi claims worry Sunni waqf panel||AYODHYA: Amidst the Kashi and Mathura shrines being dragged into fresh legal dispute, just months after the apex court’s Ayodhya verdict, Sunni Central Waqf Board expressed concern over moves to reclaim religious structures and sought strict implementation of Places of Worship Act, 1991, which was reiterated by Supreme Court in its November-2019 verdict on the Ayodhya title suit. In an exclusive chat with TOI, chairman of Sunni Central Waqf Board, Zufar Farooqui, who is also president of the Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, said, “The Places of Worship Act aims to freeze the status of any place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947. And the Supreme Court too invoked this law in its Ayodhya verdict while mandating construction of temple at Ramjanmabhoomi premises to preempt new claims by any group.” Talking about recent litigation to reclaim the Gyanvapi masjid in Varanasi and Shahi Eidgah in Mathura, Farooqui said, “The Sunni Waqf Board will be dealing with the court cases, but since the Places of Worship Act is in place, the law must be implemented to stop attempts to change status of mosques in India.” Farooqui, who’s also president of the Trust mandated to construct a mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of the Babri mosque, said: “We are working on a war footing to begin construction of the mosque in Ayodhya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mathura-kashi-claims-worry-sunni-waqf-panel/articleshow/78902397.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Two Nigerians with ganja land in custody in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Two Nigerian nationals have been arrested on charges of drug peddling near Hoodi railway station in Whitefield. Kadugodi police have recovered four cellphones, 300 grams of ganja and Rs 1,000 from them. Chikwad Vincent Ogibo, 30, of Banjara Layout and his associate Emeka Chinedu Michel, 45, of TC Palya in KR Puram were arrested while they were waiting for customers. "Acting on a tipoff, cops in plainclothes reached the spot on Monday afternoon. The duo arrived with drugs and we nabbed them," an officer said. Vincent was arrested by KR Puram police in May 2017 for drug peddling. Police had then recovered 38 grams of cocaine from him. He has been overstaying in the city since 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-nigerians-with-ganja-land-in-custody-in-bengaluru/articleshow/78902407.cms||---
October 28, 2020||India||‘Pope’s remarks on gay unions misinterpreted’||PANAJI: Pope Francis was “misunderstood and misinterpreted” when he spoke about same-sex civil unions in the film “Francesco”, the Catholic Bishops Conference of India (CBCI) has stated, adding that there is no change in Church doctrine where same-sex marriages are concerned. When the Pope stated that “homosexual persons have a right to a family”, the Pope referred to the family of birth, the association of Catholic Bishops in the country clarified. “It is clear that the Holy Father is referring to the family of birth. This is further clarified when he later states that such a person should not be thrown out of the family just because of the sexual orientation,” CBCI president Cardinal Oswald Gracias stated. Regarding “civil unions”, when the Pope stated that some protection should be given to those living together, CBCI clarified that “this is not a call for gay marriages to be recognised, and certainly not the Catholic Church’s recognition of them”. “Church doctrine drawing from sacred scripture and tradition is clear and has not in any way been diluted. Pope Francis in his reflections expresses his concern that these people can be in distress and seeks some civil protection to safeguard their interests (eg insurance, social security, etc.),” Cardinal Gracias added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/popes-remarks-on-gay-unions-misinterpreted/articleshow/78902411.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Two arrested for betting in Bengaluru, Rs 13 lakh seized||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch sleuths on Monday arrested two men on the charge of running a cricket betting racket and recovered two mobile phones and Rs 13.5 lakh from them. Hoysala Gowda, 48, of Sahakarnagar and Narasimhamurthy alias Murthy, 38, of Kodandarampura in Vyalikaval allegedly used an app -- Lotusbook9.io- to accept bets on the IPL cricket match played between Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad teams in UAE on October 22. "They collected money from investors using online facilities like Google Pay. Both had downloaded Lotusbook9.io on their phones. They would get the same app downloaded by persons wishing to place bets during the matches. The minimum amount for betting was Rs 5,000," an officer said. After the IPL matches began on September 21, Bengaluru police had arrested over 40 persons for betting. In most cases, the accused would use different apps that are based in foreign countries, especially Europe, where betting through such platforms is legal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-arrested-for-betting-in-bengaluru-rs-13-lakh-seized/articleshow/78902433.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Thane||Festive sales see Maharashtra’s GST kitty swell 4.2% over last Oct||MUMBAI: The state’s goods and services tax (SGST) collections have revived during the festival season. Maharashtra received Rs 4,768 crore by October 27, which is 4.24% higher than in the corresponding month in 2019. Indeed, this is the first month during the pandemic when the SGST collections are higher over the year-ago period. The figure is also Rs 388 crore higher than in September when state collections were Rs 4,380 crore, data from the GST department shows. This tax is the main revenue earner for the state government. And Maharashtra earns the highest revenue among states. Since GST is a consumption-based tax, it reflects purchasing power in the economy. Officials say rise in GST receipts is likely to continue through Diwali but caution that it may not last given the spike in unemployment owing to the pandemic. “The rise in GST receipts reflects the release of pent-up demand which we also saw in June when the lockdown started opening. But given the high unemployment rate and low purchasing power, the trend is unlikely to continue,” said a senior official. The state’s GST collections are still 26.5% lower in the 7-month span of April to October over the corresponding 2019 period. In 2020, the state has collected Rs 25,245 crore as against Rs 34,371 crore in this period last year, a gap of Rs 9,126 crore. Overall GST kitty till Oct still 32% lower y-o-yThere is also a 32% gap in total GST collections (including State GST, VAT, IGST and Profession Tax) between April-October 2019 and 2020, a difference of Rs 23,285 crore in collections. Data shows GST collections were lowest in April and May at the height of the lockdown. The collections were 81.3% lower than in 2019 during April and 47.6% lower in May. Collections revived with easing of the lockdown in June but dipped once again in July and August. Officials also say that gap in total GST collections would be higher if collections in October 2019 were not on the low side. A drive by the government resulted in higher filing by traders post-October in 2019. Last year, average monthly GST collection was Rs 5,190 crore. A presentation by the state finance department to the state cabinet a few weeks ago had highlighted concerns about poor GST collections. “The contraction in GST collections reflects the weakness in Maharashtra’s economy,” the presentation pointed out. Unemployment and job losses would be major hindrances in the revival of the economy, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/festive-sales-see-maharashtras-gst-kitty-swell-4-2-over-last-oct/articleshow/78902444.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
October 28, 2020||Pune||Festive sales see Maharashtra’s GST kitty swell 4.2% over last Oct||MUMBAI: The state’s goods and services tax (SGST) collections have revived during the festival season. Maharashtra received Rs 4,768 crore by October 27, which is 4.24% higher than in the corresponding month in 2019. Indeed, this is the first month during the pandemic when the SGST collections are higher over the year-ago period. The figure is also Rs 388 crore higher than in September when state collections were Rs 4,380 crore, data from the GST department shows. This tax is the main revenue earner for the state government. And Maharashtra earns the highest revenue among states. Since GST is a consumption-based tax, it reflects purchasing power in the economy. Officials say rise in GST receipts is likely to continue through Diwali but caution that it may not last given the spike in unemployment owing to the pandemic. “The rise in GST receipts reflects the release of pent-up demand which we also saw in June when the lockdown started opening. But given the high unemployment rate and low purchasing power, the trend is unlikely to continue,” said a senior official. The state’s GST collections are still 26.5% lower in the 7-month span of April to October over the corresponding 2019 period. In 2020, the state has collected Rs 25,245 crore as against Rs 34,371 crore in this period last year, a gap of Rs 9,126 crore. Overall GST kitty till Oct still 32% lower y-o-yThere is also a 32% gap in total GST collections (including State GST, VAT, IGST and Profession Tax) between April-October 2019 and 2020, a difference of Rs 23,285 crore in collections. Data shows GST collections were lowest in April and May at the height of the lockdown. The collections were 81.3% lower than in 2019 during April and 47.6% lower in May. Collections revived with easing of the lockdown in June but dipped once again in July and August. Officials also say that gap in total GST collections would be higher if collections in October 2019 were not on the low side. A drive by the government resulted in higher filing by traders post-October in 2019. Last year, average monthly GST collection was Rs 5,190 crore. A presentation by the state finance department to the state cabinet a few weeks ago had highlighted concerns about poor GST collections. “The contraction in GST collections reflects the weakness in Maharashtra’s economy,” the presentation pointed out. Unemployment and job losses would be major hindrances in the revival of the economy, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/festive-sales-see-maharashtras-gst-kitty-swell-4-2-over-last-oct/articleshow/78902701.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
October 28, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Festive sales see Maharashtra’s GST kitty swell 4.2% over last Oct||MUMBAI: The state’s goods and services tax (SGST) collections have revived during the festival season. Maharashtra received Rs 4,768 crore by October 27, which is 4.24% higher than in the corresponding month in 2019. Indeed, this is the first month during the pandemic when the SGST collections are higher over the year-ago period. The figure is also Rs 388 crore higher than in September when state collections were Rs 4,380 crore, data from the GST department shows. This tax is the main revenue earner for the state government. And Maharashtra earns the highest revenue among states. Since GST is a consumption-based tax, it reflects purchasing power in the economy. Officials say rise in GST receipts is likely to continue through Diwali but caution that it may not last given the spike in unemployment owing to the pandemic. “The rise in GST receipts reflects the release of pent-up demand which we also saw in June when the lockdown started opening. But given the high unemployment rate and low purchasing power, the trend is unlikely to continue,” said a senior official. The state’s GST collections are still 26.5% lower in the 7-month span of April to October over the corresponding 2019 period. In 2020, the state has collected Rs 25,245 crore as against Rs 34,371 crore in this period last year, a gap of Rs 9,126 crore. Overall GST kitty till Oct still 32% lower y-o-yThere is also a 32% gap in total GST collections (including State GST, VAT, IGST and Profession Tax) between April-October 2019 and 2020, a difference of Rs 23,285 crore in collections. Data shows GST collections were lowest in April and May at the height of the lockdown. The collections were 81.3% lower than in 2019 during April and 47.6% lower in May. Collections revived with easing of the lockdown in June but dipped once again in July and August. Officials also say that gap in total GST collections would be higher if collections in October 2019 were not on the low side. A drive by the government resulted in higher filing by traders post-October in 2019. Last year, average monthly GST collection was Rs 5,190 crore. A presentation by the state finance department to the state cabinet a few weeks ago had highlighted concerns about poor GST collections. “The contraction in GST collections reflects the weakness in Maharashtra’s economy,” the presentation pointed out. Unemployment and job losses would be major hindrances in the revival of the economy, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/festive-sales-see-maharashtras-gst-kitty-swell-4-2-over-last-oct/articleshow/78902445.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
October 28, 2020||Mumbai||Festive sales see Maharashtra’s GST kitty swell 4.2% over last Oct||MUMBAI: The state’s goods and services tax (SGST) collections have revived during the festival season. Maharashtra received Rs 4,768 crore by October 27, which is 4.24% higher than in the corresponding month in 2019. Indeed, this is the first month during the pandemic when the SGST collections are higher over the year-ago period. The figure is also Rs 388 crore higher than in September when state collections were Rs 4,380 crore, data from the GST department shows. This tax is the main revenue earner for the state government. And Maharashtra earns the highest revenue among states. Since GST is a consumption-based tax, it reflects purchasing power in the economy. Officials say rise in GST receipts is likely to continue through Diwali but caution that it may not last given the spike in unemployment owing to the pandemic. “The rise in GST receipts reflects the release of pent-up demand which we also saw in June when the lockdown started opening. But given the high unemployment rate and low purchasing power, the trend is unlikely to continue,” said a senior official. The state’s GST collections are still 26.5% lower in the 7-month span of April to October over the corresponding 2019 period. In 2020, the state has collected Rs 25,245 crore as against Rs 34,371 crore in this period last year, a gap of Rs 9,126 crore. Overall GST kitty till Oct still 32% lower y-o-yThere is also a 32% gap in total GST collections (including State GST, VAT, IGST and Profession Tax) between April-October 2019 and 2020, a difference of Rs 23,285 crore in collections. Data shows GST collections were lowest in April and May at the height of the lockdown. The collections were 81.3% lower than in 2019 during April and 47.6% lower in May. Collections revived with easing of the lockdown in June but dipped once again in July and August. Officials also say that gap in total GST collections would be higher if collections in October 2019 were not on the low side. A drive by the government resulted in higher filing by traders post-October in 2019. Last year, average monthly GST collection was Rs 5,190 crore. A presentation by the state finance department to the state cabinet a few weeks ago had highlighted concerns about poor GST collections. “The contraction in GST collections reflects the weakness in Maharashtra’s economy,” the presentation pointed out. Unemployment and job losses would be major hindrances in the revival of the economy, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/festive-sales-see-maharashtras-gst-kitty-swell-4-2-over-last-oct/articleshow/78902434.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Adityapur MSMEs confident of three-shift ops soon as Tata’s production goes up||Jamshedpur: Hit by a slowdown after the lockdown since March, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) of Adityapur industrial area are slowly walking on the path of a revival after production at Tata Motors increased. Entrepreneurs in the ancillary town are confident of operating their factories in three shifts soon. “Brighter days are finally in view as business orders are steadily increasing with the automobile market improving every month since August. The demand in the market drove Tata Motors to produce vehicles accordingly and the ancillary units will also be benefitted,” said functionary of the Laghu Udyog Bharati, Seraikela-Kharswan, Sameer Singh. He added that with the input cost of production increasing 15% after the lockdown, entrepreneurs are looking for favourable support from banks to secure additional funds to meet the cost. The Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) functionary, Santosh Khetan, said that the next few months are crucial for entrepreneurs. “The improvement in the automobile sector has to sustain till the next few quarters in order to aid MSMEs to overcome the financial stress it suffered due to the slowdown and the subsequent lockdown in 2019 and 2020,” Khetan said. He added entrepreneurs are hoping that Tata Motors’ business orders will increase in the next few months, paving way for the MSMEs to operate factories in three shifts from the present two. Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) functionary, Bharat Vasani, said Adityapur industrial area shall see considerable improvement in employment by early next year. “With 90% factories expected to run multiple shifts, the employment scenario is bound to improve,” Vasani said. Tata Motors has also begun the process of regularising services of 221 temporary employees at its Jamshedpur plant. “Tata Motors is the only company in the city that absorbs temporary workers on permanent rolls every year, but due to the market slowdown and subsequent lockdown, it was presumed that the company will not regularise temporary workers. However, the steady improvement in the domestic market led the management to absorb 221 temporary workers,” said a company source. The private truck manufacturer that used to produce 10,000 vehicles per day, on an average, is now producing 5,500 vehicles per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/adityapur-msmes-confident-of-three-shift-ops-soon-as-tatas-production-goes-up/articleshow/78898923.cms||B Sridhar
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Back home during lockdown, engineer siblings take up farming||Bokaro: Two siblings — Ram Kisku and Vijay Kisku, both in their twenties — from Shyamapur village under Jaridih block in Bokaro left their plum jobs in a private firm in Jamshedpur and have taken to farming. After completing their engineering courses, the Kisku brothers began working in an electrical company but had to return home after the imposition of the nationwide lockdown. Meanwhile, their father passed away. During the lockdown, they started cultivating their seven-acre ancestral land that was otherwise lying barren. They said that they thought of returning to the Steel City when lockdown was eased, but dropped the idea to pursue farming full-time. Ram said, “Initially, we found farming difficult but a local farmer helped us. Soon, we began growing vegetables and managed to sell them in the local market.” Vijay said, “We are now earning about Rs 50,000 a month, which is a good amount to begin with.” “We are cultivating a variety of vegetables like pumpkin, tomato, bottle gourd, ladyfinger, broccoli, cabbage and cauliflower, among others,” Vijay added. Also, about 25 youths in the village have got enthused by the example set by the Kisku brothers and have joined the latter in tilling the fields. Ram said that were trying to promote organic farming to improve productivity. “We are not using using any external chemical fertilizer. Cow dung, cow urine, different types of leaves, milk, curd, jaggery are prepared and sprayed in the fields.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/back-home-during-lockdown-engineer-siblings-take-up-farming/articleshow/78898955.cms||Divy Khare
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||RMC begins cleaning of ponds after idol immersion||Ranchi: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Tuesday began cleaning of ponds and other water bodies in an around the city on a war-footing, a day after the immersion of Durga idols. RMC officials said cleaning teams were pressed into service soon after the immersion on Monday but the drive was intensified on Tuesday to sanitize the water bodies because of the Covid-19 pandemic. RMC commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “We have formed dedicated teams headed by supervisory officers and assigned them to every pond. The drive is being done in coordination with the puja committees.” He further said the civic body had put in place elaborate arrangements for segregation of bio-degradable and non-biodegradable waste following the National Green Tribunal’s advisory to prevent water bodies from getting polluted in a major way. “The cleanliness drives will continue for next couple of days,” Kumar added. Meanwhile, the Durga Puja celebrations in the city largely remain peaceful and low-key except for a few stray incidents. A member of Durgabati Puja Committee, Pradip, Rai said, “The Puja was smooth across the city. Barring some pandals, the government guidelines were strictly followed. We ensured that no crowding took place and broadcast all rituals online, breaking the age-old traditions to maintain a balance between rituals and safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-begins-cleaning-of-ponds-after-idol-immersion/articleshow/78898985.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||2 killed in violence across districts over past 3 days||Kolkata: Two persons died while one was critically injured in three separate incidents in Bengal since Saturday, leading to allegations and counter-allegations between BJP and Trinamool Congress. Bombing and clashes were also reported from Rajarhat’s Sikarpur and Khardah on Monday night. Hundreds of BJP workers led by state-level leaders hit the streets in Midnapore on Tuesday to protest against the murder of their booth-level vice-president in Danton assembly constituency’s Siyalsai. Bachhu Bera (35) was found hanging from a tree on Monday. His family alleged that the body bore injury marks and that he was murdered by Trinamool Congress-backed miscreants who later hung his body to make it appear like a suicide. TMC West Midnapore president Ajit Maity claimed Bacchu was implicated in a Pocso case on October 25 for abusing a 13-year-old. “BJP is making false claims. Let the postmortem report come out. TMC has nothing to do with this,” he said. Bachhu’s wife Gouri in an FIR in Mohanpur alleged that her husband never returned after leaving home on Saturday. She claimed on that day, some local Trinamool leaders had knocked on their door and called for Bachhu. “When I told them he was not at home, they barged in and searched our house. On Monday, I was informed by neighbours that his body was hanging from a tree in a field. I went there and it was evident to me that he was killed and his body hung up to make it look like a suicide,” she said in her complaint. A senior police officer said, “We have sent the body for a post-mortem, after which the cause of death will be ascertained.” After the postmortem, Bachhu’s body was taken to the BJP West Midnapore district party office. Party leaders and workers marched in a procession with the body to Siyalsai. On Monday, at Cooch Behar’s Sitai, BJP supporter Ruhidas Biswas was shot dead by miscreants in front of his house at Brahmachatra village while he was busy with his family puja. Police have started a probe to ascertain if the killing was the fallout of a political dispute or some personal rivalry. (With inputs from Sujay Khanra in Midnapore, Rupak Banerjee in Howrah and Pinak Priya Bhattacharya in Jalpaiguri) Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-killed-in-violence-across-districts-over-past-3-days/articleshow/78901583.cms||---
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Covid norms flouted at Aditypur Puja||Jamshedpur: Despite announcing not to organise Durga Puja this year and vowed to dismantle its pandal after disagreements over guidelines with the East Singhbhum district administration, a youth club in Adityapur took a U-turn, organised the puja and defied all state government norms. Sources said the Jairam Youth Sporting Club decided to organise the puja after JMM MLA from Seraikela and state minister Champai Soren gave the go-ahead nod and pacified the chief patron and organiser, former MLA Arvind Singh alias Malkhan Singh. Following Soren's nod, Singh had announced that all devotees visiting the pandal will be tested for Covid-19 and only those who tested negative will be allowed inside. He also said a rapid antigen testing post will be opened on the Adityapur bridge on the way to the pandal and all safety norms will be followed. However, the testing centre failed to come up and most of the devotees, including senior citizens and children below 10 years, were seen without masks and many did not follow social distancing norms. No thermal scanning was also done. From Saptami onwards, devotees and revellers thronged the pandal and traffic jams of nearly 2km were seen from Navami onwards. Ambulances ferrying patients were caught in the jam. While police and volunteers watched the scenes helplessly, the district administration was tightlipped about the rule violations. Commenting on the matter, SP Md Arshi said: "The SDO will look into the matter and submit a report." Notably, the government guidelines said the idol cannot be more than four feet high and a small size pandal enough to cover the idol should be built. Moreover, not more than 50 people can be inside the pandal, which should be covered from all sides. The club's idol was more than 10 feet in height and the huge pandal was properly decorated. The doctors' fraternity expressed concern at the high turnout at the pandal. Retired MGMMCH doctor Anita Banerjee said the number of positive cases is sure to rise after the "super spreader" event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-norms-flouted-at-aditypur-puja/articleshow/78899006.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
October 28, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad hotels expect a turnaround in wedding season as bookings begin||Dhanbad: After a dull Durga Puja, hoteliers are expecting a turnaround ahead of the marriage season which begins from November 20. Some hotel owners said bookings have already begun and this may help them see some profit after a long time. Additionally, the state government’s decisions to scrap the 14-day mandatory quarantine rule last week, a go ahead to reopen bars from November 1 and resumption of interstate bus services from November 8 have given a hope to the hoteliers. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Anutosh Bagchi, senior general manager of Skylark Hotel, said, “Though business during Durga Puja was not as usual due to factors like strict SOPs and apprehension among the people about Covid, the marriage season is all set to provide a good impetus to us.” He added that bookings have started to improve. “Out of the 35 rooms, 15 are already booked from November 20 to December 30 for marriage functions and the banquet halls are also booked for many days during the same period,” Bagchi said. “We couldn’t accommodate some of the advance marriage bookings for rooms during this period because as per the policy, we have to keep a few rooms reserved for corporate clients who turn up in the last moment. We are witnessing a turnaround since the last two days of the puja. People ate out on Navami and Dashami in good numbers at restaurants,” Bagchi said. Arka Ghosh, general manager of Hotel Sonotel, said, “We have received a good number of bookings for the marriage season and almost all our 56 rooms are booked between November 22 and December 12 for marriage-related functions. We are hoping the wedding season to herald revival of the hotel business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-hotels-expect-a-turnaround-in-wedding-season-as-bookings-begin/articleshow/78898932.cms||Praduman Choubey
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||5 drown as idol immersion boat capsizes in Beldanga||Behrampore: Five persons drowned when a boat capsized during Durga Puja immersion in Murshidabad’s Beldanga on Monday evening. Preliminary police investigation suggests that the boat was carrying revellers — some of them allegedly drunk — beyond capacity. While many of those on board managed to swim to safety, those who drowned may have been trapped under the idol as it plunged into the water. Police didn’t clarify if and how many people were missing. Aided by local fishermen, cops recovered four bodies from near the boat and one was fished out later around midnight. The deceased youths have been identified as Nippon Hazra Banerjee (34), Pinkon Pal (23), Arindam Banerjee (23), Somenath Hazra Banerjee (23) and Sukhendu Dey (20). Autopsies were conducted at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday. According to local residents, two boats were engaged for idol immersion of Hazrabari Durga Puja in Beldanga’s Dumnidaha. The Puja is nearly 315 years old and part of Murshidabad’s heritage. One of these boats capsized in the middle of the water body. Boatman Atmaram Majhi said, “Most people were drunk and were not maintaining physical distance. They refused to heed my warnings.” Majhi admitted that he was not a boatman by profession, but a retired railway employee. “But, I have been helping with immersions for the past 40 years; never had an accident. I had tried to stop crowding on the boat, but nobody listened,” he said. “According to custom, immersion of Hazrabari Durga happens in the space between two boats and the process needs balance. They pulled three bamboo poles at once instead of one and my boat capsized,” Majhi added. Beldanga Municipality administrator Bharat Jhawar said the victims were sole breadwinners of their families. “This is the first such accident I can recall. We are trying to figure out how to help the bereaved families,” he said. Ritam Banerjee, elder brother of deceased Arindam, agreed that the time had come to change age-old customs. “The boats must be larger to avoid accidents. Besides, overloading must be avoided at every cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-drown-as-idol-immersion-boat-capsizes-in-beldanga/articleshow/78901522.cms||Sukumar Mahato
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Cong, Left run into bump on road to 2021 poll alliance||Kolkata: Rivals for decades, Congress and Left have got the hiccups ahead of a bumpy road to seat adjustments for the 2021 assembly polls though their leaders, pushed to the margins, are under compulsion to cobble together a platform in an attempt to break the Trinamool-BJP binary in Bengal. The discomfort found an expression in the Congress-Left meeting held at RSP office at Kranti Press on October 23, Saptami. Party seniors in the presence of West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury and Left Front chairman Biman Bose couldn’t draw up a common political declaration, not to speak of announcing joint programmes. Both Congress and Left have decided to continue with independent programmes till December. While Left Front and Congress seniors are hopeful the glitches will ease with time, the Congress hesitation in writing a joint declaration as the first step to make the ‘jote’ viable among voters, points to something fundamental. Those present at the meeting said Chowdhury was eager for the “Congress-Communist” tie-up but was not keen to take on Trinamool and BJP in the same breath. Chowdhury instead wanted the ‘jote’ to put the main thrust against Trinamool and leave it to the Congress high command to take on BJP. Left Front leaders, on the other hand, wouldn’t budge from their announced anti-Trinamool, anti-BJP stance in Bengal though some Left seniors such as Sujan Chakraborty were yet to achieve the “correct mix” of opposing the “two evils”. The Pradesh Congress president has already set aside the Left proposal to give a joint call in support of the November 26 strike in Bengal. He has also parted ways with the Left over drawing up a resolution welcoming the Calcutta High Court order on Durga Puja restrictions during the pandemic. A look at the assembly segment-wise results under the Baharampur constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls provides a clue to Chowdhury’s stance. Congress votes have eroded by 5.07% in the constituency while Trinamool has recorded an upswing of 19.61%. The figures indicate that TMC is fast catching up with Congress in its bastion. Five assembly segments having huge Muslim presence — Beldanga, Bharatpur, Rejinagar, Burwan and Naoda — went with TMC. Chowdhury won the race because the Left didn’t field a candidate and the BJP nominee wasn’t a heavyweight. The case is the opposite in Jadavpur assembly seat, where BJP is emerging as a force to reckon with. Sujan Chakraborty has to protect the anti-Trinamool votes from going to BJP. According to Front insiders, the picture will be clear when the 16 parties meet in November to chart out the roadmap. Rumour mills are abuzz that a few among the 16 parties may burn bridges with Congress-Left and go with Trinamool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cong-left-run-into-bump-on-road-to-2021-poll-alliance/articleshow/78901604.cms||Saugata Roy
October 28, 2020||Kolkata||Will Kolkata pass Durga Puja Covid test? Find out in a week||KOLKATA: The city has taken the Durga Puja test for Covid but must wait till at least Lakshmi Puja (October 30) for the results, say experts. And, the outcome is likely to be ‘negative’, they fear. Even though Kolkata witnessed the most muted Durga Puja in recent memory, crowds did build up at some of the big-draw pandals and safety norms were flouted. It helped, though, that 50% of the idols were immersed by early Tuesday morning. While it has been the practice for most community pujas to wait at least till dadosi to carry out immersions, several big organizers completed the ritual earlier. Nimtala Ghat alone witnessed 450-odd immersions by Dashami midnight. TimesViewCourt directives and administrative measures on the ground had an impact but the city could have responded better. All hospitals and health-care infrastructure must be ready for the emerging scenario.While the pandals may have been far less crowded this time, even smaller congregations are enough to spread the virus, pointed out doctors. They are also worried about friends and families gathering at homes and restaurants during the four days. They fear Kolkata could witness another surge in numbers post-Lakshmi Puja even as the post-Mahalaya spike shows signs of receding, with Bengal recording its lowest daily case count since October 18 on Tuesday.  “While smaller and sporadic gatherings during the Pujas may have seemed innocuous, they are enough to lead to a spread. If a gathering of 20 people for anjali has even one Covid-positive, he or she could end up infecting a few dozens. Sindur khela, for instance, is quite dangerous. This involves direct contact with hands and the face, which is strictly prohibited now. Unfortunately, it has happened at many places and though fewer people may have participated, it doesn’t take away the risk of many others getting infected indirectly,” said Jain. “We must wait for a week to gauge the impact of crowding,” said RN Tagore consultant Arindam Biswas. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant Arindam Biswas. He added that while pandals remained relatively less crowded, gatherings moved to houses, restaurants and even cars. “These could prove to be dangerous since these are closed, air-conditioned spaces where the virus transmits easily. Masks and social distancing are increasingly being ignored and it was evident during the Pujas,” he said. Despite strict police enforcement, people started thronging the pandals especially after the weather improved from Ashtami morning. A section of revellers — despite the repeated warnings from doctors and administration — threw caution to the winds and hit the roads. Across a few pandals in Behala and Tollygunge, the cops had to control access repeatedly. The 10-metre no-entry zone outside bigger pandals and 5-metre zone in the smaller ones were enforced by organizers though and police conducted videography of several pandals as proof that the court orders were being followed. On Nabami, the crowd started swelling from morning. At certain pockets in Chetla, Kumartuli, Behala and Beliaghata, pandal-hopping continued till 2.30 am. Sreebhumi witnessed a “near regular crowd” on the day. Organisers in north Kolkata said footfall started picking up on Ashtami and was particularly good on Nabami. “During the evenings, the crowd surge would be so high that we feared stepping out of the club. Of course, they were disappointed at being unable to view the Goddess as the pandal was cordoned off,” said Kumartali Sarbajanin Durgotsav general secretary Debashis Bhattacharya. Saswata Basu, the convener of Hatibagan Sarbojanin Durga Puja committee, said: “We had more than double the number of people outside our pandals on Ashtami evening compared to Sasthi and Saptami. We have had quite a good turnout on Nabami.” Pintu Dasgupta of 66 Pally said till Nabami, it never looked like Puja. According to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), major ghats along the Hooghly saw half the idols being immersed by Tuesday. While Bajekadamtolla ghat (Babughat) recorded 550 immersions, around 500 idols immersed in the adjacent Judges ghat. In the north, the KMC Nimtolla ghat recorded 200 immersions till Tuesday. More than 200 idols were immersed in some of the major ponds across Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-city-pass-puja-covid-test-find-out-in-a-week/articleshow/78901585.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Former BBMP corporator's wife ends life||BENGALURU: A former BBMP corporator's wife allegedly committed suicide at her residence in KR Puram on Tuesday. J Vinoda, 30, is survived by her husband, former corporator from Basavanapura Jayaprakash, popularly known as JP and a three-year-old daughter. According to police, Vinoda was found hanging from the ceiling of a bedroom in her house at 9am on Tuesday. Family members shifted her to a hospital in Bhattarahalli where she was declared brought dead. Vinoda was reportedly upset over health issues.  "She had undergone surgery for appendicitis last week. Since then, she was upset. On Tuesday morning, she stayed back in her room and did not join family members for breakfast. Jayaprakash had gone out on work when a family member noticed Vinoda hanging from the ceiling fan. We searched the bedroom and did not come across any suicide note. We are yet to check her mobile phone for possible clues on the reason behind the extreme step," police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-former-bbmp-corporators-wife-ends-life/articleshow/78902453.cms||---
October 28, 2020||India||Isro will launch first satellite of this year from Sriharikota on November 6||NEW DELHI: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) will launch the first satellite of this year from Sriharikota on November 6 when its PSLV-C 49 rocket will lift off with an earth observation (surveillance) satellite Risat-2BR2 and 10 foreign commercial satellites from the first launchpad. It is keeping November 7 and 8 as two days of backup launch dates in case of any delay, according to a notice to airmen (NOTAM). This will be Isro’s first satellite launch amid the Covid-19 pandemic, which has slowed down all space activities since March. The agency is also gearing up for the much-awaited first demonstration test of its new rocket Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) or mini-PSLV by December. Risat-2BR2 is an advanced series of the earth observation satellite whose synthetic aperture radar (SAR) has an all-weather and day-and-night observation capability. It can also see through clouds. This new ‘eye in the sky’ will boost the military’s surveillance capability from space and help the security forces keep a hawk eye on the borders amid the LAC troop stand-off with China. Besides its surveillance role, Risat-2BR2 will also be used for civil applications like in agriculture, forestry, soil moisture, geology, coastal monitoring and flood monitoring. Soon after the PSLV-C49 mission, Isro is targeting to launch PSLV-C50 mission carrying GSAT-12R communication satellite in December. However, the much-awaited launch of the first SSLV by December will generate a lot of interest among space enthusiasts as this is a vehicle-on-demand made especially for satellite customers. Post-PSLV-C49 launch, the first launchpad set-up has to be reconfigured to suit the shorter SSLV launch. The test on the SSLV motor is scheduled for November. An SSLV will have a three-stage engine rocket all powered by solid fuel. The mini-launcher can be assembled in just 3-5 days as compared to 30-40 days for a normal-size rocket. The 34-metre rocket will have a lift-off mass of 120 tonnes and will have the capability for multiple satellite launches at different orbits. However, an SSLV can carry a maximum of 500 kg payload to the low earth orbit (LEO) and 300 kg to the sun-synchronous orbit (SSO). As was reported by TOI earlier, the first commercial SSLV has already been booked for carrying an American payload much before its birth. The last satellite Isro had launched from Indian soil was PSLV-C48, which also carried a surveillance satellite, Risat-2BR1, on December 11, 2019. The agency’s communication satellite Gsat-30 was the only satellite launched this year on January 17 but from the European spaceport in French Guiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-will-launch-first-satellite-of-this-year-from-sriharikota-on-november-6/articleshow/78902450.cms||Surendra Singh
October 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Theatre owners blame lack of patrons for poor show||BENGALURU: Movie theatres which had resumed operations after more than six months of shutdown are wondering whether it was prudent to return to business in the face of no new releases and poor attendance. A few theatres which had reopened with old content on October 15 have been forced to shut operations due to less than 20% footfall. According to theatre owners, they started screening movies with an intention to showcase safe measures and build confidence among people. But things have not gone well. Nagaraj from Prasanna theatre on Magadi Road said single-screen theatres have taken a massive hit. "We released Shivarjuna starring Chiranjeevi Sarja but had to take it down in five days as there were not many spectators. We finally stopped screening. Also, multiplexes have reduced ticket prices to Rs 80-100 and we can't compete with them in that aspect," he said. Prasanna theatre has shut operations. However, some theatres are continuing to screen movies despite incurring losses just to keep the momentum going. Staff at Santosh theatre, which is located on Kempegowda Road, said they are running four shows every day with an average of 30 people turning up during each.  KV Chandrashekar, president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association, said theatres would resume normal operations once new movies release. Till then, only a few will be forced to run with old films. Most are not even in a condition to bear maintenance expenses. To draw audiences, multiplexes have slashed rates. However, they expect business to pick up after the festive season. Pramod Arora, chief growth and strategy officer at PVR Ltd, said they hope for a steady rise in attendance in the coming days. "We are running shows in order to gain customer confidence and show them that multi-screens are safe. Once customers are more confident, we hope to get good attendance," said Arora. Pinning hopes on new filmsInox Leisure Limited said they are "yet to reach the usual operational benchmarks, largely due to the absence of fresh content, which is a key to the revival of the cinema exhibition sector". "The impact of lack of new movies is visibly evident with single-digit occupancies observed in most states...When new titles will be available, we are sure of achieving our healthy occupancies. The content line-up also looks pretty exciting with loads of new titles," Inox said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-theatre-owners-blame-lack-of-patrons-for-poor-show/articleshow/78902474.cms||Kiran Parashar
