October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Colleges try to strike a balance between classes online and on campus||With the Karnataka government having granted them permission recently, colleges across the state are preparing to reopen from November 17. The announcement made by deputy chief minister and higher education minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, said that the decision applies to all students. The decision, however, has received a mixed response from college administrations. Will teachers juggle between both mediums?According to the decision taken by the state government, students will be given a choice to attend classes either physically or online. But how does that work for teachers and lecturers? "That's feasible only if classes are live streamed while the teachers are conducting them on campus. Or the classes will need to be recorded and shared on a platform that students can access later," says Kiran Jeevan, public relations officer at St Joseph’s College (Autonomous). Similarly, Lydia P Samuel, principal of Baldwin Women's Methodist College, says that though students are eager to return to college, administrations like theirs, will have to come up with a method that ensures no students are left out. "Right now, I'm not too sure how many parents will be okay to send their children to campus. Given how quickly all of us have adapted to the online method of teaching, we will have to come up with a way that ensures students opting for online classes are not left out and teachers, on the other hand, are not overworked or overburdened," she says, adding that the college is still in the process of working out a method for the same. Make lectures available one day prior: college administrationsOne way to ensure that students opting for online classes are at the same level as those attending offline classes, is by allowing students to have access to the next day's lesson a day in advance. Rev. Augustine George, principal of Kristu Jayanti College, says that this method has worked for them well over the past few months. "We have allotted one class for each teacher, where they take online classes. We have a video camera and other necessary tools and platforms already set up to support online classes. We have a learning management system which allows students to have access to the content for the upcoming lecture, the previous day. They go through the material and can clarify their doubts as the teacher is taking the class. Such learning management systems are used by many colleges and educational institutions," he says. Administrations wary of allowing students on campusEducational institutions are unsure about the number of students attending classes on campus. "I feel the government can wait till the vaccine is available and only then allow students on campus. Most of the students have gone back to their hometown and we have been attending online classes with ease," says Kiran. Rev Augustine says another way is to have students attending classes in a staggered manner. "It won't be a wise decision to allow all the students back on campus right now. Instead, we can have them coming to college in a staggered manner, where neither the teachers nor the students are put at risk," he says. DIRECTIVES SHARED BY THE STATE GOVERNMENT- Students can choose to attend classes online or physically- Consent of parents is mandatory for those attending classes on campus- Students to register for classes in advance- Each college to have a task force that will ensure SOPs and guidelines are followed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colleges-try-to-strike-a-balance-between-classes-online-and-on-campus/articleshow/78912111.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
October 29, 2020||Business||Timely completion of infra projects to pave way for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat': Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Good quality infrastructure projects which are completed on time will help pave the way for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday, adding that delay in environmental clearances is a major problem. Addressing a virtual launch event for the National Program and Project Management Policy Framework (NPMPF), the road transport and highways minister also said there is a need to support honest officers, otherwise they will not take decisions. "Good quality of infrastructure projects, which are environment-friendly and delivered on time, will help pave the way for Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Gadkari said. The minister, who also holds the MSME portfolio, made it clear that environmental regulations are important. "We don't want to compromise with environmental regulations but we are facing tremendous delay and monetary losses due to delay in environmental clearances for infrastructure projects," he added. He said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has suffered a loss of Rs 2 lakh crore on its various projects on account of delays in environmental clearances and another Rs 1 lakh crore over disputes. According to Gadkari, issues like fast decision making, quicker environment and forest clearance, availability of finance and incentivising early or timely completion of projects should be addressed. Gadkari also emphasised that government officials must identify the problems at the grassroot level. Speaking at the event, railways minister Piyush Goyal said infrastructure is going to the backbone of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' or self-reliant India. "In New India, we envisage everyone to have access to quality infrastructure like world-class ports, roads, railways and airways," Goyal said. He also said the National Program and Project Management Policy Framework is going to transform the way in which infrastructure projects are implemented in the country. The NPMPF, developed by Niti Aayog and the Quality Council of India, has proposed a four-level certification system for project managers linked to project scale. While project associates can cater to projects of less than Rs 500 crore, project managers should be hired for projects between Rs 500 - Rs 2,000 crore. However, for bigger projects above Rs 2,000 crore it recommends programme managers, while program directors have been recommended for projects upwards of Rs 4,000 crore. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant emphasised on the importance of project management to address issues surrounding infrastructure projects in India. He stressed that adoption of these practices will help achieve economic objectives through coordination of multiple projects. India will require an investment of around $4.5 trillion by 2040 to develop the infrastructure for sustaining its economic growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/timely-completion-of-infra-projects-to-pave-way-for-aatmanirbhar-bharat-nitin-gadkari/articleshow/78919727.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Karnataka caps liquid oxygen transport cost||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government on Wednesday capped transportation charges for liquid medical oxygen supplied to hospitals by manufacturers. Depending on the volume of the oxygen supplied, the cap on the transport cost per km varies from Rs 35 to Rs 60. Given the Covid situation, many patients under treatment at hospitals are requiring high flow nasal oxygen support and the demand for liquid oxygen has gone up. The transportation cost had also been increasing and there is no uniformity in the transport cost levied by different companies. Hospitals are also complaining about exorbitant pricing in the guise of transportation expenses. Now, as per the state government order, for liquid medical oxygen up to 10 tonnes, the transport cost levied by the companies should not be more than Rs 35 per km, for 10-20 tonnes Rs 40 per km and for 15-20 tonnes Rs 45 per km. The price cap is Rs 52.5 per km for 20-30 tonnes of oxygen and for more than 30 tonnes, it is Rs 60 per km. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) had fixed the price for liquid oxygen on September 26 at Rs 15.22 per cubic metre but said that the transportation cost was for the states to fix. Meanwhile, Karnataka’s hospitals had appealed to the state government to fix the transportation cost as the suppliers were allegedly charging heavy prices. The transport cost capped by the state, however is not inclusive of GST and other applicable charges and has to be paid separately, mentions the government order issued by the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-karnataka-caps-liquid-oxygen-transport-cost/articleshow/78920114.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 29, 2020||Goa||Goa Football Association wants its ethics panel to investigate match-fixing||Panaji: The Goa Football Association (GFA) has sought permission from the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to allow its ethics committee to investigate alleged match-fixing in the Goa Professional League. The GFA’s ethics committee was scheduled to begin its probe into match-fixing allegations but had to stop due to lack of clarity about the formation of a previous committee. Questions were also asked by GFA’s own executive committee. When the executive committee met last month, they decided to form an inquiry committee to look into six red-flagged matches, reported by Sportradar, a London-based company which monitors betting odds and suspicious patterns. “We were finding certain clauses in the code of ethics which, if the integrity officer is satisfied, he can tell us to investigate directly through the ethics committee. We have got the ethics committee in place now and we are sorting out everything. The previous committee and resolutions are all taken up in the executive committee meeting,” a GFA official told TOI. The initial inquiry conducted by GFA left a lot to be desired. Meanwhile, the state association is following instructions from AIFF’s integrity officer, Javed Siraj, and have asked clubs to share necessary information, if any. A senior retired police officer and a lawyer had verbally agreed to join the inquiry committee, but the association struggled to convince others to join the five-member group. “If there is enough information or evidence, integrity officer may say there is no need of a preliminary report from the inquiry committee. Their role would have been only to collect evidence giving the report prima facie. Based on these documents, if he feels it can be investigated by the ethics committee, then it can be done directly,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-football-association-wants-its-ethics-panel-to-investigate-match-fixing/articleshow/78920441.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||Pandemic chills: Halloween goes low-key in Mumbai this year||It's that time of the year, when people get set to mask up, and it has had nothing to do with COVID-19 face covering. Halloween is coming right up on October 31, but the usual partying is taking a backseat this year. Reason: The pandemic has turned out to be a damper on the scare-fest. Parties and gatherings have given way to a few home dos with a limited number of people, this Saturday night. However, if you are among those who are planning such dos, drop by the city’s stores and party prop shops that are still chock-full of spooky gear imaginable – pointed witch hats to broomsticks, talking skulls and smiling pumpkins. BT checked in on some of these stores to gauge the trend in Halloween 2020... Shops stock props, but fewer takers this yearAt a few gift and party stores in Bandra, the eerie-themed displays are in full view, but only a few in masks have been straggling in. Says Dhiraj Daryanani of a party prop store on St Andrews Road, “The whole demand for Halloween props is much lesser this year – in fact, there is almost a 60 per cent drop in footfalls. Last year, we sold about 250-300 masks a day, but now it’s not even amounting to 50. Some people are having house parties, but there are just a few of these happening." Nevertheless, the props are all in stock and offer a whole lot of spooky inspiration for those looking for it. Skeletons dangling upside down from the ceiling, giant spider webs, Dracula masks, Halloween glasses, devil horns and more. “What’s also popular are these little orange pumpkin pails to hold chocolate in. They can be sent out to people as goodie bags,” informs Dhiraj. Smaller items are taking precedence over more ostentatious props. Affirms Ekta Ballani of a chain party stores in the city, “There isn’t any huge buying happening for Halloween this time, people are just looking for small, cost-effective props like headbands, masks and gloves. Those who splurged around 4K for Halloween props and costumes in the past, are spending 2K or so now. That said, some customers are doing a few small-scale home parties. Quite a few schools and private classes are having dress-up celebration events with a Halloween theme as it has such an appeal for kids.” No outdoors, only indoor celebrations of the spook-festThe pandemic safety norms have played catalyst as well. Reveals party planner Prachi Oza, “There are almost no parties happening outside. A few places are doing just a sit-down dinner with minimalist décor on pre-booked tables that are placed at a distance. There’s no dance floor or deejays, just recorded music on pen drives. The apprehension around has made it a low-key event, this time.” Worli-resident Preyal Shah is planning a Halloween party for friends at her home this Saturday night. She says “It’s going to be just 15-20 of us and the theme is a Halloween Masquerade. They have decided to go in for a potluck meal instead of hiring the services of a caterer due to COVID. Each friend has planned to make something, but every dish will have a spooky theme. We will also be putting up props and décor, so that everyone gets the feeling of partying outside. That is what we would do on Halloween usually, but owing to the pandemic, we are going to be having a fun gathering at home.” Box 1No party? No problem! Can’t get out to a party this time? Don’t fret. You can still soak in the spooky fun in a few socially-distant ways. Here’s how:- Virtual dress-up: Get your friend and family onto a Halloween zoom call. Fix a time for it, so that people can have their costumes and makeup ready and have a few prizes for the best dressed, too. - Carve a Jack-o-lantern: Look up a few pumpkin-carving tutorials before you get started. And don’t forget to post photos of your smiley Halloween jack-o-lantern online for all to see. - Do a horror movie marathon at home: Grab some candy, popcorn and settle down on the sofa to watch Halloween-themed movies - right from 'Scream' and 'Practical Magic'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pandemic-chills-halloween-goes-low-key-in-mumbai-this-year/articleshow/78919730.cms||Ismat Tahseen
October 29, 2020||India||CIC pulls up government for ‘evasive’ RTI reply on who created Aarogya Setu||NEW DELHI: In a strongly worded order, the Central Information Commission (CIC) issued showcause notice to the ministry of electronics and information technology (MEITY) and National Informatics Centre (NIC) to explain why a penalty under the RTI Act should not be slapped on them for obstructing information regarding Aarogya Setu app, prompting the ministry to later say that all information was on the app’s website. The CIC slammed MEITY and NIC for “prima facie obstruction of information and providing an evasive reply”. Noting that none of the CPIOs was able to answer who created the app, Information Commissioner Vanaja N Sarna said MEITY and NIC responses were “extremely preposterous”. NIC developed Aarogya Setu, volunteers pitched in: GovernmentAn RTI was filed by complainant Saurav Das on who created the app and where are the files. The ministry of electronics and information technology(MEITY) issued a statement to say that as per orders of the CIC, CPIOs of MEITY, National E-Governance Division (NeGD) and NIC have been directed to appear on November 24. MEITY is taking necessary steps to comply with the orders of CIC. It clarified that “there should be no doubt with regard to the Aarogya Setu App and its role in helping contain Covid-19 pandemic in India”. It stated that the Aarogya Setu App has been developed by NIC in collaboration with volunteers from the industry and academia and all details and documents including privacy policy and data access and knowledge-sharing protocols issued on May 11 have been uploaded on the Aarogya Setu portal — aarogyasetu.gov.in. The RTI applicant had sought to know from the government details about the creation of Aarogya Setu application, the law under which it is functioning and whether the government was planning to bring a separate legislation on handling of data collected by the App. Saurav Das approached the CIC when he failed to get any information from the authorities. The CIC in its interim order of October 26 observed that “it is not possible that there was no file movement while creating this App, a citizen cannot go round in circles to find out the custodian”. “The CPIO, NIC’s submissions that the entire file related to creation of the App is not with NIC is understandable, but the same submissions if accepted from MEITY, NeGD and NIC in toto, it becomes more relevant to now find out how an App was created,” the order states. “The CPIO of NIC should explain that when in the website it is mentioned that Aarogya Setu Platform is designed, developed and hosted by National Informatics Centre, Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology, then how is it that they do not have any information about creation of the App,” the information commissioner said. Watch Aarogya Setu: CIC pulls up government for ‘evasive’ RTI reply||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cic-pulls-up-government-for-evasive-rti-reply-on-who-created-aarogya-setu/articleshow/78921841.cms||---
October 29, 2020||India||Winter’s coming: LAC positions in Ladakh set to be new normal?||NEW DELHI: With no sign of any de-escalation along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, the current on-ground positions of Indian and Chinese troops look likely to congeal into a "new normal" through the fast-approaching winter and perhaps even well beyond. The next round of military talks are on the anvil, but are yet to be scheduled and it is significant that the Indian side does not seem in a hurry to set the date. As movement in and out of areas like Pangong Tso will become highly restricted by mid to late November, the clock is ticking fast on any realignment of troops. Sources said the ground situation, where Chinese troops are on the spurs in the Finger 4-8 area and Indian forces are on the southern heights along the lake and have also re-positioned themselves on the northern bank, is likely to remain the de facto position in the foreseeable future in the absence of a political breakthrough. Read AlsoWell prepared to take on adversaries, say IAF pilots deployed in LadakhAmid border tensions with China, IAF pilots deployed close to LAC say the force is adequately prepared to deal with any situation and equipped to tackle any threat. Asked how Air Force was maintaining an edge over its both western and northern adversaries in the region, a flight lieutenant, whoThough India seeks a complete withdrawal of Chinese troops from Pangong Tso as well as other areas along the LAC, the advantage it wrested in late August by taking control of strategic heights on the southern bank serves to checkmate the People's Liberation Army and provides a vantage point to the narrow valley. Those familiar with developments said it was hard to estimate how long the new positions would be held, pointing out that India has been in Siachen since the mid-1980s. As things stand, India finds the PLA presence in the Finger area unacceptable since it used to regularly patrol the patch. On its part, China finds India's new alignment achieved on August 29-30 violative of the status quo as existed prior to May. While experts and commentators have spoken of a new normal in terms of ground positions as well as in India-China ties, government sources are of the view that the re-alignments may not be temporary. India does not intend more pro-active steps, having surprised PLA on the south bank of Pangong Tso and the Chinese have not challenged Indian positions since early September. It is felt that the Chinese leadership might find it difficult to step back in the midst of developments such as the Quad convergence and US's persistent criticism of the communist party's military moves. Any disengagement may run the risk of being seen as a loss of face at a time when China's post-Covid economic recovery is being touted as having provided it a new resilience. Sources said the first winter on the heights of Pangong, and in Gogra Hotsprings, Galwan and Depsang where also Indian and Chinese soldiers are in close proximity, will be a challenge but one the Indian Army is ready for. The forces are fully arrayed given the utter lack of progress in talks. It is felt the recent 2+2 talks with the US only strengthened the Indian argument that China's aggression along the LAC was part of its "global bad behaviour" and the sharp reaction in Beijing perhaps reflects its discomfiture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/winters-bringing-lac-new-normal/articleshow/78922042.cms||Rajeev Deshpande
October 29, 2020||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws, 13 days after normal schedule||NEW DELHI: The southwest monsoon finally withdrew from the entire country on Wednesday, 13 days after its normal date of final withdrawal. With the final withdrawal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the northeast monsoon, a phenomenon that brings rainfall in extreme south peninsular India, has commenced. Analysis of withdrawal dates of southwest monsoon from the entire country during 1975-2020 period shows that the 2010 had seen the most delayed withdrawal on October 29. Like this year, the withdrawal date in 2016 was also October 28 while 2000 and 2017 had seen it on October 25. Predicting weather conditions during next few days, the IMD said, “Scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is very likely over Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during next five days with isolated heavy falls over south Tamil Nadu on October 29.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-13-days-after-normal-schedule/articleshow/78922163.cms||---
October 29, 2020||---||PM Narendra Modi dubs Tejashwi ‘jungle raj ke yuvraj’, hints LJP not part of NDA||PATNA/DARBHANGA: As 71 seats went to polls in the first phase of Bihar polls on Wednesday, PM Narendra Modi described Tejashwi, without naming him, as “jungle raj ke yuvraj (prince of jungle raj)”, a reference to 15 years of RJD’s Lalu-Rabri rule which, he said, was marked by “loot and kidnapping”. The PM addressed three rallies in north Bihar targeting the Grand Alliance, and especially its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Modi clarified at each of his rallies that the Chirag Paswan-led LJP was not part of NDA. Chirag’s statements claiming that his party would form government with BJP had been confusing NDA supporters. “When I say NDA, it only means BJP, JD(U), VIP and HAM (Secular) ,” he said. He praised Bihar CM Nitish Kumar saying he would become the CM of the NDA government “and take the state’s developmental saga to its next stage of growth, compatible with the new aspirational Bihar that has emerged after 15 years of development work done by him”. He said the people’s aspirations “will be fulfilled with central schemes, projects and assistance” and that Nitish Kumar would implement them as head of the NDA government in the state. He picked the Kosi Mahasetu rail bridge, which he had recently inaugurated, for special mention, saying expeditious work done under his dispensation at the Centre had made it possible. The PM addressed rallies at Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Patna. At each rally, the PM began his speech in the local language and laced it with symbolic cultural identifications. The PM took to attacking the “jungle raj ke yuvraj” without mentioning Tejashwi. In his speech at Darbhanga, he said, “The mantra of the previous governments was: ‘Paise hajam, pariyojana khatam’”. He added that when so much money is to be spent on tackling the coronavirus pandemic, Bihar faces two dangers. “The first is corona and the second is forces which have a tradition of looting and can make Bihar sick,” he said. In Patna, he focused on wooing the youth. “Youth will get government jobs and also in industries established by private investors. But if jungle raj forces form the government, the investors will run away,” he said to counter Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh government jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-narendra-modi-dubs-tejashwi-jungle-raj-ke-yuvraj-hints-ljp-not-part-of-nda/articleshow/78922210.cms||Abhay Singh
October 29, 2020||India||Elderly who live with working-age people at higher Covid risk: Study||NEW DELHI: Elderly people living with or in close contact with people of working age may be at higher Covid-19 mortality risk, a new study published in the Lancet shows. The study conducted by researchers in Stockholm underlines the importance of living arrangements and household composition, such as care homes, crowded housing, and mixed-age households, as well as social contacts outside the household for understanding the spread of the infectious disease. However, doctors in India say the the age group studied as part of the research is already vulnerable, whereas living with younger people also mean receiving care from the latter. “In India, we have observed that usually if one person gets infected in a family, it leads to almost all the members getting infected. So, we strongly advise people testing positive and having elderly people living in the same household to strictly maintain physical distance and look after the older people,” says Dr Manoj Kumar Goel, director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. The study was conducted on 2,79,961 individuals aged 70 years or older. The mortality rate is over 20% in people above 70 years of age, says Dr Goel. Experts say the risk is certainly higher among people living in congested places and slums where social distancing is not practically possible, although lack of awareness and a casual attitude also add to the problem. “The best one can do is wear masks and consult doctors even in case of minor doubt. People should not be complacent and follow every required precaution,” Dr Navneet Sood, pulmonary consultant, Dharamshila Narayana Superspeciality Hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/elderly-who-live-with-working-age-people-at-higher-covid-risk-study/articleshow/78922234.cms||Sushmi Dey
October 29, 2020||India||11% of rural families bought phones to aid kids’ studies in lockdown: Survey||NEW DELHI: Schools might have been shut, but children continued their learning even during the pandemic. Despite the inequalities and digital divide, the 15th Annual Status of Education Report (ASER 2020) Rural reflected the resilience shown towards learning as 11% of all rural families bought a new phone since the lockdown began and 80% of those were smartphones. Also more children joined government schools than private schools. Read the entire story on TOI+How rural India took to online education in lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/11-of-rural-families-bought-phones-to-aid-kids-studies-in-lockdown-survey/articleshow/78922250.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||BJP MLA accuses Cong of protecting Mukhtar||Varanasi: BJP MLA from Mohammadabad Alka Rai, widow of former MLA Krishnanand Rai, has accused Congress party of protecting gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and asked Priyanka Gandhi Vadra why the Punjab government was shielding the dreaded criminal. Rai wrote an emotional letter to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, saying, “I am a widow struggling for justice for the brutal killing of my husband and popular MLA Krishnanand Rai 14 years ago. The main accused of the murder case Mukhtar Ansari is enjoying open patronage of your party and Punjab government and is not being sent to UP for hearings in the numerous criminal cases pending against him.” Krishnanand Rai was brutally gunned down by assailants armed with AK-47 rifles on November 29, 2005 in Ghazipur along with six others and 21 bullets were recovered from his body. “It is shameful that your party is shielding a professional criminal, who made several women window and orphaned dozens of children. Nobody will believe that Punjab government’s act can be without your knowledge. The families of Mukhtar’s victims are waiting for the day when they would get justice but Congress-led Punjab government is depriving them of justice,” she added. P 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-mla-accuses-cong-of-protecting-mukhtar/articleshow/78918564.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
October 29, 2020||Business||As government opens J&K real estate market, paradise on earth beckons property buyers||Chennai: With the government opening up the Jammu & Kashmir real estate market to everyone in the country, real estate consultancies see parts of Srinagar, Jammu and Baramulla on top of the radar for real estate activity, though they don't expect a rush of deals. The NDA government notified new rules on Tuesday which allows any Indian citizen to buy urban, or non-agricultural land, in Jammu & Kashmir, which was restricted only to ‘permanent’ residents and domicile certificate. Club Mahindra CEO Kavinder Singh took to twitter saying the leisure company has received an invitation from the J&K administration to set up a resort. “It will be a dream come true to have a destination resort at this ‘heaven on earth’ called Kashmir.State govt is welcoming us and we are looking forward,” he tweeted. While the opening up will spur real estate activity, the key will be to spread the message that J&K is a safe place. “It is too early to predict how demand for real estate in J&K will pan out as it is still a sensitive region. It will take quite a bit of time for all ambiguities to clear. Even if some are keen to buy property there, they will first closely watch the political scene unfold in the future before taking the plunge,” said Prashant Thakur, director & head – Research, Anarock Property Consultants:.“Initially, real estate momentum may not be so much for residential real estate as in the hospitality sector. The region definitely has a large untapped potential in the hospitality segment. Unless safety is given paramount importance, it is difficult for real estate activity to pick momentum here,” he said. The action may be restricted to Srinagar, Jammu and Baramulla which have better infrastructure. “J&K was sort of elusive for `outsiders`, but with this move to allow anyone to buy real estate space, it would allow public participation in development. People should now set up businesses as the state cannot be depending only on tourism and some agriculture,” said Deben Moza. executive director and head of project management services at Knight Frank India, real estate consultants.He added that for many from the plains, J&K could become their second home of summer home. Some others think there may not be any action immediately. “The hospitality sector is already present in J&K with leading brands such as Taj, Marriott, Radisson, Ramada, ITC Hotels, Park, Sarovar to name a few. Given the Covid impact on the sector, I don’t think Kashmir will be high on the radar for either hotel investors or operating brands in the short term. Kashmir also carries the perception of enhanced security risk and with the latest political developments in the valley heightening security concerns , we don’t expect any real tourist movement, said Mandeep S Lamba, president, South Asia, HVS Anarock, hospitality sector consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/as-government-opens-jk-real-estate-market-paradise-on-earth-beckons-property-buyers/articleshow/78919809.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
October 29, 2020||Patna||Rural voters prefer ‘gamchhas’ to face masks in Bihar||PATNA: Gamchha, a trademark scarf used by men in rural areas of Bihar, also came handy in the Covid times as many people preferred the long piece of cotton or khadi cloth in place of the mandatory mask while visiting a polling booth to cast vote in the first phase of state assembly elections on Wednesday. The all-weather gamchha is not only used to wipe or cover the face in either summer or biting cold, but it is fast becoming a fashion signature for some of the politicians in Bihar as well. Even PM Narendra Modi uses a designer gamchha during electioneering. Chief minister Nitish Kumar is so fond of khadi gamchha that during electioneering recently, he asked his party workers not to present him with garlands but gamchhas. The sophisticated people use the one made of white linen. Most people were seen covering their faces with a gamchha instead of face mask at and outside the polling booths as well. Abhishek Kumar, a polling officer at Kusvan Anganwadi kendra in Masaurhi in rural Patna told this newspaper that around 99% men were covering their faces with gamchha while only 1% were using face masks while visiting the booth to cast their votes. “As the polling station falls in rural area, people were coming without masks. Even though we distributed face masks, they preferred to wear their gamchhas. Women, however, used their sari pallu (corner) to cover their faces and only 10% of them used face masks. We ensured that everyone maintained Covid safety protocols by covering their faces at polling booths,” Abhishek said. Sati Ram (59), a native of Baliari village in Bikram assembly segment said, “I carry a gamchha since the age of 21. It is useful in all seasons. I feel suffocation whenever I put a mask on my face.” Shambhukant (55) of Ranipur in Paliganj echoed the same feeling. “Our traditional ghamchha is the best to keep the virus and germs away. I always keep one to wrap my face whenever required,” he said. The urban population also flaunts the trendy gamchha in different shades during the polls. Even the youths were seen wearing white linen gamchha with ‘Banarasi’ border. Dharmendra Sinha (29) of Nawada in Barh said he loves white gamchha, especially with red or orange border. “Since the Covid outbreak, I carry a gamchha because there are chances of losing my face mask,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rural-voters-prefer-gamchhas-to-face-masks-in-bihar/articleshow/78923878.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Netas ooze confidence as they visit polling stations to cast votes||PATNA: Several netas arrived at different polling stations to cast their votes on Wednesday. They oozed confidence of emerging victorious in the state assembly polls. Ex-chief minister and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is facing a three-cornered contest in his home seat of Imamganj, exercised his franchise at a polling booth in Gaya’s Jhikatiya village. Clad in an off-white kurta, a blue jacket, dhoti and ‘gamcha’, he said, “Of the 71 seats in the first phase, the NDA will easily win around 50.” Former state assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary, who is pitted against Manjhi in the Imamganj assembly constituency, also cast his vote in Gaya. He is contesting on an RJD ticket. Union minister Giriraj Singh visited a temple in Barahiya Lakhisarai before leaving for his polling station. He appealed to the voters to step out and exercise their franchise amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Everyone should participate in elections which are the biggest festival of democracy. I urge everyone to cast their votes,” Giriraj said, adding that he would pray that Bihar remained in good hands. BJP leader and agriculture minister Prem Kumar, however, landed himself into a controversy as he exercised his vote wearing a lotus mask, which is the party’s symbol. Reacting to the controversy, he said he forgot to take off his mask. “Besides, nobody pointed out the mistake to me when I was casting my vote. My action was unintentional,” he claimed. Laying emphasis on the need to cast votes, BJP candidate from Jamui, Shreyasi Singh, said, “Pehle matdaan, phir jalpaan (first cast vote then eat your meal).” She exercised her franchise in Naya Gaon area of the district. Senior Congress leader Sadanand Singh and his son Shubhanand Mukesh, who is contesting from Kahalgaon, cast their votes in Bhagalpur. Singh told this newspaper, “A large number of people are going to the polling booths because they want change. Voters are inclined towards the Grand Alliance as they are aware of its political strategies.” The fate of 1,066 candidates, including cabinet ministers like Jai Kumar Singh, Prem Kumar, Ram Narayan Mandal, Santosh Kumar Nirala and Vijay Kumar Sinha, has been sealed in the EVMs. Minister booked: An FIR (408/20) was lodged with Kotwali police station against Gaya Town BJP candidate and state minister Prem Kumar on Wednesday for violation of model code of conduct. Gaya DM-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said the action was taken by the returning officer of Gaya Town segment as the candidate had used the mask bearing BJP symbol. “Use of party symbol within 100 metres radius of the polling booth is prohibited during voting,” he said. Prem had reached booth number 120 at Jiradei Bhawan on Swarajpuri Road on a bicycle to cast his vote. After casting vote, he was spotted using the mask bearing the picture of lotus, the BJP’s poll symbol. Prem has won Gaya Town seat for seven consecutive times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/netas-ooze-confidence-as-they-visit-polling-stations-to-cast-votes/articleshow/78923961.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 29, 2020||---||Bihar: Netas ooze confidence as they visit polling stations to cast votes||PATNA: Several netas arrived at different polling stations to cast their votes on Wednesday. They oozed confidence of emerging victorious in the state assembly polls. Ex-chief minister and HAM (S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is facing a three-cornered contest in his home seat of Imamganj, exercised his franchise at a polling booth in Gaya’s Jhikatiya village. Clad in an off-white kurta, a blue jacket, dhoti and ‘gamcha’, he said, “Of the 71 seats in the first phase, the NDA will easily win around 50.” Former state assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary, who is pitted against Manjhi in the Imamganj assembly constituency, also cast his vote in Gaya. He is contesting on an RJD ticket. Union minister Giriraj Singh visited a temple in Barahiya Lakhisarai before leaving for his polling station. He appealed to the voters to step out and exercise their franchise amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Everyone should participate in elections which are the biggest festival of democracy. I urge everyone to cast their votes,” Giriraj said, adding that he would pray that Bihar remained in good hands. BJP leader and agriculture minister Prem Kumar, however, landed himself into a controversy as he exercised his vote wearing a lotus mask, which is the party’s symbol. Reacting to the controversy, he said he forgot to take off his mask. “Besides, nobody pointed out the mistake to me when I was casting my vote. My action was unintentional,” he claimed. Laying emphasis on the need to cast votes, BJP candidate from Jamui, Shreyasi Singh, said, “Pehle matdaan, phir jalpaan (first cast vote then eat your meal).” She exercised her franchise in Naya Gaon area of the district. Senior Congress leader Sadanand Singh and his son Shubhanand Mukesh, who is contesting from Kahalgaon, cast their votes in Bhagalpur. Singh told this newspaper, “A large number of people are going to the polling booths because they want change. Voters are inclined towards the Grand Alliance as they are aware of its political strategies.” The fate of 1,066 candidates, including cabinet ministers like Jai Kumar Singh, Prem Kumar, Ram Narayan Mandal, Santosh Kumar Nirala and Vijay Kumar Sinha, has been sealed in the EVMs. Minister booked: An FIR (408/20) was lodged with Kotwali police station against Gaya Town BJP candidate and state minister Prem Kumar on Wednesday for violation of model code of conduct. Gaya DM-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said the action was taken by the returning officer of Gaya Town segment as the candidate had used the mask bearing BJP symbol. “Use of party symbol within 100 metres radius of the polling booth is prohibited during voting,” he said. Prem had reached booth number 120 at Jiradei Bhawan on Swarajpuri Road on a bicycle to cast his vote. After casting vote, he was spotted using the mask bearing the picture of lotus, the BJP’s poll symbol. Prem has won Gaya Town seat for seven consecutive times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/netas-ooze-confidence-as-they-visit-polling-stations-to-cast-votes/articleshow/78918935.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 29, 2020||Business||Airtel stock swings on foreign stake confusion||MUMBAI: Confusions about the permissible foreign holding limit in Bharti Airtel, as stated by the National Depository Services (NSDL), led to wild swings in the stock on Wednesday. The stock rallied over 13% in early trades on reports that an NSDL document showed 100% foreign ownership was allowed in the telecom company. But the price slid sharply after subsequent reports said that the foreign holding limit was revised to 49%, with the caveat that the rest was through the government approval route. At the end of the day, the stock closed with a 4% gain at Rs 451 on the BSE. A higher foreign holding limit is likely to increase the weight of Bharti Airtel in the MSCI indices, which is benchmarked to several global funds that invest in India. This, in turn, will lead to additional foreign fund buying, leading to a rally in the stock. NSDL sources, however, said that it’s been a case of misreporting based on partial disclosure. A few months ago, Bharti Airtel had disclosed that it already has the government’s permission to raise foreign holding to 100%, but this was subject to the company fulfilling certain conditions. So, it was decided till those conditions are met, the foreign investment limit will remain at 49%, an NSDL source said. On Wednesday, when the latest document with foreign holding limits for all the listed companies were uploaded onto the NSDL site, due to some reason, the last column in the document that includes the special remarks for each company did not display properly, the source said. Earlier in August, MSCI had cut Bharti Airtel’s weight in some of its indices and a strong selloff took the stock price from Rs 547 on September 1 to Rs 401 by October 15 — a slide of 27%. During the same period, the sensex had slid just 2.1%, BSE data showed. The next round of MSCI rejig is slotted on November 11 with the effective date December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airtel-stock-swings-on-foreign-stake-confusion/articleshow/78921565.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Business||Tatas can look at non-cash pact with SP Group: Experts||MUMBAI: Tata Sons could explore a non-cash settlement with the estranged minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group to minimise the financial burden it faces in a dispute over valuation of the latter’s 18.37% stake, legal experts said. A non-cash settlement (stock deal) would allow Tata Sons to preserve money, especially at a time when it is weighing bidding options for Air India, and avoid the need to borrow or sell assets to fund the purchase of SP’s stake. In a non-cash settlement, the assets and liabilities of Tata Sons would have to be separated in proportion to SP’s 18.37% stake. The assets would cover Tata Sons’s holding in listed and unlisted firms as well as the Tata brand value (which is worth $20 billion, according to Brand Finance’s 2020 ranking). While liabilities would comprise the investment firm’s debt, which was Rs 31,319 crore in FY20. As Tata Sons owns 72% in TCS, SP’s proportionate holding in the software behemoth is 13.2%. Likewise, Tata Sons holds 29% in Tata Consumer and, therefore, SP’s proportionate stake in the owner of Tetley Tea is 5%. “Tata Sons, after it became a private limited company, has all the traits of a partnership. With a partner (SP) wanting separation, Tata Sons could look at splitting its assets and liabilities vertically, in proportion to the partner’s share in the company,” said Anil Singhvi, chairman of ICAN Investment Advisors. Tata Sons would then have to offer SP shares of listed Tata companies to the extent of its proportionate stake in the investment firm’s assets and liabilities, the experts added. So it could offer a certain stake in TCS, Tata Consumer and in other listed Tata entities (after adjusting for the value of Tata Sons’ holding in unlisted companies, Tata brand value and the investment firm’s debt). Instead of doing multiple transactions spread across listed Tata entities, it could do a single deal in TCS, they opined. The stock settlement, which would provide SP an exit from Tata Sons, would also ensure that the investment firm continues to retain majority control in TCS. “Settlement combinations could also be worked out. Tata Sons could pay some part in cash and the rest in stock of listed Tata entities. Like SP’s proportionate share in the Tata brand value could be paid in cash,” added Singhvi. “A stock deal also ensures there is no disruption for Tata Sons, which holds a majority stake in its operating entities.” Valuation differences (SP pegged its stake at Rs 1.78 lakh crore, while Tata Sons differed, citing applicability of illiquidity discounts), balance sheet impacts (even at a depressed valuation, Tata Sons will find it challenging to fork out such a sum amid Covid ravaging global economy), staggered cash payouts, and restrictive share transfer clauses (foreign investors find this less appealing in Tata Sons) could be avoided in a non-cash deal, the people said. An October 6 Jefferies report said a potential buyout of SP by the Tatas would entail a large cash outgo. If the burden of funding the same falls on listed Tata companies, it could negatively impact investor sentiments on these companies including TCS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-can-look-at-non-cash-pact-with-sp-group-experts/articleshow/78921521.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: 2 IEDs found in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD/NAWADA/GAYA/BHAGALPUR: A major tragedy was averted during the first phase of polling when the police found and diffused IEDs planted by the Maoists at two places in Aurangabad district on Wednesday. Police sources said the IEDs were kept to target the polling parties going to conduct elections. Incidentally, three CRPF personnel were killed in IED explosion at Baranda in the district in 2010. The sources said information about one IED was received from Baranda Mor under Dhibra police station area during the area domination exercise. When they started searching the places, the IED was found planted on the road. The area was sealed and the IEDs were diffused. The second IED was found near Anjan village under Madanpur police station area. Two fake IEDs were also found at Dalel Bigha and Premnagar Hasanbar Road under Madanpur police station. Aurangabad SDPO Anoop Kumar Sinha said the polling parties reached their destinations and elections were conducted peacefully. At Nawada, the presence of paramilitary forces encouraged the voters to come out in large numbers in all five assembly segments, including in the Maoist-prone areas of Rajauli, Sirdalla and Govindpur. A BJP’s polling agent suffered stroke at Fulma, the native village of BJP MLA Anil Singh. At Gaya, no untoward incident was reported from anywhere as all the polling booths were manned by CRPF, CoBRA, ITBP, SSB and the district armed police personnel. In the sensitive areas, road opening parties comprising paramilitary forces were pressed into service to ensure the movement of security forces without any disturbance. Poll boycott owing to some local issues was reported from two to three places in the district. At Bhagalpur, DIG Sujeet Kumar said polling was peaceful in all the seven constituencies. (With inputs from Premendra Mishra, Shashi Bhushan Sinha, Alok Kumar & Kumar Rajesh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-ieds-found-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78926411.cms||---
October 29, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: 2 IEDs found in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD/NAWADA/GAYA/BHAGALPUR: A major tragedy was averted during the first phase of polling when the police found and diffused IEDs planted by the Maoists at two places in Aurangabad district on Wednesday. Police sources said the IEDs were kept to target the polling parties going to conduct elections. Incidentally, three CRPF personnel were killed in IED explosion at Baranda in the district in 2010. The sources said information about one IED was received from Baranda Mor under Dhibra police station area during the area domination exercise. When they started searching the places, the IED was found planted on the road. The area was sealed and the IEDs were diffused. The second IED was found near Anjan village under Madanpur police station area. Two fake IEDs were also found at Dalel Bigha and Premnagar Hasanbar Road under Madanpur police station. Aurangabad SDPO Anoop Kumar Sinha said the polling parties reached their destinations and elections were conducted peacefully. At Nawada, the presence of paramilitary forces encouraged the voters to come out in large numbers in all five assembly segments, including in the Maoist-prone areas of Rajauli, Sirdalla and Govindpur. A BJP’s polling agent suffered stroke at Fulma, the native village of BJP MLA Anil Singh. At Gaya, no untoward incident was reported from anywhere as all the polling booths were manned by CRPF, CoBRA, ITBP, SSB and the district armed police personnel. In the sensitive areas, road opening parties comprising paramilitary forces were pressed into service to ensure the movement of security forces without any disturbance. Poll boycott owing to some local issues was reported from two to three places in the district. At Bhagalpur, DIG Sujeet Kumar said polling was peaceful in all the seven constituencies. (With inputs from Premendra Mishra, Shashi Bhushan Sinha, Alok Kumar & Kumar Rajesh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/2-ieds-found-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78919623.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Patna||No long queue of voters at polling booths in Buxar||BUXAR: At the booth No 93, 93 (A), 96 and 96 (A), which were set up at the Maharani Usha Rani Plus Two Girls High School, it was a different experience for the voters in pandemic times. Since it is the first election during Covid-19 in the country, the district administration had made special arrangements. No long queues of voters were seen at all the four booths which had a total number of 2,583 voters. At the entry point, one Asha worker Madhuri Devi was deployed for thermal screening of voters. One paramedical staff, who was a woman, was also present at the gate. Before entering the school building, the voters were asked to clean their hands with sanitizer. The polling officials provided gloves. The administration had also placed bins for throwing used disposable gloves. “The polling began at all the four booths at 7.15 am. We took special care for cleanliness at the booth. Voters were curios to see the process of thermal screening at the entry point of the polling stations,” said sector magistrate Gaurishankar Singh. According to him, there was a complaint regarding the functioning of VVPAT machine at booth number 95, housed in the Girls’ Middle School. “We changed it immediately,” he further added. All the members of the polling party were also taking care to prevent the spread of the Covid-19. Some of the polling staff also wore face shields. Incidentally, there was no lack of enthusiasm among the voters despite the elections being held during the pandemic age. Shreya Jaiswal, a student of MGM Medical College, was one among the first-time voter. Accompanied by Priyanshu Shekhar, Shreya said she has specially come from Kishanganj to cast her vote. “My priority is development,” she told this reporter at the polling booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-long-queue-of-voters-at-polling-booths-in-buxar/articleshow/78919590.cms||K Kamlesh
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: School students will be called in two sessions from November 2||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department on Wednesday issued fresh instructions to schools regarding reopening from November 2. The instructions have been issued to government, government-aided and private schools. The department has given timings for the two sessions in which the students are to be called: 9am to 11.30am and noon to 2.30pm. All teachers will start coming from the day and will have to take physical and online classes from the schools, which have been asked to make a timetable accordingly. The instructions said, “Written consent of parents to send their wards to schools is to be taken only once, before or on the day of reopening. The consent will be valid unless it is withdrawn by the parents.” Schools will have to follow staggered timings, under which classes X and XII will come in the first session from 9am to 11.30am and classes IX and XI will come in the second session from noon to 2.30pm. “Teachers will continue with online classes. They will teach in schools to those who prefer to attend classes after following the SOPs. As 100% teaching and non-teaching staff will attend school daily from November 2, principals or heads of the schools have to prepare a timetable in a manner that all teachers can take their classes offline and online from the school,” the instructions said. In the time available after online and offline classes, teachers have been asked to prepare some supporting need-based worksheets or assignments to supplement their teaching. Principals and heads have been asked to ensure that different task teams are formed for smooth functioning. As mentioned in SOPs issued by the ministry of home affairs on September 30, schools have been asked to continue online or distance learning as the preferred mode of teaching. Students may attend schools only with the written consent of parents and attendance must not be enforced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/school-students-will-be-called-in-two-sessions-from-nov-2/articleshow/78919646.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 29, 2020||Business||Axis Bank posts Rs 1,682 crore profit for September quarter||MUMBAI: Axis Bank has reported a net profit of Rs 1,682 crore for the quarter ended September as against a loss of Rs 112 crore in year-ago period. Profits were up on the back of a 20% jump in net interest income and a higher fee income. The private lender’s deposits stood at Rs 6.35 lakh crore at the end of the quarter, up 8% from Rs 5.84 lakh crore in the year-ago period. The bank’s advances stood at Rs 5.76 crore, up 9% from the previous year. The slower deposit growth and continued growth in advances helped the bank shrink its interest costs and bring down interest expenses. “We want to be ahead of the curve as far as provisions are concerned and we continue with that during the current quarter. This quarter we have set aside Rs 3,142 crore of additional provisioning and our total provisions stand at Rs 10,839 crore over and above our provision coverage ratio,” said Axis Bank MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry. He said that following the increased profits and capital raised during the quarter, the bank’s total capital adequacy ratio of 18.9% was at a historic high. At the end of the quarter, the bank’s gross non-performing assets (NPAs) stood at 4.18% and net NPAs at 0.98%. However. if the bank had classified borrower accounts as NPAs after August 31, the bank’s gross NPA ratio and net NPA ratio would have been 4.28% and 1.03% respectively. The bank said that there has been a big jump in digital banking during the quarter. Mobile banking transaction volumes rose 208% year on year, while the value of UPI transactions increased by 166% year on year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-posts-rs-1682cr-profit-for-sept-qtr/articleshow/78921365.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Business||Will be top delivery company by revenue: Delhivery||BENGALURU: SoftBank-backed logistics major Delhivery would emerge as the largest supply chain company in India by revenue, its joint MD & chief business officer Sandeep Barasia told TOI. This comes at a time when the company said it’s “ready” for an initial public offering (IPO) in the next 12 months and is considering both Indian and overseas markets for it. The unicorn (valued at over $1 billion), based on present run-rate, is looking to close the current financial year with Rs 3,700-4,000 crore in revenue, compared to Rs 2,800 crore last year. This is despite the washout months in April and May due to the lockdown. This would put it ahead of market leader like Blue Dart, which recorded a revenue of over Rs 3,166 crore at the end of March 2020, seeing a flat year compared to previous year. For the year ending March 2018, Blue Dart had a revenue of Rs 2,790 crore. Other leading delivery companies in the space include FedEx, Ecom Express, Gati and XpressBees.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); For the financial year ending March 2019, Delhivery’s revenue and loss stood at nearly Rs 1,700 crore and Rs 1,781 crore, respectively. The loss numbers for the fiscal year ending March 2020 are not available yet. “We are trying to create the most tech-savvy supply chain company. We are now India’s largest supply chain company. From a run-rate basis, our revenue will make us the largest supply chain company in India,” Barasia said. Delhivery, according to him, would have reached almost break-even had it not seen the near washout months of April and May this fiscal. Its core e-commerce business has been “extremely profitable”. But Delhivery is making investments in new businesses as it eyes a wider play in the business-to-business (B2B) segment, which has been growing at 100%. In the current festive season, it is clocking 1.7-1.8 million daily shipments. It works across sectors like consumer electronics, fashion, FMCG and select industrial sectors like auto. Blue Dart, in the previous fiscal, had clocked 42 crore domestic deliveries, while Delhivery said it recorded 27-27.5 crore e-commerce shipments. “Our focus is to continue growing our e-commerce business as the market grows, but the real thrust is making sure our B2B business grows much faster as the opportunity is so large,” said Barasia. Over 12-24 months, Barasia’s objective is to have an equal contribution from its e-commerce and B2B businesses. Currently, e-commerce business is 63-65% of its total business. He added that the company is looking at acquisition to aid its B2B business. “There is some inorganic opportunity possible for us in the B2B space,” he added. On its IPO preparations, Barasia said it was ready for one based on the current set of regulations even though the industry expects that the government and regulators like Sebi will announce some changes. “If we are going to list in 12 months, we will list within the realms of whatever the regulations hold true at that point of time. As of now, we are preparing to list based on the current regulatory framework,” added Barasia. He said the company has been doing its “internal homework”, working with audit firms for preparedness for an IPO. It is yet to appoint a banker for the process, but the same will be decided by its board closer to the process. “There is no doubt Delhivery has shown a phenomenal revenue growth trajectory over the past few years, but the key aspect is whether they have been able to find a route to profitability. Price competition in the e-commerce delivery space has been very intense over the years and that has impacted negatively even the traditional market leaders like Blue Dart,” said Sanjiv Kathuria, a senior industry consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/will-be-top-delivery-co-by-revenue-delhivery/articleshow/78921446.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 29, 2020||Patna||Judicial services assn seeks action against erring cops||PATNA: The Bihar Judicial Services Association has written to DGP seeking action against erring police officers who had allegedly manhandled and abused additional district judge, Dinesh Kumar Pradhan, while he was on an evening walk in Aurangabad town on October 21. Association’s secretary Ajit Kumar Singh, in his letter on Saturday, has requested strict action against police officers who, during a flag-march for assembly election, made the judge run for his life after chasing him up to the ground floor of his apartment in Aurangabad. Aurangabad DM Saurabh Jorawal said an inquiry has been ordered by the SP in the matter. “Necessary action would be taken after receiving the report,” Jorawal said. However, he denied any manhandling with the judicial officer. Singh has also vented his anguish that Pradhan (55), had even submitted a written application against erring police personnel with Town police station for lodging an FIR but no action has been taken on that yet. As per the letter accessed by TOI, Singh alleged that police officers had asked Pradhan why he was standing on the road. When he replied that he was standing on the footpath and identified himself, the police officers hurdled abuses and signalled paramilitary personnel with them to raise lathis on him. Pradhan had to run from the spot. Singh also alleged that security personnel even threatened to shoot the senior judge. Singh on Tuesday said despite evidences, including CCTV camera footage of the incident, no departmental or legal action has yet been taken yet despite the matter had been reported to SP as well as the DGP. “Footage leads to only conclusion that local police along with CRPF personnel had resorted to high-handedness,” Singh said. “This is an unfortunate incident which warrants adequate action on the part of police department to instill confidence in common people,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/judicial-services-assn-seeks-action-against-erring-cops/articleshow/78899756.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Residents to shift temple for airport taxi track||Surat: After years of tussle, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) finally convinced the residents of Dumas and Bhimpore villages to agree to shift a small temple of Goddess Amba to make way for the much-awaited work on a parallel taxi track in Surat airport. With citizens relenting to shifting of the temple, AAI will construct a new temple outside the operational area of extension of the apron and construction work is likely to start soon. A tender for shifting and construction of the temple has already been issued on October 23 and AAI will invest Rs 10 lakh to construct and complete the new temple within two months. Airport director Aman Saini said, “The shifting of the temple will pave way for the construction of a parallel taxi track.” The apron and parallel taxi track will be 2,905 metre long and 30 metre wide at the airport. The Rs 63 crore worth work was awarded on July 31, 2019 with a target to complete on February 2, 2021. However, work got stalled due to the people’s opposition to shifting the temple, popularly known as the Laalbai Mata temple, which has been existing there for many years now. Every year, devotees from nearby villages in Bhimpore and Dumas flock to the temple during Navratri festival to offer their prayers. Two years ago, the clash of interest erupted after the airport authorities denied villagers entry at the temple. To register their ire, angry villagers played garba outside the terminal building to protest AAI's decision. “If the AAI is willing to shift the temple, we don’t have any problem. But, we still believe that there will be a curse by the Goddess,” warned Mahesh Patel alias Lala, a resident of Dumas. Lala told TOI, “This temple is very old and holds a place of prominence for Dumas, Bhimpore and Magdalla villagers. Much before the airport was constructed, a farmer had found a red stone while tiling the land. He established the stone in his farm field and named it Laalbai Mata.” Choriyasi MLA, Zankhana Patel told TOI, “Once the temple is shifted, villagers can visit the temple whenever they want.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/residents-to-shift-temple-for-airport-taxi-track/articleshow/78918737.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||CM felicitates ITBP expedition teams for scaling peaks||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday felicitated two expedition teams of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) which scaled high peaks. The first team, consisting 26 ITBP personnel, hoisted the tricolour on a 21,615-foot-high peak of Gangotri-II. The second team, including 17 ITBP personnel and three climbers from Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, scaled six high peaks, all above 6,000 feet, of the higher Himalayas. “A 26-member team of the ITBP climbers, including four officers, hoisted the tricolour on a 21,615-foot-high peak of Gangotri-II under the leadership of Deputy Commandant Dipender Maan. The second expedition team was headed by Aparna Kumar, DIG sector headquarter,” said an ITBP official, while adding that the Gangotri peak is one of the toughest peaks to scale due to low oxygen level. Notably, the ITBP has successfully completed over 214 mountaineering expeditions since its raising. “The mountaineering expeditions of the ITBP under tough circumstances are extraordinary. This force protects the country in the toughest climatic conditions with exemplary dedication,” said CM in the flag-off ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-felicitates-itbp-expedition-teams-for-scaling-peaks/articleshow/78918238.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Nomination of SP-backedInd candidate cancelled||Lucknow: In a fresh twist to the Rajya Sabha elections after a day-long political drama in which four BSP MLAs submitted their affidavit before the returning officer disowning their signatures as proposers for their party candidate Ramji Gautam, the candidature of SP-supported independent candidate Prakash Bajaj was rejected on Wednesday. The nomination of Gautam, however, was found to be correct. Vidhan Sabha sources told TOI that Bajaj’s nomination was rejected as there was discrepancy in the name of one of the proposers. Wednesday was the last day of scrutiny of nomination papers. As the nomination of BSP candidate was found to be correct, now there are 10 candidates left in the fray for as many as seats and all of them, including eight from BJP and one each from SP and BSP, are likely to sail through without voting. Bajaj, a corporate lawyer, who entered the fray at the last moment with the support from Samajwadi Party, told reporters after his disqualification that he would move the high court for relief on Thursday. “A mistake in a proposer’s name can’t be a ground for disqualification as per People’s Representation Act,” he told reporters. Vidhan Sabha sources said that the name of his proposer, Thakurdwara MLA Nawab Jaan was wrongly mentioned as Nawab Shah. With this, the number of MLAs proposing the name of Bajaj came down to nine, after which the returning officer, Ashok Kumar, who is also special secretary, Vidhan sabha, cancelled the candidature of Bajaj. Sources said that the affidavit of Bajaj was also found to be incomplete as some of the columns were left blank. With this, only 10 candidates have been left in the fray for 10 seats. If Bajaj doesn’t get any relief from the court, all the candidates would be elected unopposed. The development came on a day when four BSP MLAs — Aslam Chaudhary, Aslam Raini, Hakam Lal Bind, Hargovind Jatav — informed the returning officer that their signatures as proposers of party candidate Ramji Gautam were forged. Official sources in Vidhan Sabha, however, said that the candidature of Gautam was valid as findings suggest that these BSP MLAs were present at the time when the party candidate filed his nomination. “Their allegation does not hold any ground as they appear to have changed their mind a day after proposing Gautam’s name,” a senior official in Vidhan Sabha told TOI. Gautam, therefore, the official said, has the support of at least 10 MLAs and can’t be disqualified. The Samajwadi Party has been sensing a growing bonhomie between the BJP and the BSP, which did not have the adequate number — each candidate requires the support of 37 MLA — to get its candidate elected to the Rajya Sabha. The BSP has a strength of 18 MLAs in the UP assembly. It was following this, the SP propped up independent candidate Prakash Bajaj. “The BJP had been spreading confusion over fielding an additional candidate. We could not have allowed our 11 votes to go waste. Nevertheless, the cancellation of Bajaj candidature is surprising,” said a SP legislator. The party would support Bajaj if he moves court against his disqualification, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nomination-of-sp-backedind-candidate-cancelled/articleshow/78921709.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 29, 2020||Rajkot||Rape accused, his aide arrested for thefts||Rajkot: An absconding accused wanted in a rape case of a minor girl and his aide were arrested on Wednesday from the outskirts of Sanava village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district. The duo is also involved in number of robberies in different villages of Rapar, said police. Police said they had already launched a manhunt for Pravin Bhut (34) ever since a complaint of rape was lodged against him. Bhut had made a 16-year-old girl elope with him with the promise of marriage and had allegedly raped her on the outskirts of Navugam in Rapar taluka, a month ago. Bhut had been absconding ever since the complaint was registered against him. “We received a tip-off that Bhut was hiding in Sanava village. When we raided his house, we caught him with his accomplice Suresh Akhiyani (35),” said K G Zala, Rapar deputy superintendent of police. The police recovered gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 7.68 lakh and Rs 35,000 cash. “The accused duo said they had stolen the jewellery after breaking into two locked houses in Gagodar and Palasava villages of Rapar taluka last month. They had also robbed a man at knife point of Rs 35,000 on the outskirts of Bedarva village in Rapar taluka,” added Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-accused-his-aide-arrested-for-thefts/articleshow/78919064.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Rajyotsava award winner says honour will encourage folk artists||HAVERI: Never in his wildest dreams had Channabasappa Bendigeri, an 84-year-old folk drum artist, imagined that he would be chosen for the prestigious Rajyotsava Award. So, when he saw his name in the list released through the media on Wednesday morning, he couldn’t believe his eyes and ears. “I am extremely happy that the government has recognised the age-old rural traditional art and my service in the field. I had not applied for the award. It came to me on its own. This award should encourage the co-artists and the younger generations involved in the art,” said Bendigeri, who hails from Masanakatti village in Hanagal taluk. Bendigeri has been playing folk drum instruments in bayalata since the past six decades. He has performed in more than 500 shows including well-known platforms and TV shows. Recognition for social serviceNarayan Subray Hegde 87, who has been chosen for the Rajyotsava Award under the social service category, hails from Kundaragi in Uttara Kannada district. Popularly known as NS Hedge, he has rendered yeoman service in the coopertaive sector. He has worked as a director in many cooperative societies including Totagar Society of Sirsi, APMC Yellapur, and Swarnavalli Maha Samsthan. Hegde has also worked extensively in the fields of education, literature, religion and politics. He was the first chairman of Uttara Kannada district Kannada Sahitya Parishat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rajyotsava-award-winner-says-honour-will-encourage-folk-artists/articleshow/78919353.cms||---
October 29, 2020||---||Rural voters prefer ‘gamchhas’ to face masks in Bihar||PATNA: Gamchha, a trademark scarf used by men in rural areas of Bihar, also came handy in the Covid times as many people preferred the long piece of cotton or khadi cloth in place of the mandatory mask while visiting a polling booth to cast vote in the first phase of state assembly elections on Wednesday. The all-weather gamchha is not only used to wipe or cover the face in either summer or biting cold, but it is fast becoming a fashion signature for some of the politicians in Bihar as well. Even PM Narendra Modi uses a designer gamchha during electioneering. Chief minister Nitish Kumar is so fond of khadi gamchha that during electioneering recently, he asked his party workers not to present him with garlands but gamchhas. The sophisticated people use the one made of white linen. Most people were seen covering their faces with a gamchha instead of face mask at and outside the polling booths as well. Abhishek Kumar, a polling officer at Kusvan Anganwadi kendra in Masaurhi in rural Patna told this newspaper that around 99% men were covering their faces with gamchha while only 1% were using face masks while visiting the booth to cast their votes. “As the polling station falls in rural area, people were coming without masks. Even though we distributed face masks, they preferred to wear their gamchhas. Women, however, used their sari pallu (corner) to cover their faces and only 10% of them used face masks. We ensured that everyone maintained Covid safety protocols by covering their faces at polling booths,” Abhishek said. Sati Ram (59), a native of Baliari village in Bikram assembly segment said, “I carry a gamchha since the age of 21. It is useful in all seasons. I feel suffocation whenever I put a mask on my face.” Shambhukant (55) of Ranipur in Paliganj echoed the same feeling. “Our traditional ghamchha is the best to keep the virus and germs away. I always keep one to wrap my face whenever required,” he said. The urban population also flaunts the trendy gamchha in different shades during the polls. Even the youths were seen wearing white linen gamchha with ‘Banarasi’ border. Dharmendra Sinha (29) of Nawada in Barh said he loves white gamchha, especially with red or orange border. “Since the Covid outbreak, I carry a gamchha because there are chances of losing my face mask,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rural-voters-prefer-gamchhas-to-face-masks-in-bihar/articleshow/78918900.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Single website for HSRP booking, daily slots capped at 500 till Diwali||NEW DELHI: From November 1, online booking will reopen for obtaining high-security registration plates (HSRP) or colour-coded fuel stickers, with vehicle owners having a choice of getting these fixed at a nearby dealer’s shop or at home or office. However, in the first fortnight, there will be a cap on the number of daily bookings. “There will be a single URL for the fixing of HSRP and colour-coded fuel stickers,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI on Wednesday. Those who have vehicles registered in neighbouring states will also have the option of getting both fixed in Delhi, even if the booking is done for the other state. The single link will be available through the website of Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers, www.siam.in, for which National Informatics Centre (NIC) will provide technical support. Only 500 bookings will be accepted daily till Diwali, following which the operations will be scaled up. Dealerships witness rush till Diwali when more vehicle sales take place and the footfall usually comes down after the festival, a source said. Gahlot said that after booking, vehicle owners will get a real-time update of each stage of the processing through SMSes and will be notified at least two days before the date of appointment. The minister recently convened a meeting to review the preparations made by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and dealers in Delhi to affix HSRP and fuel stickers on old vehicles in a time-bound manner. In early October, Gahlot suspended the online appointment process after a large number of vehicle owners had complained about not getting either on the allotted date and time. Gahlot said other technical issues, such as non-availability of dealers of some automobile manufacturers or the Vahan software not reflecting vehicle registration details in some cases, had either been sorted or were being worked out. “We have issued strict directions to sensitise the vendors and dealers of HSRP to ensure that customers do not face any delay or inconvenience of any kind. In under two weeks, we have increased the number of outlets from 150 to 658,” Gahlot said. Instructions have been issued to open outlets if an area doesn’t have any and hire a shop for some time for the process, he added. “The grievance redressal mechanism is also being strengthened so that any dealer who defaults can be directly monitored and will be answerable to the department. If we receive complaints, we will take action,” Gahlot said. The meeting was attended by transport department officials, NIC, OEMs, SIAM and HSRP manufacturers. SIAM has been roped in to streamline the fitment process and ensure there is no lack of coordination between OEMs and HSRP manufacturers. Gahlot had earlier convened a meeting with SIAM and OEMs. The transport department, in a follow-up meeting with vendors and NIC, had also reviewed the process to expedite the process of stabilisation of the single-window portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/single-website-for-hsrp-booking-daily-slots-capped-at-500-till-diwali/articleshow/78921450.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 29, 2020||Patna||Opposition slams Nitish, Sushil Kumar Modi for Munger police firing||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan leaders held a joint press conference on Wednesday and slammed the state government over the alleged police firing and violence in Munger during an idol immersion event in which a 22-year-old man was killed and several others injured. RJD leader and the opposition CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, as well as LJP chief Chirag Paswan, compared the alleged firing on people carrying Goddess Durga’s idol for immersion with that of the “firing by General Dyer” in Jallianwala Bagh. “Who permitted them to open fire? Who permitted them to become General Dyer? The incident occurred right under the noses of chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the home minister and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who does nothing, but tweets,” said Tejashwi. In a separate statement, Chirag echoed a similar view saying, “Who is responsible for the firing and lathi-charge incident in Munger? Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is now playing the role of General Dyer who ordered the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. I am sure CM is responsible for the incident, and there should be an investigation.” Earlier on Tuesday, he had dubbed the Nitish government as a “Talibani regime” for firing at people and demanded sacking of the Munger SP in a tweet. The grand alliance leaders gathered for the press meet, including Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, not only demanded the removal of the Munger SP and DM but also sought a probe under the supervision of Patna high court. Talking about the video clips of the incident, which took place on Monday evening, Tejashwi said, “The video clips are horrifying and heart-wrenching. We condemn such acts. No one could understand why police suddenly started thrashing people who were sitting quietly during the immersion.” AICC general secretary Surjewala dubbed CM Nitish as ‘Nirday Kumar’ and deputy CM Sushil Modi as ‘Nirmam Modi’. “Today PM Narendra Modi is in Bihar. If any self-respect is left, then he should dismiss this government,” said Surjewala. CPI-ML politburo member Kavita Krishnan criticized the police for the violence. “They could have talked to people instead of lathi-charge and firing. This is not the first time that such an incident has occurred in Bihar,” said Kavita citing 2011 incident of Forbesganj firing . CPM leader Awadhesh Kumar said people will express their anger over this incident in the Bihar election. Asked about the accusations made by the Mahagathbandhan leaders, BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar said Tejashwi and Surjewala should know the model code of conduct is in force in Bihar and decision regarding transfer of officials will be taken by the Election Commission. “Deputy CM Sushil Modi has also already tweeted to EC to take cognizance of the incident,” said Devesh, adding, “This incident is unfortunate and sad, but an attempt to politicize this issue is equally condemnable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-slams-nitish-sumo-for-munger-police-firing/articleshow/78926507.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 29, 2020||Allahabad||Construction of Buxi Bund ROB from November||PRAYAGRAJ: Commuters from areas like Daraganj, Allahpur and Alopibagh will soon spend lesser time being stuck in traffic jams as authorities get ready to begin with the construction of the Buxi Bund railway overbridge (ROB) from November after its blueprint was approved recently. Being constructed at a cost of Rs 53 crore, the overbridge has been a long-standing demand of local residents and will cut the travelling time of commuters heading to Katra, Mumforganj, Old Cantonment and Phaphamau. UP State Bridge Corporation Limited (UPSBCL) would start with the construction of the 800-meter ROB from November. Beginning from the vegetable market, the ROB would extend up to Kamla Nehru hospital and will also pass over Hashimpur Crossing. The construction of the ROB will also benefit those coming from Jhunsi. Once the overbridge is ready, the commute between Jhunsi and Allahabad University would be reduced by around three kilometres. Local residents from Chhota Bagadha area would be benefited from it too. Presently, commuters coming to the city via the route have to cross two railway crossings. With the doubling of tracks between Prayag Junction and Prayagraj Junction and Prayagraj Sangam being turned into an active railway station, the two manned railway crossings on the road to Buxi Bund are closed many times. The delay often leads to traffic jams. “The blueprint of the ROB is ready and has been approved. The construction of this ROB is expected to begin in November,” said UPSBCL general manager RK Singh. The announcement of the ROB was made by the deputy CM, Keshav Prasad Maurya. Earlier, the construction was to start around September, but was delayed. It is estimated that the overbridge would be completed within a year. Although authorities are tight-lipped, but by going with UPSBCL’s records — it constructed five ROBs during Kumbh 2019 — this overbridge would take around a year to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/construction-of-buxi-bund-rob-from-nov/articleshow/78917593.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Patna||All political parties, netas claim victory||PATNA: Politicians cutting across the party lines claimed that in the first phase, voting was done in favour of their candidates, which would pave way for their victory on November 10. Most of them congratulated the voters for exercising their franchise. JD (U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh congratulated everyone for coming out and voting amid Covid-19 pandemic, especially women voters. He said a large number of female voters on booths showed the impact of work done by chief minister Nitish Kumar. He further said the fight was between the 15-year rule of Nitish-led NDA government and that of Lalu-Rabri regime and added that the development work done by Nitishji with justice has left a deep impact on people’s mind. “The very first phase has shown the mood of people. Once again the NDA government under the leadership of Nitish Kumar will be back with a huge mandate,” Singh said. Even BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal echoed the return of NDA government in Bihar. He said, “The first phase election has made it clear that the NDA government is going to be formed. NDA contestants are getting people’s blessings.” However, Mahagatbandhan leaders claimed that their government will be formed this time. RJD national spokesperson Manoj Jha said their alliance had got the people’s blessings and they will win at least 55 seats. “Add five more. On the other hand, if NDA gets even 10 seats, it will be a big thing. Same will be the trend in the second and third phase ,” Jha added. Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala also predicted Mahagathbandhan’s victory. Through his tweet he said the change which people wanted was clear on the face of voters. The first phase voting is the first step towards the development of Bihar with the Grand Alliance. On the other hand, LJP national president Chirag Paswan in a tweet said that he had interacted with all his contestants after the first phase voting and they are happy. He said, “November 10 will bring a new dawn for Bihar. Voting done for a change will make your future better. All LJP candidates who win will support the BJP and form a BJP-LJP government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-political-parties-netas-claim-victory/articleshow/78918867.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 29, 2020||Patna||Congress sniffs revival chances in lost citadel W Champaran||BETTIAH: At a rally in Daunaha village in West Champaran’s Valmikinagar assembly segment on Wednesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called the name of Deepak Gupta, a Champaran boy till recently employed with the Delhi Metro. Rahul told the crowd that PM Narendra Modi’s actions had rendered Deepak jobless. “There is no metro in Bihar,” Rahul taunted. In an instant, Gupta became the mascot for the Mahagathbandhan’s war cry on joblessness amongst Bihari youth many retrenched like him, many more still looking for their first job. Rahul thereby added to CM hopeful and ally Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s full-throated promise of providing 10 lakh government jobs to the Bihari youth. Congress is contesting seven out of West Champaran’s nine seats. The Tejashwi-led chorus promising jobs is just one of the strengths that the Congress finds itself armed with as it contests so many seats for the first time in over three decades. “We are attaining the winning edge on at least five seats,” said Suresh Mishra, former MLA from neighbouring Sugauli. Congress spokesperson and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “All our candidates have plunged into proactive campaigning. Plus, we have put in motion smooth coordination with our alliance partners RJD and the Left parties at the booth level.” Political observers said a party that once held sway on the Brahmin-Muslim-Dalit combination expects rejuvenation in the face of anti-incumbency against the Nitish Kumar government and a sudden Brahmin revolt against BJP that, for the first time, has not fielded a single Brahmin in the district. In contrast, RJD has picked a Brahmin for Lauriya, the only seat it is contesting here. Among local factors, Congress sniffs a chance of upsetting the BJP applecart in Chanpatia where its nominee, Abhishek Ranjan, an OBC bania, is threatening to walk away with BJP’s Vaishya vote. In Baghaha, BJP rebel Raghaw Sharan Pandey is seen to be augmenting the chances of Congress’s Jayesh Mangal Singh. “Let them be overconfident. They will realise the folly of underestimating us on counting day,” local MP and Bihar BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal told this reporter. The BJP, however, is not taking the Congress-RJD exuberance lightly. It has geared up to the challenge with a multi-pronged attack from carpet-bombing West Champaran with star campaigners, holding roadshows and most importantly, unleashing small bands of cadre into a door-to-door campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-sniffs-revival-chances-in-lost-citadel-w-champaran/articleshow/78919040.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
October 29, 2020||Patna||Covid fails to dampen voters’ spirit||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic failed to dampen the enthusiasm of thousands of voters, who exercised their franchise in Patna district, during the first phase of the state assembly polls on Wednesday. People stepped out of their houses in masks and underwent thermal screening at the entrance of the polling stations. They stood in long queues and used hand sanitisers. Before pressing the electronic voting machines (EVM), they wore gloves and disposed them of in dustbins. 44-year-old Ashutosh Kumar Singh, a native of old Thakurbari area in Mokama, appreciated the administration for making all necessary arrangements. “The security personnel made sure that no voter entered the polling booth without wearing masks,” he said. A resident of Hussainganj in Barh, Vinita Devi, told this newspaper, “My hands were sanitized twice — before entering the booth and pressing the EVM. The polling personnel used a cotton bud to apply indelible ink on my finger and disposed it of immediately.” The 37-year-old said the entire process took only 15 minutes because the polling station was not crowded. Vicenarian Shivam Kumar, who lives in Masaurhi, took all precautionary measures to avoid contact with others. “I carried my own sanitizer and gloves which I threw in a bin outside the polling booth after use.” Meanwhile, there were some who were disappointed with the arrangements made at polling booths in rural areas. Manish Kumar, a native of Mera village in Paliganj, claimed that there were no sanitizers and gloves at the booth he went to. “Social distancing norms went for a toss as there were no security personnel deployed at the polling station. I had to sanitize myself after reaching home,” he complained. 39-year-old Tarannum Afrin, a native of Bikram, pointed out that there was no arrangement for thermal screening at the polling booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-fails-to-dampen-voters-spirit/articleshow/78918958.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘An Aarogya Vatika in each household’||LUCKNOW: An ‘Aarogya Vatika’ should be set up in each household and park to ensure good health of every individual as these medicinal plants not only cure diseases, but also boost one’s immunity levels, said MLA Neeraj Bora on Wednesday. The MLA was speaking during a programme organised by Navbharat Times (NBT) to set up an ‘Aarogya Vatika’. The Aarogya Vatika was set up by planting medicinal plants like tulsi, giloi, lemongrass and ashwagandha in Priyadarshini ward in Faizullahganj. “Medicinal plants like amla and tulsi have several health benefits. There is a need to spread awareness about these plants and NBT is successfully doing it,” said Soni Singh, a resident of Shyam Vihar Colony. Keshavnagar resident Hemlata Singh said, “Aarogya Vatika should reach every household, so that people can stay healthy by using herbs and medicinal plants in their daily life.” NBT will be setting up Aarogya Vatikas in different parts of the city. If you are interested in getting one set up in your locality then drop a mail to nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-should-be-set-up-in-each-home/articleshow/78921687.cms||---
October 29, 2020||---||Opposition slams Nitish, Sushil Kumar Modi for Munger police firing||PATNA: The Mahagathbandhan leaders held a joint press conference on Wednesday and slammed the state government over the alleged police firing and violence in Munger during an idol immersion event in which a 22-year-old man was killed and several others injured. RJD leader and the opposition CM face, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, as well as LJP chief Chirag Paswan, compared the alleged firing on people carrying Goddess Durga’s idol for immersion with that of the “firing by General Dyer” in Jallianwala Bagh. “Who permitted them to open fire? Who permitted them to become General Dyer? The incident occurred right under the noses of chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is also the home minister and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who does nothing, but tweets,” said Tejashwi. In a separate statement, Chirag echoed a similar view saying, “Who is responsible for the firing and lathi-charge incident in Munger? Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is now playing the role of General Dyer who ordered the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. I am sure CM is responsible for the incident, and there should be an investigation.” Earlier on Tuesday, he had dubbed the Nitish government as a “Talibani regime” for firing at people and demanded sacking of the Munger SP in a tweet. The grand alliance leaders gathered for the press meet, including Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, not only demanded the removal of the Munger SP and DM but also sought a probe under the supervision of Patna high court. Talking about the video clips of the incident, which took place on Monday evening, Tejashwi said, “The video clips are horrifying and heart-wrenching. We condemn such acts. No one could understand why police suddenly started thrashing people who were sitting quietly during the immersion.” AICC general secretary Surjewala dubbed CM Nitish as ‘Nirday Kumar’ and deputy CM Sushil Modi as ‘Nirmam Modi’. “Today PM Narendra Modi is in Bihar. If any self-respect is left, then he should dismiss this government,” said Surjewala. CPI-ML politburo member Kavita Krishnan criticized the police for the violence. “They could have talked to people instead of lathi-charge and firing. This is not the first time that such an incident has occurred in Bihar,” said Kavita citing 2011 incident of Forbesganj firing . CPM leader Awadhesh Kumar said people will express their anger over this incident in the Bihar election. Asked about the accusations made by the Mahagathbandhan leaders, BJP state general secretary Devesh Kumar said Tejashwi and Surjewala should know the model code of conduct is in force in Bihar and decision regarding transfer of officials will be taken by the Election Commission. “Deputy CM Sushil Modi has also already tweeted to EC to take cognizance of the incident,” said Devesh, adding, “This incident is unfortunate and sad, but an attempt to politicize this issue is equally condemnable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/oppn-slams-nitish-sumo-for-munger-police-firing/articleshow/78919634.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 29, 2020||Patna||Many vote for jobs, education & better health facilities||MASAURHI (PATNA): The enthusiasm among the first-time voters and the octogenarians was the same as people braved the Covid-19 fear to cast their votes in the first phase of Bihar assembly election on Wednesday. The Election Commission had made elaborate arrangements of masks, sanitisers and gloves at polling booths. Anganwadi, ASHA workers and ANMs were deployed at the booths to sanitise the voters’ hands and provide them with gloves while maintaining social distancing at booths. Packets of earbuds were also provided to polling officers for marking the fingers of those coming to votes. Presiding and polling officers as well as security personnel were provided with face masks, shields, gloves, alcohol-based sanitisers. However, presiding officer Sanjeev Lochan Mishra at booth number 203(A) in Masaurhi said they had been provided with less than 50% of the required gloves for 655 electors. Booth level officer Amit Prakash said 1800 electors were registered at booth number 203, 203(A) and 204 but only 200 gloves were supplied to them for each booth. Shivani Kumari, a first-time voter from Nadwan in Masaurhi assembly seat, said she voted for improvement in education standards in the state. “We need employment. Facilities at government hospital near our village are poor. We have to pay bribe at police stations for getting an FIR lodged. These things need to change,” she said. Anita Devi (55), also from Nadwan, said she was expecting employment for her husband and sons. Upendra Sharma and Narendra Prasad Sharma at Nadwan said they voted to improve the law and order situation. “Earlier, we could not even think of returning to Masaurhi from Patna after sunset. Now we travel even at midnight,” they said and added that the next government should focus on providing proper electricity to farmers for irrigation. Manoj Kumar of Sarwa in Masaurhi said his vote should get good health facilities at government hospitals. “The government hospital near our village has no facilities,” he rued. Sanju Kumari, along with her husband Jitendra Prasad, had the country’s safety as the top priority. “Though this is assembly election, but we voted so that the country remains in safe hands,” they added. Presiding and polling officers had comparatively less pressure as there were no long queues. Brajesh Kumar, presiding officer of booth number 52(A) in Masaurhi, said, “Earlier, we didn’t even have time to leave our seats. But this time we are conducing election in relaxed manner as there is less crowd at a booth.” Polling officer-I Mohamamd Raghib Hussain at booth number 45(A) said he thought conducting election would be tough, but it was much easier. Voters without masks were not allowed to enter the booths. Village women were spotted using their stoles or sari to cover mouth and nose while men used gamchhas. At Sarwa in Masaurhi, paramilitary personnel didn’t allow an elector to enter the booth as he had no mask. A co-villager helped him with his towel. At a Masaurhi block office booth, an anganwadi worker, Asha Kumari, alleged that she had been deployed at the entrance for sanitising all those coming to vote, but she was not getting paid. “One can have food at booth only on payment. I reported for duty at 6.30am and has been on duty without eating anything. There is no provision to mark my attendance. Authorities should have paid me for food,” she complained. CISF man Ram Singh said he provided his share of food to the woman. Presiding officer Brajesh Kumar said they don’t have any official communication about deployment of these anganwadi workers at booth. “Only senior authorities can tell how they were deployed,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-vote-for-jobs-education-better-health-facilities/articleshow/78918842.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 29, 2020||Patna||‘A nip in the air, but winter conditions only by mid-Nov’ in Bihar||PATNA: The residents have started feeling a nip in the air though meteorologists say winter conditions are likely to set in Bihar by mid-November. Minimum temperature at most places in the state remains less than 20 degrees C. In fact, Gaya was the coldest place in Bihar on Wednesday with minimum temperature at 14.4 degrees C, while Patna had 18 degrees C. Weathermen say the minimum temperature is likely to remain in the range of 15-18 degrees C and the maximum in 30-34 degrees C over the next five days. Patna Metrological Centre meteorologist Sanjay Kumar said that temperature is likely to be lower in south-west Bihar compared to north-eastern parts of the state. “Minimum as well as maximum temperature will gradually fall. Winter conditions are likely to set in by mid-November,” he said. He added: “The minimum temperature in south- eastern parts of the state is likely to be lower than 20 degrees C, but it is expected to remain higher than 20 degrees C in north-eastern parts over the next five days. It is likely to remain in the range of 16-19 degrees C in Patna.” He also predicted rise in mercury around Sunday and Monday owing to change in wind direction from westerly to easterly. The onset of winter has also led to a deterioration in the city’s air quality. On Tuesday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Patna, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), stood at 195, but it deteriorated to 204 (poor category) on Wednesday. “AQI level increases in Patna every year with the fall in temperature in winter. The main reason behind poor air quality primarily caused by dust particles is alluvial soil because of geographical positioning near the Ganga,” Bihar State Pollution Control Board chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh said. When asked about the initiative to check the pollution level, Ghosh said, “It is not possible for any single department to control the growing level of pollution. We have issued the guidelines to the district administrations to stay alert and stop waste burning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-nip-in-the-air-but-winter-conditions-only-by-mid-nov/articleshow/78919642.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Business||Bus sales skid as schools shut, most people WFH||Chennai: The pandemic and lockdown has dealt a body blow to the bus market which has seen numbers drop by over 90% in the first six months of the financial year. Bus sales dropped from 32,235 units in April-September 2019 to just 2,569 units in the same period this year. Bus marketers say schools being shut and people working from home as well as state transport units facing financial issues has derailed bus sales. “Buses are in really bad shape. It is a seasonal business that stretches from end-February to mid-May which we missed this year. With schools shut there is no demand for school buses, people are working from home so there is no demand for staff movement fleet. Worse, the STUs (state transport undertakings) don’t have money to order new vehicles and people are preferring to use personal transport. We are concerned about this because there is nothing on the horizon at all until the next fiscal,” said PB Balaji, group CFO, Tata Motors. Bus sales in September were just 670 units, down from 3,323 units in September 2019. Bus makers are already looking at exports to keep their idle lines busy even as a handful of STUs show interest in renewing their bus fleet. “Things are not good but there are some public-private partnership orders coming in. Both BEST of Mumbai and the MP state transport unit have shown interest for 1,000 buses each. Overall, we are still selling 150-200 buses a month. We are also pushing exports but as of now the scenario is very bleak,” said Vinod Aggarwal, managing director & chief executive officer, Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles. Bus demand actually did not crash badly during the slowdown of 2019 primarily because the change in axle norms, which impacted medium and heavy truck demand, did not concern buses (see table). In contrast, the 3.5 tonne and above truck sales went from 5,50,000 units in FY2018-19 to 3,40,000 units in FY19-20 and just 50,000 units in H1FY20-21 (down from 1,90,000 units in April-September 2019). According to ICRA the bus market will pick up a little and close FY21 with 40% drop in sales. “With stress on state finances due to Covid-19, ICRA expects limited demand from the SRTU segment in FY2021. Additionally, aversion to public transportation, and curtailed capex by corporates and educational institutes are likely to impact demand from Staff Carrier, School/College and Bus Aggregator segments. Accordingly, we expect a sharp decline in bus sales in FY2021,” said Shamsher Dewan, VP, ICRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bus-sales-skid-as-schools-shut-most-people-wfh/articleshow/78919754.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 61k mark in U’khand, Kedarnath MLA tests +ve||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 304 fresh infections of novel coronavirus on Wednesday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 61,261 in the state. Among those found infected on the day was Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat. NS Khatri, nodal officer of Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, said that MLA Rawat was admitted to the Doon Hospital on Wednesday afternoon and has been kept in the Covid-19 ward. “He is asymptomatic and his vital stats are also stable,” added Dr Khatri. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that the maximum of 79 cases of the virus were once again reported from Dehradun, followed by 47 cases from Nainital, 38 from Pauri, 29 from Haridwar, 23 from Rudraprayag, 23 from Chamoli, 18 from Udham Singh Nagar, 14 from Tehri, 10 from Bageshwar, eight from Champawat, six from Uttarkashi, five from Pithoragarh, and four from Almora. Apart from the new positive cases, two deaths were also reported in the state, taking the Covid-19 toll to 1,009. “With 463 people recovering from the Covid-19 infection on Wednesday, the total number of cured cases reached 56,073 in the state,” added Tripathi. Meanwhile, a raid was conducted at the Jan Aushadhi Kendra (generic medicine store) of Tehri’s Baurari district hospital on Wednesday. The raid was conducted on the orders of the district administration after it received the information that the store owner was allegedly selling non-generic medicines and drugs that had crossed their expiry dates. The team has reported the alleged crime to the district magistrate and the drug officer for further inquiry and action in the matter. “The Baurari district hospital is being run under the public-private partnership (PPP) mode by the staff of Himalyan Jolly Grant Hospital, Dehradun. I received the information that the Jan Aushadhi Kendra there was selling expired and non-generic medicines but by the time I reached there for inspection, the centre was closed. I will again inspect the centre on Thursday,” said Chandra Prakesh Negi, drug officer, Tehri Garhwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-61k-mark-in-ukhand-kedarnath-mla-tests-ve/articleshow/78918225.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 29, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s arts faculty building to be restored within a year||Vadodara: There is fresh hope that M S University’s iconic heritage building —the Faculty of Arts — which will be restored within a year. On Wednesday, university’s syndicate members discussed minutes of meeting of a high-powered committee for speedy execution of restoration, renovation and preservation of the building which is known for its famed arts faculty dome.The restoration and preservation project of the double-layered dome which has the distinction of being Asia’s second largest masonry dome has been delayed time and again. Designed by British architect R F Chisholm in 1880s, the dome in Baroda is aesthetically more appealing than the Gol Gumbaz dome at Bijapur which is Asia’s largest masonry dome structure. “We had carried out third party inspection of the damage caused to the arts faculty building and what can kind of restoration it requires. For the first time, details of its original maps, structures among others are available with us and have been digitised. The building will now be restored like it was in 1880s,” said syndicate member Mayank Patel. The project includes setting up a gallery at Premanand Hall which will showcase the journey of the building. The syndicate member said that even the exteriors of the faculty dome will be restored like the original. It is worth mentioning here that the exteriors of the dome were once painted with natural colours like ‘haldi’ but vanished with time. When the university’s construction division had completed phase one of the restoration project of the dome in July 2005, the central dome had already lost its original charm as its original brick colour and the vibrant designs of motifs were no longer visible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-arts-faculty-building-to-be-restored-within-a-year/articleshow/78918108.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kanpur||Fingerprints of multiple persons on firearms: FSL||KANPUR: The firearms used by slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides had fingerprints of more than one person, suggesting that the firearms were exchanged by the gangster and his aides in killing policemen who had gone to arrest Dubey at Bikru on the night of July 2 & 3, police sources told TOI quoting content of the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report submitted along with the chargesheet in the court recently. This was confirmed by an FSL staff on Wednesday, who said, “Such firearms including pistol, rifle, single and double-barrel gun, besides country-made gun, which are around 10 in numbers had fingerprints of more than one person. It only suggests that the firearms were used by more than one person to kill the police personnel.” “One can say that the gangster and his aides were very shrewd, thus making the task tough for the FSL team to take fingerprints on the firearms and comparing the same with that of the accused,” said a police officer privy to the investigation. The police have till date recovered nearly 12 firearms, including rifles, pistols, double and single-barrel guns, from the gangster’s aides. Meanwhile, the district administration on Tuesday cancelled the arms licences of eight more aides of Dubey. To recall, district authorities soon after Bikru bloodbath had initiated proceedings to cancel as many as 25 arms licences issued to family members and close associates of Dubey. The move had been initiated after it was established that most of these firearms were in the possession of the slain don and his men, and not the licensee. Police stated that most of these firearms were used in the gunbattle in Dubey’s native village, Bikru, on July 2 & 3 night. Eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police (DySP), were shot dead in the ambush. ADM (City) Atul Kumar told reporters that the administration has cancelled the firearm licences of Deepak Dubey, brother of Vikas Dubey, Shrikant Shukla, Ramesh Chandra Dwivedi, Rakesh Kumar and Ravindra Kumar, all residents of Bikru village, besides Madaripurwa resident Suraj Singh and two Basen village resident Ashutosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fingerprints-of-multiple-persons-on-firearms-fsl/articleshow/78918731.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 29, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man gets life in jail for acid attack on ex-wife||RAJKOT: The scars on her face, severely disfigured in acid attack, may not heal soon. On Wednesday, the relief on her face was not visible, but this 30-year-old woman exuded consolation that her brutaliser, none other than her ex-husband, was handed a stringent punishment by the law. In a landmark order, a court in Morbi town on Wednesday sentenced Kalpesh Gadiya, a shopkeeper, to life imprisonment. Principal district and sessions judge, AD Oza, also ordered Gadiya to pay Rs 7.5 lakh as compensation to the victim within a month. Gadiya had resorted to the savagery on February 19, 2018 when his former wife Binta’s was passing from his house in Waghpara area of the town. Gadiya was enraged ever since they got divorced after a brief married life and Binta’s getting married to someone else. In fact, theirs was a love marriage and they got married after a brief courtship. But due to nagging family disputes, the couple got divorced within a few months of marriage. She then married another man, Vishal Adesara, states the FIR lodged with Morbi’s A-division police station on February 20. “Gadiya was unable to digest the fact his former lady-love could marry someone else. Hence he resorted to this brutal acid attack,” said Vijay Jani, district government pleader. He was charged under IPC section 326 A (punishment for acid attack), the minimum jail term for which is 10 years and it extendible up to life term. “The woman’s face is badly disfigured. She can’t see herself in the mirror. The plastic surgery will cost her around Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh,” Jani told TOI. The maximum sentencing under the provision under the law will deter other people from committing such heinous crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-gets-life-in-jail-for-acid-attack/articleshow/78919699.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
October 29, 2020||Business||Sensex drops in global selloff over rising Covid cases||MUMBAI: The global market selloff due to rising Covid-19 infections and a confirmation that there will be no economic stimulus by the US before the November 3 elections spooked Dalal Street investors on Wednesday. The result was that the sensex closed 600 points, or 1.5%, lower at 39,922. HDFC, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys accounted for most of the index’s slide. As many as 26 of the 30 sensex constituents closed in the red, BSE data showed. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, markets around the world plunged on Wednesday as coronavirus infections increased rapidly in Europe and the US. This sparked “fears of possible strict lockdown measures that could damage already fragile economic recoveries”. The uncertainty surrounding the upcoming US presidential elections “has succeeded in triggering a correction in global markets already reeling under Covid-19 spread”, Jasani said in a note.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The day’s selloff on Dalal Street was led by foreign funds with a net selling figure of Rs 1,131 crore, while domestic funds recorded a net inflow of just Rs 1.5 crore. The session also left investors poorer by Rs 1.6 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 157 lakh crore. Religare Broking VP (research) Ajit Mishra also said that the lack of any news on a stimulus in the US kept investors on the edge, while the scheduled derivatives expiry of October month contracts is expected to add to the volatility. Around the world, Nikkei in Japan and Hang Seng in Hong Kong both closed marginally lower but Europe showed extreme weakness from the start and touched 4-6 month lows. In late trades, FTSE in the UK was down 2.7%, while Dax was down 3.9%. And in early trades, Dow Jones was down 2.8%, while Nasdaq was down 3.1%.The broader indices too followed the 1.5% slide in the sensex with BSE 100 down 1.4% and BSE 500 down 1.3%. Mid- and small-cap stocks, however, were relatively steady with BSE’s mid- and small-cap indices both ending down 0.9% each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-drops-in-global-selloff-over-rising-covid-cases/articleshow/78921557.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Agra||UP: Boy, 17, kills ‘ill-tempered father’||AGRA: In a fit of rage, a Class XI student killed his father after the latter thrashed him and his sister, and taking a cue from a popular TV serial ‘Crime Patrol’, he “defaced his body partially and destroyed all material evidence”, besides keeping police on tenterhooks for months. The 17-year-old boy was, however, detained by police in Vrindavan on Wednesday, more than five months after committing the crime. The boy killed his “ill-tempered” father — used to work as a “donation collector” for ISKCON — and misled police for five months in connivance with his mother, Sangeeta Misra (39), who was arrested, too, said police. Mathura superintendent of police (city) Udai Shanker Singh told TOI that both were produced in a court and remanded in judicial custody. They were booked for murder and causing disappearance of evidence of the offence, said the SP. With the mother-son duo in the judicial custody, his 11-year-old sister is left behind alone. She is going to be with her grandmother, for the time being, said sources. In the morning of May 2, Manoj Misra (42) woke up to crashing sound of utensils that fell from his son’s hand, and thrashed his both children, said police, adding unable to control his rage, the boy hit his father on his head with an iron rod and when he fainted, he strangled him with a piece of cloth. On the intervening night of May 2 and 3, with the help of his mother, the boy carried the body on his scooty 5 km away to the jungle behind Vaishnodevi Dham and sprinkled toilet cleaner on it to destroy the identity and used 2 litres petrol in a bid to burn the body, said police. Besides, he burnt all other evidence — the rod and the cloth — in a desolated field, 2.5 km from the crime spot, said police. On May 3, police found the partially burnt body that remained unidentified for almost three weeks as no missing person report was filed in any police station. The family, finally, lodged a missing person complaint on May 27 under pressure from ISKCON officials and three days later the victim’s colleagues identified Manoj with the help of his specks and a few other articles found along with his body, said police. The victim’s co-workers at ISKCON told TOI that Manoj — originally hailed from Patna and had been living in Vrindavan for the past 10 years — was a soft and polite person. The victim’s kin told police that Manoj used to travel to preach Bhagavad Gita and would stay out for long, and hence, they did not doubt his disappearance. The SP said whenever police called Manoj’s son for questioning, he would evade it saying under what provisions of the law they were trying to interrogate him. However, when police checked his mobile phone, they found a history of the boy watching Crime Patrol episodes at least 100 times. Police said after several rounds of questioning, the boy finally broke down and admitted to his crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/boy-17-kills-his-ill-tempered-father-destroys-all-evidence-taking-a-cue-from-tv-crime-serial/articleshow/78918213.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 29, 2020||Meerut||Interstate gang selling fake bulletproof jackets busted||MUZAFFARNAGAR: An interstate gang supplying illegal bulletproof jackets — both fake and real — apart from weapons, was busted, and three jackets — one real, two fake — were recovered by Muzaffarnagar police. The gang leader, who was nabbed by police, used to source the jackets from a contact in Chennai and sold them in Haryana and UP, according to police sources. The sources said, after being tipped off, a police team from Jansath police station raided an eatery in the Jansath area and arrested three accused with three bulletproof jackets and a couple of illegal pistols, including bullets, from them. They were later identified as Sunil Chandra and Maan Singh, both residents of Muzaffarnagar, and Meerut-resident Shyam Kishan. A case was registered against them at Jansath police station and they were sent to jail. The accused used to buy bulletproof jackets at Rs 50,000 from Chennai and sell them at Rs 1.30 lakh. Police are now trying to track their contacts. According to senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav, “They are arms dealers and have been supplying weapons and bulletproof jackets for a long time. We’ve now formed a special police team to crack the case. Further investigation is on.” Sources in Jansath police station said during preliminary interrogation itself, the accused have spilled a lot of information, based on which, police are preparing to go to Chennai to track down the source of the bulletproof jackets. Two weeks ago, police had busted an illegal arms factory and arrested two men from Civil Lines in Muzaffarnagar. Sources said a police team raided a closed brick kiln, where they found a large number of illegal weapons and equipment to manufacture these.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/interstate-gang-selling-fake-bulletproof-jackets-busted/articleshow/78918243.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||After long gap due to Covid-19, govt schools get funding under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan||DEHRADUN: After a long gap due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the government secondary schools of the state were allotted funding under the ‘Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA)’ project. The funds have been released in order to improve the present facilities at the school. The schools have been granted funds based on the number of students in their campus. The total fund, amounting to more than Rs 11 crores, has been distributed to more than 2,000 secondary schools in the range of Rs 12,500-to-Rs 1 lakh. Meanwhile, the SSA has sent a proposal to the education department to conduct classes on trade and employment for students of the secondary classes in nearly 200 state-run schools of Uttarakhand. These business-related academic lessons will be taught to students from Classes IX to XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-long-gap-due-to-covid-19-govt-schools-get-funding-under-samagra-shiksha-abhiyan/articleshow/78918247.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 29, 2020||Meerut||Old guard off poll field, new blood sets up fight for supremacy||Meerut: Bulandshahr Sadar assembly constituency is poised for a multi-cornered contest as besides four major parties – BJP, Congress, SP and BSP – other outfits wielding influence in west UP are also leaving nothing to chance in poll battle.The seat fell vacant after the death of BJP MLA Virendra Sirohi due to illness in March this year. Sirohi had won the seat in a close contest in 2017.After much brainstorming, BJP decided to field Usha Sirohi, widow of Virendra Sirohi from the seat. According to BJP insiders, it was a tough decision for the party as both the sons of the former MLA were vying for ticket to carry forward their father’s political legacy. Usha Sirohi is up against BSP’s Younus Khan, again a new entrant in politics who has inherited the political legacy of his brother Haji Mohammed Aleem Khan, a BSP leader and two-time MLA from the seat, who died under mysterious circumstances in 2018. BSP does not seem to be comfortably placed in the constituency which is dominated by over 1 lakh Muslim and 52,000 Dalit voters, as the Congress, All-India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Azad Samaj Party (ASP) have fielded Muslim candidates.The recent turnout in ASP chief Chandrashekhar Azad's event at Numaish ground in Bulandshahr has sent a message to rivals that his party should not be taken for granted.A resurgent Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) does not want to go down without a fight. The party recently held a series of mahapanchayats in several west UP districts, including one in Bulandshahr. It has been categorically targeting the ruling BJP over the controversial farm bill, law and order and lathi-charge on party vice-president Jayant Chaudhary in Hathras. There are approximately 40,000 Jat voters in Bulandshahr Sadar whose support seems to be divided between the BJP and the RLD.RLD hopes to benefit from its alliance with the Samajwadi Party though it received a setback after Kiranpal Singh, a prominent Jat leader in SP, who switched sides and joined the BJP recently. As of now, only BJP, RLD and ASP have held big events while all other parties are relying on door-to-door campaigns and mohalla meetings.Giving rest to speculations, a source in the Congress confirmed that party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would not campaign in the bypoll.BSP insiders also said their campaign would be a low-key affair. Candidates In The Fray:Usha Sirohi, BJPAfter the death of its sitting MLA Virendra Singh Sirohi, the party has fielded his wife, Usha Sirohi. Her sons, Digvijay and Vinay, were lobbying for ticket for themselves, but the party decided in Usha’s favour.Praveen Singh, RLD-SP allianceSamajwadi Party has left the seat for its ally RLD which has fielded Praveen Kumar Singh as the alliance candidate. Singh is a resident of Bhatauna village in Bulandshahr. He is the son of late Jagbir Singh, who represented UP in Rajya Sabha from April 1974 to April 1980. Jagbir also served as Union minister of state in the ministries of Information and Broadcasting and Defence between August 1977 and June 1980.Mohammad Yunus, BSPMohd Yunus, 49, a resident of Mirchi Tola colony in Bulandshahr. According to his affidavit, Yunus is a ‘crorepati’ and has four cases against him. Sushil Chaudhary, CongressHe has been a Congress member for years and has also contested for the post of nagar palika chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/old-guard-off-poll-field-new-blood-sets-up-fight-for-supremacy/articleshow/78918259.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||‘Bag rly job solely on medical test’: Fake recruitment ad circulated in city||Lucknow: Days after NCR’s Prayagraj railway recruitment cell found a dozen impersonators appearing for railway’s Group D written examination and interview, scores of pamphlets were circulated in Lucknow on Wednesday with claims of assured jobs in Group B, C and D without written examination and interview, but purely on the basis of medical test. The advertisement, which used the official logo of Indian railway, asked aspirants to register themselves online by paying Rs 500 before November 7 and deposit up to Rs 1 lakh as security money — non-refundable once the recruitment is done. The website (railwayprojectsk.in) mentioned the address of Rail Bhavan, New Delhi, and listed four telephone numbers but none was found functional. Taking cognizance of the advertisement, DRM, Northern Railway (Lucknow division) Sanjay Tripathi called for a probe by vigilance and lodging of an FIR with local police. “Often we come across such frivolous and fake advertisements luring unemployed youth. Vigilance has been asked to probe the matter, and if required, local police will be alerted about the fake railway job recruitment advertisement,” the DRM said. According to railway officials, Group B posts are gazetted and commissioned by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and other competent authority, while group C and D posts are non-gazetted and its examination is conducted by railway recruitment cell and comprises of computer-based test (CBT), physical efficiency test (PET) and interview. Recently, NCR’s Prayagraj railway recruitment cell concluded the selection process for around 4,800 Group D vacancies and found that 1,450 failed to clear document, signature, thumb impression and handwriting verification. “During interview, at least a dozen candidates were caught for impersonation. Candidates cleared CBT and PET but failed to answer basic questions like the name of the Prime Minister. At least four candidates confessed in interview that they had hired impersonators to clear the written exam. Six other candidates are also under scanner. One impersonator even appeared for a candidate in the interview but was caught while answering toughest mathematical questions within seconds,” said Atul Mishra, chairperson of Prayagraj railway recruitment cell. “Fake advertisement are meant to lure candidates to hire impersonators. We are writing to DRMs of Agra, Jhansi and Prayagraj divisions to conduct re-examination of documents, signatures and again hold personal interviews of 4,013 candidates of Group D who are waiting for joining letter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bag-rly-job-solely-on-medical-test-fake-recruitment-ad-circulated-in-city/articleshow/78921718.cms||Arvind Chauhan
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Re-open monuments in Aurangabad with Covid-19 safety measures’||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Tourism Development Foundation (ATDA) has asked tourism minister Aditya Thackeray to ensure that monuments in and around Aurangabad are thrown open for public with full Covid-19 safety, hygiene standards and social distancing precautions. In a representation made to the minister, Sunit Kothari, an entrepreneur and the chairman of public relations and civil aviation committee, said that Aurangabad is considered as a tourism capital of the state. It has world heritage sites, including, Ajanta, Ellora as well as monuments like Bibi-Ka-Maqbara, Daulatabad Fort and 50,000 year old Lonar Crater, in its vicinity. The Lonar Crater is the biggest crater of its kind in the basaltic rock regions. According to Kothari, tourism supports many livelihoods — both directly and indirectly — besides staff working hotels, restaurants, car and coach rental companies, tourl operates, guides and travel agents, to name a few. He said that tourism industry stakeholders in Aurangabad were fully willing to follow the government’s Covid-19 guidelines on re-opening of monuments. Kothari told the minister that Agra has already reopened, and so have most of the monuments in the country. Therefore, the ones in Aurangabad can open too. Kothari said that tourism is the only sector which needs immediate attention of the state government in its unlocking efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/re-open-monuments-in-aurangabad-with-covid-19-safety-measures/articleshow/78917374.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Tourists returning to Kolkata from Digha raise Covid spike worry||DIGHA: Sold out rooms at over 600 hotels in Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur and the resultant weekend crowd on Ashtami, Navami and Dashami has left health experts worried of a spike in Covid cases as the tourists return to Kolkata. “Just days before the Puja, we saw a spate of booking cancellations. The bad weather forecast till Saptami and the alert issued in coastal zones led to these cancellations. However, since Ashtami, we had fresh bookings. Over the weekend till Monday, hotel owners have had something to cheer as several rooms were occupied and people gathered at the coastal destinations,” said Biprodas Chakraborty of Digha Hoteliers’ Association. However, health experts couldn’t help but worry about the crowds amid the pandemic. “Crowding at a tourist spot could be dangerous at a time like this when a post-festival spurt seems imminent. Even small gatherings are enough to spread the virus. If a place, like Digha or Mandarmani, sees huge congregations along the beaches, infections could rise. Those returning to Kolkata and other cities will, in turn, infect more people around them,” said Rahul Jain, internal medicine consultant, Belle Vue Clinic. A senior Digha and Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) official said, “We held a meeting with hoteliers before the Puja and asked them to strictly observe Covid guidelines. We had also warned them that flouting of the guidelines would invite stringent action.” It was, however, a completely different scene in the run up to the Puja. Hotels in Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur had sold out their capacity. Incidentally, after their post-lockdown reopening, hotels across the three tourist destinations were allowed to accommodate tourists at only half their capacity to prevent overcrowding and maintain social distancing. Every alternate room at the hotels must be kept shut under norms laid down by the administration. Forecast of bad weather till Saptami had kept the coastline largely tourist free. This hit hotel owners and traders, who usually have roaring business at this time of the year as tourists flock the beach destinations during the Puja holidays. The situation, however, completely changed after the weather cleared up on Ashtami and the crowds returned to their holiday revelry destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tourists-returning-to-city-from-digha-raise-covid-spike-worry/articleshow/78919736.cms||Suman Mondal
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Bag railway job solely on medical test: Fake ad in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Days after NCR’s Prayagraj railway recruitment cell found a dozen impersonators appearing for railway’s Group D written examination and interview, scores of pamphlets were circulated in Lucknow on Wednesday with claims of assured jobs in Group B, C and D without written examination and interview, but purely on the basis of medical test. The advertisement, which used the official logo of Indian railway, asked aspirants to register themselves online by paying Rs 500 before November 7 and deposit up to Rs 1 lakh as security money — non-refundable once the recruitment is done. The website (railwayprojectsk.in) mentioned the address of Rail Bhavan, New Delhi, and listed four telephone numbers but none was found functional. DRM, Northern Railway (Lucknow division) Sanjay Tripathi called for a probe by vigilance and lodging of an FIR with local police. “Often we come across such frivolous and fake advertisements luring unemployed youth. Vigilance has been asked to probe the matter, and if required, local police will be alerted about the fake railway job recruitment advertisement,” the DRM said. According to railway officials, Group B posts are gazetted and commissioned by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and other competent authority, while group C and D posts are non-gazetted and its examination is conducted by railway recruitment cell and comprises of computer-based test (CBT), physical efficiency test (PET) and interview. Recently, NCR’s Prayagraj railway recruitment cell concluded the selection process for around 4,800 Group D vacancies and found that 1,450 failed to clear document, signature, thumb impression and handwriting verification. “During interview, at least a dozen candidates were caught for impersonation. Candidates cleared CBT and PET but failed to answer basic questions like the name of the Prime Minister. At least four candidates confessed in interview that they had hired impersonators to clear the written exam. Six other candidates are also under scanner. One impersonator even appeared for a candidate in the interview but was caught while answering toughest mathematical questions within seconds,” said Atul Mishra, chairperson of Prayagraj railway recruitment cell. “We are writing to DRMs of Agra, Jhansi and Prayagraj divisions to conduct re-examination of documents, signatures and again hold personal interviews of 4,013 candidates of Group D who are waiting for joining letter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bag-rly-job-solely-on-medical-test-fake-ad/articleshow/78921759.cms||Arvind Chauhan
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After 7-month break, bar crooners back on stage for an hour every day||KOLKATA: Performances are back in the singing bars of central Kolkata, but only for an hour everyday. Though bars reopened in September, singing had not been allowed till now. The permission to resume singing, or crooning, was granted just before Durga Puja, bringing some festive cheer to the singers, bouncers and musicians associated with the trade who depend heavily on tips. However, they will have to adhere to several guidelines that have been put in place due to the pandemic. Every bar has been given a 8pm-9pm slot for singing everyday so that no crowd builds up inside. “Singing resumed in most bars just a couple of days before Durga Puja after the permission from the government. It brought relief and cheer to those associated with the trade. But for the time being, we can only operate for one hour between 8pm and 9pm everyday due to Covid-19 restrictions. We are adhering to the guidelines and the business is showing some signs of recovery,” said the owner of a singing bar in Chandni Chowk. Some bar owners feel the one-hour slot is too less, but admit that it is a welcome sign after seven months of no business. TOI had earlier reported how many of these bars had done the pandemic pivot and started selling dosas and rolls to sustain their staff and fixed expenses. The bouncers started working in markets and stores, thermal scanning customers, while the women crooners either moved back to their home towns or changed professions. “It was becoming impossible to survive on the meagre salary. Even though the one-hour window for singing is not enough, the government may provide some relaxation in future if bars implement safety guidelines,” said a singer who performs in one of the most sought after bars in central Kolkata. Several crooners have their loyal fans who only visit establishments where their favourite singer perfoms. This increases the liquor sales of the bar, adding to the profit. Before the pandemic, the floors would open by 5pm and would be teeming with customers by 7pm. Many crooning bars used to remain open till midnight. Apart from the one-hour slot, other rules that have been set in place for bars include a crowd cap of 50% of the seating capacity, masks for the staff and keeping a distance of more than 6 feet between the singers and the guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-7-month-break-bar-crooners-back-on-stage-for-an-hour-every-day/articleshow/78919739.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||3-year contract of ad agencies ‘extended’ by Nagpur civic body for last 4 years||NAGPUR: On one hand civic works are badly hit due to financial crisis, and on the other Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is causing itself loss from one of its existing revenue sources. The civic body’s advertisement department has extended for four years the term of private agencies with advertisement rights, who were originally appointed for only three years. NMC sources told TOI, “Contract period of all private agencies for 151 advertisement hoardings situated in squares, along main roads, 2,786 boards on street light poles and 550 banner stands on footpaths, was for three years.” The advertisement department was supposed to issue new tender before completion of their contracts in 2016. Instead, the department has been extending the contract of all agencies by one year at a time, for the last four years. “Issuing fresh tenders would have increased revenue for NMC as rates have risen,” sources said. Corporator Abha Pande had raised the issue and said it was a big irregularity as well as violation of norms, during the discussion on budget some days ago. Also, the department has not recovered all the revenue from the existing private agencies, giving them a favour. The department has also not levied interest on late payments by the private agencies. Deputy commissioner Milind Meshram got additional charge of the department a couple of months ago. Meshram has started to work out interest to be levied on the private agencies for late payment and issued notices over last few days. The advertisement hoardings situated at squares and along main roads are considered one of the top choice for publicity by private companies. NMC owns only 151 hoardings whereas there are 991 hoardings of private agencies. NMC also has power to charge for name and sign boards erected on buildings and at commercial shops. From all these sources, NMC earns less than Rs5 crore per annum in city spread over 222 sq km. Also, instead of rising every year, NMC’s revenue is on the decline. As per NMC data, the revenue was Rs5.76 crore in 2011-12 and increased to Rs5.98 crore in 2011-12 and further to Rs7.12 crore in 2013-14. The revenue declined to Rs6.52 crore in 2014-15, then to Rs5.22 crore in 2015-16, Rs5.08 crore in 2016-17, Rs6.49 crore in 2017-18, Rs5.12 crore in 2018-19 and Rs4.85 crore in 2019-20. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “Existing sites were decided long back in 2001 so there is need for fresh survey in entire city. The extension was given last year by then municipal commissioner for a year and it is in effect right now. We are floating an EoI for survey now and once it is done we will float a comprehensive tender for advertisement. Currently, 2% interest per month is being levied for due payments.” TOI had earlier exposed other irregularities by the advertisement department, in charging rates of non-illumination for hoardings having illumination, huge concession in rates in the name of first finder, and issuance of contracts to some private agencies without tender citing first finder clause etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-yr-contract-of-advt-agencies-extended-by-nmc-for-last-4-yrs/articleshow/78918293.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM inspects renovation of Mukteshwar Nath temple||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took out time from Bihar election campaign and reached Gorakhpur on Wednesday and inspected renovation work at Mukteshwar Nath temple and performed puja there. The CM reached Gorakhpur around 4pm and held a review meeting with officials at Circuit House. He instructed officials to speed up construction of drainage channels and took detailed feedback of work on four-lane construction. The CM asked the chief engineer, power, to start work at sub-stations complete the electricity work of zoo by November 30. Yogi also instructed officials to ensure completion of water sports complex by December and ensure proper and regular cleaning of Ramgarh lake. He gave instructions to tourism department for timely completion of Shaheed Smarak and beautification of various places. The CM also asked about construction of veterinary college, Sainik school and Ayush University. He said there should be no carelessness in Covid-19 treatment. After the review meeting, Yogi went to Mukteshwar Nath temple at Transport Nagar, inspected undergoing renovation work and performed puja besides planting an amla sapling in the temple premises. As per sources, CM Yogi will rest at Gorakhnath temple in the night and proceed to Bihar on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-inspects-renovation-ofmukteshwar-nath-temple/articleshow/78918613.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Patient in Delhi not discharged for 48 hours as insurer refuses ‘inflated’ bill||NEW DELHI: Due to a payment dispute between an insurance company and a hospital, a 66-year-old patient was held medical hostage in Saroj Hospital, Rohini for almost 48 hours after the doctors treating her allowed her discharge. This is despite a Delhi High Court ruling that outstanding bills “cannot be a reason to withhold release of a patient”. Ompati Devi was admitted to Saroj Hospital on October 12 with respiratory difficulty. She tested positive for Covid and, on October 27, as discharge formalities were being completed, the hospital prepared a bill of Rs 5.35 lakh. In keeping with Delhi government’s directive that its regulated rates for Covid will be applicable even for patients with health insurance, the insurance company, New India Assurance Ltd, pointed out that the bill was hugely inflated. Going by the government rates, the bill would at best be about Rs 2.1 lakh, plus the cost of six Interleukin-6 tests, which are not covered in the Delhi government rates. Though Ompati Devi’s insurance cover was for Rs 5 lakh, the insurance company refused to pay the inflated charges. After much persuasion, it paid about Rs 4 lakh though protesting against the alleged rampant overcharging. However, the hospital insisted that till the entire amount was paid, it would not discharge the patient. The hospital staff also refused to let any relative meet the patient, according to the family. “The justification being given by Saroj Hospital regarding the overbilling is that the government package rates are not applicable to us as we are using insurance. The same information has not been provided in writing in spite of our repeated requests,” said Ompati Devi’s son, Rajesh Gupta, in his complaint to various authorities, including Delhi government. “I have been on leave from work since yesterday. Between the hospital and the insurance company, my mother and I have undergone intense mental torture and harassment. Delhi government’s claims about regulating rates are meaningless as they are not making any effort to enforce the rates. The hospital is getting away with overcharging us by over Rs 2 lakh,” said Gupta. Despite repeated attempts, there was no response from Dr R N Das, in charge of Delhi nursing home registration cell that regulates hospitals. Dr P K Bhardwaj, chief executive director of Saroj Hospital, said he did not know about the case as he was sick and off duty. “I have asked the billing chief to check and, if correct, rectify, and give me feedback. Please be assured that nothing wrong can be permitted to happen,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/patient-not-discharged-for-48-hours-as-insurer-refuses-inflated-bill/articleshow/78921456.cms||Rema Nagarajan
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||Minister lays foundation stone of Youth Welfare Centre||VARANASI: The UP minister Neelkanth Tiwari laid the foundation stone of a Youth Welfare Centre near Hyderabad Gate of Banaras Hindu University on Wednesday. The centre is being established by the Varanasi centre of International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) in collaboration with a voluntary organisation —UMEED Foundation to facilitate the potential of youth in a culture of care and positivity to empower them to bring out their potential and make sustainable contributions to the society at large. The director of UMEED Foundation and an alumnus of IIT-BHU Sandeep Kumar said regular workshops will be conducted to make the youth intellectually competent, technically skilled and most importantly pure in character. The four-storied centre will have seminar halls, kitchen for sharing free meals, multi-purpose halls for cultural events, counselling facilities, recording studio for online courses, conference rooms for value education classes and mental and physical health, and meditation room. ISKCON Varanasi chairman Achyut Mohan Das said that the centre is a part of the Samskara Project for Youth Empowerment. This Youth Welfare Centre aims to offer services like nutritious meals to over 250 youths everyday, free education to 120 youths, 60 scholarships to promising students, training 100 youths in employment skills, in-depth meditation to over 40 youths, incubation centre for facilitating 10 start-ups annually, 500 hours of online education videos creation, anti-addiction training to over 150 youths and value education course to 225 teenagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/min-lays-foundation-stone-of-youth-welfare-centre/articleshow/78918651.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chandrabhas Narayana is new director of RGCB||Thiruvananthapuram: The central government has appointed prof Chandrabhas Narayana, who is now dean (research and development) at Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bengaluru, as the director of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB), the country’s leading molecular biology and biotech research and development institute here. A highly accomplished scientist and an inter-disciplinary research leader, Narayana succeeds prof M Radhakishna Pillai, who retired as the RGCB’s director in August, after holding the post for over 15 years. The appointment, approved by the appointments committee of the Union Cabinet, is for five years. Narayana, who specializes in Raman Spectroscopy, has also served as professor of Chemistry and Physics of Materials Unit and dean, fellowships and extension programmes at JNCASR. He holds three international patents. An autonomous national institution of department of biotechnology, ministry of science and technology, Government of India, RGCB’s four major mandates consist of discovery research in disease biology, translational sciences, technology development and training and education. Born in Bengaluru to Keralite parents, prof Narayana earned his PhD from department of physics, Indian Institute of Science, after completion of his bachelor’s and master’s in science from Regional Institute of Education, Mysuru. Before joining as a faculty member at JNCASR, he did his post-doctoral research at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. Though a trained condensed-matter physicist, prof Narayana developed a keen interest in biology soon after joining JNCASR. Subsequently, his group pioneered in the use of Raman Spectroscopy in drug-protein interaction for drug-screening applications and diagnostic applications. Prof Narayana has been recipient of several coveted honours, including Material Research Society of India’s bronze medal, Sir CV Raman Young Scientist Award (Karnataka government) and CNR Rao Oration award. He has published over 175 research papers in international journals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chandrabhas-narayana-is-new-director-of-rgcb/articleshow/78919757.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 51 crore infrastructure boost in UP with smooth roads, better drainage system||LUCKNOW: The basic infrastructure of state capital will get spruced up in the next three months. Defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh laid the foundation of 176 projects worth Rs 51 crore on Wednesday with the deadline to complete them by end of the year. The projects, once completed, will ease problems related to waterlogging, poor drainage, drinking water supply and pot-holed roads, besides beautifying parks and improving community centres. The funds have come from the grant allocated to Lucknow Municipal Corporation by the 14th Finance Commission. “Lucknow is one of the fastest growing cities and it needs infrastructure development of both big and small kinds. Development work is going on in and around Lucknow in a big way. While a number of big projects are already complete, several are underway. Simultaneously, the city also needs to address hyper local issues by strengthening small and basic infrastructure requirements,” said Singh, after laying the foundation of the projects through video-conferencing. Officials said Rs 13 crore project is for repair of pot-holed roads, Rs 27 crore for construction and repair of drains for respite from waterlogging and Rs 5 crore for beautification of parks under LMC. Other works worth Rs 6 crore include laying interlocking tiles on footpaths and inner lanes, maintenance of community centres and construction of overhead water tanks. Over four dozen localities, including Lalkuan, Ganeshganj, Kaiserbagh, Mall Avenue, Golaganj, Ashok Marg, Butler Palace, Malviya Marg, Mahatma Gandhi Marg, Maulviganj, Hazratganj (Lawrence Terrace Colony), Sundarbagh, Raja Bazaar, Aishbagh, Rajajipuram, Talkatora, Jankipuram, Aliganj, Niralanagar, Mahanagar, Paper Mill Colony, Nishatganj, Gomtinagar, Saadatganj, Chowk, Indiranagar and Kanpur road, will be benefitted. The programme was attended by ministers, city MLAs, mayor and senior officials. Additional municipal commissioner Amit Kumar said the deadline to complete the projects is December 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-51-cr-infra-boost-with-smooth-roads-better-drainage-system/articleshow/78921753.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Taxi driver thrashed in Karnataka's Charmadi village||MANGALURU: In an alleged incident of moral policing, a group of people thrashed a taxi driver, after abusing him, near Halla Sethuve in Charmadi village on Tuesday. A complaint in this regard was registered at the Dharmasthala police station. According to police, complainant and victim Mohammed Disan,24, a resident of Kottigehara, alleged that Sudhir, Dinesh, Pavan Rao, Kiran Salian, Akhilesh Rao, Jagadish Gowda, Lokesh Shetty and Pramod Shetty assaulted him. The incident took place when Disan was moving towards Kottigehara from Ujire. The accused, who arrived in a car and a motorbike, abused, thrashed and threatened Disan. Police have started an investigation based on his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/taxi-driver-thrashed-in-charmadi-village/articleshow/78918280.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||BJP’s goal is development of poor: Keshav Prasad Maurya||GORAKHPUR: The goal of Bharatiya Janata Party is development of the poor, said deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. He was addressing an electoral public meet in support of the party’s Deoria bypoll candidate, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi, at the Chandra Shekhar Azad Inter College in Gauri Bazar, Deoria on Wednesday. He said, “Our state government is providing Rs 10,000 loan to road-side vendors. The BJP gives chance to even grassroot workers of the party to reach the height of the sky.” He appealed to the people to vote for Tripathi. The seat became vacant after the demise of BJP MLA, Janmejay Singh in August this year. Targeting the opposition parties, Maurya said, “Only BJP can bring development in the country. Our three years development work can be compared with the work of other parties done in 15 years. They only talk and we work.” “For BJP the country comes first and we believe that the country is bigger than the party but in other parties, individual people and the party is bigger,” said Maurya. He said: “Only in Deoria, public works department completed work worth Rs 484 crore and a medical college is already under construction here.” Praising the Modi government, he said, “Presently, Pakistan is pleading and India is roaring.” He said, “It is very unfortunate that MLA Janmejay Singh is no more and we need to carry forward his legacy.” Without taking the name of former MLA Janmejay Singh’s son Pintu Singh, who is contesting as an Independent candidate, he said, “Support Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi with votes considering that Keshav Prasad Maurya is contesting election. Today, late Janmejay Singh would be very sad and you all know the reason behind it.” He appealed to the party workers to work hard and promised to work hard for the development of Deoria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjps-goal-is-development-of-poor-maurya/articleshow/78918604.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Fight against TB enters mission mode with house to house drive||Lucknow: To regain lost ground in the National TB Elimination Programme, the state government will launch a massive house-to-house TB screening survey from November 1. A population of over 81 lakh will be covered in this aggressive survey to be rolled out in 29 low-performing districts. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has appealed to the people of the state to come forward and get themselves tested on the slightest doubt. Mission director, National Health Mission, UP, Aparna U said: “The house-to-house drive marks the beginning of a full blown campaign to regain the lost ground in the TB programme. It is also crucial as detection is the first step of the process to bring out hidden cases and start their treatment.” State TB officer Dr Santosh Gupta stated that with life slowly heading towards normalcy, the focus is back on major health challenges, including TB. “The drive aims to list out and notify any possible hidden, missing, dismissive TB cases in early stages so that they do not turn resistant or spread the infection to those around them,” he said. The first step towards TB elimination begins with TB notification, which is an official listing of a case in the population. According to UP government data, 213 people per 1 lakh population who carry active TB infection are notified to the TB programme. However, experts believe that the actual burden may be even higher due to poor notification from the private sector. Alarmed over the situation, the Union health ministry and social sector partners accessed TB drug sales data in the private sector in 2016 to ascertain the extent of missing cases. The researchers concluded that for every case reported in the public sector, there are 2.9 cases (nearly three) going to the private sector. Labelling these cases as ‘missing’, the government of India criminalized non-reporting of TB cases in 2017. Alongside, it launched active case finding drives to bring out the hidden cases. “The current active case finding survey is the 10th in the series but is crucial as it is being undertaken during a pandemic. The campaign would be implemented by 3,579 people in 29 districts selected on the basis of TB notification rate. The ones selected have a rate of below 150 against a state average of 213,” said Dr Gupta. An assessment of data from the Nikshay Portal revealed that new case notifications had declined in the state on account of the pandemic. In fact, it was reported to be about 50% behind target. Against a target of 6 lakh notifications, UP has been able to record 2.6 lakh notifications till the end of September, which is less than 50% achievement. Poor performance of the private sector in terms of notification is an equally bigger cause of concern for the authorities. Of the 6 lakh notifications targeted by the state government, 2.2 lakh were to be made through the private sector in 2020. Against the target, 92,422 have been made, which is about 41% achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fight-against-tb-enters-mission-mode-with-house-to-house-drive/articleshow/78921737.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||Vinay Kumar Tripathi appointed new GM of North Eastern Railway||GORAKHPUR: Vinay Kumar Tripathi took over as the general manager of North Eastern Railway (NER) on Tuesday. Earlier, he was posted as additional member/traction in Railway Board, New Delhi, said CPRO, NER, Pankaj Kumar Singh. GM Tripathi did his BTech in Electrical Engineering from Roorkee and joined the Railways through Indian Railway Service of Electrical Engineers (IRSEE), batch of 1983. His first posting was in Northern Railway (NR) as an assistant electrical engineer. Tripathi has successfully discharged the duties of various important posts in the electrical department of Northern, Central & Western Railway. The key posts held by him in the past include DRM, Allahabad, NCR, chief electrical locomotive engineers and additional GM Western Railway. Tripathi was also involved in commissioning of state-of-the-art three-phase locomotives and their indigenization, said the CPRO. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vinay-kumar-tripathi-appointed-new-gm-of-ner/articleshow/78918690.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||PCS officer suicide: Maniyar Nagar panchayat chief surrenders||VARANASI: Maniyar Nagar Panchayat chairman Bhim Gupta, a prime accused in the July 7 suicide of PCS and executive officer of Maniyar Nagar Panchayat (MNP) Manimanjari Rai, surrendered before the court of judicial magistrate in Ballia district on Wednesday. Inspector Kotwali (Ballia) Vipin Singh said, “After surrender, Gupta has been sent to district jail in 14-day judicial remand. Earlier, on Tuesday another accused of this case, Akhilesh Kumar, who worked as the computer operator in the MNP office, had been arrested.” “Rai’s driver Chandan was arrested earlier in July itself while clerk Vinod had got anticipatory bail from court. Now, only one accused and former executive officer Sanjay Rao is absconding,” he added. Body of Manmanjari was found hanging with the ceiling of her room in Awas Vikas Colony, where she lived on rent, on July 7. It was the first posting of the 30-year-old PCS officer in Ballia, where she had been given charge of EO of MNP. In this connection, Manimanjari’s brother Vijayanand Rai of Ghazipur had lodged an FIR for abetment of suicide against Bhim Gupta, tax clerk Vinod Singh, computer operator Akhilesh, former EO Sanjay Rao, her driver Chandan and some unidentified persons with Kotwali police. In his complaint, Rai alleged that MNP chairman Bhim Gupta, some contractors and office employees in his nexus were pressurising her to adopt unfair means for allotting contracts of development projects and also for payments. Following this, Manimanjari had met the district magistrate and requested to attach her with the district headquarters. However, when she resumed the charge after a gap of three months, she became aware that many payments had been issued with the help of her fake signatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pcs-officer-suicide-nagar-panchayat-chief-surrenders/articleshow/78918581.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kanpur||Commissioner issues show-cause notice to superintending engineer of Awas Vikas||KANPUR: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar on Wednesday issued a show cause notice to superintending engineer Ram Niwas Saran for failing to get repaired the potholed roads in the city’s Awas Vikas Colony. After taking cognizance of media reports, the commissioner along with municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi and superintending engineer Ram Niwas Saran visited the Awas Vikas colony and found that around two km long main road of the colony was full of potholes, and even the link road was in a bad condition. The superintending engineer told the commissioner that a proposal worth Rs 4 crore to repair the roads had already been sent to the parishad’s head office in Lucknow. The municipal commissioner informed Raj Shekhar that the parishad has not handed over to the municipal corporation the roads and overhead tanks constructed by it but even then the latter had prepared an estimated plan worth Rs 50 crore for repair of roads and construction of proper drainage to the Parishad two months ago but it has not taken any decision on it so far. The commissioner directed the superintending engineer of Awas Vikas and chief engineer, municipal corporation to finalize the issue and send a proposal within a week about the work to be done and the expenses to be incurred on it. “The municipal corporation can repair the road from its own resources after taking a written consent from the parishad’s headquarters”, the commissioner said. The municipal corporation could adjust the funds after it was allocated by the parishad, he added. Taking a strong note of heaps of waste and garbage littering on roads of the Awas Vikas colony, Raj Shekhar directed the superintendent engineer to get all garbage dump houses of the area cleaned within a week. Later, he issued a show cause notice to the superintendent engineer. Some residents complained to the commissioner that Awas Vikas officials had committed irregularities in maintenance of ponds of the area as with their connivance some people had raised illegal constructions. The commissioner ordered the officials to inspect all buildings, identify illegal constructions and take action against the building owners and employees of the parishad for their callous attitude. He specifically ordered to prepare a complete report of illegal constructions, take action against them and submit the same to his office and the DM’s office by November 30. He also asked the municipal commissioner to visit again the Awas Vikas colony after one week, observe the changes and then submit a report along with photographs to him by November 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/commissioner-issues-show-cause-notice-to-superintending-engineer-of-awas-vikas/articleshow/78918748.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 29, 2020||Rajkot||Laundryman at Bhuj IAF station hangs self||Rajkot: A staffer of Indian Air Force (IAF) hanged himself from the staircase of an ATM kiosk at Bhuj IAF station on Tuesday evening. Police said Suresh Chandra (43) used the staircase leading to the terrace of an ATM kiosk to hang himself with a rope. Chandra had been employed with the IAF as a laundryman for the past 20 years. He came from Uttar Pradesh. “Though no exact reason for the suicide has come to light, we are going to record the statements of Chandra’s family members to get a clue,” said an official from Bhuj B division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/laundryman-at-bhuj-iaf-station-hangs-self/articleshow/78919089.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||SP protests colour of toilet tiles||Gorakhpur: Samajwadi Party workers staged a protest over tiles in colours of the party flag in the toilet at Lalit Narayan Mishra Railway hospital in Gorakhpur on Thursday. SP workers gave a memorandum to AGM NE Railways and SSP (rural) Gorakhpur demanding immediate action. The pictures of toilets with tiles of red and green colours were posted on Samajwadi Party twitter handle at 8.44am, stating it had been done due to political rivalry. NE Railways CPRO. Pankaj Kumar Singh replied to the tweet clarifying that the tiles had been installed under Swachch Bharat Mission years ago to ensure cleanliness. He also appealed to all to join hands for making Swachch Bharat Mission a success. “We will never tolerate such insult of our flag,” said district president Ram Nagina Sahini. The tiles were painted in white later by authorities to soothe tempers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-protests-colour-of-toilet-tiles/articleshow/78939431.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bareilly||Cop ‘suicide’: Head constable in whose name revolver was issued suspended, booked for murder||Bareilly: A head constable, Devendra Kumar, posted at Hayatnagar police station was on Tuesday suspended in connection with the alleged suicide of constable Ankit Yadav after a probe revealed that the service revolver found along the victim’s body was issued in the name of Kumar. The family of the deceased constable, who was found dead inside the barrack of the police station, has accused Kumar of murder. Sambhal superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said, “The initial investigation revealed that the service revolver found near the body, and which was allegedly used by the constable for ‘killing himself’, is registered in the name of head constable Devendra Kumar, who is also deputed at Hayatnagar police station. Moreover, Kumar was also present at the barrack when the incident took place on Tuesday.” The SP added, “The family lodged a complaint against Kumar based on which an FIR was registered against him and another person under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC. Further investigation in the case is underway. Head constable Kumar has been suspended.” Yadav had allegedly committed ‘suicide’ by shooting himself in the head using the service revolver. His body was found lying in a pool of blood in a room he was taking rest after the duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cop-suicide-head-constable-in-whose-name-revolver-was-issued-suspended-booked-for-murder/articleshow/78918305.cms||Maria Khan
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Karhandla guides, drivers create ruckus over tourism route closure||NAGPUR: Guides and safari vehicle drivers from Umred-Paoni-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary on Wednesday morning created ruckus at Karhandla gate over the closure of 15km Satighat lake route for tourism. The route was open till March before the closure of tourism due to the pandemic. The park was reopened for tourism but the route has been closed this season, said guides and drivers. There are 10 tigers and cubs in the sanctuary spread in three ranges. Though Satighat falls in the Kuhi range, it is accessible from Karhandla gate and is a hotspot for birding and tigers. Irked over closure leading to low footfall, the stakeholders stopped six vehicles — five belonging to people from Ranbodi and one from the Gothangaon area. Already facing unemployment for seven months due to closure of the park, the stakeholders want the area to be opened and tourism is encouraged. “If Satighat is not opened then these six vehicles belonging to people from Ranbodi, a relocated village, and Velgaon near Gothangaon should also be not allowed inside. Both Ranbodi and Velgaon are in the Kuhi range,” the stakeholders said. Divisional forest officer (DFO) Rahul Gavai said, “There was a commotion but the issue was resolved. The Satighat area has been closed as under the draft management plan of the sanctuary it has been kept inviolate. There is a breeding population of tigers there. “Secondly, tourism has been distributed gate-wise, which means vehicles from a particular range will move in the tourism zone of the same range. The guides and drivers want that a couple of lakes in the sanctuary to be kept open for tourism to allow tourists to enjoy birding. Hence, instead of Satighat, we opened Thana lake,” said Gavai. However, opening of Thana lake has not augured well with the tourists, guides and safari vehicle owners as there is pressure of cattle from Thana village and sightings are poor. On the contrary, Gavai said, “In no wildlife parks all the roads are open from the management point of view. Already, wildlife has been receiving meagre grants due to Covid-19. Another reason is that the opening of more roads will mean an increase in maintenance cost.” “Even if the Satighat area is closed, 50km of tourism routes are opened in the sanctuary. Moreover, after relocation of Ranbodi village, tiger sightings have improved drastically, and even after closure of that route carnivores are being regularly sighted. The vehicles that were not allowed to enter are registered ones from around 2km of the park vicinity and belong to locals. Hence, there is no point in stopping them,” said Gavai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/karhandla-guides-drivers-create-ruckus-over-tourism-route-closure/articleshow/78918322.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 29, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man rapes 15-year-old girl after gagging her, held||VADODARA: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped in Sankheda taluka of Chhota Udepur district when she went out in the open to relieve herself in the middle of the night on Tuesday. The accused Sanjay Bariya was nabbed when the girl shouted for help, but his two accomplices Prakash Bariya and Rakesh who were keeping a watch managed to escape. According to police, the girl had come to her maternal uncle’s house along with her father on October 26 and they had decided to stay for the night. Around 1.30 am on Tuesday, the girl went outside the house to relieve herself. Bariya, held the girl from behind and gagged her. He dragged her at a distance from the house and threatened the girl to kill her if she would make sound. As Bariya pushed the girl on the ground and raped her, she shouted for help hearing which her uncle and aunt woke up. Bariya tried to escape but was nabbed and later handed over to police. Bariya told cops that his friends were keeping a watch, but they did not notice the girl’s uncle and aunt coming towards him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-rapes-15-yr-old-girl-after-gagging-her-held/articleshow/78918135.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Rs 31 lakh seized from Surat builder, bypoll funding suspected||SURAT: The Surat Income Tax department has started an inquiry against the city-based realtor from Sarthana after the Bharuch city crime branch nabbed two persons with Rs 25 lakh in cash on Tuesday night. It is suspected that the cash was meant to be delivered to Congress candidate from Karjan assembly constituency for the by-election. Official sources said the case was handed over to the I-T department after Surat crime branch recovered Rs 30.95 lakh cash from the builder’s project office in Sarthana on Wednesday. Two men identified as Dipak Chauhan, a resident of Dhanera in Karjan and Ravi Mokariya, of Vasana Road in Vadodara, were nabbed during the routine checking drive at Mulad check-post. On suspicion, the police searched the vehicle in which the duo were travelling. The Rs 25 lakh cash was found from the bag they were carrying. The duo stated that they had brought the cash from a builder in Surat and were going to deliver it to the Congress candidate from Karjan assembly, Kiritsinh Jadeja, said police. The Bharuch police informed the Surat crime branch regarding the cash seizure. A raid was conducted by the Surat police at the project site of the builder at Sarthana and Rs 30.95 lakh in cash was seized. Sources in the I-T department stated that they have summoned the builder for questioning regarding the source of cash at his site office and the cash seized by the Bharuch police on Tuesday. A senior police officer said, “The builder in question is believed to have supplied the cash to the Congress candidate from Karjan who is contesting the by-election.” The bypolls for the eight assembly seats in Guijarat will be held on November 3 including the Karjan assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-31-lakh-seized-from-builders-site-bypoll-funding-suspected/articleshow/78918820.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt puts cap on fees charged by schools||JAIPUR: Giving relief to millions of parents, the state government has finally released the criteria based on which private schools can charge fees from students. According to the order issued by the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, on Wednesday for classes IX to XII, private schools (both RBSE and CBSE) can charge fees only after taking into account the portion of syllabus reduced for the year. Hence, for RBSE students in classes IX to XII whose syllabus has been reduced by 40%, schools can charge only 60% of the annual fees. Similarly, for CBSE, 30% of the syllabus has been reduced and, hence, schools can only charge 70% of the fees. Fee here only includes ‘tuition’ fee. The fees usually charged from students for sports, library, laboratory, development charges or boarding will not be applicable this academic session as these facilities have not been provided. This decision is applicable for students of the 2020–21 batch from classes IX to XII. The order further says that the syllabus already covered by schools through online classes will be considered as ‘capacity building’. For this, schools can charge a fee amounting to 60% of the tuition fee. Capacity building fee can also be charged subjectively by schools with the consent of parents. This can be paid in monthly instalments. It also says that the reduction of syllabus for classes I to VIII has not been decided yet. Hence, the fee decision for them will be taken after the state government issues orders for the same. Schools have been prohibited from increasing their fees this session or changing the uniform. “Parents will be allowed to pay fees on a quarterly basis. Following the order to reopen schools, students will be allowed only with the permission of parents. If any student opts for school transport after reopening, they can be charged the transport fee as per last year. But transport fee cannot be hiked this session,” the order stated. Since schools are getting ready to reopen, any student who do not want to continue with online classes will be taught as per the syllabus decided by the board in offline mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-puts-cap-on-feescharged-by-schools/articleshow/78921466.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Now, best higher education content free for all students||LUCKNOW: The students studying in higher education institutions in any part of the state or the country will have access to audio and video lectures and best study material prepared by experts for free, just by a click of a mouse. The higher education department launched the Uttar Pradesh Higher Education Digital library with deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma inaugurating it on Wednesday, enabling students to access the best content free of cost. The digital library will offer students a highly rich collection as around 1,700 teachers from 23 state universities have already uploaded over 35,000 e-content material on 134 subjects. “Digital library is a unique initiative in higher education. Now, students can access the study material created by experts from anywhere and anytime and hence education will not be confined to the boundaries of campuses and time,” said Sharma, who is also the state minister for secondary and higher education. He said students who cannot afford expensive journals and books for studies and research will be highly benefited by this initiative that charges nothing. The students will have access to study material in English and Hindi prepared by best teachers of UP’s state universities. The higher education department has also announced a helpline number to assist students in case they have any query related to the e-content available in the digital library. Additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika S. Garg said, “The digital library is a boon for students, especially during pandemic times. Subject wise content is available for students to study and download for free.” She said the students will get study material for various subjects like science, law, management, social science, engineering, agriculture, foreign languages, etc. She said the portal for uploading higher education study material was launched by the department on September 5 and thereafter September and October were observed as ‘Vidyadan Maahs’ with the objective of ensuring easy availability of quality e-content, online lectures and study material to students. Garg said the Uttar Pradesh Higher education digital library became possible in quite less time with the support of officials of the National Informatics Centre. In such a short span over 61,500 people have visited the portal, which reflects its success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-best-higher-education-content-free-for-all-students/articleshow/78921776.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kanpur||79 new Covid-19 cases come to light in Kanpur||KANPUR: After dipping to just 22 on Tuesday, Covid-19 cases are on the rise once again in the district. On Wednesday, 79 people tested positive while only four people were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. The number of active cases due to regular discharge of people after recovery has fallen drastically. Active cases have fallen below 1,000. There are only 813 active cases in the city now, which is lowest in past many weeks. So far, a total of 27,717 persons have tested positive. Likewise, 7,394 persons have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals. Another lot of 18,782 patients in home isolation have recovered. A total of 103 persons completed home isolation on Wednesday. The only good news is that no Covid related death was reported on Wednesday and the toll stood static at 728. New cases have been identified from localities of Barra, Kakadeo, Lal Bangla, Kalyanpur, RK Nagar, Shyam Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Naubasta, Lajpat Nagar, Harjinder Nagar, Yashoda Nagar, Pokharpur, Rawatpur, Hanspuram, Cantt, Geeta Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Kaushalpuri, Keshavpuram, Babupurwa, Barra Vishwa Bank, Indira Nagar, Govind Nagar, Gulmohar Vihar, District Jail, Gangapur, Civil Lines, Saket Nagar, Gujjaini, Police lines, Ghatampur, Sujatganj, Armapur and Ratanpur. On Wednesday, the health department collected 4,018 samples for tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/79-new-covid-19-cases-come-to-light-in-district/articleshow/78918781.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||RS polls bring out discontent among BSP legislators||Lucknow: Crisis is brewing in BSP in the run-up to the Rajya Sabha elections in the state with five MLAs alleging on Wednesday that their signatures were forged on the nomination papers of party candidate Ramji Gautam. In the likelihood of the five switching parties at some point in the near future, the BSP won the first round as Gautam’s papers were finally accepted on Wednesday evening. He will also sail through now since there won’t be elections as there are only 10 candidates for 10 seats. During scrutiny of papers on Wednesday, five MLAs -- Aslam Raini, Aslam Chaudhary, Muztaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind and Hargovind Bhargava approached the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat and challenged two of the three sets of documents filed by Gautam, claiming that they had not signed them. Party sources reported that four of these, excluding Bhargava, submitted affidavits to bolster their claim. The party, led by Lalji Verma who is leader of BSP legislative assembly and national general secretary SC Mishra, submitted counter-affidavits saying that all five were present during the nomination for which there are photographs to prove the point. During the day, another BSP MLA Sushma Patel reportedly met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav along with her husband. “There is nothing to say that I cannot meet someone from another party. However, I will not disclose what we discussed,” she said. Meanwhile, the other members who claimed that they had not supported Gautam’s candidature, said that they had felt ignored by the party. Aslam Raini, who defied party orders to attend the government’s special session on Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary in 2019 said that when he was tested Covid positive recently, it was chief minister Yogi Adityanath who helped him get hospital admission and other help. “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav also called me to inquire about my health. I am grateful to both of them. Nobody from BSP called,” he said. Siddiqui added that MLAs were being ignored by the party top brass. “I have been in BSP for 25 years but nobody cares about us. The coordinators do not even call us for meetings,” he said. While Gautam’s entry into the Rajya Sabha is clear, the rebellion by the five MLA spells trouble for the party with ongoing elections in Bihar and byelections to seven seats coming up next month. BSP has 18 members in the assembly of which one, Mukhtar Ansari, is in jail. Five rebelled on Wednesday while sources say there may be at least one more disgruntled element in the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-polls-bring-out-discontent-among-bsp-legislators/articleshow/78921762.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 29, 2020||Kanpur||Ghatampur: Video of candidate giving ‘money’ to villager goes viral||KANPUR: A video, purportedly showing Congress party candidate Dr Kripashankar Sankhwar giving money to a villager in Ghatampur Assembly constituency where bye-election is to be held on November 3, went viral on social media on Wednesday prompting the election authorities to initiate legal action. The nearly 17-second purported video clip showed Sankhwar giving currency note to a person during campaigning in a village. His followers were seen accompanying him in the video. The purported video triggered a controversy with the rival candidates accusing the Congress candidate of trying to influence the voters in the constituency by distributing money among them. After the matter was brought to the knowledge of SDM Ghatampur Arun Kumar, he said, “The purported video has been acknowledged and we have issued a notice to Congress candidate in the matter.” “The candidate was clearly seen distributing money to a man in the video. He was trying to influence voter by giving him money. It clearly violates the model code of conduct of elections. We are in the process of registering a complaint with the Election Commission,” said Krishna Murari Shukla, BJP president (Rural). Sankhwar, however, denied the charge. “In the video, I am giving my visiting card to a villager during campaigning. It is a conspiracy and someone had shot a video to blackmail me,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/video-of-candidate-giving-money-to-villager-goes-viral/articleshow/78918762.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||Long queues mark record turnout at Uttara Kannada||KARWAR: The election for the West Graduate Constituency was peaceful in Uttara Kannada with 71% polling. For the first time in the history of the election of graduate constituency, long lines were seen outside polling booths in the district. There is a fierce contest between SV Sankanuru of BJP, Kuberappa of Congress and Basavaraj Gurikar, an independent candidate. There was a verbal clash between Congress and BJP workers outside a booth in Ankola when local BJP MLA Roopali Naik entered the compound of the Tahshildar office where the polling centre was set up. Congress workers objected to it and said authorities were not allowing them inside the compound while BJP workers were allowed. Senior officials rushed to the spot to restore calm. Barring this incident, the election was peaceful in the entire district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/long-queues-mark-record-turnout-at-uk/articleshow/78918311.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Anup Jalota to dedicate song to LU, get BA degree after 50 years||LUCKNOW: He joined Lucknow University not to study, but to fulfil a promise made to his father that he would complete his education before stepping into the world of music. The singing sensation grew bigger with time, but in his heart the music of ‘Lucknow Vishwavidyalaya’ tops the playlist. Renowned bhajan singer Anup Jalota will be back in LU after nearly five decades and will dedicate a song ‘Sabse sunder vishwavidyalaya, yeh hai Lucknow Vishwavidyalaya’, which he himself has penned, to the institution. On the occasion, he will be awarded his BA degree that he couldn’t collect. “I joined the university in 1971 just for a degree, but fell in love with teachers and the campus where I sat and sang for hours,” said Jalota. He added: “I am happy to join the varsity during its 100th year celebration.” Talking to TOI, Jalota fondly recalled how on every special occasion, he would sing for his professors. Then it was not ‘bhajans’ but the famous Bollywood numbers of the 70s. “I had political science, sociology, Hindi and English literature in BA. I was not very fond of studies as I was completely into music. I bunked English classes most often,” said Jalota. He said every single day spent in the university is a beautiful memory, but the ‘badmashi’ and bunking memories are close to the heart. “The memory of my English teacher, Prof Raj Bisaria, a renowned director, is still fresh. Once he asked me to leave the class as I was the most irregular student,” said Jalota. “When I went to attend his lecture after a gap of many days, Prof Bisaria, who was taking attendance, called out my name and the moment I said ‘present sir’, he stared at me and said ‘Aap yahan kyu aaye hai, aise kyun meherbani ki apne, aap jaiye, aapne aisee zehmat kaise uthayi (Why are you here? Don’t take pains to attend class).” “I had attended only one class in that session, his anger was obvious so I silently left the class. I respect him immensely. It is teachers like him who make students realise their mistakes and help them improve,” he added. He said the university was a place where professors recognized students’ talents and appreciated their evefry effort. “There was a teacher who knew I am good at singing and asked me how my music lessons were going on. I used to sing for teachers of political science, not Bhajans but Bollywood songs like ‘main shayar to nahin’. I was very popular among the faculty,” he added. “I used to finish a three-hour exam in just one hour…only to score passing marks and meet my music goals. Because I was popular, my friends wanted me to contest student union elections, but I told them that I wanted to take up music,” Jalota said but added, “I used to canvass for my friends contesting the elections, sitting in the lawns opposite the political science department. I also polished my skills in the many cultural events organised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/anup-jalota-to-dedicate-song-to-lu-get-ba-degree-after-50-years/articleshow/78921742.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 29, 2020||Varanasi||Krishnanand Rai’s widow accuses Congress of protecting Mukhtar Ansari||VARANASI: BJP MLA from Mohammadabad, Alka Rai, widow of former MLA Krishnanand Rai, has accused Congress of protecting gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and asked Priyanka Gandhi Vadra why the Punjab government was shielding the dreaded criminal. Rai wrote an emotional letter to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, saying, “I am a widow struggling for justice for the brutal killing of my husband and popular MLA Krishnanand Rai 14 years ago. The main accused of the murder case Mukhtar Ansari is enjoying open patronage of your party and Punjab government and is not being sent to UP for hearings in the numerous criminal cases pending against him.” Krishnanand Rai, then BJP MLA from Mohammadabad, was brutally gunned down by assailants armed with AK-47 rifles on November 29, 2005 in Ghazipur along with six others and 21 bullets were recovered from his body. Ansari was the main accused in the case but was acquitted by the CBI court last year. Alka Rai has moved high court against the acquittal citing lack of evidence and witnesses turning hostile. Talking to TOI, Rai said she sent the letter to Priyanka through post on October 27 after the Punjab government refused to hand over BSP MLA Mukhtar to UP Police team for hearing in Prayagraj MP-MLA court on October 20. “It is shameful that your party is shielding a professional criminal, who made several women window and orphaned dozens of children. Nobody will believe that Punjab government’s act can be without your knowledge. The families of Mukhtar’s victims are waiting for the day when they would get justice but Congress-led Punjab government is depriving them of justice,” she says in the letter Rai accused Congress leadership of shamefully standing in support of Mukhtar. “Why are you trying to save a criminal for vote bank politics,” she said. “I politely ask whether you don’t feel the grief of widows like me despite being a woman. My own story is evidence to prove how Mukhtar is making mockery of law. I will be waiting for your reply as I believe that if you have sensitivity you will ensure that Mukhtar gets punished,” she wrote in the letter that went viral on social media on Wednesday. Rai and CBI has challenged the acquittal of Mukhtar, his brother Afzal Ansari and five others by CBI court in Krishnanand Rai murder case on July 3, 2019, around 14 years after the killing. Both the petitions were merged by the high court. Rai had won 2017 assembly election from Mohammadabad by defeating Mukhtar’s brother Sibghatullah Ansari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/krishnanand-rais-widow-accuses-cong-of-protecting-mukhtar-ansari/articleshow/78921701.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bareilly||Fourth baby found dumped in cane field in UP’s Moradabad in 2 months||Moradabad: A new-born girl with her umbilical cord intact was found abandoned in a sugarcane field in Kundarki village of UP's Moradabad.The baby was found by some villagers who were out to collect fodder for cattle. This is the fourth such incident in two months.Members of anti-human trafficking squad were informed and the baby was taken to Moradabad district hospital's ICU unit. Her condition is said to be stable. The girl will be soon shifted to the state-run orphanage in Rampur.Child welfare committee (CWC) officials said the baby girl was left in a cane field at Hussainpur village on Tuesday. Villagers also informed the local police and administrative officials.On Wednesday, Moradabad 's CWC member Nitu Saxena said, "The situation is alarming. Three babies have been recovered from different parts of the district in the past two months. This is the fourth baby dumped in a cane field."The recovered baby is in good health and will be sent to orphanage after consulting a paediatrician, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/fourth-baby-found-dumped-in-cane-field-in-ups-moradabad-in-2-months/articleshow/78918333.cms||Nazar Abbas
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man in Centre’s list of 18 terrorists||HYDERABAD: A day after the Centre designated 18 Pakistan-based gangsters as ‘individual terrorists’, authorities in Hyderabad said one of them is Farhathullah Ghori alias Abu Sufiyan, who is a key member of international terrorist organisations and has been eluding police for 25 years. The terror operative list includes the likes of Chhota Shakeel, Bhatkal brothers and Tiger Memon among others. According to the gazette issued by the government of India, Ghori, who was born on June 2, 1966, is a key member of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-MohammedLocal police said Farhathullah Ghori of Kurmaguda in Sayeedabad is a former activist of a local group. He left India in 1991 and since then has been staying in Pakistan and working for LeT, Jaish-E-Mohammed and other terror outfits. His name figured in a January 2004 case pertaining to a failed attempt to murder then BJP state President Nallu Indrasena Reddy. Police have claimed his involvement in October 2005 Begumpet Task Force office suicide bombing case and in the attack on Gujarat’s Akshardham Temple. A few years ago, Central and state Intelligence agencies prepared a sketch of Farhathullah Ghori. Though Farhathullah has been wanted in several cases for over 25 years, police still don’t have his photograph and identifying him remains a tough task for intelligence agencies, top officials said. Intelligence sources said he has been operating from Riyadh in Saudia Arabia along with his co-brother Zaki-ur-Rahman of Sayeedabad. Both have floated a new terror outfit called Jhund-Al-Qahar (Flock of Wrath). On October 27, the home ministry invoked its powers under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act to notify the names of 18 persons in the Fourth Schedule to the said Act, saying they are involved in terrorism. A gazette was issued to this effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-man-in-centres-list-of-18-terrorists/articleshow/78919824.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Entire Gujarat Congress can be bought for Rs 25 crore: CM Vijay Rupani||GANDHINAGAR: Targeting former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at a rally in Limbdi near Surendranagar, chief minister Vijay Rupani said the present-day Congress no longer has the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi. He was reacting to the allegations of the Gujarat Congress alleging unethical practices in elections by the BJP. “Today, Congress is far from the virtues of the Mahatma Gandhi. Today’s Congress no more the Congress of Mahatma Gandhi, today’s Congress just of Rahul Gandhi,” Rupani said while campaigning for the assembly byelections on Wednesday. Reacting to the Congress’ allegation of “buying” former Congress Karjan MLA for Rs 25 crore and giving him a ticket, Rupani alleged that, “Congress does not respect their own MLAs and once they leave the party, such allegations are made. The whole of Gujarat Congress can be bought for Rs 25 crore.” Targeting the Congress, Rupani alleged that the party’s government in Maharashtra is “bhagwan bharose” (at god’s mercy) when it comes to controlling the coronavirus situation, unlike Gujarat. He also said that there was no arrangement for beds at hospitals for Covid-19 treatment in Maharashtra and bodies of patients who die due to the virus lie unattended on the footpaths. The Congress is part of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra with NCP as the other partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entire-guj-cong-can-be-bought-for-rs-25-crore-rupani/articleshow/78919819.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Sanghatana leader sets soyabean crop afire||Yavatmal: To protest against state government’s apathetic attitude towards farmers, Shetkari Swabhimani Sanghatana district president Manish Jadhav on Wednesday set on fire soyabean crop in his farm in Mahagaon tehsil. Talking to TOI on phone, Jadhav accused bureaucrats of deliberately excluding soyabean growers from Mahagaon tehsil from the state relief of Rs10,000 announced for rain-hit farmers. “We are disappointed that the state declared financial assistance of Rs10,000 only when sanghatana had demanded Rs50,000 aid to all farmers,” said Jadhav. Cotton crop has also been damaged because of rains. Several farmers were forced to sell their produce to private traders below the MSP, he said. “Central government has ordered purchase of cotton in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. But there is no clarity even now as to when the CCF would start procurement in Maharashtra,” he said, adding procurement centres should start before Diwali so that farmers would be able to celebrate the festival of lights. “Today I have set damaged soyabean crop on fire in my farm. If the government continues to neglect the farmers, the agitation would be intensified,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sanghatana-leader-sets-soyabean-crop-afire/articleshow/78918359.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: 71 devotees fall sick a day after eating prasadam at Mandya temple||MANDYA: A day after they had eaten puliyogare served as prasadam at the Sri Maramma temple in Lingapattana village in Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, more than 70 devotees fell sick on Wednesday. Among the complaints that the devotees who were rushed to the primary health centre in Halaguru village on Wednesday had included dysentery and fatigue. As the day progressed and the number of patients reporting sick at the PHC rose alarmingly, the personnel alerted their superiors, and ambulances and personnel were dispatched to supplement the efforts of those in Halaguru. A temporary medical camp was subsequently set up at a nearby government school to treat seven patients – Shreya, 14, Darshan, 18, Lingegowda, 41, Jyotika, 20, Ishwarya, 17, Shilpa, 28 and 19-year-old Likhita – the condition of whom is reportedly critical. Malavalli taluk health officer Dr Veerabhadrappa said that, barring the aforementioned seven patients, the remaining people who reported sick with similar symptoms were out of danger. A team of doctors was supervising the condition of those who took ill after eating the puliyogare at the shrine, which the healthcare personnel said was contaminated. “More than 200 people in Lingapattana ate the prasadam, among whom 70 took ill. But we are keeping an eye on all of those who ate the prasadam,” Dr Veerabhadrappa said. Samples of prasadam to be tested in laboratoryMandya district health officer (DHO) Dr Manchegowda said that samples of the prasadam that was served at the Sri Maramma temple on Tuesday had been collected, and sent to the laboratory to be tested. “The results will reveal the actual cause behind the mass illness of the villagers. We have deployed enough doctors, and other healthcare staff, along with sufficient medical equipment and medicines. If the condition of any of the patients deteriorates, we have stationed ambulances to ferry them to the Mandya Medical College hospital for more advanced treatment,” Dr Manchegowda said. The incident understandably revived memories of the Sulwadi Maramma temple tragedy in December 2018 when 17 devotees to the shrine fell prey, after consuming poisoned prasadam, to a conspiracy hatched by some of the members in its administration. However, a senior police officer in Mandya dismissed rumours suggesting similarity between the two events. “Prima facie evidence suggests that the contamination of the prasadam was not intentional. But we are going to probe the incident from all possible angles and unearth the truth,” he said. Mandya superintendent of police Parashuram said that cops in the district had been asked to probe the possible involvement of foul play in the incident. A case has been registered in connection with the incident at the Halaguru police station. Incidentally, the incident at the Mandya shrine has been reported close on the heels of the reopening of the Sulwadi Maramma temple in Chamarajanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/71-devotees-fall-sick-a-day-after-eating-prasadam-at-mandya-temple/articleshow/78918341.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Candidate opposing DBA polls to move HC||Ludhiana: As the election authorities for District Bar Associations (DBA) elections are going ahead with the process, one of the candidates, who has got signatures of many candidates against the process, is set to move the Punjab and Haryana high court against the elections to be held on November 6. Meanwhile, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has come up with guidelines for the candidates contesting the elections. Returning officer (RO) for the elections advocate Amardeep Bhatia said that voting would be held on November 6 and voters would cast their votes physically. He added that as per the directions of the bar council they were making preparations for the elections and voting would be held at the bar room and library and norms related to Covid-19 would be followed. On the other hand, Harjot Singh Harikay, who is contesting the elections for president’s post and has opposed the elections, said that more than 10 contesting candidates have opposed elections till Covid-19 pandemic was there and moreover, the elections should be held as per the constitution of the DBA on December 20, subject to situation of the pandemic. He added that they request the bar council that first physical courts should start and needy advocates should be given monetary help, then they should talk about the elections process. “We have decided that we will file a petition in the HC soon,” said Harikay. meanwhile, the RO said as per the guidelines, no candidate was allowed to do canvassing by visiting houses of the electorate. The election officer said that besides as per the guidelines no candidates should conduct any social gathering for canvassing purposes, no candidate should allure voters by hosting parties or through other such means, Besides, no candidate shall print and distribute any hand bills for the purpose of canvassing, he added. ‘This time there will be 20 booths’ Assistant returning officer (ARO) Lalita Jain said that earlier they used to have five to seven polling booths in the bar room, but this time there will would be 20 such booths, 10 each in the library and the bar room, so that there was no crowding. She added that there would be separate booths for senior citizens and social distancing will would ensured. Lalita further said that election timings were from 9am to 4.30pm and there would be lunch break from 12.30pm to 1pm. She added that counting of votes would start after polling and results would be declared on the same day. Election officials said that there were 3,114 voters who were expected to vote in the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/candidate-opposing-dba-polls-to-move-hc/articleshow/78919868.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Private bus operators staring at ‘black Diwali’ over capacity curbs & no passengers||NAGPUR: It is likely to be a ‘Black Diwali’ for private bus operators who have still not been officially allowed to run with 100% capacity like their rival — Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC). Also, the flip side is that even if they are allowed to operate with full capacity, there are no travellers. Transport commissioner’s office on October 1 had written to additional chief secretary that after Unlock 4, the MSRTC was allowed to run with 100% capacity on September 17. Similar permission can be granted to private bus operators. Talking to TOI, transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said, “I had recommended 100% capacity for private buses on the lines of MSRTC, but the revised orders are yet to be issued.” More than enhancing carrying capacity, private bus operators are now worried about getting passengers. “Even if the capacity is increased to 100%, we don’t think there will be passengers as educational institutes and IT sector is still not operational,” said Bobby Saini of Saini Travels. Till last year, not only trains but private buses also operated with full capacity with advance bookings and during Diwali period, passengers were charged Rs3,000 per berth. “This year, due to coronavirus spread, people are reluctant to travel. It will be a ‘black Diwali’ of sorts for us. Take for example, for Pune we operated 14 schedules last year and the number has been brought down to just four this season,” said Saini. “There is no relaxation in taxes and EMIs for loans even if we run buses with lower capacity. I have to pay EMIs of Rs30-35 lakh while returns are meagre,” said Saini. “Though we have been told to operate with 50% capacity, annual tax @Rs7, 700 per seat is charged as was for the full capacity. Secondly, even if we operate with 22 passengers, diesel cost will remain the same. If MSRTC is a public transport service, we too fall in the same category and should be allowed to run with 100% capacity. Can the government guarantee ST buses will not spread coronavirus? Our buses are safer,” said Mahendra Luley, vice-president, Maharashtra Rajya Truck Tempo Tankers Bus Vahatuk Mahasangh. Even the MSRTC buses to Pune have failed to meet expectations. Nagpur division has reduced the schedule of buses from 10 to 6. This shows that there are no passengers. Divisional controller Nilesh Belsare said, “We have reduced schedules, but expect increase in a number of passengers during Diwali when we will be operating 15 buses to Pune. These buses will be on display from November 10.” Belsare said, “Till now, we are getting 6-8 direct passengers to Pune but our income has increased from Rs10 per km to Rs15. We get roadside passengers too. During Diwali when private buses charge heavily, we will score over them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-bus-operators-staring-at-black-diwali-over-capacity-curbs-no-passengers/articleshow/78918392.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 29, 2020||Amritsar||Book on life of Pb poet released||Bathinda: While remembering Punjabi poet Manmeet Alisher, who was killed in Brisbane in Australia, a book about his life and literary works was released at many places in India and Australia on his fourth death anniversary on Wednesday. Two memorial service programmes were organised in Brisbane. The book ‘Adhvate Safar di Sirjana’ (Formation of truncated journey) outlines his life, popularity among Indians residing in Australia. Manmeet, then only 29, was driving a bus at Moorooka, a suburb of Brisbane, on October 28, 2016 when some person threw an inflammable liquid on him due to which he caught fire and died of burns. The Brisbane city council holding a memorial service for him on first barsi in 2017 had dedicated Luxworth Place Park in Moorooka as Manmeet’s Paradise and Park. Aam Aadmi Party MP Bhagwant Mann, who knew Manmeet closely, said, “We all have lost a man who was very dear to everyone whom he was known to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/book-on-life-of-pb-poet-released/articleshow/78921489.cms||Neel Kamal
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak makes Covid-19 -ve report must for Sikh jatha||Amritsar: Ahead of the schedule visit of the Indian Sikh jatha (group of pilgrims), the Pakistan government has made it mandatory for every member of the group to carry a Covid-19 negative report. The jatha is to go to Pakistan to celebrate the birth anniversary of the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev. Aamar Ahmad, chairman of the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) — a Pakistan government department monitoring functioning of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) — told TOI over phone from Lahore on Wednesday that they had held a preliminary coordination meeting of all the concerned agencies to start the preparations for the Guru’s birth celebrations. “As par the government’s Covid-19 protocol, it has been decided to allow only the pilgrims carrying Covid-19 negative certificate, which should not be older than 48 hours,” said Aamar. PSGPC president Satwant Singh said the pilgrims not carrying the certificate wouldn’t be allowed to enter Pakistan. According to sources, the decision was taken in wake of a warning of a possible second wave of coronavirus hitting Pakistan. Satwant said arrangements were being made in such a way so that pilgrims didn’t face any inconvenience. “We are expecting 3,000 devotees from India and around 2,500 from other countries,” “ he said, adding that Indian pilgrims’ movement would be restricted within Nankana Sahib, birth place of Guru Nanak Dev. On Wednesday, a delegation of the immigration department officials visited Integrated Check Post (ICP) at Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district, triggering speculations about the Kartapur corridor reopening by India ahead of Guru Nanak’s 551st birth anniversary to be celebrated on November 30. Sources said in wake of pressure from various Sikh bodies, including the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the government could open the border, albeit for a short window. Meanwhile, SAD (Delhi), led by former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Paramjit Singh Sarna, in a missive to defence minister Rajnath Singh, urged him for the gradual unlocking of the Kartarpur corridor. He suggested the government could initially start sending pilgrims to Kartarpur Sahib in small batches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-makes-covid-19-ve-report-must-for-sikh-jatha/articleshow/78921481.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: HC halts Eamcet counselling over 45% norm, relief for TOSS students||HYDERABAD: Justice P Naveen Rao of the high court on Wednesday directed the state and JNTU-H to accommodate in Eamcet-2020 counselling students who completed their Intermediate course through Telangana Open School Society (TOSS) and those regular students who did not appear for examinations due to the pandemic, but were declared passed with 35% marks. The court has also halted Eamcet counselling till the 45% norm is relaxed. As Eamcet authorities were insisting that only those who obtained a minimum of 45% marks in Intermediate would be allowed for Eamcet counselling, scores of students from TOSS and other similarly placed students stood adversely affected. D Saketh Chaitanya, a TOSS student, approached the high court challenging the 45% rule and some other norms of Eamcet. His counsel Kadaru Prabhakar Rao informed the court that the state itself did not conduct the examinations for TOSS students and declared all of them passed with 35% marks. Saketh, a merit student, had secured 75% marks in SSC. The judge questioned the state as to how it could deprive TOSS students and other students an opportunity to participate in Eamcet counselling when the government itself chose not to conduct Intermediate advanced supplementary exams this year. The judge asked both the state and JNTU to put off the second phase counselling till they come out with a GO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-halts-eamcet-counselling-over-45-norm-relief-for-toss-students/articleshow/78919858.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Region gets 2,378 more cases, 30 succumb to virus||Chandigarh/Shimla: The region on Wednesday reported 2,378 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths, with Punjab accounting for most of the fatalities and Haryana throwing up the maximum number of fresh cases, while Himachal Pradesh maintained its low daily fatality and case counts. Punjab recorded 20 deaths and added 528 cases, taking the Covid death toll in the state to 4,158 and the case tally to 132,263, of which 4,239 are active cases. Recoveries stood at 123,866 with 356 patients declared cured during the day. Amritsar reported the maximum five deaths, Jalandhar three, two each in Ludhiana, Mohali and Pathankot districts, and one patient each died in Barnala, Bathinda, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Patiala and Tarn Taran districts. Mohali district saw the highest 73 new cases on Wednesday, followed by Jalandhar (67), Bathinda (53), Amritsar (42) and Patiala (38). Haryana recorded 1,518 new cases, eight deaths and 948 recoveries. The state has seen 162,223 cases—of which 11,014 are active cases—with 1,758 deaths, while 149,451 patients have recovered. New cases exceeding the number of cured persons pulled the recovery rate to 92.13%. Hisar recorded three deaths, while one patient each died in Faridabad, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Bhiwani districts. Gurgaon recorded the maximum 397 fresh cases, followed by Faridabad 210. Hisar saw 156 new cases, Rohtak 96, Mahendragarh 75, Sirsa 74, Jhajjar 57, Bhiwani 54, Sonipat 46, Fatehabad 35 and Palwal 33. Haryana director general health services (DGHS) Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj reasoned proximity of the state to Delhi and more testing as the reasons for detection of more cases. Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday reported two deaths and 332 new cases, while 205 patients recovered. Now the state’s tally of cases stands at 21,149, of which 2,646 cases are active, 294 patients have died and 18,179 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/region-gets-2378-more-cases-30-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/78921475.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Canacona station road in bad shape||Poinguinim: The nearly 250m-long approach road to the Konkan Railway station in Canacona is lying in a dilapidated condition, inconveniencing passengers. Speaking to TOI, a group of tourists from England, who were walking towards the station for their onward journey to Mangaluru, said the authorities concerned “should be mindful of the woes of passengers and give them the best facilities possible”. One tourist, who identified herself as Elanie, said, “This is a short approach road, so why can’t the railways department take up repairs or asphalt it?” Another group of domestic tourists pointed out to the badly maintained steps leading to the station. “The metal strips fixed to the steps are worn out and rusted and can be harmful to passengers. This should be attended to on a priority basis,” one said. When contacted, Konkan Railway assistant public relations officer Leora D’Cunha said, “The approach road to the Canacona station was repaired in 2018. However, temporary repairs will now be taken up, and the road work will be completed only after the rains.” Regarding the steps at the station, D’Cunha said that the painting will be done after the rain subsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-station-road-in-bad-shape/articleshow/78921494.cms||Albert Fernandes
October 29, 2020||Bareilly||Under construction gas pipeline catches fire in Moradabad district||Bareilly: An under construction gas pipeline caught fire at Kalyanpur Road under Katghar police station limits in Moradabad on Wednesday. The fire reportedly broke out due to leakage in the pipeline. No injuries were reported so far. Fire department teams were deputed in the area and the process of extinguishing the fire was carried out for a couple of hours. While no casualties were reported, equipment worth lakhs of rupees were damaged. Around 20 fire extinguishers were needed to douse the fire. A local resident, Rajesh Kumar said that there was a massive fire and the situation was brought under control after several hours. Traffic in the area was suspended.Prima facie, the fire took place due to a leakage caused in the gas pipeline, however, the matter is being probed by the local area police, said officials at the fire department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/under-construction-gas-pipeline-catches-fire-in-moradabad-district/articleshow/78918362.cms||Maria Khan
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC junks bootlegging FIRs against Diu liquor shop owner||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court quashed two FIRs against the owner of a liquor shop in the Union Territory of Diu for allegedly bootlegging liquor into Gujarat territory.The court junked both FIRs saying that there was no evidence to connect the liquor shop owner, Dharmendra Bariya, with the incidents of bootlegging. Bariya was booked under the Prohibition Act at Veraval in October 2019 and at Una in March 2020, in the Gir Somnath district adjoining the Union Territory. Bariya moved the HC contending that in both FIRs, he was not named as the accused in the beginning, but was arraigned merely on the basis of the statements of those arrested. The state government objected to Bariya’s petition and submitted that his name had surfaced during the course of the investigation, and the investigators had collected sufficient material to link him to the cases of bootlegging. Bariya told the court that though he runs the liquor shop in Diu, the licence has been issued in his mother’s name for the retail sale of liquor. The family has been running the shop since 2003 and the licence has been renewed regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-junks-bootlegging-firs-against-diu-liquor-shop-owner/articleshow/78919840.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||SC junks Revanth’s Sectt plea||Hyderabad: Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by Congress MP A Revanth Reddy challenging the demolition of secretariat complex in Hyderabad. The apex court in its order said Revanth was not a party before Telangana high court and hence cannot come to the SC directly. The apex bench, however, said the legal questions raised in the matter would remain open. The state government had decided to build a modern secretariat complex by pulling down the old secretariat complex. The Telangana high court earlier dismissed similar pleas which challenged the demolition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-junks-revanths-sectt-plea/articleshow/78919874.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rundown stations, locked toilets — suburban services not on track for post-Covid-19 travel||CHENNAI: The state government insists suburban train services need to resume for economic activity to revive, but the railways doesn’t seem prepared to make commute safer and hassle-free on the three lines straddling the city. This is in contrast to Chennai Metro Rail Limited which has done a lot of work at its stations to ensure commuters follow Covid-19 protocol. Suburban stations run by Southern Railway remain rundown barring a small change — most have fading paint marks on the floor before counters and on platforms for social distancing which no one bothers to follow when workmen specials are operated in the mornings and evenings. If services resume next month, commuters will find the stations are the same, with unclean approach paths, broken taps, dusty benches and locked toilets. Toilets at stations on the Chennai Beach-Tambaram line were repainted, but very few are accessible to commuters. In Guindy, a toilet block for disabled commuters was found locked on Wednesday. Lines painted on the floor at ticket counters and on platforms for social distancing at some stations are not standard. It is red in Villivakkam and yellow in Guindy or Vyasarpadi. Trains have been suspended since April, but repair work has just begun at Tambaram and Guindy stations, where commuters hop over construction debris to board trains. With more than 30,000 railway employees, state and central government employees and health workers already travelling by workmen specials, the railways is under strain to ensure their safety. Sundar S, who travels from Tiruvallur to Central by suburban specials, said Railway Protection Force personnel and ticket checkers ask commuters to use masks. “There are announcements at stations telling commuters to take precautions,” he said. Railway officials are wary of resuming services for the general public. “The number of commuters is so high that it is impossible to ensure social distancing. This is why the Union government is hesitating,” said an official. Tamil Nadu has urged the Centre to resume services but is silent on what happens if there is a spread. “At least 50 % of the 10 lakh commuters, who travelled daily in pre-pandemic days will take trains if services resume. Many do not wear masks. We have to threaten a penalty to make them comply.” Express trains are sanitised after every trip but that may not be possible for suburban services. “It may take half an hour to sanitise a suburban train. This means the frequency will be less,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rundown-stns-locked-toilets-suburbanservices-not-on-track-for-post-covid-travel/articleshow/78919898.cms||V Ayyappan
October 29, 2020||Vadodara||Cong, BJP spar over Rashmin’s affiliation||Vadodara: Rashmin Patel, who allegedly hurled a slipper at deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, seems to have become a hot potato that no party is willing to be associated with. Rashmin was in the past associated with the BJP, but his present loyalties have sparked a row. The Vadodara rural police held Rashmin on Tuesday and declared that he was a Congress worker. But on Wednesday morning, it came to light that he was the chairman of the executive committee of the Shinor taluka panchayat for three years till 2013 from BJP. His wife Rashmi claimed that even she was a sarpanch from the BJP and they were committed to the party. The information brought much needed relief to the Congress that started targeting the BJP saying that the slipper incident was a fallout of internal rivalries in the party. Vadodara district Congress president Sagar Brahmbhatt said that he knew that Rashmin was from BJP, but it was still not clear if it was he who had hurled the slipper. Sagar said that there was nothing official regarding Rashmin having joined the Congress. “People are saying that the reason could be internal divisions within the party,” he added. Later, it was the BJP’s turn to lash out and try to throw Rashmin into Congress’ lap. Former Karjan MLA from the party Satish Patel, who many believed was sulking as Akshay Patel who had defeated him was given a ticket by the party, claimed that Rashmin was from the Congress. “He had worked against me in the 2017 assembly elections and helped Akshay,” Satish said. He added that even Akshay, contesting from BJP now, could confirm this. State BJP general secretary Shabdasharan Brahmbhatt said that Rashmin was an active member till 2014 and was also issued a card. “He is not a member of the party now. He had problems with Satish and hence worked for the Congress,” he said adding that investigations would reveal more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cong-bjp-spar-over-rashmins-affiliation/articleshow/78918153.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Rajkot||Head clerk of prohibition dept held taking bribe||Rajkot: The head clerk of the prohibition department in Rajkot was arrested while accepting Rs 2,000 bribe on Wednesday. Police said the accused, Ramesh Majethia (53) had demanded the money from the complainant for the renewal and issuance of liquor permit. “Initially, Majethia had demanded Rs 6,000, which he scaled down to Rs 2,000 after haggling. Meanwhile, the complainant approached us and we laid the trap,” said M M Sarvaiya, inspector with Rajkot anti-corruption bureau. “We told the complainant to ask Majethia to collect money from him. Majethia asked the complainant to come to his office, give him the money and take the permit, during the process of which he got caught,” added Sarvaiya. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/head-clerk-of-prohibition-dept-held-taking-bribe/articleshow/78919202.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: West Graduates’ constituency registers a sharp spurt in voter turnout this election||DHARWAD/ KARWAR: Contrary to the expectation, 70.11 per cent of the voters turned out to exercise their franchise in the election to Karnataka Legislative Council from West Graduates Constituency on Wednesday. In the previous election in 2008, voter turnout was 49.48%. Considering the decline in the number of registered voters and the pandemic, political observers had expected the polling percentage to be less, but they were proved wrong. Polling was peaceful, and no untoward incident was reported. Gadag recorded the highest polling at 74.59%, followed by Uttara Kannada at 71.08%. Dharwad district saw 68.65% turn out while Haveri registered 67.89% voting. Of the 74,278 voters, 52,080 of them exercised their franchise, according to the election officer. Polling, which began on a sedate note in the morning at the 146 polling booths set up in the four districts, picked up pace by 1pm. At 1:15 pm, 24.89% polling was recorded with Alnavar registering the highest of 38%. Post-lunch, graduate voters rushed to polling booths and by 4pm, the voter turnout was 57.96%. When polling concluded at 5pm, the voter turnout had reached 70.11% according to official sources. Unlike in the assembly election where the turnout of female voters is more, male voters outnumbered women in this election. While 61.54 female voters exercised their franchise, 71.93% male voters cast their votes. As the election is being conducted during the pandemic, the Election Commission had taken extra precautions to ensure neither the voter nor poll officials are infected. Thermal scanning and pulse oximeters were arranged at all the polling booths and every voter was screened. Those in quarantine or suspected Covid-19 cases cast their vote in isolated rooms reserved in every booth. Counting of votes will be held at UAS s on November 2. Record turnout in KarwarThe election for the West Graduate Constituency was peaceful in Uttara Kannada with 71% polling. For the first time in the history of the election of graduate constituency, long lines were seen outside polling booths in the district. There is a fierce contest between SV Sankanuru of BJP, Kuberappa of Congress and Basavaraj Gurikar, an independent candidate. There was a verbal clash between Congress and BJP workers outside a booth in Ankola when local BJP MLA Roopali Naik entered the compound of the Tahshildar office where the polling centre was set up. (With inputs from Deepak Kumar Shenvi )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/west-graduates-constituency-registers-a-sharp-spurt-in-voter-turnout-this-election/articleshow/78918398.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Questions raised over lack of diversity in Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences senate, syndicate||HUBBALLI: The nomination of five senate and six syndicate members for Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) by the government has triggered a controversy. As all nominated members are from Bengaluru except one from Chikkaballapur, the home district of health and medical education minister K Sudhakar, experts are questioning this disparity. RGUHS has jurisdiction over 700 medical, dental, AYUSH, pharmacy, nursing, physiotherapy and other semi-medical colleges and is the largest health sciences university in the country. Dr RB Kotnal, principal, Shri Sanganabasava Mahaswamiji College of Pharmacy and Research Centre, Vijayapura, said some experts, including himself, had urged the government to induct representatives from Mumbai-Karnataka, Kalyana Karnataka and other regions of the state. “The government should note that the North Karnataka accounts for 50% of colleges related to health sciences in the state. Yet, it is deprived of representation in RGUHS. Such disparity has existed right from the inception of RGUHS in 1996. The irony is, experts of South Karnataka too are not getting their due credit as only Bengaluru-based people are being chosen for posts like vice chancellor, registrar and deputy registrars.” He noted that only people from Bengaluru have been elevated to posts like VC and registrar as RGUHS has a rule restricting the posts to staff of government medical colleges, which are more in the state capital. Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, a senior consultant physician at Mangaluru, said Dakshina Kannada district has eight medical colleges but no representation in the senate or syndicate. “Now a days, almost all districts have medical colleges. Appointing external examiners is a crucial duty of senate and syndicate members. If they are from only one district or region, it raises questions over conducting exams and appointing external examiners. RGUHS must have representation from all four revenue divisions of the state to reduce our apprehensions and suspicions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/questions-raised-over-lack-of-diversity-in-rguhs-senate-syndicate/articleshow/78919491.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists urge GHMC to save trees||Hyderabad: City activists are asking the GHMC to take quick action and save trees which were ravaged by recent rains and flooding. They say many trees can be saved if the civic body gives them permission to restore the trees. On Wednesday, Ram Kumar, a volunteer, was helping with the restoration of four trees near the Malaysian township in Kukatpally. “It took us three hours to restore the trees. We need to act now to restore hundreds more that are fallen or will fall soon,” he said. Experts suggest that nearly 80 trees on the stretch face the threat of falling. Uday Krishna, founder of Vata Foundation that helps restore and relocate trees, said, “Every year hundreds of trees fall down during pre-monsoon thunder showers and during the monsoons. Some years, like this one, thousands fell down and almost all of them are quickly chopped up and disposed off.” Krishna said that though he had been offering his services free of cost to GHMC, they were seldom getting necessary permissions from the civic body. “While thousands of trees fell during the recent floods, we were able to save only five till date.” “Most trees lining our streets are Peltoforms and are wrongly labelled as weak trees. They need regular maintenance to ensure they don’t fall down in rains. The most common reason they fall is due to uneven trimming for various reason,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-urge-ghmc-to-save-trees/articleshow/78919883.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Truck kills four women, people block road to SoU||Surat: Four women were killed in a hit-and-run accident by a truck early on Wednesday morning near Gumandev village at Jhagadia taluka in Bharuch district. Soon after, angry residents from the area enforced chakka jam for a couple of hours on the road leading to the Statue of Unity (SoU). Miffed villagers also roughed up the priest of Gumandev temple, Mahant Manmohan Das, after they found that the CCTV cameras installed at the temple were defunct which rendered them unable to trace the killer vehicle. Sources said that the women were waiting at the Gumandev temple on Wednesday morning for a vehicle to travel towards Udechia village, some 20 km away from Gumandev, when they were hit by the truck. The driver fled towards the SOU after causing the accident with his truck. Jhagadia police arrived on the spot and tried to pacify the villagers who were squatting on the road demanding immediate construction of speed breakers and arrest of the truck driver. Traffic going towards SOU had to be diverted from Jhagadia GIDC due to the protest that went on for more than four hours. According to police, the women were waiting for the vehicle to travel to Udechia village when they were crushed by a speeding truck. Three of the deceased have been identified, while cops are still trying to identify the fourth woman. All the women were residents of Gumandev village and worked as vegetable sellers. A police sub-inspector of Jaghadia police station said that police stations in Jhagadia and Narmada districts have been alerted and cops are hunting for the killer truck driver. “The road near Gumandev temple is very dangerous and accident–prone owing to a sharp curve. We managed to vacate the road after we assured villagers prompt action. The priest of the temple is stable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/truck-kills-four-women-people-block-road-to-sou/articleshow/78918872.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Last winter, Ludhiana saw max road accidents, casualties in region||Ludhiana: Of all the road accidents reported in Ludhiana last year, nearly 10% had taken place during the winter season due to the foggy/ misty weather, says a report on road accidents. The report, Road Accidents in India 2019, of the Transport Research Wing of the Union ministry of road transport and highways shows that of the 553 accidents, which resulted in 264 deaths and 289 injuries in Ludhiana, 50 accidents happened during the foggy/ misty weather that caused 31 deaths and grievous injuries to 24 persons. These figures also put the million-plus city of Ludhiana ahead of other such cities in the region in terms of accidents and casualties during the 2019 winter. Amritsar was the next million-plus city of Punjab, which saw far less seven accidents in the foggy/ misty weather that resulted in the death of five persons and grievous injuries to four persons. Chandigarh saw negligible accidents in such weather, as just two accidents were recorded last year resulting in the death of one person and grievous injury to another. The report shows that Ludhiana also witnessed 34 accidents in the rainy season in 2019 in the city that resulted in the death of 12 persons and injuries to 22. Interestingly, as per the report, Amritsar did not see any accident in such weather. Chandigarh, however, had recorded four accidents in rainy weather, wherein five persons had suffered minor injuries. As per the report, Chandigarh saw the maximum accidents in sunny/ clear weather at 299, wherein 103 persons had lost their lives, whereas Ludhiana had 104 such accidents resulting in death of 52 persons. Amritsar had witnessed 86 accidents in sunny/clear weather in 2019, wherein 67 persons had lost their lives. Road safety experts suggest that reflectors, proper lighting at accident-prone spots, side markings on the road, etc are very important to prevent fatal accidents during the foggy weather as visibility is low. “Low visibility due to foggy weather makes it difficult for the drivers to drive and increases the risk of fatal accidents especially on the highways. As per various studies, 18-24% of road accidents occur mainly due to low visibility in the months when fog is there. To avoid loss of precious human lives in accidents due to foggy weather, the roads need to be properly marked, properly lit and cat eyes should be there, so that drivers can see the road especially during early morning, evening and night hours,” said Kamaljit Soi, an international road safety expert and member of National Road Safety Council. BOX Accidents in sunny/clear weather (2019) City—Accidents—Casualties—Persons injured Ludhiana—104—52—49 Amritsar—86—67—34 Chandigarh—299—103—16||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/last-winter-ludhiana-saw-max-road-accidents-casualties-in-region/articleshow/78919918.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP office-bearer son’s threat to police officer: 2nd FIR filed||Yamunanagar: The police have registered a second case on Wednesday in connection with the son of a JJP office-bearrer allegedly using a gun to threaten a police officer while his friend impersonated an OSD to Haryana home minister Anil Vij. The incident took place on Tuesday. An audio of the conservation between the SHO of Buria police station and then impersonator had gone viral on Tuesday. Initially, on a complaint by Buria police station SHO sub-inspector Lajja Ram, police had registered a case under sections 170 (personating a public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) of the Indian Penal Code on Tuesday. Police said, “From the record, we have confirmed the identity of caller as Anil Kumar of Buria village, an accomplice of Bhupinder Singh, son of JJP district president Arjun Singh. Anil and his brother, Ram Kumar, have been arrested and they were produced in court on Wednesday, which granted their one-day police remand in the first case of pointing out a gun and criminal intimidation.” On Tuesday, SHO Lajja stated to the police, “On Monday night, I received the information that villagers have stopped overloaded mining trucks at Chhotta Damopura village due to inconvenience and road safety.” SHO said he was at the spot when he received a call from a number on his official mobile and the caller said he is Bhupinder Singh, son of former MLA Arjun Singh. “He said people are stopping trucks in Damopura village and I told him that I am at the spot. Bhupinder said he is coming there and he will get the trucks to pass through the village. I told him not to come and I will solve the issue,” added SHO Lajja. “I received another call from a different number and the caller asked me to talk to OSD to minister Anil Vij. The person (OSD) talked in a daring voice asked me that why I threatened Bhupinder Singh. I replied that I did not threaten him and he said that I am taking too much air. The person continued to threaten me and said that he is minister Anil Vij’s OSD Vijay Sharma and I should give him a solution to the issue at the earliest. I analysed the call recording and identified that it was not the voice of OSD,” added SHO Lajja. On Wednesday, Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) Kamaldeep Goyal told TOI, “In the first case of criminal intimidation, and pointing out gun at a person in Damopura village, we have arrested two accused Anil Kumar and Ram Kumar of Buria on Wednesday. Both were produced in the court which granted their one-day police remand for further investigation. Accused Bhupinder and Sachin are absconding and efforts are being made to arrest them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-office-bearer-sons-threat-to-police-officer-2nd-fir-filed/articleshow/78921500.cms||Jaskaran Singh
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP manifesto promises free Covid vaccine for all||BHOPAL: With just five days left for voting on 28 seats in Madhya Pradesh by-polls, the BJP on Wednesday announced free Covid vaccines for all in the state. Releasing its manifesto called ‘Sankalp Patra' it projected a roadmap for development and has been released separately for 28 constituencies each in which chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has promised welfare of farmers and poor. The Congress has, however, questioned the missing photo of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on the cover page of the BJP manifesto. "We were left without you (public) for 15 months. During this period, the Congress government formed on the basis of false promises left the poor helpless. This by-election is a response to the mindset that deprived an infant and a daughter sitting in the Mandap of their rights, made farmers defaulter, took away the pensions of senior citizens, betrayed the youth and left the students and the laborers helpless," said Chouhan in his message the `Sankalp Patra'. Like Bihar, the BJP made a special announcement in the manifesto to provide Coronavirus vaccine free to the public. It also claimed that the BJP government fulfilled its promise to procure every seed of wheat and paddy from the farmers and transferred the amount directly into the bank accounts (of farmers). During the last six months, the BJP government has also procured wheat and other crops and paid around Rs 27,000 crores direct into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries, it said. The manifesto is mainly focused on farmer welfare and made several promises for the farm community. The saffron party also targeted the previous Congress government led by Kamal Nath and promised that payment of crop insurance scheme worth Rs 6,675 crores of 31 lakh farmers for the year 2018 and 2019 will also be released soon. The party has also announced to resume loan scheme on zero percent interest to the farmers and said that Rs 1,988 crores in the accounts of 47.17 lakh beneficiaries under social security pension schemes have already been transferred. The Sankalp Patra also claimed to have increased the Kisan Samman Nidhi of Rs 6,000 released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to Rs 10,000 by adding Rs 4,000. This will benefit 77 lakh farmers in the state, said the manifesto. The BJP also promised to regularise distribution of ration through food slips to 37 lakh poor families with ration cards and said that the process has already begun. It further stated that the construction of 310 km long Chambal Progressway in the rugged area of Chambal at a cost of Rs 6,000 crores has also begun. On comparing the Congress' Vachan Patra with Sankalp Patra, BJP state president VD Sharma said, "We have nothing to do with the Congress' Vachan Patra. But, we have released our manifesto covering all local issues of development with the help of BJP local workers in each assembly area. We will also plan our strategy on the basis of what BJP has done during the last six months," said Sharma. The Sankalp Patra has pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan with BJP national president JP Nadda and MP chief VD Sharma on the front page of the four-page Sankalp Patra. On the third page, the party has displayed photos of 14 top state leaders in which Uma Bharti and Jyotiraditya Scindia were also included apart from union and state cabinet ministers and party office-bearers. GFX : KEY HIGHLIGHTS Free Covid vaccine to all Farm loan at 0% interest Rs 1988 crore to 47,17,000 beneficiaries under social security pension schemes Scholarships worth Rs 523 crore to children Resumed the Sambal scheme Food slips to 37 lakh poor families with ration cards Construction of 310 km long Chambal Progress way||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-manifesto-promises-free-covid-vaccine-for-all/articleshow/78918431.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||45-year-old gets life for killing mother in 2016||Hyderabad: A 45 year old labourer was sentenced to life for killing his 80-year-old mother at Meerpet in 2016. B Kondaiah was convicted of murdering his mother Yadamma, 80, at their house in Aditya Nagar of Gurramguda in July 2016. Initially police registered a suspicious death case under section 174 of CrPC but later based on evidence, sections were altered to 302 and 201 of the IPC. Police arrested Kondaiah. The accused was alcoholic and he had financial troubles. Kondaiah used to pester his mother for money, when Yadamma refused, he planned to kill her to get her share of property. On July 12, 2016, Kondaiah throttled her. Kondaiah cleaned the crime scene and also removed blood stained clothes of the victim and burnt it. On Wednesday, a local court convicted Kondaiah and sentenced him to life imprisonment. He was fined Rs 2,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/45-year-old-gets-life-for-killing-mother-in-2016/articleshow/78919947.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Jamia at 100: From rebellion against British Raj to top university||NEW DELHI: What started as a humble beginning under tents in Aligarh in a rebellion against the educational system of the British Raj is completing 100 years as a university on October 29. Recently ranked top among Indian universities in the education ministry’s assessments, Jamia Millia Islamia is the product of the freedom movement, formed when some students of Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College rebelled against the administration. Read the entire story on TOI+How an act of rebellion led to India’s top university||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-at-100-from-rebellion-against-raj-to-top-university/articleshow/78919963.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
October 29, 2020||Trichy||Only one Covid-19 death in south Tamil Nadu, two in central districts||TRICHY/MADURAI: The central region recorded 243 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Wednesday taking its overall tally to 64,722 and death toll so far to 846. In the southern districts, only one person’s death was reported on Wednesday with the overall toll adding up to 2,000. There were 219 fresh cases in the region adding up to 1,23,416 with active cases at 2,695 as against 2,148 in the central districts. Thanjavur district reported the highest fresh cases in the central region with 51 while Trichy recorded 48 and Tiruvarur 34. Pudukottai witnessed 32 fresh positive cases, Nagapattinam 41, Karur 21, Ariyalur 12 and Perambalur district four. The total count of patients so far touched 15,172 in Thanjavur, 12,379 in Trichy, 10,523 in Pudukottai, 9,520 in Tiruvarur, 6,600 in Nagapattinam, 4,347 in Ariyalur, 4,056 in Karur and 2,125 in Perambalur. In the southern districts which saw only one death on Wednesday, it has taken 20 days to add the last 100 deaths after reaching 1,900 on October 20. Covid-19 deaths in the region account for 18.2% of the total 11,018 deaths in the state. Death rate in the region is 1.6% against the state’s average of 1.5%. Madurai with 417 deaths has the highest toll and a death rate of 2.2% for its 18,611 cases so far. Sivaganga with 126 deaths has the lowest number of deaths in the region but has a death rate of 2.2%. Tuticorin with 130 deaths against the 14,887 cases has a death rate of 0.9%, the lowest in the region. The lone death recorded in south TN was a 72-year-old woman suffering from tuberculosis, systematic hypertension and diabetes mellitus in Tuticorin district. Theni (97) became the first district in the region to record less than 100 active cases. Among fresh cases, Madurai (51) is the only district in the region with over 50. It was followed by Kanyakumari (38) and Tuticorin (31). The seven other districts recorded less than 25 fresh cases each with Tenkasi (6) recording the lowest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-one-covid-19-death-in-south-tn-two-in-central-dists/articleshow/78921979.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Man was shot at for ‘giving tip-off to police’||Ludhiana: During investigation by the Salem Tabri police, it has come to light that Monu, 35, of Shekhewal was shot at by three motorcycle-borne assailants near the grain market, Jalandhar bypass, against whom he had given a tip-off to the police. The police said that while firing at Monu the accused said that this was their reaction to his giving information to the police. On Tuesday night around 9pm, Monu was crossing the grain market on his bike when the three assailants intercepted his way. The accused first attacked him with sharp-edged weapons and then shot twice at him. Inspector Gopal Krishan, SHO at police station Salem Tabri, said that the preliminary investigation suggests that the victim was known to the accused. It seems that Monu’s tip-off about them to the police had made them nurture rivalry against him. “Monu has suffered two bullet injuries on his right thigh. One bullet pierced through his thigh while another is still inside. Monu too is a notorious criminal who has several cases of snatching and loot registered against him, along with one NDPS case too. He was also wanted by Daresi police in a loot case,” added inspector Gopal Krishan. According to the cop, Monu is changing his statements and is not telling clearly about the attackers. Meanwhile, a case under Sections of 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and some sections of the Arms Act has been registered by the police against the unidentified accused. The police are also checking the CCTVs cameras installed near the spot to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-was-shot-at-for-giving-tip-off-to-police/articleshow/78919967.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||HC relief for Global Hospitals||Hyderabad: The high court has suspended for 10 days the state’s decision to cancel the licence issued to Gleneagles Global Hospitals at Lakdikapul. Justice A Abhishek Reddy passed this interim order after hearing a plea filed by the hospital. The interim arrangement was made to enable the hospital complete the pending liver transplantation surgeries. The government had cancelled the licence of the hospital following several complaints from people. The hospital in its plea contended that it was not given an opportunity to explain its stand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-relief-for-global-hospitals/articleshow/78919961.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||35,628 people recover in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: As many as 35,628 patients have recovered from the contagion in the district till Tuesday night while there are 973 active cases. The district reported 99 fresh Covid-19 cases by Tuesday night, taking the total number of cases to 37,664. The death toll has now risen to 1063, which also includes five deaths recorded by Tuesday night. One patient died at the government medical college and hospital while four others succumbed at private hospitals. An official said through antigen testing, 41 people tested positive in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) area . tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/35628-people-recover-in-aurangabad/articleshow/78917521.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Baroda a likely ‘super spreader’||Baroda (Sonipat): As the campaign fervour picked for the Baroda assembly constituency byelection, political meetings and gatherings of parties may become ‘super spreader’ of Covid-19 pandemic. There is no crowd discipline and no compliance of the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for elections in view of the pandemic situation. The byelection for Baroda assembly seat is slated for November 3 and every political party, especially BJP and the Congress, are leaving no stone unturned to ensure the victory of their candidates by displaying their strength. Main contest in Baroda is between the Congress’s Indu Raj Narwal and BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt. For Raj, former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and several party MLAs, former ministers have been canvassing in the constituency. For Dutt, a team of 30 star campaigners, including senior leaders of the state, Union ministers and MPs have been campaigning. Besides this, a large number of local workers and supporters of the candidates have also been accompanying the candidates during the campaign. TOI followed Dutt and Raj in several villages of the constituency and found that the ECI guidelines issued for candidates are being flouted openly. At village Chhichdana in Baroda constituency, nobody, including Dutt, Babita Phogat and JJP leader Digvijay Chautala, was wearing masks. At Hooda’s rally, although the leaders were wearing mask but there was non-compliance of social distancing discipline. Even the audience at the jam-packed village “chaupals” were sitting without mask. Forget about the gathering, even the candidates and most of the speakers/leaders were not wearing masks during canvassing. There were apparent violations of social distancing norms during the campaigning. While the ECI suggested for minimum use of vehicles during canvassing, both the BJP and the Congress candidates had around 40-45 vehicles in their cavalcade while moving from one village to another for seeking votes. When contacted, returning officer (RO)-cum-SDM Gohana Ashish Kumar said he had not received any complaint regarding violation of Covid protocol during the campaigning but he would certainly act if the matter was brought to his knowledge. Sources, however, confirmed that no party would complain in this regard, as everybody is making their best efforts to display their show of strength and it suits them not to raise the issue||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/baroda-a-likely-super-spreader/articleshow/78921498.cms||Ajay Sura
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Of, for and by the alumnae of IIM-A||Ahmedabad: They get the best possible higher education India can offer. They get sky-high pay packages. They get the coveted tag of ‘IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) graduate.’ But what happens to the women management graduates when they reach mid-level in the corporate rung? “During my years at the institute, I had carried out a study on women leadership. The results surprised me – the initial trajectory of the women managers was the same as their men counterparts. But at mid-level, it suddenly changed due to factors ranging from wedding to family planning and work environment,” says Priyanshi Mathur, a PGP student (2012-14) currently associated with a UK-based digital services venture. Priyanshi adds: “It was the genesis of the idea that we needed to do something at the institute level to guide the women grads at crucial juncture of their career.” Priyanshi is among the alumnae who have taken up the initiative to form a special interest group (SIG) at the IIM-A. It can well be one of the first such initiatives from the IIMs to channelize the energy of their alumni towards improving women representation in the corporate sector. The ever-increasing group came to the fore during the lockdown months with a slew of online activities including conversations with the women alumni such as Priyanka Agarwal, MD, BCG; Usha Bora, CEO, Jamini; and Prof Rama Bijapurkar to name a few, and holding group discussions. “We foresee the platform as allowing women from different cohorts to start conversations with each other regarding the workplace and their lives outside the workplace,” says Prof Pritha Dev, an IIM-A faculty member and a coordinator for the ASIG. “We all are well aware of the inadequate representation of women in the corporate workplace and attrition of women from the workforce. We hope that this medium will allow women to better navigate the challenges of staying in the workforce and progressing up the corporate ladder,” explains Prof Dev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/of-for-and-by-the-alumnae-of-iim-a/articleshow/78919939.cms||Parth Shastri
October 29, 2020||Ludhiana||MC officials pulled up for being careless in complying with NGT directives||Ludhiana: MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal pulled up some of the municipal corporation officials for their failure in complying with the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and Swachhta Survekshan guidelines regarding solid waste management, in a meeting at zone D office of the MC on Wednesday. The commissioner was reportedly annoyed about the facts that duties which were assigned to various officials for handling the sanitation works had not been fulfilled. The project director of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), Puran Singh, and assistant director of PMIDC Naresh Kumar besides some others were present in the meeting. The MC Commissioner in previous meetings had fixed responsibilities of officials of various branches of the MC but on Wednesday, when again those works were reviewed it was found that most of the tasks were still pending. Sources revealed that the MC had set a deadline to construct a boundary wall around the main garbage dump on Tajpur road by November, but the process was still at tendering stage. The officials of bridges and road department were asked to explain the reasons for delaying the work. Similarly, the civic body officials of health branch were asked to bring certain cloth bags and start an awareness drives to avoid usage of plastic carry bags, but this drive could not be initiated. In the meeting the commissioner clarified that the officials who had failed in achieving their targets would have to face action and he would write adverse remarks in their annual report. Meanwhile, one of the officials claimed that there was shortage of staff in operation and maintenance cell to the extent that they did not have a single junior engineer to handle works in the city even as the maximum complaints were about water supply and sewerage choking from residents. He said how could they perform better when there was not enough staff to handle the works in the city. However, the MC commissioner said, “Such carelessness at any level will not be tolerated as we cannot afford to miss the deadlines set by the NGT and ranking in Swachhta Survekshan has to improve at any cost.” He said there was a clear warning for the officials not to show careless attitude, otherwise penalty amount will be recovered from their salaries and adverse remarks will be mentioned in their annual reports. After meeting project director Puran Singh and assistant director Naresh Kumar of the PMIDC, he also checked the segregation at garbage dumps and compost pits in Rose Garden for settling the horticuture waste. The officials have already been advised to keep a tab on segregation of waste at the dumps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-officials-pulled-up-for-being-careless-in-complying-with-ngt-directives/articleshow/78920012.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Pay Rs 10,000 to victim: Court to Ramesh Tawadkar||POINGUINIM: A judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Canacona, Shanoor aka Jagdish P Audi, on Wednesday sentenced former minister Ramesh Tawadkar ‘till rising of the court’ in an assault case filed against him in 2017. The court directed Tawadkar to pay compensation of Rs 10,000 to victim Puno Velip. The complainant alleged that the accused had threatened to kill him in 2017 when he and his friend were proceeding to Chaudi on a two-wheeler. The accused came in a red beacon official car and committed the offence. Holding the former minister guilty of Section 352 (assault) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the court asked him to pay a fine of Rs 500 and directed him to pay Rs 5000 under Section 506(ii) (criminal intimidation). Tawadkar has been acquitted under Section 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-rs-10k-to-victim-court-to-tawadkar/articleshow/78921507.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||1,800 armed forces personnel to cast vote electronically||BARODA (SONIPAT): As many as 1,865 armed forces personnel belonging to Baroda assembly seat would cast their votes through the electronically transmitted postal ballot system (ETPBS) in the by-election scheduled for November 3. The election authorities have already sent e-ballots to these military and paramilitary personnel, who are registered voters in Baroda assembly seat. They are posted in various locations across the country. Gohana SDM-cum-returning officer (RO) Ashish Kumar said the military personnel would be able to cast their votes electronically, which ensures that all postal ballots reach on time. “We have provided the password protected blank postal ballot electronically to all these 1,865 service voters. After marking their presence, they have to post the filled-up ballot back to the returning officer,” the RO confirmed. For the first time, the ETPBS was introduced by the Election Commission of India in October 2016 by amending its rules. Thereafter, it was successfully implemented in all the subsequent elections. As per the process of ETPBS or e-ballot, the military or paramilitary personnel can download the password-protected blank post ballot sent to them electronically, mark their preference and post the filled-up ballot back to their respective returning officers. They are password protected and are served to the personnel through their units, which has specially designated some officers to ensure the soldiers can cast their votes from the place of posting. Besides the service voters, the voting through ballot in Baroda by-election would also be held in three more categories. It includes those infected with Covid-19, those above the age of 80 years and ‘Divyangs’ (persons with disability).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1800-armed-forces-personnel-to-cast-vote-electronically/articleshow/78921502.cms||Ajay Sura
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi schools to stay closed till further orders: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: The schools in Delhi will remain closed till further orders, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Wednesday. According to an earlier order, the schools were to stay shut till October 31. The education minister also announced that the government was creating over 1,300 seats at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University (GGSIPU) in its nine courses. “This is an effort by Delhi government to offer new opportunities to students during an extremely difficult year,” Sisodia said. Due to Covid-19, the schools have been closed since March. “Teachers, parents and students have been wondering if schools will reopen during this difficult time. Many parents have expressed their concern especially if students gather closely on school premises,” Sisodia said. “In countries where schools have reopened, Covid-19 cases have increased among students. Thinking as parents, the government has decided to keep the schools shut.” Online classes will continue and schools have been asked to convey safety messages before each activity. Many schools are, however, worried about the teaching-learning of the students in classes X and XII who will appear for the boards in 2021. “The syllabus has been completed, but it is difficult in online learning to gauge how much they have understood. We are also concerned about practicals,” said the principal of a private school. The extra 1330 seats will be added to IP University-affiliated colleges at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The maximum seats — 630 — have been allotted to BTech, followed by 220 for BCom, 120 each for Bachelor of Business Administration and BA economics, 90 for Bachelor of Computer Applications, 60 for Master of Business Administration, 55 for Master of Vocational Studies, 20 for Bachelor of Vocation, and 15 for MSc in yoga. According to Sisodia, the seats are equivalent to opening five-six colleges. “When a new college opens, barely 200-odd seats are made available,” he said. Watch COVID: ‘Delhi schools to remain shut until further notice,’ informs Manish Sisodia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-schools-to-stay-closed-till-further-orders-sisodia/articleshow/78920000.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Man gets 7-year jail for raping minor||Hyderabad: A 35 year old labourer who raped a 13-year-old girl near a toddy compound at Shamshabad in 2015 was sentenced to seven years in jail. P Fakkeeraiah, 35, of Narkuda village in Shamshabad was sentenced to seven years imprisonment for raping a 13-year-old girl at Shamshabad in 2015. On April 26, 2015, when the victim went to a toddy compound to buy toddy for a family member, the accused noticed her and raped her at a nearby isolated place. A local court in LB Nagar convicted the accused and sentenced him to undergo seven years imprisonment and pay Rs 1,000 fine on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-7-year-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/78919977.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Leopard kills 2 kids in Ahmednagar dist; cop injured in Nashik city too||Nashik: Two villages, about 6km away from each other, in neighbouring Ahmednagar district have been terrorised by a leopard that has mauled to death two young boys within 10 days, even as another spotted cat injured a policeman near Nashik city on Tuesday morning, sparking off alarm bells. On October 15, a big cat attacked and killed a four-year-old boy, who was sitting outside his home at Madi village, Ahmednagar, around 7pm. Ten days later, on October 25, an eight-year-old boy was killed, apparently by the same animal, around 3am while he was asleep outside his home at Kalwandi village in the district. The incident has prompted the authorities in the villages to send out an appeal to people to avoid stepping out of their homes after dusk. The leopard is believed to be still holed up in the area. The forest department has set up four cages at each of these two villages to trap the animal. “Our teams are constantly keeping a vigil. To prevent any further loss of lives, we have appealed to the locals to remain indoors at night,” said forest officers. In Nashik, the forest department has stepped up vigil in the Vihitgaon area of Nashik Road after a leopard attacked and injured a policeman on Tuesday morning. A local resident first saw the leopard in the toilet, made from tin sheets, of his house early in the morning and raised an alarm, prompting the residents of the area. According to forest officers, a team of Upnagar police and forest department officials reached the spot around 10am. When Vinod Lakhan, a policeman, approached the toilet, a local resident threw a stone on the toilet roof. “The wild cat leapt out of the toilet and injured Lakhan with one its paws while escaping. He sustained minor injuries on the head and has been admitted to a private hospital for observation,” added the forest officers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-kills-2-kids-in-ahmednagar-dist-cop-injured-in-nashik-city-too/articleshow/78897615.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Bombay HC quashes MIDC circular banning contractor for one year||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently quashed and set aside an internal circular of the MIDC that banned a contractor from bidding for one year. The MIDC had floated an e-tender notice for strengthening and asphalting of internal roads in Waluj industrial area. Upon opening of the financial bid, MIDC chief engineer issued communication to Mascot Construction Company that it was the lowest bidder. It added that an additional performance security deposit of Rs 2.51 crore is to be submitted either through a demand draft from national and scheduled bank or through a Bank Guarantee within eight days. In January 2020, the company urged the chief engineer to grant it more time. Later that month, the chief engineer reminded the company that the bank guarantee had not been furnished. In February, the firm addressed another letter to the chief engineer seeking more time. In March, the chief engineer informed the firm that due to its failure to furnish the bank guarantee, the earnest money deposit furnished by it had been forfeited and its bid rejected. In August, the firm told MIDC that it was still willing to perform in accordance with tender condition. However, the chief engineer sent an email on August 27 that served the order banning Mascot Construction from participating in tenders of MIDC for one year. The firm through its managing partner Khaja Aminuddin challenged the order in the high court through lawyer Amit A Yadkikar. The petition claimed that this clause was not part of the tender document. The matter came up before a bench comprising Justices S V Gangapurwala and Shrikant D Kulkarni, who observed that unless the bid is accepted, “Clause 9 relied by respondents (MIDC) to substantiate their action of banning petitioner for one year from participation in the tenders floated by MIDC would not be operative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-quashes-midc-circular-banning-contractor-for-1-year/articleshow/78917544.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 29, 2020||Trichy||Central University of Tamil Nadu starts four bachelor of vocational education courses from this academic year||TRICHY: The Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) will be starting regular courses for bachelor of vocational education (BVoc) focusing on skill development from this academic year. These courses are being offered through community colleges of CUTN, which are aimed at helping the local community by providing job-oriented courses at an affordable fee. University Grants Commission (UGC) has sanctioned four BVoc courses for CUTN this year of which two are offered by the media and communication department. Two courses are BVoc in digital journalism and multimedia application and script writing and digital cinematography. Other two courses are on organic farming apart from tourism and travel management. BVoc courses on media and communication are different from regular courses offered in colleges, said Francis P Barclay, assistant professor, media and communication department. The curriculum for BVoc is application-based and 60% marks weightage is given for practical learning and hands-on training, he said. BVoc courses are regular three-year courses and the minimum requirement is Class XII. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cutn-starts-4-bvoc-courses-from-this-academic-yr/articleshow/78921994.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Game on for casinos from November 1 with 50% capacity||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to allow casinos to resume operations from November 1, but at 50% capacity. Casinos operations have been closed in the state in view of Covid-19 since the lockdown in March. The home department will send casino operators the standard operating procedures (SOP) for restarting, chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters. A cabinet note stated that the annual recurring fees for casinos from April to October is Rs 204 crore. Sources said that some ministers objected to the home department’s proposal to reduce the annual recurring fees for casinos. Sawant said that the cabinet has decided to collect advance recurring fees on monthly basis, instead of the usual annual advance. “For the March to October period, the operators have to pay the recurring fees,” he said. Casino licencees had made representations to the government seeking exemption from payment of the annual recurring fees for this financial year, among other concessions, as their operations were shut from March 15 by the ministry of home affairs and the Goa government. Casino operators had written to the government that apart from salaries, they have other fixed costs like maintenance of vessels, feeder boats and jetties, accommodation and meals for staff, office rent and jetty usage fees. The casino licencees had stated that during the lockdown they paid salaries without any revenue as a result of which their working capital depleted. They stated that they were left with a huge cash crunch and were therefore unable to pay the annual recurring fees this time. The home department said that the shutting down of casino operations in the state resulted in non-collection of the annual recurring fee for 2020-2021 amounting to Rs 350 crore. There is a need to arrive at a decision considering the interest of the state revenue vis-a-vis the casino industry, it stated. The department submitted a proposal to allow the casinos to operate on advance payment of the complete annual recurring fee due for the financial year or to allow resumption of operations upon advance payment of the annual recurring fee calculated on pro-rata basis for the remaining five months of 2020-21 with a waiver of the recurring fees for the initial seven months. Other proposals were to allow casinos to operate on payment of annual recurring fees on monthly basis for the remaining five months of 2020-21, with a waiver on the dues for the initial seven months or to allow the casinos to operate on advance payment of 50% of the annual recurring fee calculated on pro-rata basis for remaining five months of the financial year with a waiver for the initial seven months. Another home department proposal allowed licencees to operate on payment of 50% annual recurring fee on monthly basis for the remaining five months of 2020-21, with a waiver of the fees for the initial seven months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/game-on-for-casinos-from-nov-1-with-50-capacity/articleshow/78921510.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Self-reliant plan to see govt officers on Saturday village visits||Panaji: Outlining the roadmap to make Goa self-sustainable over the next three years under the Swayampurna Goem plan, the state government has decided to deploy government officials to each and every village in the state on every Saturday. The officers, known as Swayampurna Mitras, will be tasked with assisting village panchayats and locals with self-employment and also help the needy to avail of government schemes. Talking to the selected government officers, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday reminded them that they are government servants and cannot expect to work for just eight hours and in their own respective departments. Chiding the government officers for not being aware of the state government’s myriad schemes, Sawant urged the officers to study the schemes offered by the state and to prepare an action plan for each village to ensure that locals take benefit of those schemes, particularly self-employment and agricultural schemes. “Goa is dependent on everything from other states. Milk comes from Maharashtra and Karnataka. Chicken, eggs, vegetables, flowers, etc, come from other states. We need to be self-sustainable,” said Sawant as he trotted out numbers and stats about the subsidies for agriculture and the business available in animal husbandry and dairy farming. The government has identified 15 parameters which will be used to evaluate villages. The designated officers will have to submit monthly reports informing the state of the steps taken to improve the village-level economy. The selected officers, who are undergoing training with the Goa Institute of Rural Development & Administration, will be empowered to prepare village-level plans and request assistance from other departments. Sawant warned government officers who do not cooperate or perform that they will receive adverse remarks on their confidential reports, and their promotions will be stalled. “We are government servants, please fix this in your minds. Many times I find that government employees have forgotten that they are servants. And we are not government servants for just eight hours, but for 365 days 24x7,” said Sawant. The chief minister encouraged all the government officers to identify ways to generate self-employment and entrepreneurship in the villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/self-reliant-plan-to-see-govt-officers-on-saturday-village-visits/articleshow/78921511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Wall of gated community blocks stream along Old Mahabalipuram Road||CHENNAI: Encroachment of Ottiyambakkam Kalangal Odai, a stream along Old Mahabalipuram Road near Sholinganallur, is resulting in flooding of several nearby residential localities. Compound wall of a gated community has blocked the flow of water in the stream. The stream carries excess rainwater during monsoon. With a stretch encroached, areas such as Arasankazhani, Vedanthangal Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Bolineni Hillside, Perumbakkam Slum Clearance Board and DLF are getting flooded, said residents. Dilleeswara Babu, a resident of Bolineni Hillside, said the stream carries water from various water bodies in Karanai, Mambakkam and Ottiyambakkam villages. “Petitions have been submitted to the Chengalpet collector. But so far the district administration has taken no action to clear the encroachment,” he said. Sivakalaiselvan, block development officer of St Thomas Mount, said they have not received complaints about encroachment on the stream. He said the stream comes under the control of PWD authorities who have to investigate the complaint. The PWD official in-charge of the area was not available for comment but a senior PWD official said encroachment of such streams will have a negative impact on the newly developed residential localities such as Netaji Nagar and Perumbakkam Slum Clearance Board tenements. “Fifteen years ago there were no residential areas along this stretch of OMR. Today, new housing complexes do not realise the importance of protecting such streams,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wall-of-gated-community-blocks-stream-along-omr/articleshow/78920002.cms||P Oppili
October 29, 2020||Goa||Cabinet grants nod for coal block consultant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the state cabinet has granted approval for the appointment of a’XYKno Capital Services as the consultant for exploiting the Dongri Tal II coal block allocated to Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC). The cabinet granted approval to appoint the PPP cell, department of finance to hand hold, and/or assist Goa Industrial Development Corporation for selecting the mine developer and operator (MDO) for development, operation and mining of the coal block in Singrauli, Madhya Pradesh. The cabinet granted approval for appointment of a’XYKno as transaction advisor for the entire bid management process of the coal block for selection of MDO at a cost of Rs 10 lakh, inclusive of all taxes and no success fee is allowed to be charged. Towards payment schedule, GIDC may release 25% of the fee upon floating of request for proposal (RFP), 25% upon completion of bid process and balance 50% will be payable upon signing of agreement with MDO, the note stated. The cabinet note stated that GIDC may issue award letter to a’XYKno along with terms of reference by taking assistance from the PPP division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-grants-nod-for-coal-block-consultant/articleshow/78921514.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Goa||Non-conventional sources of energy dept gets name change||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday renamed the department of non-conventional sources of energy as the department of new and renewable energy. This has been done to avail of central schemes and programmes to push and promote generation of green power. The Centre has set a target of 150MW green power by 2022 for Goa. In order to enable the state department achieve the targets set by the Centre for generation of green power and promotion and use of electric and hybrid vehicles, it has to establish its “appropriate domain under the Business of Government of Goa (Allocation) and (Amendment) Rules, 1995”, the cabinet note stated. The cabinet note also stated it since it was imperative that the department be renamed in line with the nomenclature of the central ministry, it was decided to amend the Business of Government of Goa (Allocation) and (Amendment) Rules, 1995, to include business related to new and renewable sources for the department and to also rename it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/non-conventional-sources-of-energy-dept-gets-name-change/articleshow/78921517.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Making learning fun for the underprivileged||CHENNAI: Sneha Nair has been photographing children for close to three years now. And if there’s something she has wanted to do as much as clicking kids, it is to make them dance. The perfect opportunity arrived a few months ago when Sneha’s former teacher Kamla Ramamurti roped her into Project Chetna, a programme by Chennai NGO Sethu Foundation that works towards learning, health, hygiene and nutrition of underprivileged children living around Teynampet, T Nagar and Nandanam. “I did a session online with simple steps that most kids could do. And they sent me back dance videos from their practice which I compiled into one big video and sent back to them,” says Sneha. “This has brought me such joy.” Sneha is one of the 14 volunteers from different walks of life, including teachers, artists and professionals who have been spending a few hours every week for the past five months to make learning and life fun for children from the city’s slums. In February, as part of Project Chetna, its core team - Kamla Ramamurti, former headmistress in charge, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Janaki Kannan, former IT professional and lead volunteer, and the NGO’s managing director C J Sethulakshmi - started pooling in volunteers to engage with disadvantaged primary school kids and train them in extracurricular activities, reading and general cleanliness. However, the pandemic brought about an unexpected change of plans, following which the programmes had to be reconceptualised virtually. “When we started, the idea was to get the children to the centre on Saturdays to learn with us. But after the pandemic, a skilled team from IIT-Madras-based non-profit organisation, Involve, who use technology to help children in rural communities, helped us provide digital training to our children,” says Sethulakshmi. As part of the initiative, 75 primary school children with access to smartphones in the city get short exercises such as puzzles, Sudoku, sing-alongs and dance videos on WhatsApp every Friday, along with a short homework they have one week to finish. The children are divided into groups of 30, and further groups of eight, which are mentored by teachers and volunteers. Most recently, as part of Daan Utsav, the team also opened a library at the centre, for which close to 200 books and toys have been provided by Round Table members and students of the Akshar Arbol International School in the city. “Most of our children are government school students who have not had classes for a while. We want to keep them motivated and also help them adapt to the digital medium,” says Janaki. While Fridays are reserved for worksheets and WhatsApp homework, Wednesdays have become a favourite weekday for the kids, as they get to learn dance, music, art, craft and fun science lessons. “The whole idea of getting trained in extracurricular activities after school is usually restricted to children from better off homes. This is the gap we wished to bridge,” says Kamla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/making-learning-fun-for-the-underprivileged/articleshow/78920007.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Bombay HC grants bail to rape accused after finding contradictions in statements||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court recently granted bail to a shepherd from Pathardi in Ahmednagar district, who was accused of raping a minor, after finding contradictions in the survivor’s statements in the case registered by the police in May 2020. While allowing the bail application, Justice V K Jadhav observed: “So far, as the statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 of CrPC by the magistrate is concerned, the same is contrary to the allegations made in the FIR. There are no allegations in the FIR against the applicant for having committed forcible sexual intercourse on 2.5.2020.” On September 23, 2020, additional sessions judge, Ahmednagar, had rejected the bail application of the applicant/accused Shahrukh Shamad Beg, who was arrested by the Pathardi police for raping a minor under sections 376(2) (I), 354, 504, 506 of the IPC and sections 3, 4, 5 (L), 6, 7, 8, 9 (L) and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Subsequently, the applicant/accused approached the high court through lawyer Joydeep Chatterjee. Chatterjee argued that the investigations were over and the chargesheet has been filed. He pointed out that the victim and the applicant both are shepherds and they used to take their goats to graze in a nearby field. The complainant had accused the applicant of attempting to rape her on May 2, 2020, and that after she raised an alarm, villagers had arrived on the spot. She had also alleged that 10 days prior to lodging the FIR, she was raped by the accused on two occasions. While ordering release of the accused on conditional bail, Justice Jadhav observed: “On perusal of the statements of the villagers, it appears that on seeing them, the applicant ran away from the field and thereafter the victim has raised hue and cry.” The bench further observed: “Considering the nature of allegations as discussed above, I am inclined to release the applicant on bail with certain conditions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-grants-bail-to-rape-accused-after-finding-contradictions-in-statements/articleshow/78917566.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Council demands say in smart city projects implemented by SPV in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Mangaluru City Corporation on Wednesday exhorted Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL) to route any new smart city mission projects through its council. MSCL is the special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up as directed by the ministry of housing and urban affairs to implement the projects. Such a move will give real time updates to the corporators on projects that the SPV intends to take up under the smart city project of the ministry. Mooting this idea at the monthly meeting of the council, Premanand Shetty, chief whip of the ruling BJP. urged Akshy Sridhar, commissioner, MCC, who is also holding concurrent charge as MD, MSCL to keep the council in the loop. This will give the council a better idea about what the SPV is doing in terms of various smart city project ideas and the new projects that it intends to initiate under the terms of the project. The issue came to the fore when Congress corporator Abdul Latif objected to diversion of funds set aside for development of slums under the smart cities project from Kandak in his ward to Jyothinagar. Latif wondered if there was provision under the mission for such diversion of funds. Sridhar said the SPV could do so only after it obtained prior permission from the board of MSCL after justifying reasons for such a proposal. Premanand also acceded to a contention from AC Vinayaraj, Congress corporator that the SPV should first fulfil the basic set of projects it had proposed on formation, that is, river front development. With former deputy commissioner and Dakshina Kannada district secretary V Ponnuraj, now the chairman of MSCL and Sridhar, the MD, there should be greater synergy in visualising and execution of smart city projects in consultation with stakeholders, he noted. After the meeting, Premanand told TOI there have been instances in the past when ministers and other stakeholders have pushed their own projects that have not been mooted by the city level advisory forum (CLAF). “Instead, it will be worthwhile if the CLAF first deliberate on the projects, moots it to the council which can then approve the same after discussion,” he said. Sridhar earlier at the meeting accepted Premanand’s suggestion in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/council-demands-say-in-smart-city-projects-implemented-by-spv/articleshow/78918496.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Doctors’ salary: IMA moves contempt plea against Delhi chief secretary||NEW DELHI: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Delhi chief secretary and the commissioners of municipal corporations for failing to pay salaries to doctors and other frontline corona warriors in Delhi government hospitals despite specific orders from the SC. The IMA, with over three lakh doctors as its members, said the SC in Arushi Jain PIL on June 17 had ordered all state governments to timely pay salaries and emoluments to doctors and other health services staff. It said the SC order was followed by a health ministry order to the same effect. On July 31, the SC had observed that five states, including Delhi, had not paid salaries to doctors and healthcare workers and had granted a week for ensuring payment of salary dues to them, the IMA said in its petition. Despite the SC’s repeated orders, salaries of doctors working under municipal corporations of Delhi had not been paid since June/July, making it impossible for them to sustain themselves, the IMA said. “While performing their duties selflessly and tirelessly, the doctors are not seeking any special treatment from any authority. However, the minimum basic and fundamental right of the doctors and other healthcare workers is timely payment of monthly salaries, emoluments and allowances,” it added. Drawing the court's attention to five doctors of Hindu Rao Hospital who are on an indefinite hunger strike demanding payment of salaries, the IMA said, “More than 625 doctors have been martyred while performing their duties as frontline warriors in treating Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-salary-ima-moves-contempt-plea-against-chief-secy/articleshow/78920016.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Treat every fever as Covid, says Goa Medical College dean||PANAJI: Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said on Wednesday that “every case of fever should be treated as a Covid fever”, and advised people not to take fever or any other symptom lightly as it could be a “proxy Covid”. “The sensitivity of the RT-PCR test is 65%, and if the patient is in (negative) 35%, there are good chances that they will land in hospital with low oxygen saturation level,” he said. Bandekar’s comment came after the GMC’s death audit of Covid victims stated that people continue to be brought to hospital in a serious condition, resulting in them dying. “Many people, including the educated, are in denial and say nothing is wrong with them,” Bandekar said. He added that although the economic status of a patient plays a role in how early medical help is sought, it’s seen that people from other (more affluent) sections too are not prompt in reporting to hospital. The dean also said that another troubling category of patients is those who test positive on a TrueNat or antigen test, but don’t have symptoms. “In these cases, it’s seen there’s a likelihood of patients treating it as a joke,” he said. “Many people have told me so. The person has to be vigilant till the thirteenth day.” This week itself, four people were declared brought dead in hospital, and two died within few minutes of admission. The audit said that many people land up in hospital in a critical state since they don’t take their status seriously even if they are positive but don’t have symptoms. Bandekar said that initially, doctors believed that patients can develop a cytokine storm between the seventh and 10th day, but as per new criteria, patients must keep serious watch on their condition from the fifth to 13th day. “Be sensitive towards even small symptomatology,” he said. “We have observed that all patients have fever, 99% experience bodyache, and around 90% lose their sense of smell and taste,” Bandekar said. “Breathlessness will come at a later stage. Patients have to be vigilant during the critical period, and those who are negative should also be careful if they have symptoms.” The death audit committee also observed that persons with any comorbidity such as alcoholic liver disease, asthma, indigestion and diabetes will first be attacked by the virus in community spread, irrespective of whether their blood sugar is low or high. “It is not necessary that a family member or neighbour has to be positive,” Bandekar said. “Four cases were seen this week in which case no family member or anyone close to the victims had Covid.” It is also advised that persons having comorbidities be treated in institutional care. “We do a chest X-ray and observe the patient for 10 days,” he said. “If their condition permits, they can go home after 10 days and stay in home isolation for a further period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/treat-every-fever-as-covid-says-gmc-dean/articleshow/78921516.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Food safety: 50 kg of stale sweets destroyed||Jaipur: As a part of ‘Shuddh Ke liye Yuddh’ campaign launched by the state government to fight against food adulteration, a team of food inspectors under the district administration on Wednesday destroyed 50 kg of stale sweets and ghewar at a sweet shop in Phagi. Teams of food inspectors inspected shops in Phagi, Sikar Road and Muhana Mandi. Besides destroying 50 kg of stale sweets at M/S Durga Jodhpur Mistanna Bhandar, samples of other sweets were also collected from the shop.The first team of food inspectors collected samples of milk cake and mawa from M/S Jai Sati Jodhpur Mistanna Bhandar and chilli powder and ghee samples from M/S Sharma Kirana and General Store. Samples of mawa and sweets were also collected from M/S Kanji Sweets on Sikar Road. Samples of cashewnut-based sweets were collected from M/S Kanniram Sweets at VKI Area. The second team collected samples of lemon chutney from Shyam Foods at Muhana Mandi area. They also collected samples of barfi from Saini Mishtan in Sanganer. Samples were also collected from M/S Rajdhani Sweets in Phagi.“The samples collected from various shops have been sent to the laboratory for examination. The penalties range from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh depending on the severity of the offence,” said additional district magistrate (ADM) IV Ashok Kumar. There are four teams of food inspectors under the district administration. A district level management committee has also been formed. This committee will review action taken by the inspection teams, including the registration of FIRs.“Action is taken against the culprits under the Food Safety and Standards Act. If the offence is proven to be very serious (found to be selling unsafe food), the guilty may also face life imprisonment and a penalty of Rs 5 lakh,” said CMHO-1 Dr Narottam Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/food-safety-50-kg-of-stale-sweets-destroyed/articleshow/78920015.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Mysuru||Rajyotsava award: Yoga teacher, specially-abled man among winners||MYSURU / SHIVAMOGGA: The following people from old Mysuru and Malnad regions have been selected for the coveted Rajyotsava award. AS Chandrashekar (Yoga)The 65-year-old AS Chandrashekar is one of the prominent yoga and Ayurveda practitioners in Mysuru. He has been imparting yoga education for 36 years. Chandrashekar, a resident of JP Nagar, plays a key role in popularising and taking yoga to people. “The award was unexpected. I didn’t apply nor did any one request for it. I was surprised when people started calling me to congratulate. I will continue my service to yoga and ayurveda,” he said. KS Rajanna, social service (28-OCT-MYS-Rajanna) The 61-year-old KS Rajanna is the first commissioner for persons with disabilities. Born in Koppa village in Maddur taluk of Mandya district, Rajanna lost both his legs and a hand to polio when he was just 11 months old. A diploma holder in engineering, Rajanna had won two medals in discus throw and swimming in the 2002 Paralympics. He became an industrialist and provided jobs to people with disabilities. In 2016, he was appointed as the first commissioner of persons with disabilities. “I attribute this award to all people with disabilities and I will work continuously for their empowerment,” he said. Dr. BS Srinath (medicine), is a surgical oncologist, head of the institution - Sri Shankara Cancer Hospital and Research Centre, Bengaluru and managing trustee of Sri Shankara Cancer Foundation. He got the award for exemplary service in the field of Medicine. Srinath did his schooling at his hometown of Bhadravati and later studied at Silver Jubilee College. He went on to study in England in 1979. He returned to India in 1983 and worked in Kidwai Hospital and Ramaiah College. He has conducted thousands of medical camps in South India. Mohini Siddegowda, social service Mohini Siddegowda is a native of Hassan but has dedicated her life for social service in Chikkamagaluru for five decades. She was born at Anjugondanahalli of Sakleshpur taluk in Hassan. She has been working at Kastura Ba Sadana Koutumbika Salaha Kendra for 37 years. She had successfully helped thousands of families in disputes, fought against liquor and domestic violence against women. She has been an active participant of many movements. Bangar Achari (Yakshagana)Eighty-six-year-old Bangar Achari from Kabballi village in Chamarajanagar has been selected under the Yakshagana category. Although he is a carpenter by profession, he conducts Yakshagana classes for the youths. His family has been teaching Yakshagana since generations. Every year Bangar Achari organises Yakshagana training for the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rajyotsava-award-yoga-teacher-specially-abled-man-among-winners/articleshow/78919204.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||DU’s VC suspended to ensure fair probe||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday suspended the services of Delhi University vice-chancellor professor Yogesh Tyagi with immediate effect on the charges of grave misconduct, dereliction of duty, abuse of power and lack of commitment. A day earlier, he had given his consent for an inquiry against Tyagi. The order was issued by Union ministry of education (MoE) at the behest of the President’s office stating that Tyagi had been “placed under suspension till further orders as he may influence or coerce witnesses and tamper with material records of the university”, which may hamper conducting a fair inquiry. “The President, in his capacity as Visitor of the university, on consideration of facts and material available on record, has ordered an inquiry into the allegations of dereliction of duties and lack of commitment and devotion to duty against Yogesh Tyagi,” read the suspension order. The education ministry order listed a series of serious charges against the vice-chancellor, including the absurd drama that unfolded at the central university on October 21 with two vice-chancellors, two registrars and two directors of South Campus in the saddle at the same time. Stating that Tyagi had failed to discharge the duties and responsibilities entrusted under Delhi University Act, 1922, the order charged him with not filling up statutory and key posts, including those of pro-VC, registrar, finance officer and treasurer, controller of examination, librarian, dean of colleges, director of South Campus, principals of colleges and constitution of governing bodies, despite regular follow-up by MoE. The suspension order also highlighted that despite meetings at the level of the Union education minister and higher education secretary, no substantial progress was made by Tyagi regarding vacant teaching posts in a time-bound manner. Terming the actions of Tyagi insensitive in vigilance and sexual harassment cases, the order further stated, “Certain vigilance complaints and sexual harassment cases in the university are pending for more than two years in violation of the provisions of the relevant Act, despite regular follow-up by the ministry.” The issue of ad hoc teachers and continuation of temporary arrangements had been highlighted by Delhi High Court too. The court had ordered formation of a three-member committee in 2017 for expeditious filling up of the posts. “Administrative negligence of the vice-chancellor came to the fore in handling the matter of ad hoc teachers, which resulted in a huge agitation by the fraternity across colleges causing inconvenience and loss of teaching and learning days,” the order stated. The vice-chancellor was also accused of delaying the process of implementing the ministry’s flagship scheme of Institution of Eminence. A senior MoE official said other DU officials, including PC Jha, the registrar appointed by Tyagi last week, were also under the scanner over their role in the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dus-vc-suspended-to-ensure-fair-probe/articleshow/78920074.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
October 29, 2020||Goa||Not all beneficiaries have to give certificate: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that there is no need for beneficiaries of Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS) and Griha Aadhar scheme to submit life certificates, except for those who have received letters from the social welfare department. “Only 6,000 of 1.36 lakh DSSS beneficiaries who were not found at home during the survey, or received a letter from the department, have to submit a life certificate,” Sawant told reporters. He said under Griha Aadhar, there are around 73,000 beneficiaries and over 7,000 applications are pending. “Only those who have not submitted income certificates, migrated to other states and have not withdrawn money from their bank account for the last one year will have to submit a life certificate or income certificate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-not-all-beneficiaries-have-to-give-certificate/articleshow/78921536.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||‘State’s temp may rise by degrees Celsius by 2050s, Goa could soon see major flooding’||PANAJI: Goa’s mean annual temperature could increase by 2 degrees Celsius by the 2050s, the state action plan for climate change (SAPCC) has said. It also warned that in the absence of mitigation measures, nearly 50% of the state’s low-lying areas could experience flooding in the coming years. The action plan stated that whose livelihoods are dependent on khazan and riparian ecosystems are the state’s most vulnerable groups. “With much of Goa sitting barely 5m above the sea level, the destruction of khazans could sound the death-knell for the state,” the action plan states. The team from the Goa state biodiversity board (GSBB) presented the findings to state ministers, who approved the plan on Wednesday. Goa’s mean annual temperature has increased by over 1 degree Celsius since 1901, much of it during the 1990-2018 period. The plan was prepared after analysing data of the past 100 years from sources like the IMD, including international reports. It also projects the expected changes over the next 100 years, and what needs to be done to brace against them. “The cabinet approved the plan with the suggestion that the impact of climate change on the Mhadei should also be studied,” said an official. The report states that though the average rainfall may show decline in the long run, extreme rainfall events are expected to increase in the state. In terms of vulnerability from floods and sea level rise, the talukas of Salcete, Tiswadi and Bardez are the most vulnerable, states the action plan. A climate change knowledge hub has been proposed to be set up at the state secretariat, as also making climate change a mandatory part of school education. The plan states that after the 2040s, the state may experience heat waves where temperatures cross 40 degrees Celsius, and under “high-emission” scenarios, the maximum temperature could rise by 5-8 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. “Thorough measures are required in Goa against temperature and flood vulnerability. Besides measures like restoration of bunds, the action plan also speaks about the need to have climate-resilient homes in the coming years,” said the official. He said that although the state government is already spending 0.2% of its GDP in adaptation and mitigation measures against climate change, it was decided on Wednesday that more funds would be earmarked for this purpose over the next 10 years. From now on, the expenditure under this head will be integrated, for better perspective of the spending in this direction. “It is a policy document which was missing,” the official said. “Goa is perhaps the only state with a plan wherein consultations with scientists, government departments and the public were held. Once again, the document will be kept open for a short period for more inputs, before it is presented before the Centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-temp-may-rise-by-2c-by-2050s-goa-could-soon-see-major-flooding/articleshow/78921524.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjars to launch agitation on Nov 1; govt invites them for dialogue||Jaipur: The Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti will be launching a statewide agitation in support of 4% MBC quota from Pilupura in Bharatpur at 10 am on November 1, informed Gujjar leader and Kirori Singh Bainsla’s son Vijay Singh Bainsla on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the state government has invited Kirori Bainsla for a meeting on Thursday. The Samiti during the mahapanchayat on October 17 had given an ultimatum to the state government till November 1 to fulfil all their demands related to 4% reservation to the MBC community. The meeting will be attended by members of ministerial sub-committee on Thursday. Earlier, an FIR was lodged against Gujjar leader and convener of Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti Kirori Singh Bainsla and 33 others at Bayana police station in Bharatpur for organising a mahapanchayat, in violation of Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, and Disaster Management Act 2005.The representatives of most backward class (MBC) community, including Vijay Bainsla, later met Governor Kalraj Mishra to submit a representation demanding an FIR against CM Ashok Gehlot, PCC Chief Govind Singh Dotasara and AICC general secretary Ajay Maken for violation of Rajasthan Epidemics Disease Act and Disaster Management Act during the lockdown.In the representation submitted on behalf of the MBC community to the Governor, Bainsla had requested him to lodge a case against Gehlot, Dotasra and Maken under ‘equal offense, equal justice, equal penalty’ rule and said, “The manner in which the FIR was lodged for organising a mahapanchayat by MBC (most backward class) community, in the same pattern, it should be registered against them within 24 hours and uphold the Indian justice system.”“We took a decision (at the Mahapanchayat) that we will ensure that everything is stopped in Rajasthan from November 1. That means all services including trains and road transport,” Vijay Bainsla had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjars-to-launch-agitation-on-nov-1-govt-invites-them-for-dialogue/articleshow/78920035.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Vadodara||Reason for hurling of slipper yet not clear||Vadodara: On Tuesday night Vadodara rural police claimed that Rashmin Patel, who threw a slipper at deputy CM Nitin Patel, is a Congress worker. On Wednesday, social media was abuzz with reports that he was with the BJP until 2013 and may have conspired at the behest of someone. However, police believe that Patel single-handedly carried out his own plot as his conversations with other Congress members do not throw light on being instigated for the act. On Wednesday, police also added charges of criminal conspiracy against Patel in the original offence. “So far it seems that he had planned the entire act, but his motive has not been known yet. The audio clip that has been found from his phone is a conversation with a member of Congress’s publicity committee, Amit Pandya,” said a police official. “When the accused told Pandya that it was his plan to hurl the slipper, the former was surprised to hear that,” the official added. The audio clip divulges that Patel had not thrown the slipper himself but got it done through his men. However, he is yet to divulge details of the men he hired before the police. Cops claim he had also planned to arrange their meeting with Pandya. “We have received his custody for one day from the court and we are likely to get more details from him,” said deputy superintendent of police K V Solanki. “We are yet to question Pandya as Patel is still being interrogated for more details about his motive and the men he had hired,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/reason-for-hurling-of-slipper-yet-not-clear/articleshow/78918209.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Public bike-sharing project in limbo since 2018||Ludhiana: On one hand the civic officials are going to organise a cycle rally for promoting cycling in this industrial city, while on the other hand the much hyped public bike-sharing project conceived under smart city mission is still nowhere in sight. The officials had prepared the detailed project report and also tried to contact the bicycle manufacturers, but it did not yield any result. Consequently, the project is still hanging fire. The officials blame the extreme weather conditions, lesser interest among residents for cycling for doing daily chores and polluted environment for not letting this project become a reality. They claimed that in the cities where this project had even started, it failed to become successful. Cities like Bhopal, Mysore, New Delhi, Chandigarh, Panchkula, etc. are already running public bike-sharing project. In 2018, the civic body officials were working on the detailed project report of public bike-sharing project. At that time around 15 locations were identified for establishing cycle docks and it was to start with 100 bicycles. The idea behind this project was to provide the bicycles to the residents on rent so that they could commute in different parts of the city. This project was aimed at reducing pollution levels in the city and if residents wanted they could take bicycles on rent for going anywhere in the city. A private firm, AECOM, working as consultant for Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) had proposed 15 sites, including Rose Garden, Leisure Valley, Rakh Bagh, Fountain chowk, Bharat Nagar chowk, Feroze Gandhi Market, Mall road, Red Cross Bhavan, Preet Palace, etc. The project was going to be launched from 10 sites. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that here residents do cycling just for fun and not for adopting it as a mode of transport. He said moreover there was dust all around and environment was polluted and thirdly there were extreme weather conditions in the city, so it was not possible to go anywhere on cycles here. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “At the moment we are prioritising projects which are already finalised, so first those get completed and then other projects will be taken up gradually.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/public-bike-sharing-project-in-limbo-since-2018/articleshow/78920057.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||20 engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu couldn’t fill a single seat||CHENNAI: Thirteen colleges, including 12 government and aided colleges and one self-financing college, filled 100% seats while 20 colleges could not fill a single seat after four rounds of online counselling conducted by Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions committee. Last year, 16 colleges could not get a single student. This year, 56.4% seats in 461 engineering colleges remained vacant after general counselling. The absentees in the counselling jumped by 12% compared to previous year. Of the 1,10,836 students who were called for general counselling, 69,752 (62.9%) were allotted seats in four rounds, 6,612 less than last year. In special categories, including sports, ex-servicemen, differently-abled and vocational stream, 1,443 students got allotment. Overall, 71,195 seats (43.6%) were filled against 1,63,154 seats available with 91,959 seats remaining vacant. Last year, 48.2% seats were filled in the counselling. Due to Covid-19, the number of admissions has come down by 5% in the counselling. However, top colleges say they had a good admission season. “These colleges have filled more seats despite the Covid-19 crisis. Students and parents gave importance to colleges that have good placement records and faculty members,” said R M Kishore, vice-chairman, RMK Engineering College. Colleges with poor placement records last year could not attract many students. This year, only 139 colleges were able to fill more than 50% of the seats in the counselling. “At the end of academic counselling, almost 250 colleges have less than 100 seats in the first year. It is financially not viable for the management to give quality education. Students and faculty members would be affected,” said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. A majority of the students joined computer science, information technology, artificial intelligence and data science, electronics and communication, he said. Principals said around 103 colleges will face a crisis in 2020-21 as they were able to fill less than 10% of their intake. A private college principal said colleges which have less than 10% admissions cannot afford faculty members and conduct classes for these students. “Anna University should intervene and transfer these students to other colleges which have more admissions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/20-engg-colleges-in-tn-couldnt-fill-a-single-seat/articleshow/78920014.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||With winter knocking on the doors, air quality starts dipping across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The air quality index in Jodhpur has remained ‘poor’ for the last two days while in Bhiwadi it has been ‘very poor’ for six days in a row. Health experts claimed that in coming days, the air quality would worsen across the state. In Ajmer, the air quality turned ‘poor’ on Tuesday for the first time this season, but turned moderate on Wednesday. In Jaipur, the situation is slightly better as the air quality index (AQI) remained moderate and has not yet turned ‘poor’. During lockdown, the AQI across the state remained satisfactory and at some places it was ‘good’. But, post-lockdown, with more vehicles plying, industries functioning and reports of stubble burning in northern India, the AQI across the state has been affected. In Delhi, the situation is worsening as AQI has dipped significantly. On November 3 last year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had appealed to the Centre to take air pollution seriously and take measures to prevent Delhi’s pollution from reaching Rajasthan. A health department official said air pollution aggravates health problems of patients already suffering from chronic lungs diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interestial lung disease, and now a large number of recovered and infected Covid-19 patients will face difficulty. In Udaipur, where the AQI remained satisfactory for most of the time, turned moderate on Wednesday. The advisory committee for Covid-19, constituted by the health department, has warned that cases may increase due to worsening of AQI. The members of the advisory committee have linked spread of Covid with suspended particulate matter. The higher the suspended particulate matter, the higher would be the chance of spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpurs-air-quality-remains-poor-on-second-consecutive-day-first-time-of-the-season/articleshow/78920069.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jodhpur||With winter knocking on the doors, air quality starts dipping across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The air quality index in Jodhpur has remained ‘poor’ for the last two days while in Bhiwadi it has been ‘very poor’ for six days in a row. Health experts claimed that in coming days, the air quality would worsen across the state. In Ajmer, the air quality turned ‘poor’ on Tuesday for the first time this season, but turned moderate on Wednesday. In Jaipur, the situation is slightly better as the air quality index (AQI) remained moderate and has not yet turned ‘poor’. During lockdown, the AQI across the state remained satisfactory and at some places it was ‘good’. But, post-lockdown, with more vehicles plying, industries functioning and reports of stubble burning in northern India, the AQI across the state has been affected. In Delhi, the situation is worsening as AQI has dipped significantly. On November 3 last year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had appealed to the Centre to take air pollution seriously and take measures to prevent Delhi’s pollution from reaching Rajasthan. A health department official said air pollution aggravates health problems of patients already suffering from chronic lungs diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interestial lung disease, and now a large number of recovered and infected Covid-19 patients will face difficulty. In Udaipur, where the AQI remained satisfactory for most of the time, turned moderate on Wednesday. The advisory committee for Covid-19, constituted by the health department, has warned that cases may increase due to worsening of AQI. The members of the advisory committee have linked spread of Covid with suspended particulate matter. The higher the suspended particulate matter, the higher would be the chance of spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpurs-air-quality-remains-poor-on-second-consecutive-day-first-time-of-the-season/articleshow/78923719.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||In 100 years of DU, no VC was suspended, say academicians||NEW DELHI: The academic community and various stakeholders of Delhi University on Wednesday termed the visitorial inquiry against vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi and his suspension an “unfortunate day” as this was the first time that such a thing had occurred in the history of the almost 100-year-old establishment. However, they unanimously said it was a step in the right direction because of Tyagi’s years of “inaction and lack of trust”. Tyagi did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages for his comments in the matter. Delhi University Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said, “On June 27, 2019, we had submitted a white paper regarding professor Tyagi’s inaction and willful ignorance of work. Action should have been taken much earlier. The inquiry is a step in the right direction.” JL Gupta, an executive council member, said the action against Tyagi was a “boomerang of his behaviour”. Gupta had been raising the matter of the VC not being able to form his team for a very long time. “This is for the first time in DU’s history that a vice-chancellor has been suspended. It is the outcome of his indecisiveness on all matters. He also violated several provisions of the DU statutes and ordinances,” he added. The power tussle between Tyagi and pro-vice-chancellor PC Joshi came out in the open after infighting in National Democratic Teachers Front. Teachers said the cause of infighting was mostly related to chairing of the executive council meeting, where two names for the members of the search committee for the new VC had to be approved. A meeting of the executive council is now scheduled for Thursday. Ashwini Kumar, chairman of Indian National Teachers’ Congress, said, “Yogesh Tyagi halted the growth and development of Delhi University by not holding regular meetings of the academic council. He virtually strangulated teachers by denying them absorption, regularisation and promotions.” A head of department who had worked closely with Tyagi said, “The VC was always scared to act, wanted to play safe and lacked trust.” None of the college principals wanted to comment on the matter. Meanwhile, DS Rawat was appointed as dean of examination on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-100-yrs-of-du-no-vc-was-suspended-say-academicians/articleshow/78920143.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Two youth arrested for vehicle theft||KOLHAPUR: Police have arrested two men, who have allegedly stolen at least 15 two-wheelers from various parts of Kolhapur district. The two have been remanded in police custody for three days. Police have confiscated 15 two-wheelers from them, worth about Rs 5.3 lakh. The arrested men have been identified as Avdhut Lahu Dhure (20), a resident of Phaye village in Bhudargad tehsil and Tulshidas Arjun Patil (21), a resident of Bhendwade village in Bhudargad tehsil. Acting on a tip-off that the two men were coming to Tapowan, the local crime branch laid a trap. They noticed the duo on a motorcycle, which had no number plate.  Dhure had stolen two-wheelers from areas including Rajarampuri, Shahuwadi, Juna Rajwada and Karveer. Dhure used to sell those to Patil. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-youth-arrested-for-vehicle-theft/articleshow/78917583.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ajmer||With winter knocking on the doors, air quality starts dipping across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The air quality index in Jodhpur has remained ‘poor’ for the last two days while in Bhiwadi it has been ‘very poor’ for six days in a row. Health experts claimed that in coming days, the air quality would worsen across the state. In Ajmer, the air quality turned ‘poor’ on Tuesday for the first time this season, but turned moderate on Wednesday. In Jaipur, the situation is slightly better as the air quality index (AQI) remained moderate and has not yet turned ‘poor’. During lockdown, the AQI across the state remained satisfactory and at some places it was ‘good’. But, post-lockdown, with more vehicles plying, industries functioning and reports of stubble burning in northern India, the AQI across the state has been affected. In Delhi, the situation is worsening as AQI has dipped significantly. On November 3 last year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had appealed to the Centre to take air pollution seriously and take measures to prevent Delhi’s pollution from reaching Rajasthan. A health department official said air pollution aggravates health problems of patients already suffering from chronic lungs diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interestial lung disease, and now a large number of recovered and infected Covid-19 patients will face difficulty. In Udaipur, where the AQI remained satisfactory for most of the time, turned moderate on Wednesday. The advisory committee for Covid-19, constituted by the health department, has warned that cases may increase due to worsening of AQI. The members of the advisory committee have linked spread of Covid with suspended particulate matter. The higher the suspended particulate matter, the higher would be the chance of spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jodhpurs-air-quality-remains-poor-on-second-consecutive-day-first-time-of-the-season/articleshow/78923722.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Udaipur||With winter knocking on the doors, air quality starts dipping across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The air quality index in Jodhpur has remained ‘poor’ for the last two days while in Bhiwadi it has been ‘very poor’ for six days in a row. Health experts claimed that in coming days, the air quality would worsen across the state. In Ajmer, the air quality turned ‘poor’ on Tuesday for the first time this season, but turned moderate on Wednesday. In Jaipur, the situation is slightly better as the air quality index (AQI) remained moderate and has not yet turned ‘poor’. During lockdown, the AQI across the state remained satisfactory and at some places it was ‘good’. But, post-lockdown, with more vehicles plying, industries functioning and reports of stubble burning in northern India, the AQI across the state has been affected. In Delhi, the situation is worsening as AQI has dipped significantly. On November 3 last year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot had appealed to the Centre to take air pollution seriously and take measures to prevent Delhi’s pollution from reaching Rajasthan. A health department official said air pollution aggravates health problems of patients already suffering from chronic lungs diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, interestial lung disease, and now a large number of recovered and infected Covid-19 patients will face difficulty. In Udaipur, where the AQI remained satisfactory for most of the time, turned moderate on Wednesday. The advisory committee for Covid-19, constituted by the health department, has warned that cases may increase due to worsening of AQI. The members of the advisory committee have linked spread of Covid with suspended particulate matter. The higher the suspended particulate matter, the higher would be the chance of spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jodhpurs-air-quality-remains-poor-on-second-consecutive-day-first-time-of-the-season/articleshow/78923720.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports lowest daily new infection in 41 days||JAIPUR: Daily new infections dipped further on Wednesday recording the lowest numbers in 41 days with 1,785 cases taking the overall tally to 1,91,629. On September 17, the state had reported 1782 cases and 1871 the next day. Active cases in Jaipur too have dipped to 4,351. On October 8, there were 9,241 active cases in Jaipur and over the last 20 days, the district saw a significant dip of 52%. While the pandemic situation has improved significantly, the health department has advised people to take proper precautions during municipal polls. “Civic polls will be held in three cities. In such a situation, candidates and their supporters should strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. He said people should go to vote wearing masks in the first phase of elections on October 29. He asked voters to sanitise their hands prior going to the polling centre and stand in the marked circles while standing in the queue or wait for their turn by maintaining social distance. He requested the people to give priority to senior citizens and persons with disabilities during voting. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters not to crowd in a place near the booths. In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died in the state taking the overall tally to 1877. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (331), Bikaner (280), Jodhpur (177), Alwar (154), Sikar (113), Ajmer (98), Sriganganagar (85), Nagaur (68), Jhunjhunu (52), Kota (51), Udaipur (46), Sirohi (44), Bhilwara (37), Pali (34), Churu (28), Bharatpur (27), Dungarpur (23), Jalore (22), Barmer (21), Chittorgarh (16), Dausa (15), Hanumangarh (11), Sawai Madhopur (10), Tonk (7), Dholpur (6), Karauli (5), Rajsamand (5), Baran (4), Bundi (4), Jhalawar (4), Pratapgarh (4) and Jaisalmer (3). Jaipur reported its 368th Covid-19 death, Bikaner 138th, Ajmer 138th, Bharatpur 93rd, Udaipur 69th, Sikar 55th, Barmer 35th, Rajsamand 29th, Jhunjhunu 28th, and Churu reported its 23rd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-lowest-daily-new-infection-in-41-days/articleshow/78920086.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||TCP makes online nod must from November||PANAJI: The response to the town and country planning (TCP) department’s e-building plan approval management system (BPAMS) for automating building permissions has been poor, said TCP officials. Officials said that the online system, which was optional for three months, will become mandatory from November 1. Unveiled as part of the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP), the online automated system for submission of construction plans for single dwelling units was meant to speed up clearances and reduce corruption, but the BPAMS has found few, if no takers. According to TCP department officials, less than 30 architects and professionals have registered and authorised themselves on the portal. The web-based online system allows architects to register themselves, submit building plans and seek technical clearances. Based on the uploaded construction drawings, the software automatically scrutinises the plan, recommends site inspection and grants clearance. “TCP department requests all professionals and architects to register on BPAMS, and on successful registration, to apply for online technical clearances,” the department said in a public notice for architects and construction stakeholders. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior department official said that not a single application for individual homes had been submitted online, with applicants still coming with physical drawings. The online system was unveiled recently in order to improve ease of doing business and to grant technical clearances in a transparent manner. The online system has been made applicable for single family dwelling units or individual homes. “The department has instructed all officials to stop accepting offline applications for single dwelling family units from November 2. TCP is looking forward for maximum participation and cooperation from professionals and architects to ensure efficient, transparent and time-bound service delivery to citizens,” said the senior TCP department officer. TCP claims that it has conducted training programmes for architects and professionals to ensure a smooth rollout, but architects and professionals remain reluctant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tcp-makes-online-nod-must-from-november/articleshow/78921549.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Price rise relief: 3kg onions at Rs 32/kg for ration card holders in Goa||PANAJI: With onion prices skyrocketing, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided that as a relief measure, people will be provided three kilos of onions per ration card at Rs 32 per kg. Onions are currently retailing at nearly Rs 100 per kilo. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that supply will start within 10 days. The cabinet has approved the purchase of 1,045 metric tonne (MT) of onion from the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) at the rate of Rs 28,000 per MT. There will be no additional financial burden on the state government on account of the above proposal as the same will be distributed at a cost-to-cost basis, a cabinet note said. The rate of Rs 32 per kg will include transportation cost of Rs1 per kg and profit margin for fair price shops at the rate of Rs 3 per kg, the note further said. There are 3.4 lakh ration card holders in Goa. Of these, over 12,000 are Antyodaya Anna Yojana cards (AAY); 1.3 lakh are priority household cards (PHH); two lakh are Above Poverty Line (APL) cards and 99 are Annapurna card holders. The department of civil supplies and consumer affairs distributes 35 kg of rice per card per month for AAY card holders, five kilos per person per month for PHH card holders, and eight kg rice and 4 kg wheat per card per month for APL card holders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/price-rise-relief-3kg-onions-at-rs-32/kg-for-ration-card-holders/articleshow/78921553.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sindhu Bhavan temple extension razed||Ahmedabad: Tension coursed through the Sindhu Bhavan area briefly on Wednesday when an AMC team demolished an illegal extension of Jahu Jhapadi Meladi Mata temple in the area. However, no untoward incident was reported as AMC officers promised that the temple would remain intact. The AMC team was accompanied by police and fire brigade personnel. According to local residents, a demolition was planned in 2005. But the move had set off a riot in the area. Shailesh Barot, the trustee of the temple, said that the shrine is 125 years old. “Recently, AMC officials came to serve us the notice of demolition,” Barot said. “We had asked them for some time so that a new temple can be constructed and the idols shifted. But the AMC pressed on with the demolition.” He said that the land on which the temple is constructed is a private, ancestral tract and therefore there was no question of illegal construction. The AMC officials who were part of the demolition drive said since the trustees claimed that the temple was more than a century old, it was not being removed and only the extension was razed. “As it is, the temple lies in line with the road,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sindhu-bhavan-temple-extension-razed/articleshow/78921552.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Truckers laud SC order on ore movement||Valpoi: While hailing the Supreme Court’s order granting permission for transportation of e-auctioned and royalty-paid iron ore till January 31, 2021, members of the North Goa Truck Owners’ Association also requested the government to “restart mining activities as soon as possible as both the Centre and state are ruled by BJP”. Sandeep Parab, a member of the association, also thanked the chief minister for amicably resolving the ore transportation rate issue between the association and the mining companies. “The new rates which would be applicable for the transportation of e-auctioned ore and royalty-paid ore will really help truck owners. We will soon start transporting the ore,” said association president Suresh Desai. , adding that “we are getting positive vibes pertaining to mining issues in Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/truckers-laud-sc-order-on-ore-movement/articleshow/78921563.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Goa||Goa cabinet clears decks for statewide property register||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the Goa Land Revenue (Property Register) Rules, 2020, which entail the creation of a property register to collate information related to immovable property across the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said although creation of a property register is a lengthy process, work on it has already begun. “The government receives a lot of complaints related to properties. This will help people to get their property titles clear. Once a property is registered, it can be accessed through all departments,” he said. The new rules mandate that the government create and maintain a digital property register for each survey number currently recorded in the Form I & XIV. The current online database of record of rights maintained by the revenue department will be the starting point. All government departments, local bodies and other state agencies are required to keep this register updated by recording any encumbrances, zonings, lien, mortgage, lease, court order, proceeding, restriction, dispute or any information possessed or received by them related to the properties, in a manner specified by the director of settlement and land records. The directorate of settlement and land records (DSLR) will be the custodian of the database and will maintain it at its own cost. It will also provide login IDs and passwords to the departments concerned to facilitate updation of information related to immovable property. While the departments themselves will be liable and responsible for the accuracy and completeness of such information, they will be free to change such information as per the relevant acts, laws, rules, regulations or practices without seeking consent or approval from the DSLR or the revenue department. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a nationwide property card scheme, which he said would provide clarity of property rights in villages and enable farmers to use their property as collateral for loans from financial institutions. Two-thirds of India’s population lives in rural areas, where few possess land records and property disputes are common.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-clears-decks-for-statewide-property-register/articleshow/78921558.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vizhinjam talks positive; Agitation may end||Thiruvananthapuram: With ministers Kadannappally Ramachandran and Kadakampally Surendran meeting the representatives of local fishermen of Vizhinjam who have been agitating at the port construction site, stage is set for the continuation of the construction of the port. Speaking to TOI, Father Michael Thomas, the vicar of Our Lady of Good Voyage Church, Kottapuram, under whose leadership the agitation is going on, said the outcome of the meeting was positive. The two ministers listened to all the demands and even agreed to addressing them in a time-bound manner. “However, we will not call off the agitation immediately because promises were made in the past too, which were never kept. We have asked for a detailed minutes of meeting (MOM) with a deadline before which each work would be completed. After receiving a copy of MOM in our hands, we will call off the agitation,’’ Fr Thomas said, adding that the ministers have also agreed to issuing such an MOM at the earliest. Government sources said works to prepare a detailed MOM with timeline of implementation of each demand commenced soon after the meeting. It is expected to be completed in a day or two. “We have addressed three of their demands. Government orders were issued for three projects already,’’ a government official said. These include orders on repair and renovation of Gangayar drain, replacement of old and damaged drinking water pipelines with new ones and distribution of extra kerosene. The orders on Gangayar drain and KWA pipelines were issued last week. The copy of order on distribution of kerosene was handed over to the agitators on Wednesday during the meeting. The government had promised the fishermen to provide extra kerosene to cover additional distance owing to the works of port for a period of 24 months. This was based on a report submitted by in livelihood impact assessment committee in 2015. But the distribution stopped after 14 months. The latest order is to resume the distribution at the earliest. The other demands raised by the agitators include renovation of local schools and hospitals, construction of an old-age home, employment for local youth in the ongoing works and reducing the environmental impact on the shore caused by the works. The port works were stalled on September 30 after the local fishermen launched an agitation. The construction of breakwater had just begun when the agitation stalled the works. It was after the meeting held by secretary (ports) on October 16 failed, the ministers decided to meet the agitators to solve the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vizhinjam-talks-positive-agitation-may-end/articleshow/78918595.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Housing society ordered to compensate elderly residents for defunct lift||Ahmedabad: An elderly man dragged his housing society to the consumer court and got compensation for the hardship he faced climbing the stairs to his fourth floor apartment due to persistent problems with the old elevators in the building in Nadiad town.The case involves 74-year-old Girish Bhatt and the association of residents of Shivani Apartments in Nadiad. In July 2019, Bhatt sued the president of the housing society at the Kheda District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission demanding compensation for the trouble he faced due to the defunct lift in his block. He gave details about number of days the elevators were not functional. Bhatt claimed that the society collects maintenance every month and on delays in payment, slaps penalties towards that go to the lift fund. When the lifts stop functioning, nobody heed the complaints and they remain inoperational for 10-15 days. He complained that due to his advanced age and respiratory problems, he has to incur extra medical expenses due to the hardship he faces because of the elevators, which are 20 years old. In response, the society president told the court that Bhatt never complained to him about the lifts not working. The elevators are 20 years old and there are not enough funds to acquire new ones. In September, the president presented details about the availability of funds for lift repairs, and argued that the elevators were working properly in two blocks of the society. To support his case, he placed on record affidavits by other residents of the society. He also argued that Bhatt cannot be termed a consumer. However, the consumer court was not impressed by the society’s arguments and said the old man as a member of the association had been paying maintenance, and had to face problems due to the lifts not working. Bhatt has, however, not placed on record evidence about how much he had to spend on his ill health, but held that he was entitled to compensation.After consideration, the consumer court ordered the society to pay Rs 1,000 compensation to Bhatt and Rs 500 extra towards his legal expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/housing-society-ordered-to-compensate-elderly-residents-for-defunct-lift/articleshow/78921560.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Kadambari Balkawade may become KMC administrator||Kolhapur: Kolhapur civic chief Kadambari Balkawade will be appointed the administrator of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on November 15, according to highly placed sources in the urban development department of the state government. According to sources, the decision to appoint Balkawade the administrator will be announced on the day the tenure ends. She will be asked to take charge at 6 pm the same day. “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the five-year polls of several civic bodies have been postponed. In such cases, the municipal commissioners are asked to take up the role of the administrator. A similar decision will be taken for KMC. We are expecting a letter of postponement of the polls from the state election commission soon,” said an official requesting anonymity. The official also said the administrators will be appointed for the municipal councils and village panchayats in the state which have their tenures ending in November. “We have an unwritten rule that commissioners, who are of IAS cadre, are given the role of the administrator for the smooth functioning of the civic bodies. However, it is different for the municipal councils. There we ask the senior officials of the revenue department to chair the post of the administrator till the new body of corporators is formed after the election,” added the official. Meanwhile, the election department of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation said on Wednesday that the new development works will not be affected after the tenure ends. Usually, the code of conduct for the election is in place for almost a month ahead of the voting. During this period, no new development work can be taken up as such an initiative may influence voters in the favour of the party or alliance in power. However, the works which have been tendered and the private contractors are given work orders, can be smoothly carried out. Vijay Vankudre, the head of KMC’s election department said, “The works are impacted only when code of conduct is in place. Therefore, even after the appointment of the administrator the new development works can be executed as per the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/balkawade-may-become-kmc-administrator/articleshow/78917607.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC operations may return to pre-Covid level by mid-November||JAIPUR: Upbeat with the response of passengers towards Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) buses since they were started after the lockdown, the authorities are now planning to operate the number of buses they used to run during pre-Covid-19 times. The corporation is planning to operate around 2,500 buses by the middle of November. Since the start of the RSRTC buses after relaxation in the lockdown, the buses are getting more than 80% of the passengers load in its inter-state and intra-state services. Presently, the RSRTC is operating its buses to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. “For national capital, we are yet to get the final permission from the Delhi government, still we are just dropping and picking passengers to Delhi,” said a senior officer of RSRTC. Senior authorities of RSRTC have asked various depots to start its operations in full swing by mid-November. “Presently, we are operating nearly 1,800 buses per day within the state and outside the state. Prior to the lockdown period, we were operating 2,800 buses. Thus are now looking at operating at least 2,400 buses by mid-November,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC. He said that within the state, the buses to Udaipur, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Alwar and Bharatpur are getting good passenger load, while the buses to other states, including Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, are getting good number of passengers. “We have specifically asked our depots to be prepared to start operations in full swing and get the buses and staff ready for November,” he added. “Also if in November we get permission from Delhi to allow us having inter-state bus operations, we might have operations of nearly 2,800 buses,” he added. RSRTC buses were the most sought after by the passengers after relaxation in the lockdown was introduced during June this year. “We are following every guideline and not allowing any single passenger and our staff without mask. Buses are timely and properly being sanitized,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-ops-may-return-to-pre-covid-level-by-mid-nov/articleshow/78920071.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Health department recruits doctors on urgent temporary basis||JAIPUR: The health department is filling vacant posts of medical officers on the basis of urgent temporary basis (UTB) in the wake of Covid.The health department has posted nursing staff and doctors at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals by shifting them from their original places of posting. In Jaipur rural, two nurses were shifted from a community health centre to the dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital. After a pregnant woman from the area delivered a baby which died soon after birth, the health department again shifted the nurses from RUHS Hospital to their original posting at the CHC for care of pregnant women and other patients. Since the health department is facing such problems, it has decided to recruit more healthcare staff including doctors and paramedical staff on urgent and temporary basis. The health department has clarified that recruitments under UTB will remain effective till the pandemic gets over. In an order issued by health director (state) Dr KK Sharma, he clarified that doctors recruited on UTB should only be for vacant posts of medical officers. The doctors will not be recruited on UTB against the vacant posts of junior specialist, senior specialist and senior medical officer and leave reserve posts. A health department official said permission for recruitment of 20 doctors and 40 paramedical staff has been given to Dholpur’s dedicated Covid hospital on UTB. The recruitments will be made through District Health Societies. The order said MBBS doctors and PG doctors will get honorarium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-department-recruits-doctors-on-urgent-temporary-basis/articleshow/78920112.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Entrepreneurship support, mentoring the main goals||Bhargavi Ramachandran, a PGPX alum of 2009 and Bangalore-based performance coach, says that as a coordinator for the women alumni SIG, she gets to interact with a large number of former and current students. “A specific theme of discussions among my women alumni interactions is about mentoring of women in the workplace, entrepreneurship support, handling diversity issues at workplace and more recently community support during lockdown times,” she says, adding that it’s an opportunity to help entrepreneurs/startups and women returning from mid-career breaks. Some of the issues pointed out by the women alumni during the meets included the lack of regular social networking – something which is relatively easier for their male counterparts – and proving their ‘worthiness’ for the assignments and promotions. “When we talk about women corporate leaders, we give names such as Indra Nooyi, Shikha Sharma or Chanda Kochhar as role models for the B-school grads. But through this initiative, a person like me can find role models from our own alumna who already underwent many challenges that many like me are currently facing,” says Garima Kaushal, a PGP alumnus from 2015-17 and co-founder of Delhi-based startup Sploot. “B-schools like MIT-Sloan already has a group on similar lines. Apart from the support group, it also works as thought leader – something we hope it will evolve into.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entrepreneurship-support-mentoring-the-main-goals/articleshow/78920138.cms||Parth Shastri
October 29, 2020||India||House panel warns Twitter it could face treason charge||NEW DELHI: A parliamentary panel on Wednesday directed Twitter to give a written explanation for showing Ladakh as part of Chinese territory, and an affidavit from Twitter Inc to indicate its compliance with Indian laws while committee chair Meenakshi Lekhi warned the firm’s representatives that misrepresenting the Indian map can attract charges of treason. Twitter India’s public policy and communication team — Shagufta Kamran, Ayushi Kapoor, Pallavi Walia and Manvinder Bali — appeared before the Lekhi-led joint committee on Personal Data Protection Bill 2019. They faced questions on Twitter’s letter to the IT secretary in which it said the company is alive to “Indian sensitivities” on the subject, with committee members pointing out that the issue was not only a matter of “sensitivities” but also India’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. Lekhi said not depicting India’s map right is treason and attracts a seven-year jail term. “Any firm that owns business in India will have to abide by the law of the land. The panel has asked them to explain further,” she said. BJD’s Bhartruhari Mahtab is also understood to have pointed out that Twitter had, in another instance, shown J&K as part of China, following which the Twitter team had “begged apology” while the panel had sought a written response on the firm’s corrective mechanisms and the punitive action taken. The committee also interviewed Amazon representatives who had previously “declined” to be part of the deposition, and were asked about the firm’s revenues. Amazon said it is not taking revenues out of India, and the panel got a feel of its spread with four different entitities appearing before it. The panel will be meeting Google and Paytm representatives on Thursday. Lekhi told TOI Twitter has been directed to explain further and submit an affidavit showing compliance of Indian laws because their responses to the panel, in person, were unsatisfactory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/house-panel-warns-twitter-it-could-face-treason-charge/articleshow/78922395.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man who supplied liquor to Raichura held||Ahmedabad: A day after alleged con call centre operator Nirav Raichura was arrested from his office in Prahladnagar, an aide of his identified as Chirag Jaiswal, who allegedly supplied him imported liquor, was held from his home in Gokuldham Society near Shantipura Circle on Tuesday night by Ahmedabad rural police. Officers of Ahmedabad rural police said Jaiswal, 35, has been in the illegal business of selling liquor for eight years but had not been arrested earlier. “Jaiswal dealt only in premium and imported liquor and supplied a few bigwigs in Ahmedabad. The liquor found at Raichura’s office and home were provided by Jaiswal,” said an officer. He said Jaiswal was put under house arrest and was tested for Covid-19. “His father died of Covid recently,” said an officer. An officer of Ahmedabad rural police said Jaiswal will be handed over to Ahmedabad city police, which has registered three different FIRs relating to prohibition violation, gambling and offences under the Arms Act against Raichura. Raichura allegedly hosted booze parties for several bigwigs of Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar at his home and office. Raichura was produced before a local court where he was granted bail in the prohibition and gambling case. He was soon re-arrested by Ahmedabad rural police, in another case for prohibition, concerning the liquor bottles found at his house. Raichura’s wife, Krishna, who fled just before police raided their house in Sarkhej, is still on the run and her whereabouts are not known to the police. Raichura’s ‘dark web’ dealings Ahmedabad: An officer of city police said Nirav Raichura used the dark web to run his illegal call centre business and is also suspected to have forged various documents to get passports for his aides. “We have sent his devices, including a cellphone and a laptop, for forensic examination as we suspect he used forged documents to get passports made to help his aides flee or migrate to foreign countries,” said an officer of city police. Raichura and his aides also got various documents using dark web with which they might have obtained sim cards to run the call centre racket. “Raichura got data of thousands of people from the US and European countries who his operatives would call and cheat. He had deleted some data from his cellphone and laptop, including details of forex transactions. His devices were thus sent to the forensic laboratory to retrieve the data,” he said. Police officers said they have also found certain contact numbers on his phone which may expose more call centre scams. “We have also sought Raichura’s call detail records to get hold of his contacts and investigate the case further,” said an officer. The officer said that although Raichura and his aides were running the illegal business for around eight years, they were never arrested. Why police did not investigate him is also the subject of investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-who-supplied-liquor-to-raichura-held/articleshow/78921568.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, you can hire double-decker bus for photoshoots||Thiruvananthapuram: A trip in double-decker bus used to top the ‘to do list’ in the capital tour for generations and KSRTC has given a timely twist to the cherished nostalgia. The bus, with its uniquely built chassis painted in bright tones, is now open for pre-wed shoots. The couples now have an option to live the dream of being photographed; officially in double-decker buses, much like what they would have watched in films. Ganesh and Lekshmi, who are residents of Vamanapuram and Enchakkal, became the first couple to avail photoshoot option in double-decker bus. Officials said it’s just a start. “We are getting so many queries. The first one was done on October 21. We are offering customization options in terms of setting inside the bus to a reasonable extent,” said G Anilkumar, executive director, operations, KSRTC. KSRTC will levy Rs 4,000 as rent for 8 hours and service can be used for 50km of journey. Additional rent can be paid for extra kilometres. A discount rate is in offer till December. Special commission will also be offered for agents and those booking the photoshoot in the bus. KSRTC has embarked on this initiative as part of sprucing up its revenue sources in addition to revenue from ticket sales. Bus will also be given on rent for birthday parties, pre-wed and post-wed photoshoots and other parties. KSRTC is also emulating ‘afternoon tea bus tour’ model of London for sightseeing, family gathering and celebrations in double- decker bus. The photoshoot in the bus will be done on a trial basis in the capital. Once it turns out to be a success, the project will be implemented in Kochi and Kozhikode as well. KSRTC has been reeling from losses for a long time and is now exploring new avenues for additional revenue generation. Recently, it has converted old chassis as sale counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-you-can-hire-double-decker-bus-for-photoshoots/articleshow/78918616.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: No clarity on arrear papers may rob many students of postgraduate seats||TRICHY: With no proper instructions from the higher education department on the arrear exams, especially for final year undergraduate (PG) students in arts and science colleges, many students with arrears may not get a seat in postgraduate courses. The issue cropped up after admissions to postgraduate programmes started before declaration of arrear results by colleges. While PG admissions are set to end by October 31, many students for PG seats with arrears have been put on waiting list without admissions. Students in autonomous government arts and science colleges are the most affected as the colleges are awaiting instructions from the higher education department. An applicant for PG course in Periyar EVR College was put on waiting list for his one arrear in fifth semester. On Wednesday, he was informed that almost all seats have been filled with students without arrears and he may not get a seat. The candidate approached the principal only to learn that he may get the seat if the college was allowed to increase intake this year. While he had paid the fee for the arrear paper the examination did not happen because of Covid-19 though end semester examinations were conducted. With an overall percentage of 77 in undergraduation, the candidate was sure to clear the paper but felt dejected for not being given an opportunity to appear for the arrear examination. While J Suganthi, principal of Periyar EVR college, was unavailable for comments, many students from rural areas are unlikely to get PG seats. The issue could have been avoided if admission for postgraduate courses began after declaring results of the arrears of final year students. Now, colleges have been asked to complete the admission process by October 31 and have filled the seats with students without arrears, said a teacher of Periyar EVR College. Bharathidasan University has announced that it would give grace marks to students from its affiliated colleges who have arrears. However, no such announcement has been made by the government for the government autonomous colleges. However, self financing arts and science colleges have provisionally admitted students with arrears but with good marks in their undergraduation. Some of the colleges are planning to give grace marks and some are even planning to conduct online examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-clarity-on-arrear-papers-may-rob-many-students-of-pg-seats/articleshow/78922023.cms||Sampath Kumar
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Incident a part of nationwide conspiracy: BJP||Jaipur: Reacting on the alleged religious conversion of Memchand Jatav and his family in Alwar, state BJP president Satish Poonia on Wednesday said that the recent case of forcible conversion in Alwar indicates that it’s a part of a nationwide conspiracy. “The ‘love jihad’ matter surfaced in Haryana has questioned the similar kind of activities being run in Mewat area in Rajasthan. The Meo dominated areas have become a challenge for the law enforcement agencies,” said Poonia. Party general secretary Madan Dilawar expressed fear that soon Hindu population will disappear from the Mewat area if the administration continues to be a mute spectator. “This incident is another example of deteriorating law and order situation in the state,” said Dilawar. Meanwhile, former state BJP president Arun Chaturvedi has demanded police protection for the BJP candidates accusing the Congress candidates are threatening their candidates. “The fear of defeat has left the Congress to use state machinery in the polls. It is happening right under the nose of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. I demand that all our candidates should be given security,” said Chaturvedi. Meanwhile, more than 10 Congress leaders, including its state secretary Satyanarayan Singhal, have deserted the party to join BJP on Wednesday. State BJP president Satish Poonia welcomed 30 Congressmen, including 20 party workers, at the BJP headquarters expressing confidence that they will strengthen the party. The list also includes Bidasar panchayat samiti’s former pradhan Santosh Meghwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/incident-a-part-of-nationwide-conspiracy-bjp/articleshow/78920163.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||Nearly a third of all polling booths in MP identified critical||BHOPAL: More than 2,700 polling booths across 28 constituencies that go to by-polls on November 3 have been identified as critical by EC where extra vigil is being taken. The highest numbers of such critical polling stations are in Morena where 159 polling stations have been identified as critical say sources. Overall there are 9,361 polling booths in these 28 constituencies spread across 19 districts of the state. Of these nearly 29% have been identified as critical. After Morena district—where by-election is being held in all the six constituencies of the district—Gwalior is second in having highest number of critical polling booths. In Gwalior, 81 polling booths have been identified as critical followed by Bhind district with 41 critical polling booths. As per EC, guidelines, ‘polling station where percentage of poll recorded is more than 75% and where more than 75% of votes have been recorded in favour of one candidate shall be identified as critical polling station. The polling stations that went for re-poll during the previous election due to reported electoral malpractices; the polling stations that witnessed any sort of electoral violence shall also be identified”. By polls will be held in 28 constituencies including Gwalior, Gwalior East, Dabra (in Gwalior district), Jaura, Sumaoli, Morena, Dimni, Ambah, (in Morena district), Sanchi (in Raisen), Anuppur (in Anuppur district), Suwasra (in Mandsaur district), Badnawar (in Dhar district), Mungaoli (in Ashok Nagar district), Bamori (in Guna district), Pohari (in Shivpuri district), Bhander (in Datia district), Bada Malhara (in Chhatarpur district), Mehgaon (in Bhind district), Agar (in Agar Malwa district), Sanwer (in Indore district), Mandhata and Nepanagar (in Khandwa district), Hatpipaliya (in Dewas district) and Surkhi (in Sagar district).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nearly-a-third-of-all-polling-booths-identified-critical/articleshow/78918620.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 1 death, 2 in Sangli for Covid-19||Kolhapur: The district reported 68 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 47,961. The death toll has risen to 1,637. As many as 45,287 patients have recovered from the contagion. While Kolhapur city has reported 16 cases. Currently, there are no hotspots within the city. Meanwhile, Kolhapur mayor Nilofer Ajrekar on Wednesday inaugurated the post-Covid care centre at Shahu Smarak Bhavan. This is the first centre of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC). Patients with health complaints after they get treated for Covid are provided consultation and further treatment in such centres. Of the 415 beds in seven Covid care centres in Kolhapur city, only 39 are currently occupied. Five centres have been shut. There are no critical patients admitted in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-run Covid care centres. 1,880 active cases in SangliThe number of active cases in Sangli district has come down to 1,880 after 255 patients were discharged from the hospitals on Wednesday. The district reported 182 fresh Covid cases and two deaths on Wednesday. So far, 44,755 cases have been reported in the district, of which, 1,628 people have succumbed to the infection while 41,247 patients have recovered. 25 cases in Solapur citySolapur city reported 25 fresh Covid cases and 17 patients were discharged from Covid facilities on Wednesday. The city also recorded four Covid deaths. Solapur city has a total of 9,485 positive patients, of which 532 people succumbed to Covid and 8,508 patients have recovered from the contagion. Solapur rural recorded 140 fresh cases and six deaths on Wednesday. As many as 175 patients were discharged. Solapur rural has a total of 30,241 Covid cases, of which 26,499 patients have recovered and 901 patients died due to Covid. North Solapur did not report a single patient||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-1-death-2-in-sangli/articleshow/78917610.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Maternity leave no ground for dismissal, SC tells DU college||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday slammed a Delhi University college for removing an ad hoc woman assistant professor during her maternity leave and said “having a child is no reflection on a woman's professional ability”. Manisha Priyadarshini has been working as an ad hoc assistant professor in different colleges affiliated to Delhi University. Her contractual appointment was getting renewed every four months with a notional break of one day for the last more than six years. The last renewal of her contract was in November 2018 when she was working with Aurobindo College. In January 2019, she sought maternity leave for four months as she was having complications in her pregnancy. She gave premature birth to a daughter, but the college removed her from service in March. A Delhi High Court bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Asha Menon ordered her reinstatement and imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on the college, which appealed against it in the SC. An SC bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said, “Maternity leave cannot be a ground for termination of services. Having a child is not a reflection on a woman's professional ability whether she is in the Army, Navy, judiciary, teaching or bureaucracy. We will not allow termination on this ground.” When the counsel for the college, Santosh Kumar, said the cost should be waived, the bench said, “The lady would have had to fight the might of the college and must have spent quite a sum in litigation. What is Rs 50,000 in Delhi? Imposition of cost is a good way of reducing frivolous litigation. It is important for the Supreme Court to start imposing costs.” The SC commended the HC judgment, which said denial of extension of service because of her need to go on leave due to pregnancy “would tantamount to penalising a woman for electing to become a mother while still employed and thus pushing her into a choiceless situation as motherhood would be equated with loss of employment”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/maternity-leave-no-ground-for-dismissal-sc-tells-du-college/articleshow/78920177.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Extend deadline of survey, Hawkers representatives||KOLHAPUR: Hawkers’ representatives have demanded an extension in the deadline for the survey of hawkers in Kolhapur city, which was going to end on October 31, to ensure that no hawker is left out in the survey, Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has ordered the estate department to complete the survey fast as only a few days are left before the deadline. So far, around 4,500 hawkers have been surveyed. Officials said the survey is near its end. However, the hawkers’ representatives said the actual number of hawkers is much more. More hawkers have been added during the lockdown. R K Powar, the convener of hawkers’ associations, said, “The survey once done will not happen again for the next five years. Those who are left out of the survey will be termed illegal and they will not be allowed to do business. It will be unfair for the new hawkers who will start a business after the survey. We want the survey to cover all types of hawkers and therefore, we have requested the civic chief to extend the deadline for the survey.” The survey is being done as part of Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood) Act. As per the act, a town level committee has to be formed which will have elected representatives of the hawkers. The survey will count the hawkers and they will be allowed to vote their respective representatives. The town vending committee thus formed will begin the process of drawing hawking and no-hawking zones in the city. The policy to rehabilitate those hawkers who face eviction due to no-hawking rule will be done through the committee. Balkawade said, “The work of survey is going on. The hawkers must submit required documents to register in the survey. Their cooperation is necessary so that none is left out of the survey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/extend-deadline-of-survey-hawkers/articleshow/78917614.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Video of woman being thrashed by husband and in-laws goes viral||Alwar: A video of a 23-year-old woman being brutally thrashed by her husband and in-laws in Bhiwadi’s Pathredy village has gone viral and four people have been arrested in the matter.The video shows Rahila being beaten by her husband Annu Meo along with his brother and others. The incident happened when the victim had gone to the person’s house who had arranged her marriage to complain about domestic violence. Her husband and his relatives also reached there and an argument started due to which a crowd gathered. The woman was attacked and was injured following which she was taken to the hospital. Chopanaki police had rounded up the accused, but had let them go without taking any action. Two days later when the video started doing the rounds on social media Bhiwadi SP Ram Moorthy Joshi ordered the arrest of the accused. Three more accused are still on the run. A case under IPC Section 308 (attempt to culpable homicide) has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/video-of-woman-being-thrashed-by-husband-and-in-laws-goes-viral/articleshow/78920175.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||At Rs 100, onion price brings tears to eyes||Kolkata: The onion retail price touched Rs 100 a kg on Wednesday across city markets with demand-supply gap widening fast. This is a rerun of the unusual surge in the price of the vegetable last year. Two of the big wholesale markets in the city — Posta and Koley Market — on Wednesday received one-twentieth of its usual daily supply of onion from Nashik. Wholesale onion price, though, was kept at Rs 2,600 per 40kg bag in these two markets. Retailers said they bought the vegetable at Rs 3,500-3,600 per bag (Rs 90 per kg), which forced them to raise retail price to Rs 100 a kg. “The Centre must release onion from its 82,000 tonnes buffer stock for Bengal. They are selectively releasing it for Delhi and poll-bound Bihar. Unless the onion from the buffer stock with NAFED comes to Bengal, the price is unlikely to drop,” said Kamal Dey, member of Market Taskforce and president of West Bengal Vendors’ Association. Dey added that the onion price may rise further till the new crop comes in late November. The early-kharif onion crop in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka — which is usually supplied to Bengal in the July-September period — has been badly damaged due to floods in farmlands. Heavy rains in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, the other major onion producing regions, also hit the quality of onions stored from the bumper rabi harvest earlier this year. Cleaner and better quality onions are there in the markets but the older stocks of inferior quality are also available at a lower price. However, even the onions of inferior quality are being sold at Rs 80-Rs 85 a kg. A potato-onion retailer said the prices may rise further unless the state intervenes, like what has always happened in the past. “Onions are just as essential as potatoes. For how long will you avoid buying them? You can cut down on other vegetables but not on onions,” said Debjani Bagchi, a retired bank official and a resident of Kankulia Road. People complained that the inferior quality of onions are mostly rotten from inside and this is a sign of the fact that the vegetables had been lying in stores for long and were brought out for clearance since fresh stocks arrived. “You might pay some Rs 20 less to buy these onions but half of them has to be thrown away because of the blackened outer peels and the rotting inner core,” said Srikumar Ghosh, who runs a restaurant on Maharaja Tagore Road. At Lake Market, there was a third quality available but most people avoided these onions that were too small in size. “I have bought just 250 grams of onions on Wednesday and told my wife to reduce the use and stick to the typical Vaishnav no-onion format,” said S C Paul, a retired BSF officer who shops at Kasba Market. “Apples are cheaper than onions these days,” he quipped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-rs-100-onion-price-brings-tears-to-eyes/articleshow/78920225.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 29, 2020||Rajkot||Four members of Chiklikar gang held with Rs 5 lakh booty in Gujarat's Bhavnagar||RAJKOT: Four members, including a woman, of the notorious Chiklikar gang were arrested while they were on their way sell off their stolen booty in Bhavnagar on Wednesday. “We had received a tip-off that the Chiklikar gang members were out to sell off their stolen items on two motorcycles on Bhavnagar-Rajkot Road. Acting on this information, we kept a watch at Hadanagar and nabbed them when they arrived there,” said V V Odedara, inspector with Bhavnagar local crime branch (LCB). Those arrested were identified as Ramsing Bawari (22), Shyamsing Bawari (19), Pratapsing Dudhali (20) and Jyotikaur Bawari (35). The police recovered gold jewellery worth Rs 1.98 lakh, silver jewellery worth Rs 1.11 lakh and Rs 1.50 lakh cash apart from two motorcycles from the accused. “The accused have been involved in as many as 33 theft cases registered in various police stations of Bhavnagar. Their modus operandi was to carry out recce during day, zero in on their targets and commit thefts at night,” said N G Jadeja, sub-inspector with Bhavnagar LCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-members-of-chiklikar-gang-held-with-rs-5-lakh-booty/articleshow/78919247.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Meerut||Nikita Tomar shot dead just 200m from police picket, says slain girl’s brother as he slams cops & admin||MEERUT: Amid the ongoing political slugfest over the murder of a college student in Faridabad’s Ballabhgarh, her brother on Wednesday slammed local police for “lapse” saying the 21-year-old girl was shot dead just 200metre from a police picket. “It is a glaring lapse on the part of local administration of Ballabgarh where my sister was shot dead in daylight despite the fact the police picket was just 200metre from the spot. Now, at least, a befitting punishment must be given to the accused to set a precedent. We don’t want any other girl to meet the same fate,” said Naveen Tomar, the brother. Kin and residents of Hapur’s Raghunathpur, the ancestral village of Tomars, held a panchayat on Wednesday evening and demanded maximum punishment for the accused, Tausif. Dharmender Tomar, a villager, told TOI, “Representatives of Saath Chaurasi Khap of Tomars comprising 144 villages attended the panchayat in which we all demanded gallows for the accused.” The panchayat was held amid heavy deployment of police force. Nikita’s aunt, Nisha Tomar, told TOI, “He (the accused Tauseef) was harassing my niece for the last two years and even pressured her to change the religion. We want the same treatment for the accused, the way he killed Nikita.” Later, the villagers gave a memorandum of demands to SDM Pankaj Saxena. Meanwhile, the ashes of Nikita were on Wednesday immersed in the Ganga at Brajghat in Garh Mukteshwar. Watch Nikita Tomar murder case: Political connections protected murderer Touseef, cops too failed victim||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nikita-shot-dead-just-200m-from-police-picket-says-slain-girls-brother-as-he-slams-cops-admin/articleshow/78917621.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Diyas by Kota Jail inmates to spread light of happiness||Kota: The jail inmates are set to light up people’s houses this Diwali with earthen lamps they are preparing ahead of the festival of lights. The material and machine for making lamps has been provided by the jail administration which also arranged skill training for the inmates.On the very onset of the initiative, the jail administration has received orders for 11,000 diyas. However, it aims to prepare at least 1 lakh diyas for sale before the Diwali.“At least eight inmates have started production of eco-friendly diyas and decorative lights in the jail workshop since October 24,” superintendent of jail, Kota Central Jail, Suman Maliwal said.Maliwal said, another five to seven inmates are soon to join them in making of diyas and earthen lamps series as the jail administration aims at 1 lakh diyas to be ready before Diwali for sale at ‘Aashayen – the jail shop in the jail premises. Locals can buy a simple earthen diya for Rs 1 and coloured one for Rs 5 per piece, she said,Maliwal said, with purchase of items prepared by jail inmates, one benefits multiple people including, the inmate, his victim or victim’s family and adds to harmony in jail as well as in society. As part of jail administration’s inmate’s encouragement and initiative programme, the inmates have constantly been employed productively. An amount of Rs 3.50 lakh, 25% of the total earning by inmates from their productive engagement, is ready to be transferred to the victim’s or his kin’s account, while Rs 11,000 were recently paid to the family of a murder victim in Ramganjmandi town from his criminal inmate’s earning, the jail superintendent claimed.The jail administration provided the inmates with machine, required material and skilled training in making diyas. The outlet Aashayen will be opened in the jail premises for locals from 8 am to 7 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/diyas-by-kota-jail-inmates-to-spread-light-of-happiness/articleshow/78920183.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||28 Gauree_Arpora night bazaar in part of Baga creek CRZ area: NGT||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed an appeal by organisers of the Mackie’s Saturday Night Bazaar at Arpora. The organisers had filed the appeal against the 2016 demolition order of the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority. The NGT has said that the area is found to be part of the Baga creek and that the night bazaar organisers have failed to produce any document to support their claim that the construction existed prior to 1991. “We are of the opinion that since the area is found to be part of creek and the appellant has failed to produce any document in support of the contention that the construction existed prior to the prescribed date of 1991, the impugned order (of GCZMA) cannot be faulted,” said the Tribunal. It also said that documents of the local panchayat cannot be the basis to accept that the construction existed prior to 1991. The Tribunal said that in any case, as per the high court of Bombay at Goa judgement of 2016, even temporary structures in CRZ area are to be demolished. “We are unable to accept the contention that the report of the Collector or the Expert Member should not have been accepted and the Panchayat certificate that the construction existed earlier should have been accepted. We have also noted that the impugned order (of the GCZMA) refers to the order of the Bombay High Court at Goa dated April 20, 2016 that all temporary structures/private shacks in CRZ area are to be demolished,” the NGT order states. The Tribunal said that the GCZMA and the original complainant have been able to support the demolition order to Mackie’s Saturday Night Bazaar by submitting that the Baga creek is clearly mentioned in the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan for Goa. “The draft CZMP plan for Goa was prepared by the NCSCM, Chennai and was a public document available on the website. The draft CZMP plan has been duly and conclusively finalized under the CRZ Notification of 06.01.2011 and the said plan has to be taken as a conclusive which shows that the area is part of the creek which is ‘No Development Zone’ for any fresh construction,” the NGT has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/28-gauree_arpora-night-bazaar-in-part-of-baga-creek-crz-area-ngt/articleshow/78921602.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Dalit family alleges forced conversion in Alwar, seeks action against accused||ALWAR: A Dalit family in Alwar district, which was converted to Islam, filed an application in the SC/ST court here seeking to be reconverted to Hinduism as well as action against the person who had a role in this along with protection for the family. Twenty eight-year-old Memchand Jatav aka Mohammad, who hails from Bhayari village in Alwar, said, “I used to visit Ibrahim ka Bas village in Haryana to meet my relatives. In January 2018, 10 accused had lured me with the promise of land and house if I converted to Islam which I along with my family did.” Jatav said, “On January 29, 2018, the conversion was done and I was given land on which I built a house. However, the accused started threatening me and my family. They also tried to have sexual relationship with my wife. They took us to J&K to complete other formalities of conversion and threatened to kill us if we did not follow their instructions. We somehow managed to escape and come back home. Now, I want protection for myself and my family,” said Jatav. He has named 10 persons in the complaint which was filed on October 21 and the court has asked the cops to take the necessary action, claimed his lawyer. Meanwhile, BJP leader Gyandev Ahuja has given an ultimatum of seven days to the district administration to nab the accused. He said, “There is increasing atrocities on Hindus and despite a BJP government in Haryana, the Hindus are migrating from the villages. This is not a normal situation and if nothing is done then we will agitate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dalit-family-alleges-forced-conversion-in-alwar-seeks-action-against-accused/articleshow/78920181.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Devnani writes to MEA, raises issue of attacks on Hindus in Pak||Jaipur: BJP leader Vasudev Devnani on Wednesday shot a letter to the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) urging it to take up the matter of atrocitities on minorities and desecration of temples with Pakistan government. Devnani said the attack at Hinglaj Temple during the auspicious Navratra days showed that Hindu minorities were living in constant fear in Pakistan. “These attacks are rampant across the country especially in Sindh province of Pakistan. They have wiped out every possible cultural trait of the Sindhi community. The government should take up the issue with the neighbouring country,” said Devnani, whose father migrated from Sindh during Partition. He said Pakistan should take India as an example of how people from different religions co-exist and celebrate their festivals together. He also raised the issue of forcible conversion of Hindus by religious fanatics. “The Imran Khan government should provide protection to minorities from the organised persecution and protect religious sites of Hindus which are our heritage and much older than the creation of Pakistan,” said Devnani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/devnani-writes-to-mea-raises-issue-of-attacks-on-hindus-in-pak/articleshow/78920170.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Retina specialist bags award||Surat: City-based retina specialist Dr Shobhana Mange has bagged the Dr K J Ganatra Rotating Trophy for Ophthalmologist of the Year 2019-20 given by the Gujarat branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA). The award will be conferred during state annual conference GIMACON-2020 on November 1 in Ahmedabad. Dr Mange, with 18 years of experience, has done more than 10,000 retinal surgeries since 2007. “It’s an honour for me to be selected for this prestigious award,” Dr Mange told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/retina-specialist-bags-award/articleshow/78918912.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Vadodara||Three Rajasthan men ferrying opium caught in Dahod, one escapes||Vadodara: Dahod police caught three persons from Rajasthan carrying opium worth Rs 24.45 lakh at the Bathwada toll booth on Gujarat-Rajasthan border on Tuesday night. The opium was being brought to the state from Rajasthan, said cops. According to the police, Devgadh Baria police were on a watch at the toll booth after they received a tip-off regarding a car carrying huge amount of contraband. When the suspected car reached the spot, it was stopped by the police. At this, the three persons travelling in it tried to escape, but cops nabbed two of them. Duo was identified as Omprakash Saran and Manoharlal Saran, both residents of different villages in Sanchor taluka of Jalore district in Rajasthan. Cops also seized 24.45kg opium from the car. The third accused who is yet to be nabbed has been identified as Deeparam Bishnoi, a resident of Haraswada village in Raniwad taluka of Jalore district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-rajasthan-men-ferrying-opium-caught-in-dahod-one-escapes/articleshow/78918221.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Arpora night bazaar is in part of Baga creek CRZ area: NGT||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed an appeal by organisers of the Mackie’s Saturday Night Bazaar at Arpora. The organisers had filed the appeal against the 2016 demolition order of the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). The NGT has said that the area is found to be part of the Baga creek and that the night bazaar organisers have failed to produce any document to support their claim that the construction existed prior to 1991. “We are of the opinion that since the area is found to be part of the creek and the appellant has failed to produce any document in support of the contention that the construction existed prior to the prescribed date of 1991, the impugned order (of GCZMA) cannot be faulted,” said the tribunal. It also said that documents of the local panchayat cannot be the basis to accept that the construction existed prior to 1991. The tribunal said that in any case, as per the 2016 judgment of the high court of Bombay at Goa, even temporary structures in Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) are to be demolished. “We are unable to accept the contention that the report of the collector or the expert member should not have been accepted and the panchayat certificate that the construction existed earlier should have been accepted. We have also noted that the impugned order (of the GCZMA) refers to the order of the Bombay high court at Goa dated April 20, 2016, that all temporary structures/private shacks in CRZ area are to be demolished,” the NGT order states. The tribunal said that the GCZMA and the original complainant have been able to support the demolition order to Mackie’s Saturday Night Bazaar by submitting that the Baga creek is clearly mentioned in the draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Goa. “The draft CZMP plan for Goa was prepared by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, and was a public document available on the website. The draft CZMP has been duly and conclusively finalised under the CRZ notification of June 1, 2011, and the said plan has to be taken as a conclusive, which shows that the area is part of the creek which is ‘no development zone’ for any fresh construction,” the NGT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arpora-night-bazaar-is-in-part-of-baga-creek-crz-area-ngt/articleshow/78921606.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||RIICO seeks investments from UAE in its petrochemical zone||Jaipur: RIICO has reached out to the investors in UAE to seek investments in its Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemicals Investment Region (PCPIR) in Barmer.PCPIR is coming up in Pachpadra where HRRL, the joint venture company of HPCL and Rajasthan government, is constructing a 9 million-tonne crude oil refinery with an investment of Rs 43,321 crore along with a petrochemical complex. A senior RIICO official said the investors in UAE are quite familiar with the petrochemical business and we have a dedicated region for manufacturing of host of ancillary products.“We are creating dedicated infrastructure and facilities in the PCPIR. There is lot of scope for entrepreneurs for setting up ancillary units. The investors in the UAE can look at the opportunities,” said RIICO managing director Ashutosh Pednekar at a virtual conference organized by CII-Rajasthan where over 50 businessmen from the UAE participated.RIICI is currently in the process of appointing a consultant for preparing project proposal for PCPIR, obtaining approvals from Centre’s department of chemicals and petrochemicals, suggesting legal framework and management structure and models for development of internal components of the region and its master plan.Besides opportunities in petrochemical sector, the interaction was also focused on tourism and gem and jewellery sector where synergies can be developed between the two regions. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has been vocal about reaching out to non-resident Rajasthanis who want to reconnect with their roots and business interest is one of them.“Many business families from Rajasthan have established businesses in UAE or Dubai. Rajasthan is known for manufacturing of gem and jewellery, cement, petrochemical products. We invite the NRR entrepreneurs from UAE to take advantage of business opportunities in the state while reconnecting with their native land,” Dhiraj Srivastava, commissioner, Rajasthan Foundation.RIICO to develop fin tech park in JaipurJaipur: In a bid to attract investments in the IT and ITeS sector, RIICO is developing a fin tech park near airport facing the Dravyawait water front over 39 hectare land which was earlier earmarked for a gem park.As per the concept design, it plans to develop plots of 10,000 sq ft size which will be allotted through RIICO’s e-auction process. Only IT and ITeS companies will be allotted plots, said a RIICO official.“The fin tech park will be a self-contained zone for IT and ITeS companies. The park is aimed at building on the IT ecosystem already exists in the city. We want to create opportunities for IT professionals in the state,” added Pednekar.The demand for IT solutions is growing. In the absence of multiple options, startups in the state look for IT services outside the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riico-seeks-investments-from-uae-in-its-petrochemical-zone/articleshow/78920217.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bareilly||Seven injured, 5 of them critical after cooking LPG cylinder catches fire & explodes||Bareilly: A cooking LPG cylinder caught fire and exploded leaving seven members of a family seriously injured in a village of Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday night. Five of the injured were in critical condition, police said.District hospital's emergency medical officer (EMO) Dr VK Gangwar said, “Seven persons with burn injuries were brought here for treatment and the condition of five of them is critical. We may have to refer the critical patients to another hospital.” One of the injured has sustained 100% burn while four are nearly 80% burned, he said. The incident took place in Gurugawa village of Nigohi block.According to sources, Vimla Devi, 38, was preparing dinner when the gas started leaking and soon caught fire. Before she could alert other members of the family, the cylinder exploded. The victims were rescued by neighbours with the support of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-injured-5-of-them-critical-after-cooking-lpg-cylinder-catches-fire-explodes/articleshow/78918682.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Meerut||BSP MP Maluk Nagar’s Bijnor bungalow raided by income tax department teams||Bijnor: An 18-member strong income tax department team on Wednesday raided the house of BSP MP Maluk Nagar in Bijnor. The raid was part of a state-wide operation in which several houses of the BSP leader and that of his relatives were raided by IT sleuths.Simultaneous raids were conducted at Nagar’s Noida, Ghaziabad and Hapur houses as well.A commotion broke out at Nagar’s bungalow in Bijnor’s Vidurkuti road when the IT teams started the operation. The raids continued till late evening. Nagar could not be approached for his version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bsp-mp-maluk-nagars-bijnor-bungalow-raided-by-income-tax-department-teams/articleshow/78917635.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile outlets to bring khadi products to rural consumers||COIMBATORE: Khadi Kraft will operate mobile stores in the district to boost rural sales. There are three stores in Coimbatore, all located in the city at R S Puram, Periyanaickenpalayam and on the Avinashi Road near the Thandumariamman Temple, which have a sales target of Rs 2.57 crore this year. Though the outlets used to make a combined sale of Rs 20 lakh every month in the district, sales have dipped due to the lockdown. After the lockdown rules were relaxed, sales have picked up gradually, though the outlets have a long way to go to meet the target. In a bid to boost sales even as they reach out to the rural population, khadi board decided to operate mobile stores that will reach villages in Coimbatore as well as the Nilgiris. The stores will carry all products of Khadi Kraft like textiles, soaps, honey and leather goods from October 29 to November 2. Though khadi products enjoy goodwill, not many from villages purchase them due to absence of sales and marketing avenues across the district. If the mobile stores find a good traction, officials plan to operate more such stores. Khadi Kraft will also launch a special festive silk sale at its outlet near Thandumariamman Temple for three days from November 7, assistant director of khadi and village Industries board P N Giriayppan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-outlets-to-bring-khadi-products-to-rural-consumers/articleshow/78920233.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Three held for murder of guard whose body was found in sack||JAIPUR: Within 24 hours of finding the body of a 50-year-old man in a sack in Sitapura industrial area, city police arrested three youths for the murder of Ghanshyam Vaishnav who was reported missing on Monday. The arrested persons are Tej Singh, 21, Aslam Khan, 19 and Abhishek Sain, 21. All hailed from the deceased’s daughter-in-law’s village and were known to the victim. Ajay Pal Lamba, ACP Crime, said, “Singh had been to the victim’s house previously as he was considered like a brother by Vaishnav’s daughter-in-law. A few days ago, Singh and Khan had come to Jaipur and lived with Sain for a while following which they rented an accommodation close to the victim’s house.” A few days ago, the deceased’s son and daughter-in-law went out of town giving Singh the responsibility of Vaishnav’s meals. On a particular day, the victim asked Singh to change his mobile phone password during which the accused found that Vaishav, who worked as a security guard, had Rs 1.9 lakh in his bank account. He along with the other two cooked up a plan that they will snatch the phone from him and Sain will somehow transfer the money. “Singh and Khan followed the victim when he would return from work, but did not get the opportunity to take the phone after which they decided to kill him. On October 25, the duo went to Vaishnav’s house and had dinner with him. They then under false pretext asked to spend the night there and once the victim fell asleep, they strangled him to death. Singh then called another friend and borrowed his scooty which they used to take the body to the site where it was found,” said the official. After finding the body, cops questioned over 40 people and narrowed down on Singh when he acted suspicious. He had also cooked up a story that he had last heard Vaishnav arguing with someone on October 25 following which the security guard left the house. Cops have registered a case of murder against all the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-held-for-murder-of-guard-whose-body-was-found-in-sack/articleshow/78920205.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Lighting, decoration in markets to be low-key this year||JAIPUR: The pandemic is all set to take off the sheen from the city’s famed Diwali celebrations as many markets have decided to keep lighting and decoration low-key as part of austerity measures. Sanjay Yapar, member of Khatipura Vyapaar Mandal, said they won’t decorate the market. “We used to decorate the market by collecting donations from shopkeepers. Low footfall and three-month lockdown have made it difficult for shopkeepers to give donations,” Yapar said. Similarly, in Jhotwara market, only welcome gates will be installed on two points, but no lighting will be done. Manoj Chauhan, president of Jhotwara Vyapaar Mandal, said, “Our market stretch is 2.5km and takes around Rs 6 lakh to decorate the entire market. Neither we have big donations nor good budget to spend on decoration this year.” In Vaishali Market, the association has decided to decorate the circles of the market, but will not decorate all the shops and lanes as done last year. Hawa Mahal market is a tourist hotspot, but with pandemic, business has taken a huge hit. Prakash Singh, president of Hawa Mahal Vyapaar Mandal, said, “Around 40% shopkeepers down their shutters by afternoon as there is no sale. Without tourists it is difficult to revive business. There will be bare minimum lighting in the market.” Similar trend will be followed in Raja Park. Market association president Ravi Naiyar said they will not decorate the market like last year, but will definitely lighten up the road. The decorations will be bare minimum to keep the festive feeling alive. Every year, market associations book advertisements by installing hoardings, but this year it is expected that the rates will go down. Big businessmen are not coming forward to advertise which will impact the overall earnings of the market associations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lighting-decoration-in-markets-to-be-low-key-this-year/articleshow/78920230.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jhalawar woman kills two kids, commits suicide||Kota: A 25-year-old woman committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance after feeding poison to her two minor daughters and three-month-old son in Hardiya Kanjar Dera in Jhalawar district on Tuesday afternoon. Sumitra Kanjar, who was reportedly depressed over her husband’s death, and her son were declared brought dead at a local hospital on Tuesday evening. Her five-year-old daughter died on the way to Jhalawar district hospital, while her two-year-old daughter is still in critical condition.Police handed over the three bodies to family members after post-mortem on Wednesday morning and lodged a case under Section 176 of CrPC for magisterial probe in the matter as deceased woman had completed only six years of her marriage with her husband Mukesh Kanjar, who died around eight months ago.Before ending her own life, Sumitra administered poison to her daughters Anjali, Suman and son Vivek, SHO Bhawar Singh Gurjar said. The fourth daughter, identified as Kajal, 1, escaped as she was asleep at that time and could not be awakened by her mother, he added. Neighbours in the vicinity came to know about the incident in the evening and rushed Sumitra and her kids to a local hospital, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalawar-woman-kills-two-kids-commits-suicide/articleshow/78920184.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||City firm bags award for green incinerator||Coimbatore: MAK India Limited, a city-based company, has bagged CavinKare MMA Chinnikrishnan Innovation Awards 2020 for developing a zero-pollution incinerator for solid waste management.Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, founder of MAK India Limited Manickam Athappa Gounder said that the incinerator was zero waste, zero pollution and environment-friendly.He said out of many participants throughout India, the jury panel led by Ajay Kirloskar, chairman of Kirloskar Group, CK Ranganathan, the founder-chairman of CavinKare, Pierre-André de Chalendar, chairman of Saint Gobain Group, and several IIT professors chose the product developed by MAK India Limited.According to a statement, the incinerator was chosen for the innovation’s uniqueness, its benefit to people, and ability to be scaled up for production.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-firm-bags-award-for-green-incinerator/articleshow/78920228.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bareilly||Seven injured, 5 of them critical after cooking LPG cylinder catches fire & explodes||Bareilly: A cooking LPG cylinder caught fire and exploded leaving seven members of a family seriously injured in a village of Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday night. Five of the injured were in critical condition, police said. District hospital's emergency medical officer (EMO) Dr VK Gangwar said, “Seven persons with burn injuries were brought here for treatment and the condition of five of them is critical. We may have to refer the critical patients to another hospital.” One of the injured has sustained 100% burn while four are nearly 80% burned, he said. The incident took place in Gurugawa village of Nigohi block. According to sources, Vimla Devi, 38, was preparing dinner when the gas started leaking and soon caught fire. Before she could alert other members of the family, the cylinder exploded. The victims were rescued by neighbours with the support of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-injured-5-of-them-critical-after-cooking-lpg-cylinder-catches-fire-explodes/articleshow/78918741.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||No arrest so far in Shahpura loot case||Jaipur: Shahpura police are trying to identify the accused who shot at and looted a father-son duo when they were returning from work on Tuesday evening.While cops have recovered the CCTV footage, it has not given them any leads as the cameras did not have night vision. The accused had taken off with Rs 5 lakh in cash. The victims were identified as Omprakash Aggarwal, who is in his 50s and his son Anil, who is in 20s. Three masked men stopped the moped on which the duo was travelling. They asked them to hand over the bag, but when the victims resisted, one of the accused shot Anil in the foot and hit his father on the head with the butt of the firearm.Shahpura SHO Rakesh Kumar told TOI, “The incident happened around 7.30 pm and it was quite dark so while we have the CCTV footage which showed the accused stopping the victims’ two-wheeler, it is difficult to gather anything from it as the cameras were not equipped with night vision.”The duo was returning home after closing their tobacco agency for the day. Cops claimed that it was usual for the Aggarwals to carry this amount of cash regularly. “We do not think it was a planned loot, but more likely that the accused followed them and took the opportunity to execute the crime. At present we are focusing on finding more details about the bike used by the trio which could lead us to them. We have activated our local sources as well,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-arrest-so-far-in-shahpura-loot-case/articleshow/78920227.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Take property tax defaulters to task: Activists||Coimbatore: A day after the city corporation released the list of 100 entities that failed to pay Rs 21 crore as property tax, activists condemned the civic body for being lenient on big institutions and commercial establishments.The corporation had released a list of top 20 tax defaulters including educational institutions, hotels, industries and commercial establishments in its five zones on Tuesday. Some of them are yet to pay tax from 1998.Ideally, property tax should be paid within April 15 for the first cycle of the financial year that ends in September and before October 15 for the second cycle that ends in March. “If a common man fails to pay the tax, the corporation issues a notice and disconnects water. But it has gone lenient on big institutions and establishments. Why couldn’t they enforce the law in the same way they treat an ordinary citizen? It is not like these institutions could not afford to pay the tax amount,” said city-based activist S P Thiyagarajan. “Property tax is one of the important sources of revenue for the corporation, which often faces fund shortage. Is it very difficult to identify the defaulters and collect the due amount from them?” No penalty is slapped on those who fail to pay the tax amount, said activist K Kathirmathiyon. “The corporation should slap both the penalty and interest till tax is paid. Only then people will pay the tax within the deadline. Also, it should not provide them any approval or service connection until the due amount is paid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/take-property-tax-defaulters-to-task-activists/articleshow/78920278.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Land-use in periphery areas can be changed||Jaipur: People who own plots on the periphery of the city falling under the U2 area of the master plan 2025 can now get their land use changed as per needs.Out of the total of 2,945 sq-km, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has earmarked a total area of 1,596 sq-km as urbanisation area and 450 sq-km as rural area. The remaining 894 sq-km falls under the ecological zone. An official said the urbanisation was subdivided into three zone UI, U2, U3. In the master plan 2025, the JDA has marked densely populated area as U1, mostly rural where land is vacant and agricultural activities are not taking place as U2. “The entire land use of U2 area is not decided and JDA has marked a common land-use for huge chunk of land. If a plot owner has to change land use from residential (mentioned in the master-plan 2025) to institutional, he/she could get it changed.”As per the process, the JDA will invite objections before changing land use. The move is expected to develop the area on the city periphery. As per the 2025 master plan, 65 lakh is the projected population of Jaipur region by 2025. However, at present, more people are staying in Jaipur district. “It is required to develop infrastructure, junction and crossing improvement, develop green city for growing population. A survey will also be conducted to develop the peripheral area in a phase-wise manner,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/land-use-in-periphery-areas-can-be-changed/articleshow/78920256.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why your app may show ‘clean’ air when you can’t even breathe||NEW DELHI: A resident of Karol Bagh in west Delhi keen on pollution information has to walk a few kilometres to the nearest air quality monitoring station on Mandir Marg. The same station also provides the pollution data for Connaught Place, Sadar Bazar and Paharganj, though each place has differing sources of localised pollutants. Residents of east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, Patparganj, Laxmi Nagar and Geeta Colony too rely on the DPCC air quality monitoring station at Patparganj though the air quality is different in each neighbourhood. This lack of resources at the hyperlocal level is, according to experts, a crucial lacunae in the capital’s expanded pollution monitoring setup. Track the pollution level in your cityWhen TOI tried to gauge air pollution readings in different localities, it found localised data hard to come by, with the nearest air monitoring station often several kilometres away from a neighbourhood. Janakpuri in west Delhi currently rely on an air station at NSIT, Dwarka, and south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar and Vasant Kunj on the station at IGI Airport. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-your-app-may-show-clean-air-when-you-cant-even-breathe/articleshow/78920277.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||42-sovereign gold jewellery stolen from locked house||COIMBATORE: Burglars decamped with 42.5 sovereigns of gold jewellery and a laptop from a locked house at Sundarapuram in the city on Tuesday. The complainant, J Nikash, had left for Kangeyam in Tirupur district on Saturday to attend his wife’s baby shower ceremony, police sources said. “On Tuesday afternoon, his neighbour, who noticed the front door of the house open, alerted him. Nikash reached the house to find gold jewellery and a laptop worth Rs 4.27 lakh kept in a cupboard missing,” a police officer said. The Podanur police booked a case under sections 454 (house-breaking), 457 (house-breaking in night) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code and started investigation. A forensic team lifted fingerprints from the house. Police are collecting CCTV footage from the locality. Meanwhile, police have requested people to inform them before going out of the city so that cops can keep an eye on the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/42-sovereign-gold-jewellery-stolen-from-locked-house/articleshow/78920266.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Male leopard shot dead in Gudalur forest range||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The carcass of a five-year-old male leopard, shot dead by poachers, was found in a private tea estate in Gudalur forest range in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. Forest department’s field staff had found the carcass in Parry Agro Tea field in Athimanagar area during routine patrolling. The animal had suffered severe injuries, district forest officer Sumesh Soman said. “We found healing bite marks on the head, near the chest and stomach of the leopard. We also noticed a wound on the left hind thigh of the animal. Initially, we thought that the big cat might have died due to infighting. However, we were suspicious about the wound on the thigh. During postmortem, a bullet was found inside the wound on the hind leg. It would have died Tuesday morning due to the gunshot,” he said. “The canine teeth and nails of the animal were intact.” The department did not dispose of the carcass on Tuesday as an inquiry was initiated. A case under the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 was registered. “We conducted a thorough inquiry. The carcass was burnt today in a forest area nearby as per the protocol of the national tiger conservation authority,” the DFO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/male-leopard-shot-dead-in-gudalur-forest-range/articleshow/78920251.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Bikaner trader murder: Police nab two accused||JAIPUR: Bikaner police have arrested two persons for the murder of an incense trader in Nayashaher, which had compelled senior officials of Special Operations Group (SOG) to get involved in the investigation. The 40-year-old Griraj Aggarwal was shot dead on Friday evening when he was returning home from work.  The persons arrested in the case were identified as 23-year-old Santosh Vishnoi, who allegedly hatched the plan and 38-year-old Gopal Soni who did the recce. Prahlad Singh, SP, Bikaner told TOI, “We had constituted a team to look into the case and have arrested two persons while the search is on for few others. We are confident that they also will be in our custody soon.” Meanwhile, insiders told TOI that the murder was actually a case of mistaken identity and an official on condition of anonymity said, “The accused had told his accomplices that if they kill a particular person, they would get a lot of cash from the bag that he would be carrying but the co-accused shot the wrong man. The deal between the accused was that the one who planned it would get 50% of the total loot while the remaining two would get the rest of it. The bag which they snatched from Aggarwal contained nothing of value.” The fatal shooting in Nayashaher was followed by outrage from the locals who demanded prompt arrest of the accused. Local leaders had also staged a protest demanding better law and order situation in the district. The victim’s family had demanded compensation as well as government job for one member. After visiting Bikaner, ADG SOG and ATS, Ashok Rathore has given a set of guidelines to the district SP and in this particular case, he has advised that directional patrolling should be done along with enhanced checking by cops. The guidelines also say that crimes by history-sheeters need to be prevented along with the fact that in most cases, the accused are in their early 20s, so cops should conduct a door-to-door survey and prepare a record of the same. Cops claimed that in two of the cases of firings in the district, there were connections to IPL betting as the matches are underway currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bikaner-trader-murder-police-nab-two-accused/articleshow/78920258.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Curbs on Kali Puja fairs, cultural events likely in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police may enforce the distancing regulations announced before Durga Puja for Kali Puja as well but want the government to issue an SOP that stresses on restrictions on fairs and cultural programmes that are held in certain pockets of the city during the festival. The cops will take a call on the issue and make an announcement only after Lakshmi Puja and Milad-Un-Nabi but there is a consensus that crowding must be avoided at Kali Puja-Diwali to keep the infection at bay. Unlike Durga Puja, police believe it will be much easier to regulate Kali Puja as few of them are as elaborate. Pandals are usually located on the main road with the idols easily visible. Also, traditionally, the pandals are open on three sides. Also, the Puja is usually restricted to a day except on S N Banerjee Road and Amherst Street where the celebrations are held over three days. What the cops are concerned about are the fairs and cultural programmes associated with some of the Pujas and want the administration to issue a clear directive against both. The police may organise a meeting with the newly formed Forum for Kali Puja where the issues will be discussed. Last year, there were 3,262 Kali pujas in Kolkata and its immediate suburbs. In Kolkata, the Amherst Street area, SN Banerjee Road, Behala Parnasree and Girish Park organize some of the biggest Barowari Kali pujas. Police will also enforce the Supreme Court order on firecrackers. A decision on Bazi Bazars and testing of crackers will also be taken soon. Kolkata Police has intensified efforts to track down banned firecrackers. So far, around 2,500kg of crackers have been seized in the city. Those sharing borders with both Parganas have been asked to shore up checks during night patrols. “There is a blanket ban on hazardous fireworks. But, most of such products which find their way into the city exceed the prescribed norms. The attempt is to control them at the source,” an officer explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/curbs-on-kali-puja-fairs-cultural-events-likely/articleshow/78920272.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Of every 100 kills by Sariska tigers, 77 are livestock||Jaipur: Sariska tigers have sustained more on livestock than wild prey. A research on the dietary pattern conducted by the forest department officials revealed that 77% times, a tiger preys on livestock, sambar (13.6%), chital (3.6%) and blue bull (2.4%). Based on individual tiger monitoring of all re-introduced big cats in (STR) for two years (From 2016 to 2018), tiger kill data was analysed for demonstrating prey preference.In all, 290 buffaloes and 92 cows were killed by 15 tigers during this period. Male tiger, ST-4, which died after a territorial fight in December 2018, killed the highest number of buffaloes (47) and cows (12) in past two years.Additional principal chief conservator of forests Govind Sagar Bhardwaj, who is the lead author of the research paper said, the density of livestock is higher than wild prey in Sariska as compared to ther parks including Ranthambore and Corbett. The presence of villages in Critical Tiger Habitat and on periphery is the reason behind the rampant livestock grazing in this human dominated landscape apart from other anthropogenic disturbances. The study revealed the tigers mostly prey on cattle. “The radio-collared tigers were monitored periodically through ground tracking using “homing in” and “triangulation” techniques. Each monitoring party consists of two persons, one forest guard and a local villager, who are trained in monitoring tigers using VHF collar and pugmarks. “Information of location, movement pattern and type of animal kill was recorded by the monitoring parties/beat guards and same was sent to control room through wireless radio network. The kills were identified based on morphological identification,” said Bhardwaj The substantial increase of prey preference for livestock from 19.4% in 2011 to 77% in 2018 can be corroborated with high observed increasing trend. Co-author of the research and former Sariska DFO Hemant Singh Shekhawat said, “Prey selection by a tiger depends on various factors including cost-benefit analysis. In undisturbed natural forests, sambar is one of the most preferred prey species due to its body size and solitary nature. But in human dominated landscapes like STR despite having a fair density of wild prey species, especially sambar, tigers prefer cattle (which is also abundant) over wild prey owing to ease in hunting and larger body mass.”The report read there are 175 villages situated in and around STR. Out of these, 26 villages are in Critical Tiger Habitat/ Core area and the rest 146 villages are outside the forest area. The human population is over 1,700 in the villages of the national park along with a population 10,000 livestock including buffalo, cow, goat and sheep. The human population in rest of these villages is around 6000 and the livestock population is more than 20,000. “There is an urgent need to shift these villages as it could lead to man- animal conflict sooner or later. The livestock also presents the risk of predation and disease transmission to wildlife,” said a retired IFS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/of-every-100-kills-by-sariska-tigers-77-are-livestock/articleshow/78920287.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||‘Fit India Walkathon’ for soldiers along Indo-Pak border||Jaisalmer: A 200-km-long ‘Fit India Walkathon’ will be organised by ITBP & sports ministry from October 31 to November 2 at the international border adjoining Thar desert. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju will flag off the walkathon on October 31 from Nathu Ka Kua (Tanot area) in Jaisalmer. He will also participate in the walkathon to give the message of fit India. Under the Fit India campaign, to keep the paramilitary forces deployed at the border active, many campaigns are being organised. The ITBP, deployed at the China border along with BSF, are guarding the borders. ITBP DG SS Deshwal and more than 100 jawans and officers will also take part in the drive. Along with BSF, sports ministry members, and other forces, jawans and officers and the local public will also take part in the walkathon. On the directions of BSF Rajasthan Frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari, Bikaner sector DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore who has been given the charge of Jaisalmer sector north and south has reached Jaisalmer and held meeting with all the commandants of sector north and south and gave them directions and responsibilities. Rajasthan IG will reach Jaisalmer on Thursday to check all the arrangements. DIG Rathore visited Indo-Pakistan border in Kishangarh area and visited the programme’s spot and the walk route and gave necessary directions to the officers. Along with him were many officers including 46th battalion commandant Satish Shastri and 119th battalion commandant RS Chandel, among other officers. Rijiju will reach Jaisalmer on October 30 with Deshwal and will flag off the walkathon in a grand programme on October 31 from Nathu Ka Kua (At Tanot Area) and it will conclude on November 2 at 1458 Mohangarh. An official source said, “Personnel of various Central armed police forces (CAPFs) and residents of the city will participate in the event.” “He said the route of the march will pass through the dunes of the Thar desert in the area located along the Indo-Pakistan border. The exercise aims to create awareness for a fit and healthy lifestyle,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fit-india-walkathon-for-soldiers-along-indo-pak-border/articleshow/78920281.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||DA case: ED plaint against ex-nursing council member, 12 others||Jaipur: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a prosecution complaint under Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002 (PMLA) against 13 accused in disproportionate assets case.The accused are Mahesh Chand Sharma and his wife Meena Devi, son Mohit Sharma & Ankit Sharma, Radhe Shyam Sharma, Sumer Chand Sharma, Kishan Lal Saini, Rajendra Prasad Saini, Dr Lal Chand Morani and family owned companies/trusts of accused Mahesh Chand Sharma namely Swastik Seva Sansthan, M/s Safe Infracon Pvt. Ltd., M/s Saket Health Education Centre Pvt Ltd., and RAG Memorial Trust.The complaint has been filed before the special judge (PMLA), Jaipur with a prayer for awarding punishment to the accused for committing offence of money laundering and confiscation of the attached assets amounting to Rs12.60 crore in the form of movable and immovable properties in the name of Mahesh Chand Sharma and his family members.The ED initiated investigation based on FIR and charge-sheet filed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Jaipur against Mahesh Chand Sharma, his sons Mohit Sharma, Ankit Sharma, his wife Meena Devi and others.Mahesh Chand Sharma had worked in health and medical department of Rajasthan government as nursing tutor (Nursing Grade-II), College of Nursing, SMS Medical College and was also as member of Nursing Council of India (NCI), New Delhi.He along with his associate was trapped by officers of ACB for accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from a nursing institute for adding the name of the said institute on the website of NCI. Investigation conducted by the state ACB established that the accused had amassed illicit earnings of Rs 10.60 crore which was 372% more than his known/legal source of income.Investigation under PMLA also revealed that Mahesh Chand Sharma has illegally accumulated huge money by resorting to corrupt practice and misusing his official position and said money was used for purchase of agricultural land, residential flat and plots in his name, his wife, son, company and trust viz. M/s Safe Infracon Pvt. Ltd., Saket Nursing College, RAG Memorial Trust to integrate the illicit money in the formal financial system in order to project it as untainted.It is also revealed Dr Lal Chand Morani, Rajendra Prasad Saini, KishanLal Saini and M/s Saket Health Education Centre Pvt Ltd had assisted Mahesh Chand Sharma in the process.Proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 12.60 crore in the form of various immovable properties had been attached under PMLA. Accused Mahesh Chand Sharma and Mohit Sharma were arrested by ED on September 4, 2020 and at present are in judicial custody at Central Jail, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/da-case-ed-plaint-against-ex-nursing-council-member-12-others/articleshow/78920304.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Beware of fake Indian medicine practitioners: Vigilance centre||Coimbatore: The Perundurai-based peripheral pharmacovigilance centre has appealed to the public to beware of fake Indian medicine practitioners, promising cures for Covid-19. The centre says there is a spike in the number quacks preparing and distributing siddha and ayurvedic medicines in various forms calling them cures to the novel coronavirus. The centre says people should know that any medicine prescribed must be duly licensed by the state licensing authority (Indian medicine).The pharmacovigilance centre, which functions out of Perundurai Government Hospital, says they are coming across people using the pandemic to manufacture and sell fake medicines without a proper manufacturing license through television and social media. “We are now raising awareness among the public on how to detect counterfeit drugs. People should know that any medicine not licensed by the state licensing authority with a proper manufacturing license number is fake. It should have a batch number, manufacturing date, expiry date and a contact address,” an official of the centre said. While some medicines don’t work, they may also cause adverse reactions which should be reported to the centre.People can verify whether their consultants are proper graduates in their field by entering their registration number in www.tnmsc.com or the siddha medical council’s website. If people come across any fake medicines or quacks they can contact coordinator Dr D Venkatachalam or programme assistant Dr Yamini Priyadharsini of the peripheral pharmacovigilance centre immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/beware-of-fake-indian-medicine-practitioners-vigilance-centre/articleshow/78920297.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||A semblance of relief: Air quality in Delhi improves to ‘poor’||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality improved to “poor” on Wednesday with an Air Quality Index (AQI) of 297, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s bulletin. Earlier, the capital recorded “very poor” air quality for five consecutive days. On Tuesday, the AQI had clocked 312 in the “very poor” category. Track the pollution level in your cityMet officials attributed the improvement to change in wind direction and higher speed. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 reduced from 23% on Tuesday to 18%. The farm fire count observed in neighbouring states decreased to 1,830 on Tuesday as against 1,943 recorded on Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The wind direction slightly changed from north-westerly to westerly and hence, the transfer of pollutants from Punjab side to Delhi was minimised. Wind speed picked up on Wednesday and an average speed of 7-8 kmph was recorded, which helped in dispersion of pollutants.” It has been, however, predicted that the air quality may deteriorate further on Thursday. According to Air Pollution Early Warning System, developed by ministry of Earth Sciences, the air quality is likely to be “very poor” on Thursday. Another forecasting body under the union ministry of earth sciences, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), said “a decrease in Delhi surface winds resulting in low ventilation and deterioration in air quality is expected by Thursday.” The air quality may show improvement on Friday. “It is predicted that the average wind speed will increase to 12-13 kmph on Friday resulting in dispersion of pollutants,” said Srivastava. Last year, the highest contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s air in a single day was 44%, SAFAR data showed. In 2019, over 2,700 farm fires were recorded in a single day on October 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-semblance-of-relief-air-quality-improves-to-poor/articleshow/78920300.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Agra||Firozabad’s bangle market remains on the edge a day after trader’s murder||AGRA: Firozabad’s dense Badi Chhapeti area remained on the edge on Wednesday and hundreds of police and PAC personnel were deployed to ward off any trouble a day after a bangle trader (25) was shot dead during a clash between two groups. As the accused belonged to a different faith, extra police force was rushed as a precautionary measure. The bangle market remained closed and roads were blocked in protest against the incident. According to police, an e-rickshaw driver and a bangle godown owner entered into altercation when the bangles carried by the driver got damaged on Tuesday evening. Later, the e-rickshaw driver called some of his associates at the stop. Both sides indulged in brick-batting and opened fire in which Amit Gupta, Sanjay and Lavesh got injured. They were rushed to a nearby hospital, where Gupta was declared dead by doctors. Superintendent of police Sachindra Patel said, “Adequate police force and PAC have been deployed in the area. The situation is completely under control. After a post-mortem examination, Gupta was cremated peacefully by the family members. On the basis of a complaint of Gupta’s father, a case has been registered at Dakshin police station. Three accused have been arrested. Six teams have been formed to investigate the entire matter in detail.” Additional superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said, “Three accused including Danish, Chiniya and Mohsin have been arrested. They are being questioned about the entire incident. Three other people were named in the FIR. We will be arresting them very soon.” Deputy superintendent of police Hari Mohan Singh said, “Total six people were named in the complaint received from the father of the deceased. They along with 15-20 unknown persons have been booked under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) etc”. According to officials, primary investigation revealed that the driver of e-rickshaw, Sunny alias Rizwan and two other accused, Zubair and Kamran are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/firozabads-bangle-market-remains-on-the-edge-a-day-after-traders-murder/articleshow/78917660.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Defence, aerospace sectors open up for MSMEs||Coimbatore: The Union government has set a target to double the presence of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the defence and aerospace sectors over the next four to five years, said defence secretary Ajay Kumar on Wednesday.After inaugurating the Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC) in the city virtually, he said the centre could immediately join the Aatmanirbhar Programme and prioritize the products that they could indigenize.Pointing out that this was the right moment for MSMEs to get into the defence and aerospace sectors, Ajay Kumar called on them to explore the prospects of exporting the components that they develop for the sectors, as there was a demand for the same across the globe.Referring to the prime minister’s plans to make India the global hub for the defence and aerospace sectors, he reiterated that this was a watershed moment for the industrial players in the district to make their imprint in the sectors.“Coimbatore had earlier given us the first biodiesel engine and CNC lathe, which are still being used. Industries in the district have new opportunities to make such contributions,” the defence secretary said. He, however, appealed the MSMEs that were likely to be part of the innovation centre to ensure their products were cost-effective and highly competitive in terms of quality. “There is no point in saying that we have a really good product, which is more expensive than imported items.”He also asked the directorate general of quality assurance and Codissia Defence Innovation Centre to come up with ways to simplify the product simplification process as that would help bring down the cost of product testing and certification, making pricing more competitive.V Sundaram, director of CDIIC, said there were already 10 incubates and four of them had begun working on components such as underwater drones to check ship hulls, augmented reality and other drones.He said they had created a single window system to communicate the requirements of defence public sector undertakings, Defence Research and Development Organization and the three main services with the incubates through a nodal officer from the directorate general of quality assurance. Interested MSMEs could tend to those requirements. “They could work on developing a prototype of the product at the Atal Incubation Centre and see if that works,” Sundaram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/defence-aerospace-sectors-open-up-for-msmes/articleshow/78920292.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-pradhan accuses ‘lover’ of abducting & blackmailing her||Jaisalmer: Former pradhan of Samdadi Pinky Choudhary has again hogged the limelight. After two months of living together with her ‘lover,’ she contacted police on Tuesday and accused him of blackmailing and kidnapping her and besides threatening her to end her political career. Levelling serious allegations against her ‘lover’, Choudhary reached the SP office on Tuesday night and alleged that he had been threatening her. Later she reached the women’s police station and lodged case against him and also sought police security saying there was a threat to her life. Choudhary said that her and her in-laws’ lives were in danger and that she was forcibly kept in Jaipur for four days and the accused threatened to kill her family. A few months ago, Choudhary had left her house and the matter became public on social media. Choudhary’s father had also lodged a missing person’s report and after three days, she was found with Ashok Kumar at Golia Choudhariyan village. She, in her statement to police, had clearly said that till her divorce comes through, she will live with her live-in partner and the matter was resolved then. However, on Tuesday night, her contacting the police has brought the matter out into the open once again. Choudhary said that Ashok, for the last two months, had built pressure on her and thrashed her, forcing her to write an email to Barmer SP asking for action against her father-in-law, but now she wants to stay with her husband. When she was asked about the name of the person building pressure on her she said if she revealed the name, then she will be killed. She somehow managed to run away and does not want to stay with Ashok but with her husband. Ashok had also threatened to make her photos viral on social media. SP said looking at the seriousness of the case, he ordered to immediately lodge the case and provided her with police security. Investigation has begun in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ex-pradhan-accuses-lover-of-abducting-blackmailing-her/articleshow/78920293.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 toll rises by 7 to 547 in dist||Coimbatore: The district saw a sudden rise in the Covid-19 toll on Wednesday when the state included seven more fatalities, the highest in nearly a month, in the bulletin, even as the tally shot up to 42,516 with 218 new cases. The toll now stands at 547. While one of the patients had succumbed to the virus nine days ago, the remaining deaths had occurred in the past two days. Among the deceased was a 45-year-old diabetic woman, who succumbed to the virus in Chennai on October 19. She had ovarian cancer. Three deaths had occurred on Monday – a 48-year-old woman who was hospitalized on October 20, a 68-year-old man with asthma, liver disease and heart disease who died within 24 hours of admission and a 38-year-old diabetic who died after 10 days of hospitalization. Another 62-year-old hypertensive and diabetic man had succumbed to the virus on Tuesday, after five days of hospitalization.The number of active cases, meanwhile, dropped to a three-month low of 3,118 on the day, when 685 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The number of recovered patients now stands at 38,85. The recovery rate in the district has touched an all-time high of 91.3%.The Revathi Medical Centre has become the first private laboratory in Tirupur to bag approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research to conduct real-time polymerase chain reaction test . In the past six months, Tirupur residents had to give their samples to the government hospitals and primary health centres or travel to Coimbatore to get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-toll-rises-by-7-to-547-in-dist/articleshow/78920289.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||To read and grow, tribal kids in Erode seek books to start library||Erode: The craving for knowledge seem to be so irresistible for the people of Kundri and Anilnatham tribal hamlets that they are on a mission to set up a library in their area. Since they don’t have any funds, they are in search of volunteers to donate them books.Makkal G Rajan, founder of the NGO Unarvugal Amaippu, said, “The villagers, especially school and college students, currently don’t have any facilities to improve their general knowledge. The hamlets are located close to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve and people don’t even have access to newspapers.”Before the pandemic, students could read newspapers at their schools. Now that they are closed, they are by and large in dark about what’s happening around the globe.When he heard about the villagers’ plight, Rajan decided to set up a library for them. “We have approached many scholars, officials and businessmen for books. Many people have also come forward voluntarily to donate us books,” the NGO founder said.The team had on Wednesday approached Erode municipal corporation commissioner M Elangovan, who donated them books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/to-read-and-grow-tribal-kids-in-erode-seek-books-to-start-library/articleshow/78920310.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Six teens on picnic drown in West Godavari rivulet||ELURU: In a tragic incident, six children drowned in a rivulet in the Agency area of West Godavari district on Wednesday morning. All the children were aged between 15 and 16 years and belonged to Bhudevi Peta village in Velerupadu mandal of the district. All six bodies have been retrieved from the rivulet. The victims have been identified as Gangadhara Venkata Rao (16), Siramula Sivaji (16), Koonavarapu Radhakrishna (15), Gottuparthi Manoj (16), Karnati Ranjith (15) and Kella Sai (16). Police said a group of villagers from Bhudevi Peta had arranged a garden party (vanabhojanam) after Dasara, which they do every year. About 10 families went to Vasanthavada bridge to celebrate the garden party. While they were making arrangements, six boys went to the other side of the rivulet (Pedavagu) to complete their morning chores. When they were returning at about 10.30 am, they could not judge the depth of the water at one place, which was about 15 feet deep and 40 feet wide. Initially, one boy slipped into the deep dip formed at the curve of the rivulet during the recent floods. Another boy tried to rescue him but he too slipped. Likewise, all the six boys slipped into the water by holding each other’s hands like a chain. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has announced an ex gratia of Rs 3 lakh for each bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-teens-on-picnic-drown-in-west-godavari-rivulet/articleshow/78920312.cms||Samson Raj
October 29, 2020||Agra||30% attendance in Agra div’s secondary schools||Agra: Students' attendance in schools of Agra division remained at 30.07% in the first week. The schools reopened after Covid-19 shutdown on October 19. The least attendance among the four districts of the division was recorded in Agra district. Here, only 23.4% of students attended regular classes. In the survey conducted by schools, a majority of the parents refused to send their children for regular classes. According to the data of the Agra division compiled by the secondary education department, 7,48,897 students are enrolled in classes 9 to 12 at 2,648 schools. Out of these, 2,25,218 (30.07%) students came to attend the regular classes. So far, only 36.9% parents of the enrolled students have given their approval to send their children to school. The maximum attendance of students was recorded in schools of Firozabad district. Here, 35.2% of students attended regular classes in the first week. In Mathura district, 35% and in Mainpuri district 33.2% secondary students attended classes. Joint director (education) for Agra division, Mukesh Agarwal, said, “The attendance of the students in Agra district remained low in comparison to other districts. School authorities have been directed not to force any student to attend regular classes. Live streaming of classes is also taking place. Students can study online at home. Besides, we are ensuring that Covid-19 protocol is strictly followed in schools."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/30-attendance-in-agra-divs-secondary-schools/articleshow/78917658.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Rly suppliers seek interest on dues||Coimbatore: City-based Railway Suppliers’ Association (RASA) shot off a letter to railways minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday, demanding interest on pending payments to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that manufacture and supply components such as gears, compressors and other fabricated parts for train coaches. Pointing out that the railways would collect hefty penalties from suppliers for any delay in supplies, representatives of the association said the suppliers shall also be entitled to receive interest on payment dues as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006. “Only then, officials will clear the bills on time.”According to them, at least 76 MSMEs are supplying to the railways and some of them are to be paid up to Rs2 crore. In total, the railways owes them Rs50 crore. This is despite the railways issuing a circular on June 16, asking officers to clear pending dues immediately.S Surulivel, president, RASA, says, “We have taken bank loans that too by paying 10% of the order value as bank guarantee to deliver the orders. When payments get delayed, we end up paying more interest. It is not fair. We don’t have money to pay bank guarantee for the next order.”They said certain zonal and divisional railways were habitual defaulters. They also appealed the railways accounts department to function with full strength, as staff shortage was often cited for delayed payments.The railways has an effective online system to pay bills of regular stores and stock items. However, such system isn’t in place for non-regular purchases. “We are forced to run pillar to post to get payment for non-stock bills,” Surulivel said.The RASA has also appealed the railways not to penalize MSMEs for delayed supply as normal production was yet to be restored. “Also, raw materials are often not available and there are frequent delays in transportation. They should wave all penalties for late supply till March 2021,” Surulivel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rly-suppliers-seek-interest-on-dues/articleshow/78920307.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Court denies bail to man for using counterfeit notes||Panaji: The sessions court has declined to grant bail to an accused who used counterfeit notes at three Baskin Robbins ice cream parlours at Caranzalem, Panaji and Porvorim last month. The court stated that there was prima facie case against the applicant “given the fact that recovery of counterfeit notes has been effected from him and he offered no explanation as far as the notes are concerned”. It noted that the offence of using counterfeit notes carries a punishment of imprisonment for life or with imprisonment which may extent to 10 years and fine, while the offence of possessing counterfeit notes carries a punishment of imprisonment which may extent to 7 years or with fine or with both. “Considering these punishments, the possibility of the applicant absconding in order to evade the possibility of having to undergo these punishments, cannot be ruled out,” the court stated. The court noted that he was a member of a group found to be using counterfeit notes and was himself found to be in possession of them. A complaint was filed at the Panaji police station stating that unknown accused persons visited the ice-cream parlour outlets at Caranzalem, Panaji and Porvorim and purchased ice-creams giving five counterfeit currency notes of Rs 100 each. A police team visited the parlours and viewed CCTV footage, interrogated staff at both outlets and found that the suspect accused persons used a white colour Mahindra Scorpio vehicle with Punjab registration. The vehicle was traced along with Gagandeep Singh and Harjeet Singh and at the police station Harjeet disclosed that he along with his cousins, family and friends were on vacation in Goa and were staying in an apartment at Calangute. When a detailed search was conducted the applicant was found in possession of five counterfeit currency notes of Rs 2,000 each after which arrests were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-denies-bail-to-man-for-using-counterfeit-notes/articleshow/78921631.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Micro, small units don’t need NOC to extract water up to 10k litr||Jaipur: Micro and small enterprises consuming less than 10,000 litres per day are no more required to take No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Central Ground Water Department. They are only required to submit a copy of their MSME certificate and an affidavit for the quantity of water use.In a letter to the industry body CII, regional director of the Central Ground Water Department said, “As per the notified guidelines, it is inform that micro and small enterprises drawing ground water ;ess than 10 cum/perday shall be exempted from seeking no objection certificate for ground water extraction.”It said that the department has received a large number of applications online seeking NOC for extracting ground water less than 10 KLD. “However, the information about their category of being micro and small enterprises is not available in their applications. This office has sent mails to these enterprises for submission of Udyog Aadhaar certificates but very few have responded,” said the letter.The letter has urged the industry they can now only submit a copy of their Udyog Aadhaar and an afficavit for the quantity of water use. However, the industry said that similar facilities for medium category industries should also be extended to improve the ease of doing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/micro-small-units-dont-need-noc-to-extract-water-up-to-10k-litr/articleshow/78920317.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diwali crackdown: IMFL worth Rs 33 lakh seized in two raids||Ahmedabad: In view of the coming festive season, police, especially the prevention of crime branch (PCB) and state monitoring cell (SMC) have been directed to crack down on liquor trafficking.DGP Ashish Bhatia said all city police commissioners and district police chiefs have been directed to keep close watch on bootleggers. “We have recruited more personnel in the SMC for the crackdown and have also directed district local crime branches and city crime branches to have zero-tolerance to liquor trafficking during the festive season,” Bhatia said.As part of that, crackdown, PCB seized 506 liquor cartons (6,072 bottles) of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 30.6 lakh from a godown in Al Kuba estate located near Cozy Hotel in Danilimda area of the city on Tuesday evening.PSI A D Chavda of PCB said that three persons, Istiyaq Saiyed, 36, of Fatehwadi, Vivek Sanghani, 35, of Satkar Apartments in Bodakdev and Mustaq Shaikh, 28, of Dariapur, were arrested from the spot. Istiyaq’s brother Illiyas who is the kingpin, is absconding.“The accused confessed they sold the liquor in wholesale,” Chavda said. Also on Tuesday, Narol police seized 1,644 bottles of IMFL worth Rs 3.2 lakh from a godown loin Narol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diwali-crackdown-imfl-worth-rs-33-lakh-seized-in-two-raids/articleshow/78920320.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Sigur elephant corridor: Panel head looks for office space||Udhagamandalam: Justice K Venkatraman, chairman of the three-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court to look into the claims of the land and resort owners in the Sigur Elephant Corridor, visited Ooty and Masinagudi to identify an office space for the committee.According to sources, at least three to four locations in Masinagudi and Ooty have been identified by the chairman of the committee. The office space will be finalized only after the other two members visit the locations and have a discussion with the committee chairman.Collector J Innocent Divya said, “The chairman of the committee visited Ooty and Masinagudi to locate an office space for the committee to work. However, a GO from the state government is yet to be received.”A three-member committee headed by Justice K Venkatraman has been constituted by the Supreme Court as part of its verdict on Sigur elephant corridor in the Nilgiris to enquire into land, building and title disputes as also other allied issues in the corridor.The state government has been directed to set up infrastructure and other amenities for the committee within 30 days from the order of the court. Justice K Venkatraman left Ooty on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sigur-elephant-corridor-panel-head-looks-for-office-space/articleshow/78920318.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Haryana gets concessions on DG sets||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) on Wednesday granted exemption to the Haryana government on use of diesel generator sets for 20 cases till November 30. EPCA had enforced Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) from October 15 onwards banning the use of diesel generator sets in Delhi and its vicinity towns of Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon. However, the Haryana power department recently sought exemption till November 30 for colonies, which were not connected to grid and were dependent on DG sets. EPCA chairman Bhure Lal, in his letter to the chief secretary of Haryana, said, “EPCA is granting the exemption to 15 cases — 14 residential complexes and one commercial complex — as requested by you and on the assurance that this will be only for the period up to November 30, 2020.” Besides, five cases, which are fully dependent on DG sets due to non-compliance of electrical inadequacies, were also given exemption till November 30. However, EPCA directed the Haryana government to “submit the affidavits and the information that the matter from Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam has been resolved within 8-10 days.” EPCA also permitted commercial institutions/ industries to use DG sets as a secondary source/ back up in case of power disruption, with a few conditions. The body asked the power department to ensure regular supply and direct industries to check compliance. EPCA said commercial institutions/industries will maintain logbooks on use of DG sets for power backups, which will be fortnightly/monthly verified. “All commercial setups/industries that still require DG sets for the assured supply of power (for backup for short duration breaks) should be encouraged to move to cleaner sources of distributed power like gas- based DGs or solar powered systems. You are requested to discuss this with industry bodies/NASSCOM and others and revert to EPCA on the feasibility of this,” said Lal to the Haryana government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/haryana-gets-concessions-on-dg-sets/articleshow/78920313.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 29, 2020||Delhi||New dashboard to keep tab on Delhi’s PM levels||NEW DELHI: The capital still has to go a long way if it hopes to reduce its levels of particulate matters (PM) by 20-30% by 2024 to meet the targets under National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi is one of the 122 non-attainment cities in terms of air quality under NCAP. CarbonCopy and Respirer Living Sciences, two environmental organisations, on Wednesday released a dashboard to track the progress of each city and identify those on target to meet the targets set by the Union environment, forests and climate change ministry. The capital, despite an improvement in the annual PM10 concentration, has recorded an increase in PM2.5 concentration in 2018 against the base year of 2016. Delhi also ranks as the most polluted state based on the average of 2016-18, while ranking only second in terms of the most polluted cities after Ghaziabad that topped with the worst three-year average PM10 levels, the dashboard reveals. The ministry notified NCAP on January 10, 2019 to reduce PM levels, taking 2017 as the base year. These 122 cities had failed to meet the US National Ambient Air Quality Standards standards in 2011-15. CarbonCopy’s National Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP) dashboard establishes a three-year rolling average trend for PM2.5 and PM10 levels across all 122 cities from 2016 to 2018. Dr Santosh Harish, fellow of Centre for Policy Research, said, “While everyone relies on continuous monitoring data, Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Standards is a relatively new network. So if you want to compare levels in 2022 with those in 2018, there may not be enough data to do so.” Tracking annual average concentrations, Harish pointed out, provides an objective way to judge air quality levels. “There are many metrics to understand pollution levels, like the number of good or bad air days, but annual averages have the advantage to speak better to long-term exposures as opposed to episodic highs and lows and more robust against the quirks of meteorology,” he said at a webinar during the release of the dashboard. India has a network of 793 NAAQS stations covering 344 cities in 29 states and six Union territories. Under NAMP, four pollutants — sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, suspended particulate matter and respirable suspended particulate matter have been identified as key pollutants for regular monitoring. Aarti Khosla, director of Climate Trends and Publisher for CarbonCopy, said while the Centre was bringing out another law to address air pollution, it would be equally important to evaluate the existing regulations. “The dashboard allows us to look back and plan ahead. Standardisation of the data that is captured and made public is crucial as that will provide the baseline to compare the progress being made till 2024,” Khosla said. “We hope that Central Pollution Control Board will make the PM data for 2019 and subsequent years available.” Ronak Sutaria, CEO of Respirer Living Sciences, believes that the dashboard can help identify the need for more monitoring stations and address data gaps. “While analysing the data, it’s crucial to see the number of monitors in each city, the increase or decrease in monitoring capacity and the number of readings available per monitor every year,” said Sutaria, adding that the dashboard would provide the number of monitors in each city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-dashboard-to-keep-tab-on-citys-pm-levels/articleshow/78920324.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Elders living in joint families at higher Covid risk: Study||NAGPUR: An European study published in The Lancet Healthy Longevity journal suggests that elders who live in multi-generational homes are at higher mortality risk for Covid-19. Though the observational study was based in Sweden, its findings raise a red flag for India where it’s common to have joint families spanning as many as three generations residing under the same roof. The observational study, which focused on people aged 70 and above, found that the risk of death is higher when they come in close contact with younger people within the home. The highest mortality was found in homes with at least one person older than 66 years of age and one child younger than 16 years. But after age adjustment in terms of this particular study, it was found that it’s not just the younger ones who could put seniors at risk. They found a 60% increase in deaths when elders resided with someone aged 66 years and below. Maria Brandén, of Linköping University (Sweden) and lead author of the study, said, “Elderly people are more at risk of dying from Covid-19 if they live in a care home or with family members who are of working age.” Another key finding of the study, which is very relevant in Indian context, is densely populated areas. The study found an almost 3 times increase in death rate when comparing densely and sparsely populated areas. Neighbourhoods having population of 5,000/ sq km had a death rate of 3.9%, whereas those having just 150/sq km saw a mortality rate of 1.1%. The study, which was conducted between March and May, also talks about preventive steps to be taken. The key to protecting the elderly lies in arresting community spread, the study suggests. Brandén adds that neighbourhood transmission is an important consideration for Covid-19 even if older people can and do self-isolate. “That’s because many of them will come into contact with working age people at some point,” she adds. Commenting on the study, Dr Alison Roxby of the University of Washington School of Medicine (USA), said, “Household-level preventive measures will be needed to protect older adults as the pandemic continues. Vaccines and monoclonal antibodies are promising tools that may reduce the risk of infection and spread; older adults and their support networks should be among the earliest recipients once available.” Senior medical practitioner Dr Prashant Jagtap said care has to be taken when it comes to source of infection. “Outside infection can come from maids, drivers or the younger kids who are moving out in crowded areas. In many cases which we saw, the younger ones were asymptomatic carriers and it came to the fore only when elders got infected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/elders-living-in-joint-families-at-higher-covid-risk-study/articleshow/78918789.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem dist administration arranges onion at Rs 45 per kilo for residents||SALEM: Much to the relief of people, the district administration has started selling big onion, the price of which has of late soared above Rs 100, at Rs 45 per kilo through Ponni cooperative supermarket. Officials at the store said they had received two tonnes of onions and each family would be provided 1kg onion. The public has appealed the officials to sell at least 2kg onions per family stating 1kg wasn’t enough for a family of four. One of the officers said they would increase the quantity once they get sufficient onions from the government. Earlier, the state government had ordered all district administrations to sell onions at Rs45 per kg through pannai pasumai vegetable stalls. While other districts launched the scheme, Salem could not start the onion sale as there was no pannai pasumai vegetable stall in the district. The one situated at Ayyanthirumaligai area near Hasthampatty was closed two years ago, as the business was dull. K Sonia, a resident of Judge Road area, said she had searched online to locate a pannai pasumai vegetable stall in the city, but in vain. The public, meanwhile, demanded the cooperative department officials to sell onions at cheaper rate as per the government order. When Rajendra Prasad, joint director of cooperative department, came to know about this, he directed the officials to sell onions through Ponni cooperative store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-dist-administration-arranges-onion-at-rs-45-per-kilo-for-residents/articleshow/78920319.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||BJP terms HC order ‘bad in law’, asks ‘how can inquiry be ordered against CM when he was never a party in the case & was never heard’||Dehradun: A day after the Uttarakhand high court (HC) ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of corruption against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, the state unit of BJP in a press conference on Wednesday termed the order "wrong" and '‘bad in law’'. Questioning how an inquiry can be ordered against the CM who was never a party in the case, BJP’s chief spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan said, “We respect the honourable HC but its decision of quashing the FIR against the petitioner, Umesh Kumar Sharma, is bad in law.” He added that the BJP is “not criticising the court but its judgement.” “How can FIR and CBI inquiry be initiated in the matter when the CM was never made a party, was never called in court and was never heard?” Chauhan said. The BJP spokesperson added that the HC, in its own order, has observed that Sharma shared wrong information in the court. “The accounts in which the money was said to have been deposited have nothing to do with the CM or any of his relatives/family members,” Chauhan said, adding,“How can the HC take cognisance of the complaint filed by a man who has been named in over a dozen criminal cases, including heinous crimes, in not just in one but five states?” Meanwhile, sources in the BJP said that the CM, in his special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court filed on Wednesday, has not sought a stay on the CBI inquiry but has asked the apex court to reconsider the HC's decision of quashing the FIR (under sedition charges) against Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-terms-hc-order-bad-in-law-asks-how-can-inquiry-be-ordered-against-cm-when-he-was-never-a-party-in-the-case-was-never-heard/articleshow/78917678.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Collector launches several doorstep services in Udaipur||Udaipur: Collector Chetan Ram Deora on Wednesday launched doorstep services of Urban Improvement Trust, which is expected to benefit a large number of people including senior citizens, women and persons with disabilities. In the first phase, people can avail five services including online mutation, sub-division and reconstitution, building construction plan approval and lease exemption certificate. The collector said oorstep facilities was a great initiative specially during the pandemic when people are hesitant to go to public offices fearing spread of the disease. UIT secretary Arun Hasija said a call center had been set up where people can call and register their requirements. A technical team would visit their homes to collect and verify documents which would be scanned and uploaded online before them. The application process would be speedy and people would pay fees for the services online. As soon as the application is processed and certificate or documents are issued by authorities, the same team will drop them to the customer's home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-launches-several-doorstep-services-in-udaipur/articleshow/78920316.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Recovery rate soars to 95% in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: A day after it recorded 81 Covid-19 cases, the caseload dipped to 30 in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. With this, the tally has gone up to 6,520, of which 277 are active cases. The district has been witnessing fluctuation in new cases in the past one week.With 49 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day, the number of recovered patients has increased to 6,205 in the hill retreat, where the recovery rate stands at 95.1%.According to a health official, the new cases were scattered across the district. Six of them had travel history to other districts. The remaining cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/recovery-rate-soars-to-95-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/78920315.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Man gets life term for wife’s murder||Alwar: Yogesh Malhotra, who murdered his wife, chopped the body and dumped it at various places during Diwali in 2016, was sentenced to life imprisonment by an Alwar court on Wednesday. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000.The ADJ court sentenced the accused for the murder of wife Aarti under Kotwali police station area of Alwar city on October 30, 2016. The reason for the murder was that the accused suspected his wife’s character. Kotwali police arrested the accused from Haryana and then filed a charge-sheet, said assistant public prosecutor Vijay Kumar During the trial, 35 witnesses were produced in the court and 95 documents were submitted as evidence while 30 articles were displayed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-life-term-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/78920309.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem: Bumper harvest keeps custard apple price low||SALEM: Custard apples are sold in retail markets here for as little as Rs 20/kg compared to Rs 60 last month, thanks to a bumper harvest. The fruits, cultivated in Salem, Krishnagiri, Coimbatore, Ooty, Tiruvannamalai and Kanyakumari, are sold across the state. “They are also sent to Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Puducherry and Kerala,” said V Kesavan, a farmer. Many farmers had planted hybrid custard apple varieties when prices crossed Rs 60 two years ago. “It resulted in huge volumes arriving at the local markets,” Kesavan told TOI. “There are several plantations at Panamarathupatti, Jarugumalai and surrounding villages.” The farmers send the fruits in 25kg boxes to markets. “A box was sold for Rs 1,300 (Rs 52/kg) in the wholesale market and Rs 1,500 (Rs 60/kg) in the retail market,” said C Amsaveni, a fruit seller in the city. “Now, one box is taken for Rs 350 in the wholesale market and Rs 500 in the retail market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bumper-harvest-keeps-custard-apple-price-low/articleshow/78920325.cms||---
October 29, 2020||India||New Indo-EU pact will enable Indian talents to join research teams in Europe||NEW DELHI: The European Commission and the Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) signed an arrangement on Wednesday to enhance scientific cooperation and enable Indian social scientists to join research teams in Europe, supported by European Research Council (ERC). The European Union (EU) and India already cooperate in the field of research and innovation, but this is the first scheme boosting research in social sciences and humanities. European Union ambassador Ugo Astuto and member secretary of the ICSSR, an autonomous body under the education ministry, Prof Virendra Kumar Malhotra, signed the arrangement in a virtual mode. The virtual signing ceremony was attended by director for international cooperation in the Directorate-General for Research & Innovation of the European Commission Maria Cristina Russo, ERC president ad interim Prof Jean-Pierre Bourguignon and ICSSR chairman and University Grants Commission vice-chairman Prof Bhushan Patwardhan. The initiative will provide opportunities to Indian researchers, including principal investigators of research projects, senior fellowship awardees and post-doctoral fellows, who are supported by the ICSSR and want to pursue research collaborations with European researchers. More cooperation in research and innovation and in all (other) areas will be available under the EU next research and innovation programme ‘Horizon Europe’ (2021-2027), an EU statement said. EU ambassador Ugo Astuto said, “Global research collaboration is essential for developing sustainable solutions to global and societal challenges. This arrangement will help foster collaboration in the field of social sciences between the EU and India.” On the agreement, Maria Cristina Russo said, “Social sciences have a critical contribution to make in helping understand and design a more sustainable future for all. In the next EU framework programme ‘Horizon Europe’, there will be many opportunities to increase our cooperation”. From the Indian side, ICSSR member secretary V K Malhotra said: “The expectations are that it will allow ICSSR scholars to deepen and widen their knowledge by engaging with ERC grantees across Europe”. Welcoming the initiative, ICSSR chairman Patwardhan hoped that a number of potential scholars will benefit through carrying out research visits with ERC-supported teams. He stated that “India has great scientific tradition, which has been deeply embedded in our civilizational and cultural values”. Making the concluding remark at the ceremony, ERC president ad interim Prof Bourguignon said: “I am pleased to see the launch of another research initiative involving a key funding body in India – a country of great scientific tradition hosting much research talent. It will be a win-win for Indian visiting scholars and ERC grantees.” Since the start of the ERC in 2007, 62 Indian nationals have been awarded an ERC grant. Compared with other non-European grant holders, Indians are ranked third after nationals of the US and Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-indo-eu-pact-will-enable-indian-talents-to-join-research-teams-in-europe/articleshow/78922414.cms||Surendra Singh
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Criticising govt not sedition, suppressing dissent weakens democracy: U'khand HC||Dehradun: In its order in which the Uttarakhand high court (HC) directed a CBI probe to be conducted into corruption charges levelled against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, the court also called for quashing of an FIR in which Section 124-A of the IPC (pertaining to sedition) was slapped on journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma, the man who had made the allegations against the CM. “There is no material to show what criminal conspiracy was done, and prima-facie, no offence under Section 120-B IPC is made out,” the single bench of Justice Ravindra Maithani said, adding, “Unless public functionaries are criticised, democracy cannot be strengthened...if dissent is suppressed under the sedition law, it would make democracy weak. If allegations are levelled against the representatives, it alone cannot be sedition. Criticising the government can never be sedition." The judge said, "In democracy, dissent is always respected and considered, if it is suppressed under sedition laws perhaps it would be an attempt to make democracy weak...adding Section 124-A IPC in the instant case manifests that it has been an attempt of the state to muzzle the voice of criticism, to muffle complaint/ dissent which can never be allowed.” The court further noted: “In the instant case, whatever the allegations against the petitioner, they do not remotely connect with Section 124-A IPC. Offence under Section 124-A IPC is not prima-facie made out. Why this section is added, it’s beyond comprehension.” In his judgement, Justice Maithani also quoted freedom fighter Bal Gangadhar Tilak when he was being prosecuted for sedition. “Long back, when Bal Gangadhar Tilak was being prosecuted for sedition, he stood and said, 'The law may be rigid; the law may be harsh. Stand between me and the law and protect me because I represent the liberty of the press'.” Sharma, who runs news channel Samachar Plus, had alleged that bribe money was deposited into the bank accounts of the chief minister’s close relatives and associates during demonetisation in 2016. The allegation was that the money was paid by a Ranchi-based individual Amratesh Chauhan as part of a deal with Rawat to facilitate his appointment as chairman of Gau Seva Aayog of Jharkhand. Rawat was the BJP state-in-charge of Jharkhand at the time. CM Rawat said he is "open to any kind of investigation. I am sure that the true facts will emerge”. Kumar had posted a video in this regard on his Facebook page on June 24 this year. On July 31, a case was registered against him at Nehru Colony police station of Dehradun based on a complaint by Harender Singh Rawat, who was among the people the journalist alleged in whose bank account money had been transferred by Chauhan at Trivendra Rawat’s behest. Later, charges of sedition were added. Reacting to the court order on Wednesday, Sharma said he felt happy that '‘justice has been done". He added, “I had approached the HC regarding the sedition charges levelled against me. I had not even asked for a CBI probe in the matter. The HC took suo motu cognisance and decided that the corruption charges merit a CBI investigation. This has vindicated my stand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/criticising-govt-not-sedition-suppressing-dissent-weakens-democracy-ukhand-hc/articleshow/78917699.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 29, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC to ply buses on 10 more Nashik city routes||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has decided to extend its services on 10 more routes across the city. The MSRTC that had resumed its city operations on October 22 — after services had to be stopped for seven months because of the Covid crisis. Based on public demand, the transport utility has now decided to extend its services to 10 more routes, sources in MSRTC said. According to an officer, the current operations included 206 bus trips on 11 routes across Nashik city. The buses facilitated the movement of people for business, trade, service and other reasons. “The response from commuters is increasing, though it is yet to reach the pre-Covid-19 levels,” the senior officer said. The MSRTC had long been against running the bus services in Nashik city because the operations only added to its losses. Moreover, the MSRTC has said that city operation was never its forte, as the city operations should be handled by local civic bodies. It may also be noted that the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to launch its city operation services and it is taking the necessary steps in that direction. “Currently we have less than 50% of occupancy on our buses, though there is no restriction on carrying the passengers as was the case during the earlier unlock phase,” the MSRTC officer pointed out. It may be noted that current city operations of the MSRTC do not include areas like Gangapur, Adgaon, Mhasrul and Makhmalabad which account for about 40% of the city. The MSRTC plans to launch its services on these routes in the next couple of days. The MSRTC is also banking on the possibility of educational institutes opening as student passes is a major source of income for the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-to-ply-buses-on-10-more-nashik-city-routes/articleshow/78920347.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Agra||34 more Covid-19 +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 34 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 7,098. These included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC). Also, a 41-year-old man died during treatment at the SNMC in Agra. The Kirawali block resident was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, pneumonia, septicemia and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 144 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 57 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 7,098 cases, 6,636 (93.5%) have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district has now decreased from 342 on Tuesday, to 318 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/34-more-covid-19-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/78917674.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Rajkot||Crackers a strict ‘no’ in Rajkot||Rajkot: Rajkot police commissioner on Wednesday issued a notification prohibiting bursting of fire crackers during the night time and on public roads during Diwali. The notification will come into force form November 2 and will remain effective till December 1. While the commissioner has prohibited bursting of fire crackers on footpaths and public roads people have been asked to resist from any kind of pyrotechnics in public places. The notification specifies that bursting of crackers will be banned from night 10pm till 6am in the morning. People have also been asked not to burst fire crackers near hospitals and courts. National Green Tribunal (NGT) had put a cap of two hours for bursting fire crackers on Diwali day last year. Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agarwal said “We will ensure that this notification is followed in the true sense.” Meanwhile, the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) cancelled its annual pyrotechnics programme at Racecourse ground on Dhanteras (two days before Diwali) due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/crackers-a-strict-no-in-rajkot/articleshow/78919480.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Cong and BJP fear low voter turnout due to pandemic||Jaipur: Fearing low turnout, BJP and Congress candidates have started going door-to-door to impress upon people to vote in Thursday’s Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, elections. Due to the pandemic, candidates are wary that people might not come out to vote. BJP has a team of people called ‘bhaag,’ the lowest in the hierarchy. Their purpose is to motivate people to come out and vote. Manoj Bhardhwaj, a BJP member and former Jaipur deputy mayor said, “Our target is to convince people to go and vote early in the morning. We have already started meeting people and asked them to vote for a better future.” Maan Pandit, a candidate from BJP contesting from Ward No. 64, said his team members were circulating WhatsApp and social media messages to people to vote. “We will appoint two local people in every lane who will convince people to vote in their locality. They will knock on people’s door and would accompany the public if needed to polling stations,” said Pandit.Sajida Begum, contesting from Ward No. 23, said they were going door-to-door to convince people to vote. Both the parties did not want elections to take place during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-and-bjp-fear-low-voter-turnout-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/78920327.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Surat: MD drug addicts fed gutter cleaner, acids to their bodies||SURAT: High-profile users of mephedrone (MD), a banned party drug, were unknowingly feeding their bodies a deadly concoction of chemicals that are widely used to unclog choked gutters or make nail polish removal, paints and thinners. Those running the city-wide MD trafficking racket, which was busted last month, were using these hazardous chemicals to make the stimulant, which they sold for as high as Rs 5,000 per gm. The revelation was made during the investigation into the racket in which the city police and crime branch have arrested a total of 13 persons since September 23. While the mastermind of the racket was Salman alias Aman Zaveri, the brain behind using these easily available chemicals was 31-year-old Pragnesh Thummar, who holds an M.Pharm degree. Thummar worked as a consultant for some chemical companies who wanted to manufacture various product ingredients. Thummar was aware that none of these chemicals were banned and taking advantage of their easy availability, he and another accused, Sanket Aslaliya, who was engaged in an online garment selling business. They had hired one room in a premises in Kadodara, which was later raided by the cops. In fact,Thummar had trained Aslaliya in making MD, which, unlike other high-profile drugs, is made synthetically in laboratories and not sourced naturally. Police nabbed 22-year-old Aslaliya and Thummar after the arrest of Salman on September 23 from Dumas Road. “They were using various acids, solvents and other harmful chemicals sourced from local chemical suppliers to make MD. After manufacturing the drug in bulk, they sold it to the traffickers for sale in the city,” said a police officer who is part of the investigation. Along with these persons, police had also arrested Aadil Nurani, a businessman and owner of a popular Gujarati thali restaurant. Salman and Nurani had several high-profile businessmen and their relatives as regular customers of MD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/md-drug-addicts-fed-gutter-cleaner-acids-to-their-bodies/articleshow/78918953.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||Congress govt will probe every penny under Bundelkhand package: Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday said that if the Congress returns to power, it will take account details of every penny allocated to the state by the Congress-led former UPA government under Bundelkhand package. Addressing a public meeting in Bada Malehra constituency in Chhattarpur district in support of Congress candidate Ram Siya Bharati on Wednesday, the senior Congress leader said, “What happened to the Bundelkhand package? When our government returns, like Vyapam and e-tender, we will take account of every penny of the Bundelkhand package.” Bundelkhand package of Rs 7,266 crore was announced by the erstwhile Manmohan Singh UPA government in 2009 for development of 13 drought prone districts of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Six of the 13 districts of Bundelkhand are in Madhya Pradesh and Rs 3,860 crore was allocated for the state, he said. “After 15 years of BJP rule, we got a state which ranked first in the country for farmers’ suicides, crimes against women, unemployment and corruption,” Kamal Nath said. “Tell us which challenge was not before us? Today, I want to ask chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to tell us what happened with the Bundelkhand package. Let him know that our government is returning and like Vyapam and e-tendering, we will take account of every penny of the Bundelkhand package,” he said. Kamal Nath claimed that in Chouhan’s regime, there are no doctors in the hospitals, no medicines with doctors, no teachers in schools, no wires in electric poles and no electricity in the wires. Sadhvi Ram Siya Bharati is pitted against BJP’s Pradyumna Singh Lodhi who was the Congress’ candidate in the November 2018 assembly elections. Lodhi resigned as Congress MLA in July and joined the BJP. Nath on Wednesday apologised to the people of Malehra for giving the party’s candidature to Pradyumna Singh Lodhi in the last assembly election. “After 15 years, people of the state decided to say farewell to Shivraj Singh Chouhan and make him sit at home. Today, I apologise to the people of Bada Malehra that I chose the wrong candidate. I promise you that I will correct this mistake,” Nath said. Taking a jibe at BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, the state Congress president Kamal Nath said, “BJP has made Scindia a groom, but will never make him the son-in-law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-govt-will-probe-every-penny-under-bundelkhand-package-nath/articleshow/78918818.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||3 women arrested for poaching chinkara||Jaisalmer: Four people, including three women, were arrested by forest department officials for poaching a chinkara in Khari village under Dhorimanna police limits of Barmer district. A video of the culprits escaping with the carcass of the chinkara also went viral on social media platforms.The incident is of Maylo ki Beri in Khari where villagers apprehended the culprits, including three women, who were escaping after poaching a chinkara. They informed the forest department officials who reached the spot and took the culprits in their custody. The officials also sent the carcass to Dhorimanna for postmortem.The accused were identified as Ladhuram, his wife Kamla, Nauli wife of Khumaram and Dhai Devi wife of Tulcharam.Wildlife activists Ramjeevan and Praveen kumar lodged a case at Dhorimanna police station in this regard.Barmer SP Anand Sharma confirmed the poaching incident and said that the forest department is investigating the case and police had helped in nabbing the culprits. In another incident, a video of three women stealing tobacco on the pretext of buying brooms from a shop in Barmer went viral. Police are now searching for the women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-women-arrested-for-poaching-chinkara/articleshow/78920340.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: EPCA readies plan for coming years||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed EPCA has drawn an action plan to combat air pollution in Delhi-NCR for the next few years. In a report recently submitted to the apex court, EPCA highlighted seven key areas, including time-bound implementation of parking policy in NCR and stringent implementation and enforcement in all identified hotspots, as important steps. Track the pollution level in your cityLast year, CPCB and DPCC had identified 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi based on the average PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels recorded through the year. The pollution hotspots in Delhi are Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, R K Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri. Six more pollution hotspots were identified last winter in other NCR towns- two in Faridabad, one each in Gurgaon, Bahadurgarh, Bhiwandi and Sahibabad. In its report on action plan for controlling air pollution in the coming years, EPCA said, “Stringent implementation and enforcement in all the hotspots identified in Delhi and NCR are required as per the plans submitted and directions issued so that all sources of pollution are controlled.” For controlling vehicular pollution, EPCA said time-bound implementation of the parking policy for NCR was necessary so that there were adequate restraints on vehicular traffic and growth with simultaneous efforts in augmentation of public transport. The body also said time-bound construction of Phase-IV of Delhi Metro and different phases of Regional Rapid Trasport Systems in Delhi should be done for enhancing public transport and decongesting areas. “Further plans should be made for urgent and massive augmentation of public transport not only in Delhi but also across NCR and in particular for inter-and intra-NCR movement,” the EPCA report said. The other areas highlighted by EPCA include transition to clean fuel for combustion in industries across the NCR and restrictions on the use of coal as it is a key contributor to pollution in the region. Watch Delhi: EPCA draws up plans to battle pollution for next few years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epca-readies-plan-for-coming-years/articleshow/78920362.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||2.3L farmers told to return Rs 208.5cr PM Kisan Yojana aid||Nashik: The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Yojana department of the Union agriculture and farmers’ welfare ministry has directed Maharashtra government to recover an amount of Rs 208.5 crore from 2.3 lakh farmers, with immediate effect, as they had received the government aid under the scheme despite being ineligible for the same. According to sources in the office of the commissioner of agriculture, Maharashtra, the money is to be recovered only from farmers who had received the aid despite being income-tax payers. “Farmers who pay income-tax were excluded from the scheme. However, it is possible that the farmers had filed their application for the PM Kisan Yojana — in which the beneficiaries get Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments — knowingly or unknowingly. The PM Kisan Yojna department has found out the names and credentials of individuals who are ineligible and has directed the state governments to recover the amount,” Vinaykumar Awate, the deputy commissioner of Agriculture Census, told TOI over the phone from Pune. As per the information provided by sources in the office of the commissioner of agriculture, Pune, the highest number of ineligible farmers have been found in Satara district. The recovery process has been initiated against 19,289 farmers in Satara. Close behind Satara are the districts of Ahmednagar (17,890 farmers), Pune (16,101), Jalgaon (13942), Solapur (13,793), Kolhapur (13,791), Sangli (13,061) and Nashik (12,054). The district where the fewest ineligible farmers have been found is Gadchiroli (777), the sources said. Of the 2,30,282 farmers who must now return the money, 2,20,067 had received only one instalment, while the rest had received multiple instalments of Rs 2,000 since December 1, 2018, when the scheme was launched. So far, 264 farmers have cleared their dues to the tune of Rs 24.8 lakh — 253 farmers from Aurangabad district who returned Rs 23.7 lakh; and 11 from Nashik who cleared dues amounting to Rs 1.1 lakh. Revealing how the government identified the ineligible beneficiaries, sources said that the farmers had to upload their Aadhaar details and PAN card number to avail of the scheme. This information was tallied by the ministry. It then found that roughly 2.3 lakh farmers had already paid taxes and, therefore, were not eligible for the scheme. Asked if there was a chance of criminal offences being registered against the farmers, the sources said that since the farmers may have applied for the scheme inadvertently, it is unlikely that cases would be registered against them. “The scheme was announced in December 2018, and the information had to be uploaded before February 2019. The farmers were allowed to upload the information by themselves. There could have been some errors. After the errors were noticed, the recovery was started. The recovery will be carried out by the revenue department. The farmers who do not return the amount will have a ‘notation’ (entry) made in the record of rights (RoR) for the land so that the dues are recovered,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-3l-farmers-told-to-return-rs-208-5cr-pm-kisan-yojana-aid/articleshow/78920445.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Raise mining lease area limit to 25 ha from 4 ha, says industry||Jaipur: Department of mines and geology on Wednesday held a consultative meeting with the industry bodies and investors to get feedback and suggestions for the new mining policy it is currently working on.Representatives of the mining industry made a slew of proposals aimed at expanding activities in the state and boosting revenues for the state government. They also drew attention to recently introduced provisions like land tax and other proactive policy measures to bring vibrancy to the sector. After the virtual meeting, participants said they urged the department to relook at the land tax provision imposes recently. President of Federation of Mining Associations of Rajasthan (FMAR) Akshadeep Mathur said the government should increase 4-hectare limit to 25 hectare so that a single lease may be granted for the entire mineralized zone held by the Khatedar his NOC holder. Additionally, the government should provide for inclusion of 25% mineralized government lands falling inside or adjacent to the khatedari land to ensure full utilization of the mineral reserve, he said“This will be in the overall interest of safe and scientific mining and mineral conservation and development. These measures will catalyze immediate allocation of over 2000 mining leases in Rajasthan, augment revenue to the state and accelerate growth of the mining sector,” added Mathur. The industry wants the government to extend the lease period of captive mines in Rajasthan up to March, 2030 in conformity with MMDR Amendment, Act 2015. In order to extract maximum resources from a mine, the industry wants extension of lease for a period of 20 years or up to 2045 whichever is later in order to restore stability. “This provision will encourage and incentivize investment not only in mining but also catalyze setting up of mineral processing and beneficiation plants for value addition,” said Mathur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raise-mining-lease-area-limit-to-25-ha-from-4-ha-says-industry/articleshow/78920428.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Coordination cell to check illegal activities||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has announced the formation of a coordination cell to ensure law and order and to keep a check on illegal activities. “Considering the number of complaints about illegal activities across Nashik district and the need to attend these issues, a coordination cell has been formed at district collectorate. The resident deputy collector will be the chief coordinator of the cell,” said Mandhare. A senior officer from administration said that the cell would act as a point of information for the government agencies about the illegal activities happening across Nashik district, including in the commissionerate area and officers from the various departments – the police – excise, mining, food supply have been included in the cell. The complaints that will be sent to the officers concerned will have to be acted upon in a stipulated time period and will be followed up by the coordination cell, the officer added. Any citizen, who may have some ideas or complaints about illegal activities happening in and around their area, can simply call on phone number 0940 5869 940 or file their complaint with nashikhb123@gmail.com. It may be noted that a meeting to the effect was recently organised at collectorate, where the need for such a coordination cell was felt. Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey had called for better coordination between various agencies to stop the crime as alone police department was helpless when the things were not related to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/coordination-cell-to-check-illegal-activities/articleshow/78920402.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||IOB loan fraud: ED attaches Rs 7.5cr assets of poultry firm||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate has provisionally attached Rs 7.5 crore worth properties of a poultry technology firm in an Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) loan fraud case. The ED attached 21 immovable properties held in the name of Polepalli Venkata Prasad and his family members under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The attached assets are located in Tanuku, West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The ED also attached deposits of Rs 50 Lakh with an asset reconstruction company (ARC). The ED initiated a probe under the provisions of PMLA based on an FIR filed by CBI and ACB Visakhapatnam, against Prasad, managing partner of PBR Poultry Tech, and other partners for defrauding IOB Veerabhadrapuram branch in Tanuku to the tune of Rs 7.3 crore. According to the ED, PBR Poultry Tech took a term loan of Rs 5.60 crore from IOB by grossly inflating the value of the mortgaged properties in collusion with panel advocates. “Prasad also obtained a credit guarantee fund trust for availing micro and small enterprises loans in the name of his associates to the tune of Rs 1.7 crore. The loan amounts were diverted and not repaid causing a loss of Rs 7.3 crore to IOB. When the accused could not get more loans from this firm, they set up a shell firm for obtaining the loan. Investigation has also revealed that the accused availed a term loan of Rs 6.7 crore and cash credit of Rs 3.2 crore in the name of shell company MPBR Agritech Private Ltd from Andhra Bank, Venkatayapuram branch in Tanuku by inflating the value of the mortgaged properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iob-loan-fraud-ed-attaches-rs-7-5cr-assets-of-poultry-firm/articleshow/78920522.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Many Covid patients suffered stroke first time in life: Doctors in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Doctors in the city have observed that many Covid patients suffered stroke for the first time in their life and most have both the conditions at the same time. They found that the patients had no known symptoms like cough, cold and fever but when tested were surprised to find them Covid positive after testing as per protocol set up in the wake of the pandemic. In Nagpur, the fourth Covid positive patient’s elder brother had suffered a stroke a night before the entire family was found positive in March this year. The paralysed man was later found positive. He recovered and was discharged along with others from GMCH in March itself. “Some patients came with stroke as initial symptom rather than the popularly known indicators like cough, cold and fever. Covid is confirmed only after performing a test on stroke cases. They may be asymptomatic patients but first symptom is stroke. The known symptoms may not be present in some stroke patients,” said Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram, who is president of Tropical Neurology group of World Federation of Neurology. Regarding treatment of such patients, Dr Meshram said, “We treat them like any other stroke patient only with proper precautions. In all Covid patients with neurological manifestations, 6% have been found to suffer stroke. In fact, stroke is one of the commonest manifestion among Covid patients with neurological issues.” GMCH neurosurgeon Dr Pavitra Patnaik said in several stroke cases patients were found to be positive. “Therefore we had been treating them with universal precautions. Many relatives used to be surprised how their patients tested positive. They would tell us the patient never went out since lockdown and didn’t get exposed. But such patients are generally infected by other family members who don’t stay back or have to go out frequently,” he said. Dr Patnaik also said that many patients, who later tested positive, had suffered stroke for the first time. “The outcome is same as in non-Covid stroke cases,’ he said. Dr Meshram said, “To prevent corona, we advice people to stay at home but if one develops stroke, we advice them to rush to hospital.” Talking about prevention, Dr Meshram said controlling lifestyle diseases and addictions can avoid fatality after stroke. He also said that even young population is getting affected by stroke these days. “Lack of exercise, stress, eating junk food, smoking and alcohol consumption are the reasons why we are seeing more college going students and young people with stroke in India,” said Dr Meshram. The Indian Academy of Neurology, Nagpur Neuro Society, Pscyhiatry Society, Nagpur and Orange City Cultural Foundation and Saptak would be holding a webinar on stroke on Thursday which is observed as World Stroke Day. Stroke specialist from Mumbai Dr Shirish Hastak, who would be talking on Thursday, said it is important to identify early signs of stroke. “Any symptom which occurs suddenly, can be due to stroke” he said. Dr Subhash Kaul, Dr Abhishek Shrivastav and Dr Sudhir Bhave too would talk on the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-covid-patients-suffered-stroke-first-time-in-life-doctors/articleshow/78918825.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan tops in defacement of railway property cases||JAIPUR: The 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report has revealed that Rajasthan has topped in cases registered by railway police under Defacement of Public Property Act. The state recorded 96 such cases. Barring Maharashtra, which reported just one such incident, none of the other major states reported even a single case. The solace is that the state recorded 2,557 cases by railway police in 2019, which was not the highest in the country. This figure, though, did see an increase since 2017 which had 2,262 cases and 2018 which had 2,265 incidents. A railway police official said, “The state has highest number of cases for defacing railway property as we have taken this crime seriously. This also sends out a message that anyone found to be defacing railway property will not go unpunished. The aim is to keep public properties clean and damage-free.” Surprisingly, while the state tops in rape and other categories of crimes against women, railway police registered only 24 instances of assault on women with the intent to outrage her modesty and only six cases of rape. Under the Excise Act, Rajasthan had 68 cases reported by railway police which was in the top ten in the country. Only one case was registered under the Indian Railway Act. Under Gambling Act, 343 cases were registered which was the highest in the country and the official added, “While families travelling in trains or on railway stations play cards just to pass time, there are some unruly elements who give it a more serious turn and we take strict action against them.” A total of 50,627 incidents were reported by Railway Protection Force in 2019, which saw a decrease from the previous two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tops-in-defacement-of-railway-property-cases/articleshow/78920466.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Income tax department raids DMK functionary’s house||COIMBATORE: Income tax department sleuths on Wednesday conducted raids at three places in the city, including the house of DMK’s Coimbatore west district in-charge R Krishnan at Kalapatti, as part of a state-wide operation. Six officers from the Coimbatore office, who reached the house around 11am, had to wait till the afternoon to start the raid as the family was in Erode to attend a funeral. The raid, which started around 2pm, is expected to continue on Thursday. The officers also raided Krishnan’s office in Kalapatti and the house of a relative at Masakalipalayam. IT teams raided 12 places in Coimbatore and Erode. Krishnan is a realtor and farmer by profession. He became the president of the Kalapatti town panchayat twice by contesting in the local body election as an independent candidate. He joined DMK in 2010. A sources privy to the IT operation said it was a part of the state-wide raid being carried out in educational institutions after the sleuths found a land transaction between Krishnan and the chairman of an educational institution in Erode. Several DMK supports had gathered in front of Krishnan’s house opposing the raid. DMK MLA N Karthik blamed BJP and AIADMK. “They conducted the raid to scare and weaken the party ahead of assembly election. But we are not scared of such raids and will definitely win the election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/income-tax-department-raids-dmk-functionarys-house/articleshow/78920440.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Anti-cracker campaign in Delhi from November 3, says Gopal Rai||NEW DELHI: Keeping in mind the Covid and air pollution situations, only green firecrackers will be allowed to be sold or manufactured in the capital this Diwali, Delhi government announced on Wednesday while following a 2018 order of the Supreme Court. As part of the anti-firecracker campaign, which will be on from November 3, environment minister Gopal Rai said 11 special teams under Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) had been formed to ensure enforcement and issue on-the-spot fines under the air and environment Acts against violators. The fine could be up to Rs 1 lakh. Rai urged Delhiites to adopt a “no-cracker” campaign, stating Diwali and parali (stubble burning) were the two main reasons for the spike in air pollution every winter. This campaign will continue even after Diwali, he pointed out. Green crackers do not emit sulphur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen, the minister said, adding that 93 manufacturers of these crackers had been identified across the country. The government will upload the list on DPCC website and give it to Delhi Police for enforcement, he added. “These 11 teams will consist of DPCC engineers and five environment marshals with vehicles. They will keep a vigil on the manufacturers across Delhi. I want to request every citizen to follow this order,” Rai said. “This is our responsibility to bring down the pollution from our side and if the DPCC teams find out any violation, strict action will be taken under Environmental Protection Act and Air Act.” Rai urged Delhiites that if they had to burst crackers, “we want you to opt for only green crackers. Our appeal to the citizens of Delhi is to adopt a no-cracker campaign as the Covid pandemic and the spike in pollution levels could be dangerous for each and every one of us”. Watch Anti-cracker campaign to start from November 3 in Delhi: Environment minister Gopal Rai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anti-cracker-campaign-in-delhi-from-nov-3-says-rai/articleshow/78920434.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Cov claims another Kol cop; 5th death in force in 10 days||Kolkata: A 53-year-old Kolkata Police inspector, who was extremely critical after being diagnosed with Covid on October 19, died on Tuesday night. The officer, Sanjay Sinha, became the fifth Covid victim in the force since October 18. Another cop had died due to Covid-induced co-morbidity within the same period. This was the 15th Covid death in Kolkata Police. Sinha was posted with the 3rd battalion of Kolkata Police and was on various outdoor duties in the run-up to Durga Puja. Police said Sinha had taken ill around October 17 and two days later, tests confirmed he was Covid positive. He was admitted to a private superspeciality hospital in Howrah on October 20. When his condition worsened, he was shifted to an ICU at a government hospital on October 23 (Saptami). Sources said Sinha was also diagnosed with haematological malignancy and that turned out to be fatal. The death in the battalions — where the first protest against field postings were lodged — just after the Durga Puja has prompted senior officers to ask all men on duty from the same unit to undergo compulsory Covid tests every five days. Several divisions like Behala have asked police stations to shift the sherestas (where the duty officer sits and outsiders visit to lodge their complaints) to different rooms within the police stations every five days to ensure that the rooms are properly sanitized. Cops said that they were keeping their fingers crossed after the Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-claims-another-kol-cop-5th-death-in-force-in-10-days/articleshow/78920482.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat in SC as HC orders CBI probe into graft charges||DEHRADUN: In one of the rare instances of a high court ordering a CBI probe in a corruption-related matter against a serving chief minister, the Uttarakhand HC on Tuesday ordered an FIR to be registered in a case involving Trivendra Singh Rawat when he was BJP state-in-charge of Jharkhand. Following charges by journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma, who alleged that an amount of Rs 25 lakh was deposited into the bank account of a relative of the chief minister when demonetisation was announced in 2016 — allegedly by a Ranchi-based man who paid the money to facilitate his appointment as the chairman of Gau Seva Aayog of Jharkhand — the HC said “it would be appropriate to unfold the truth and it would be in the interest of the state that the doubts are cleared.” Rawat filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court during the day and said in a statement that he is open to any kind of investigation. “We will welcome the CBI in the state. I am open to any kind of investigation. I am sure that the true facts will emerge,” the CM said. The single bench of Justice Ravindra Maithani, exercising its powers under Article 226, directed “the Superintendent of Police, CBI, Dehradun, to file an FIR and investigate the case in accordance with law, with promptitude.” The court also quashed an FIR filed against Sharma in Nehru Colony police station in Dehradun this year in which he was charged with criminal conspiracy, cheating, and forgery. Further, the HC termed the addition of section 124-A (sedition) in the charges against Sharma '‘malafide’', saying “this manifests that an attempt is being made to muzzle the voice of criticism" and "it is beyond comprehension why the section was added.” Following the HC order, the political scenario heated up in the Himalayan state on Wednesday. Opposition Congress held a press conference in the afternoon and demanded “immediate resignation or removal of the CM till the time the probe was on since being in a position of power, he can influence the investigation.” Former CM and Congress leader Harish Rawat said, “The high court has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and asked for the corruption allegations against the CM to be probed by a central investigating agency, which reflects the seriousness of the matter. PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah should intervene in this matter and initiate removal of Trivendra Singh Rawat from the CM’s post so that the right message goes to the people.” Congress state chief Pritam Singh added that “soon after taking charge as CM in March 2017, Trivendra Rawat had claimed that he will have zero tolerance for corruption.” “Now that the high court has ordered a CBI probe in a corruption-related matter where he is himself alleged to be involved, he needs to stick to his own stand and step down from his post for a fair investigation,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-orders-cbi-probe-in-corruption-case-against-ukhand-cm-rawat-moves-sc-says-open-for-investigation/articleshow/78917715.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman kills mother-in-law in Ahmedabad over affair talk||AHMEDABAD: A shockwave spread through the Gota area of the city after a 29-year-old woman killed her 52-year-old mother-in-law by smashing her head in with an iron rod on Tuesday evening. The woman is learnt to have attacked her mother-in-law in a fit of rage after a heated argument, raining blows on her head, face and pelvis. After killing her, the daughter-in-law tried to dispose of the body by setting it afire. A case of murder has been filed by Sola police against Nikita Agrawal, who is originally from Beawar in Rajasthan. Sola police officers said the murder was reportedly the result of the escalating feud between the daughter-in-law and mother-in-law over her suspicions that Nikita’s four-month pregnancy was the result of her illicit relationship with her father-in-law. Nikita married Dipak, the son of the victim, Rekha Agrawal, on January 16 this year. Dipak runs a granite business in Gota and lives at Royal Homes Flats in Gota. In his complaint, Dipak stated that his wife and mother had started getting into verbal spats over petty issues soon after his wedding. They had a fight on Tuesday afternoon when he left home for office. Nikita and Rekha were home alone as Dipak’s father, Ramniwas, was admitted to a private hospital on October 24 after testing positive for Covid-19. Around 8pm on Tuesday, Dipak got a call from his father telling him that their neigbours had called him and complained that Nikita and Rekha were having a belligerent fight. His father instructed Dipak to rush home as the neighbours had warned they would call the police. Dipak called his wife at least five times frantically but her phone went unanswered. He then called his mother’s phone, which Nikita answered, said that Rekha was hitting her, and disconnected the call. Dipak called both his mother and wife after that but neither took the call. Dipak rushed home on his scooter and arrived at about 8.20pm. He feverishly knocked at the door of the first floor apartment, but no one opened it. He called his wife who told him she was locked inside the bedroom. Dipak went to his neighbour’s flat to get a peep inside his house, but the curtains were drawn blocking his view. Fearing something horrific had happened, Dipak entered his apartment through the kitchen window using a ladder. Inside, he was shocked to see his mother lying dead in a pool of blood, with her brains spilled out of her skull due to the injuries she had suffered. Her face, head, chest and stomach were also partially burnt. He found an iron rod near the body, the weapon his wife allegedly used to kill his mother. He found his wife sitting inside their bedroom repeating that she had not killed his mother and did not know who had. Dipak called up his business partner, Jitendra Lalwani, at 11.30pm, who in turn called a 108 ambulance. Paramedics pronounced Rekha dead. Dipak later informed the cops and Sola police reached there, sent the body for a postmortem and took Nikita into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-kills-mother-in-law-over-affair-talk/articleshow/78920477.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Agra||Haryana’s Bharat Dairy Udyog’s manager, wife & son die in Yamuna E-way accident||AGRA: A production manager at Bharat Dairy Udyog in Haryana’s Ferozepur Jhirka, his wife and younger son -- all residents of Gurugram -- were killed when a speeding car bearing a Punjab registration number rammed into their vehicle parked on the roadside near milestone 114 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura’s Mahavan area on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Dharamveer Singh Rana (54), his wife Usha Rana (46) and their son Avinash Rana (25), who was a stock market trader. The other car was driven by a businessman, Kuldeep (35), who sustained grievous injuries and is admitted in a private hospital in Mathura. Kuldeep told police that one more person, Sonu, was also travelling with him from Delhi but escaped from the spot soon after the accident. Rana’s eldest son, Himanshu, who works as an assistant manager in Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Faridabad has been left alone in the family of four after the demise of his parents and younger brother. “What was their fault? They were sitting inside their parked car… Whatever happened to them was wrong. Fate has been cruel to me,” said Himanshu, who lives in Faridabad because of his job. He added that the three were on their way to his mother's maternal home in Firozabad. “The police called me from Avinash's phone and informed me about the accident, but when I reached Mathura, I was told that all of them had died,” said Himanshu, adding that he had spoken to his family members on Tuesday night over phone. The driver of the speeding car, Kuldeep, who hails from Amritsar and currently resides in Delhi, was going to meet his relatives in Agra, when the accident took place, said police. Talking to TOI, station house officer of Mahavan police station, Jasbeer Singh, said the driver of the other car might have dozed off at the wheels and hit the ill-fated vehicle parked on the side of the road. “An FIR for causing death due to negligence and rash driving was registered against Kuldeep,” said the SHO adding that details of Sonu will be extracted once Kuldeep’s condition improves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/haryanas-bharat-dairy-udyogs-manager-wife-son-die-in-yamuna-e-way-accident/articleshow/78917693.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Day before polls, Chittorgarh MP Joshi tests positive||Kota: A day before polling in 70 wards of Kota North, panic and anxiety gripped Kota local BJP party office bearers and workers on Wednesday after Chittorgarh BJP MP CP Joshi, who had been active in the field for over a week in preparation for municipal elections, announced his Covid positive status on his social media platform. He appealed to the party workers, who had come in his contact, to go into quarantine. In the evening, another senior party leader and MLA Kiran Maheshwari reportedly tested positive, but it could not be confirmed.At least 3,32,655 voters including 1,61,759 women voters are set to decide the fate of 225 candidates from both Congress and BJP contesting the corporation elections from Kota North. Polling parties were dispatched for their respective centres after training in government commerce college on Wednesday. So far, at least five to six local office bearers, including party’s city president, two vice-presidents and a general secretary went into quarantine leaving polling activities.“Joshi had been taking precautions since the day he had sensed some uneasiness with his health. He tested positive on Tuesday night,” Kota city party president Rambabu Soni said. He, however, asserted that Joshi’s ilness was not going to affect party’s performance in polling as they had concluded campaigning.Maheshwari left Kota on Monday after she felt feverish but it was not sure if she was suffering from Covid, Arvind Sisodia, BJP local media in-charge said.Both the BJP and the Congress sounded confident of forming the next board. The party is apparently facing a tough fight at in least 10 Muslim-dominated wards.Road shows by state UDH minister and MLA from Kota North Shanti Dhariwal in the last two days helped the Congress to pacify the dissidents.Claiming the party’s victory under Dhariwal, Anil Suwalka, outgoing leader of opposition in the last Kota Municipal corporation board, said people in the town are well aware of the development work by Dhariwal and projects worth Rs 1,500 crore are still underway in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/day-before-polls-chittorgarh-mp-joshi-tests-positive/articleshow/78920470.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||No word from Centre on tenure extension of CS||Jaipur: CM Ashok Gehlot had requested the Centre for an extension of chief secretary Rajeev Swarup’s tenure by three months. However, the Centre is yet to respond to the CM’s request. Swarup will retire on October 31.Swarup was made the chief secretary on July 3 by replacing D B Gupta just three months before his retirement on September 30. Later, Gupta was made an advisor to CM.Sources expressed hope that two more days are left in the month and the Centre could issue the order any time.Sources, however, also indicated that Swarup as ACS home had ruffled some feathers of the ruling party at the Centre with allegations of phone tapping of political leaders, including Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in the MLA bribe charge that rocked the state some time back. The Centre had sought a report from him over the allegations.The Centre could now turn the table against him and might not oblige the opposition-ruled state government’s request.Meanwhile, the chief secretary was in Delhi on Wednesday to attend a panel of the UPSC to select the next director general of police (DGP). After Bhupendra Singh Yadav opted for voluntary retirement, M L Lather has been officiating as DGP. The state government favours Lather to the post, but the UPSC selects one out of a panel of three officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-word-from-centre-on-tenure-extension-of-cs/articleshow/78920438.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kochi||Bad roads: Kerala HC summons corporation secretary again||KOCHI: The high court on Wednesday ordered the Kochi corporation secretary to appear before it once again over the city’s bad roads. Justice Devan Ramachandran ordered the secretary to appear since the court was not satisfied with the affidavit filed by the Corporation explaining the action it proposes to take against the contractors and engineers responsible for the upkeep of the roads. Last Thursday, the court had issued the order asking the corporation to inform the action it would initiate against the contractors and engineers and by when it would be taken. Though the corporation filed an affidavit explaining its proposed action, the court was not satisfied. At the last hearing, the court had warned that it would have to directly order action against the contractors and engineers if the corporation failed to do so. Action is warranted against the contractors and engineers as only 10 months have passed since the roads of Kochi were repaired under orders issued by the court, the judge had pointed out. The present state of the roads shows the total lack of care shown by engineers and the spurious quality of the works executed by the contractors, the court had said while stating that it was now time to insist on action against them. During the hearing last week, corporation secretary-in-charge Chandran Nair was unable to inform the court whether any engineer reported the bad condition of roads or how the roads were damaged within 10 months. The court decided to summon the corporation secretary after perusing the periodical report and photos filed by amicus curiae appointed by the court to study the condition of roads. Advocates P Deepak, Vinod Bhat, and S Krishna are the amicus curiae.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bad-roads-hc-summons-corp-secretary-again/articleshow/78918853.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||If BJP wants corruption-free govt, probe all scams: Cong||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s critical statements against government employees has vindicated Congress’ stand that the BJP government is inefficient, insensitive and corrupt said the Congress on Wednesday. Congress also said that once it came to power, it would probe all corruption cases and the role of government officers as rooting out corruption will be the party’s prime focus. Congress state general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said that Sawant’s statements at the Vigilance week celebrations were borne out of frustration. “It is shocking that the chief minister did not utter a single word about the mass corruption done by his entire cabinet including himself while speaking at the Vigilance Awareness week programme,” Panjikar said. Congress also said the chief minister targeted government officials as government employees have refused to cooperate with the BJP ministers. The party then said that Sawant should stop blaming others and instead work towards a people-sensitive government. If Sawant is really interested in giving a zero corruption government, then Sawant must pursue and investigate the beach cleaning scam, cyberage scam, construction workers welfare funds scam, TCP change of zone scam, IFFI scam, Spaces building rent scam, Drishti Life saving contract scam, Pay-parking scam and various other scams which have taken place since BJP came to power in 2012,” Panjikar added. The party, which is the principal opposition in Goa, said that Sawant should have spoken about the performance of Goa’s v igilance department instead of accusing government officers of non-performance. Shortcomings and poor governance ultimately reflect upon the chief minister, Panjikar said. “People of Goa want to know the stand of the government on the inquiries ordered by the Lokayukta in almost 21 scams of various departments involving ministers, BJP office bearers and BJP functionaries,” he further said. Congress appears confident of its chances in the coming elections and expects to fare strongly in the zilla panchayat, municipal council and 2022 assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-bjp-wants-corruption-free-govt-probe-all-scams-cong/articleshow/78921634.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Nashik||49 Covid patients found in 2nd phase of survey||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The civic health teams have detected 49 Covid-19 patients during the health survey of the city residents under the second phase of the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ programme of the government. Moreover, it has also found 3,412 comorbid patients during the survey. These patients are in addition to the findings from the first phase, when the Nashik Municipal Corporation teams had detected 570 Covid-19 patients and 86,318 comorbid patients. The first phase of the survey was completed between September 25 and October 10, while the survey under the second phase was conducted between October 15 and 25. Civic officials said they have conducted a health survey of 18.36 lakh people from the city. Overall, a total of 619 Covid-19 patients and 89,730 comorbid patients have been detected through the surveys. It shows that 4.88% of the city’s population has comorbidities, including 2.34% with hypertension and 1.80% with diabetes. The health survey under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ programme also helped the NMC to reach almost every home in the city. Over 700 teams of health officials were involved in the surveys. Although the first patient from the city was reported on April 6, the city had only 49 cases by May 19 and the cases started increasing thereafter due to relaxations in lockdown by the centre. The city had registered a major spike in the month of September as over 50% of the total 51,472 Covid patients (by Sept 30) in the city were reported during this month alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/49-covid-patients-found-in-2nd-phase-of-survey/articleshow/78920486.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 29, 2020||Nashik||168 patients treated at police’s CCC||Nashik: As many as 168 police personnel and their relatives have been treated at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) set up by city police at its headquarters along Gangapur Road of Nashik city. While the number of cases has been fast reducing owing to lesser infection of novel coronavirus in the state, including Nashik city, the city police’s CCC witnesses admission of 15 to 20 patients daily. DCP Pournima Chaugule said that there is no plan to reduce the capacity of the 100-bed CCC as police want to be prepared if the number patients increase at the facility. Chaugule said that senior police officials, including CP Deepak Pandey, were closely monitoring if the admitted patients were provided with all the necessary facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/168-patients-treated-at-polices-ccc/articleshow/78920499.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||More Covid patients opting for home isolation in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Around 6,500 or 28% people, who were diagnosed with Covid-19, have undergone home isolation. The home isolation option for recovery has come as a respite for hundreds of families who can now care for their loved ones, infected by Covid-19. In October alone, out of 4,600 people diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital, 41% opted for home isolation. The trend for home isolation is comforting to many, but comes as a worry for some others. “Outside movement of family members of the Covid-19 patient is an apprehensive situation. At times, they can be careless. Vaccines are still far away and no one has immune response to the virus. We need to be more careful,” said Ramesh Singh, a resident of a posh colony in Bhopal. When contacted, a health department official explained that only mild cases and those with separate accommodation are permitted home isolation. They have to put up a Covid-19 patient warning sticker to prevent others from accidentally entering such homes. In many cases, the patient’s family is also administered Covid-19 test. “Everyone has to take responsibility and have the right approach. Understanding the impact on employment, daily work and prevention against Covid-19 is important. If we receive complaints on any violation of home isolation protocol, swift action is initiated,” said the health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-covid-patients-opting-for-home-isolation-in-city/articleshow/78918856.cms||Jamal Ayub
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand civil judge accused of torturing minor domestic help dismissed||DEHRADUN: A civil judge in Haridwar, who had been suspended after being accused of torturing a 13-year-old she had engaged as a domestic help, has been dismissed from services. A notification issued by the Uttarakhand high court on October 21 quoted a government notification from a day prior to that: “The recommendation of the full bench of the Uttarakhand high court on October 14, 2020, to remove Deepali Sharma, civil judge (suspended), from service under Section 3(b)(iii) of the Uttarakhand Government Servant (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 2003 is accepted by the governor.” The order was issued by additional chief secretary Radha Raturi. Sharma was suspended in February 2018, a month after police raided her house on an anonymous tipoff and rescued the minor. The high court had then taken cognizance of the matter. Haridwar Police said the girl had been engaged by Sharma in 2015, when she was 10. There were injuries on her body when she was found. But last year, the Uttarakhand government had filed an application in a Haridwar local court seeking withdrawal of the case, citing “public interest.” The chief judicial magistrate’s court had rejected the plea, saying there was no “public interest” in withdrawing a case against a person accused of a crime. The state government then appealed against the order in the additional district judge’s court, which accepted the application. Last month, the judge was “cleared of charges” by the court. Social activist JP Badoni then appealed against the order in the high court. “Termination of the judge is the right decision. It will set an example and encourage more victims to come forward. As far as the criminal case is concerned, I have filed an appeal in the high court and am confident we will win that as well,” Badoni told TOI. Sharma’s dismissal concluded the departmental inquiry. The criminal proceedings are still on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-civil-judge-accused-of-torturing-minor-domestic-help-dismissed/articleshow/78917726.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist registers 337 new cases, 7 casualties||Nashik: As many as 337 Covid-19 positive cases, including 260 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 92,764. In addition, the district also reported seven Covid-related casualties, of which, two were from the city limits. At present, the death toll stands at 863 in the city and 1,662 in the district. As many as 921 patients were discharged from various Covid care facilities across the district on Wednesday. Of these, 335 were from the city. As of now, the district has 4,874 active cases, of which 2,570 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-registers-337-new-cases-7-casualties/articleshow/78920517.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan municipal elections: Fate of 951 candidates in 3 cities to be decided today||JAIPUR: The fate of 951 candidates will be decided as the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors will be held on Thursday. State election commissioner P S Mehra has appealed for ‘safe and peaceful’ elections while urging the voters to exercise their franchise adhering to the Covid guidelines. The polling will begin at 7.30am and will continue till 5.30pm. The counting of votes will be held on November 3. Covid positive persons will be allowed to cast their votes in the last hour of polling. Polling will be held for 100 wards of Jaipur Heritage, 80 in Jodhpur North and 70 wards in Kota North. Mehra informed that voters will decide the fate of 430 candidates in Jaipur, 296 in Jodhpur and 225 in Kota in the first phase of polls. He also said 16.54 lakh voters will be able to exercise their franchise at 2,761 polling booths. The elections will be conducted through 3,393 Electronic Voting Machines (EVMS). Transportation facilities will also be available for persons with disabilities (PwDS). Meanwhile, two independent candidates in Jaipur have written to district election officer Antar Singh Nehra urging him to beef up security arrangements at polling booths in Ward No 19 (Hawa Mahal) and Ward No 23 (Hawa Mahal) claiming that these are ‘very sensitive areas’. For any poll-related enquiry or queries related to polling stations, voters can visit the election commission’s website or can obtain information through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also send SMS on 7065051222. They are required to type: SEC VOTER_Epic No, to get details through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fate-of-951-candidates-in-3-cities-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/78920488.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Amicus accuses Maharashtra government of making ‘contemptuous’ allegations against HC||NAGPUR: Taking strong objection to Maharashtra government’s stand that suo motu PIL on bed shortage is ‘private interest litigation” instead of public interest, the amicus curiae on Wednesday said it was “contemptuous and mischievous”. During the hearing of a suo motu PIL based on a TOI report, amicus Shrirang Bhandarkar further accused the government of “deliberately stalling the proceedings”, as it didn’t want to provide succour to poor patients of Covid-19, who will be treated free of cost at private hospitals. His reaction came after the government, through senior counsel MG Bhangde, sought time to file a reply on HC’s specific query whether government could provide free treatment to Covid-19 patients admitted in private hospitals after they were acquired by it citing pandemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act (DMA). Pointing out that Kerala, Gujarat and Telangana had already made such provision under Disaster Management Act, 2005, Bhandarkar accused the government of using smart tactics to delay the proceedings and play mischief with the judiciary. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala then adjourned the hearing till November 2, along with another plea filed by Viveka Hospital and Research Centre, which was clubbed. Earlier, senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari and Kartik Shukul, appearing for Viveka Hospital, argued on legality of orders passed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for reserving 80% beds for Covid patients in private hospitals. They contended that under Schedule 7, List 3 of the Constitution of India, legal, medical and other professions are covered. “With central acts in place that cover the medical field, the government couldn’t have supplemented those with its April 30 and May 21 notifications. Under Article 300A of the Constitution, no person can be deprived of his property. Therefore, local authorities could not have taken over or reserved beds in private hospitals,” they said. In the last hearing, an affidavit by health services director Sanjay Jaiswal, on behalf of State Public Health Department principal secretary, contended that persons aggrieved by its April 30 and May 4 notifications are private doctors and hospital owners, who should have ideally approached HC with grievances. Through these notifications, the government had reserved beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and put a ceiling on charges to be collected from them. The judges made it clear that the only issue that troubled them was non-availability of beds in private hospitals and all infrastructural facilities, including medicines to Covid-19 patients, as a result of which deaths were occurring. “We will record our separate reasons in detail, but suffice it to say at this stage that the objection raised by senior advocate is without any substance and the same is, therefore, rejected,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amicus-accuses-govt-of-making-contemptuous-allegations-against-hc/articleshow/78918850.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||13,000 more deaths in Mumbai this year between March & September||MUMBAI: The city has experienced a sharp increase in total fatalities from all causes between March and September 2020 compared to the same period in previous years, prompting experts to call for a detailed review on the real impact of coronavirus. Data accessed by TOI shows deaths so far this year are 26-30% more compared to 2019 and 2018. Post-Covid, excess mortality has been seen the world over. In Mumbai, March-September 2020 saw 13,297 more deaths compared to the same period in 2019 and 14,944 more compared to 2018. Since the official Covid-19 toll for March-September is 8,927, the additional 4,370 deaths in this time span creates an incomplete picture of the actual toll. Public health activists said additional deaths suggest underreporting of Covid-linked fatalities or a breakdown of healthcare in the early days of the pandemic. Chairman of the scientific advisory committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Professor Jayaprakash Muliyil, said the unexplained 4,000-plus deaths point to oversight and may be suggestive of a broader trend. “As per India’s population, 90% of Covid deaths should be over the age of 60. If that proportion is less, it doesn’t mean more younger people have died but that we have missed deaths,” he said. Mumbai data shows 63% of Covid deaths have been in people above 60. Pre-Covid Mumbai saw an average 7,100-7,500 deaths per month from a gamut of causes. After the virus struck, toll has swung wildly, from its peak in May when it hit 14,328, to its lowest in September when it was 6,000-odd. “It begs a detailed study, but the numbers bare that Mumbai’s overall mortality soared during the pandemic,” said a senior doctor. Most experts TOI spoke to were in agreement that some percentage of Covid-related deaths have been “missed”. Overall, Mumbai saw 65,319 deaths from all causes in March-September this year, up from 52,022 in 2019 and 50,375 in 2018. Official Covid statistics only explain for 70% of the additional deaths this year. But with Mumbai in lockdown, which lowered probability of accident fatalities, what factor other than health could account for more deaths? “Undercounting of deaths is a complex issue influenced by many ground factors, but it happens almost everywhere,” said Professor Muliyil. Mumbai’s first corona death was on March 17. As curbs placed by the lockdown kicked in, there was a dip of 4% in deaths from March 2019. For one, there were barely 16 road accidents as opposed to 175 in 2019. In April, accidents further dipped, but total death toll rose. By May, it had spiked to 14,328, almost twice as much as in May 2019, but official Covid-related mortalities in the month were pegged at less than 1,000. Similarly, in June, there were 11,680 deaths in all compared to 6,732 in 2019, but official statistics showed Covid was the reason for less than half. Public health researcher Ravi Duggal said, “To get a clearer picture, we need cause-wise mortality. Because of the lockdown, livelihoods have been lost so there could also be other reasons for death such as TB or even non-communicable diseases because of reduced access to healthcare.” With many unable to access medical help during lockdown or due to the intense focus on Covid which left hospitals overwhelmed, some deaths may remain unexplained. Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner of BMC, said the death registration process is on and a real picture would emerge only by the end of the year. Incidentally, the trend in excess deaths is seen the world over. In the US, an estimated 299,028 excess deaths occurred late January to October 3, of which 66%were attributed to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/13k-more-deaths-in-city-this-year-between-march-sept/articleshow/78920631.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||More recoveries yet again, but new cases take MP Covid tally near 1.7 lakh||BHOPAL: With 788 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Wednesday, the tally of positive patients in the state reached 1,69,271. Wednesday was also the 28th consecutive day when the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. While 1,032 people recovered on Wednesday, only 788 new cases were reported. With these new people recovering, the count of total people who had recovered from the disease reached 15,624. The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients, as on October 28, stood at 92.3%. The recovery rate was 76% on August 31 and 81.7% on September 30. Apart from the new cases, 15 deaths were reported in the state, says the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 2,913. On Wednesday, fresh cases were reported from 49 of the 52 districts of state. Only Alirajpur, Panna and Burhanpur districts, no fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. Among the districts where fresh cases were reported, maximum cases were reported from Bhopal where 151 people tested positive, followed by Indore (148 positives), Gwalior (59 positives) and Jabalpur (35 positives). Of the total 25,987 samples that were tested on Wednesday, a total 788 people were found positive. Thus, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested — for Wednesday stood at 3%. The cumulative positivity rate as on October 28, in the state was 5.9%. This has increased in the past few months as it was only 4.6% on August 31. As on October 28, there were a total of 10,094 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/more-recoveries-yet-again-but-new-cases-take-mp-covid-tally-near-1-7l/articleshow/78918887.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Low digital access to Telangana, AP kids: Report||Hyderabad: Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are among the three states in the country where the proportion of children with textbooks at home falls below 70%, stated the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) published by Pratham network, a non-government organisation working in the education sector, on Wednesday. The ASER 2020 Wave 1 survey was conducted to understand provisions, access, engagement and challenges concerning remote learning during school closures amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of the survey, 1,050 children from class 1-12 were surveyed in rural areas from nine districts. The survey indicates that across states, the proportion of children with textbooks at home falls below 70% in only three states: Rajasthan (60.4%), Telangana (68.1%), and AP (34.6%). The number of households with smartphones has increased from 45.8% in 2018 to 74% in 2020. Number of households possessing television observed a slight increase from 90.3% in 2018 to 90.5% in 2020. —Preeti Biswas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/low-digital-access-to-t-ap-kids-report/articleshow/78920571.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 29, 2020||Bareilly||Bhartiya Kisan Union chiefs of UP and Kheri dist booked under Gangster Act||BAREILLY: Five people — including Bhartiya Kisan Union’s UP chief Rakesh Singh and Kheri district unit president Shyamu Shukla — were booked for abetment of suicide of Trivendra Kumar, 23, a village development officer (VDO) posted in Gola tehsil, who had ended his life in September last year, after allegedly harassed by the accused due to his Dalit identity. All the accused were sent to jail but later they were granted relief by the high court. After Kumar’s death, a video surfaced in which both Singh and Shukla were purportedly seen insulting the victim at a union meeting. Sadar kotwali station officer Sunil Singh said, “Other criminal cases are also registered against Shyam Shukla and Rakesh Singh. During the investigation, it was found that the accused are involved in organised crime, and after considering all these factors, we have booked them under the Gangster Act. The accused are absconding, but we will arrest them soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bhartiya-kisan-union-chiefs-of-up-and-kheri-dist-booked-under-gangster-act-for-suicide-of-dalit-vdo-a-year-ago/articleshow/78918875.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Remove all Mahametro structures from Zero Mile in 8 days: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: Disappointed with Mahametro’s reply that the collector hadn’t handed over Zero Mile possession to it, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday directed removal of all structures or constructions from the premises, and construction of a wall around it. “If this is Mahametro’s position, everything constructed by it in the area should be entirely removed within eight days,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said, before adjourning the hearing till November 3 for compliance of its other directives. The orders came while hearing a suo motu PIL on neglect of Zero Mile monument by authorities, where Kartik Shukul was appointed amicus curiae. Earlier, senior counsel SK Mishra, pleading on Mahametro’s behalf, informed that the collector had only granted them permission to carry out beautification work and construction of heritage walk, but never handed over full possession. Shukul then pointed out that the company had made some construction near the monument. The monument was built by the British during the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India in 1907. It comprises a pillar made of sandstone and another small stone representing the GTS Standard Bench Mark along with four stucco horses, which were added later. The height of the top of the pillar is 1020.171 feet above mean sea level, as per Wikipedia. Earlier, it was considered as the centre of the country, but there is no scientific study to establish that. In the last hearing, the collector, through additional government pleader Anand Fulzele, pointed out that the Zero Milestone area is already handed over and in possession of Mahametro and therefore, it’s the agency’s responsibility to maintain the monument. However, Mishra opposed it, contending that it was becoming difficult for them to maintain its cleanliness and they were hiring persons from outside for the job. ‘Appoint two experts on sub-committee’ The judges have asked the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) to appoint two experts from Delhi-based School of Architecture and Planning, and the Urban Research Development Institute in Mumbai, in its sub-committee constituted to frame Special Regulations for the iconic monument. “We direct HCC to take steps and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to extend its help in appointing these experts,” the bench said. The HC’s directives came after amicus pointed out that the sub-committee had only three members, while as per rules it should have five. He appealed to appoint experts on the vacant positions. His suggestions were seconded by NMC counsel Jemini Kasat. The judges then asked intervener Paramjit Singh Ahuja, also a leading architect, to suggest names of experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remove-all-mahametro-structures-from-zero-mile-in-8-days-hc/articleshow/78918244.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Gang making fake PAN and Aadhaar cards held||Tirupati: Kurnool police have arrested a high-tech gang involved in generating fake Aadhaar and PAN cards to avail benefits of various government schemes. Speaking to reporters following the arrest of the 30-member gang, district SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa said the gang established a network of agents and brokers to trap people by promising them benefits under various government schemes. “For the service of generating fake Aadhaar or PAN cards, the gang used to collect Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per card,” said Fakeerappa. The network was exposed following raids conducted by police in several village secretariats. While Pathikonda rural police arrested 14 persons in connection with the fraud, two were arrested by Nandavaram police. Eight persons resorting to similar activities were arrested by Adoni police, while the Banaganapalli police arrested six people. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gang-making-fake-pan-and-aadhaar-cards-held/articleshow/78918120.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Most cities in Maharashtra see PM 10 levels deteriorate||NAGPUR: Most cities in Maharashtra witnessed an increase in the levels of toxic particulate matter 10 in 2018 compared to 2017 levels. State capital Mumbai saw a 38.7% increase in pollutant’s level between 2016-2018. This was revealed in the latest dashboard released by environmental organizations CarbonCopy and Respirer Living Sciences on Wednesday. Providing a comprehensive picture of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) that come under the National Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP), the dashboard presents a comparative picture of PM2.5 and PM10 for all the 122 non-attainment cities listed under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). The data is a rolling average trend for PM2.5 and PM10 levels across all 122 cities from 2016 to 2018. Maharashtra, which has the maximum number of non-attainment cities, installed monitoring for PM2.5, another toxic pollutant in only two of its non-attainment cities in 2018 – Mumbai and Nagpur. Data shows only eight cities in the state out of 18 showed improvement in terms of air quality. Mumbai saw a significant rise in PM10 levels from 119 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) in 2016, to 151 mpcm in 2017 and 165 mpcm in 2018. “Chandrapur, one of the critically polluted clusters in the country, witnessed an unexplained drop in PM10 levels in 2017 to 4mpcm, while it measured 111mpcm in 2016 and shot up to 149mpcm in 2018. Most cities like Latur, Nagpur, Nashik, Pune, Sangli and Solapur observed an increase in PM10 levels in 2018 over 2017 levels,” a press release stated. Documents procured under Right to Information reveal Rs 40 crore have been assigned by four non-attainment cities in the state- Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur towards mitigation. Pollution clean- up activities have been assigned 50% of this budget amounting to Rs 20 crore, out of which another Rs 11 crore are allotted for mechanical street sweepers. Installation of six Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Standards (CAAQMS) monitoring stations has been assigned Rs 7.2 crore and pollution mitigation measures have a budget of Rs 6 crore. According to environment experts, such database is crucial for crisis management. “At a time when the central government aspires to bring out a new law to address air pollution in the National Capital Region, it is important to evaluate our existing regulations as the first step towards effective crisis management. NAMP dashboard allows us to look back and plan ahead,” said Aarti Khosla, director of Climate Trends. Ronak Sutaria, CEO of Respirer Living Sciences, said, “When analysing the data, it is crucial to see the number of monitors in each city, the increase or decrease of monitoring capacity and the number of readings available per monitor every year. The fluctuations and inconsistency in this data will hugely impact the PM trends for any particular city and will reveal true status.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-cities-in-state-see-pm10-levels-deteriorate/articleshow/78918395.cms||Manka Behl
October 29, 2020||Vadodara||Active cases dip below 1,500||Vadodara: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Vadodara reached below 1,500 with fewer new cases being reported in the city and district and a healthy discharge rate. Against 95 new cases detected during the 24 hours till Wednesday evening, 120 persons were discharged. The 95 new cases were detected from 3,384 tests conducted in the city and district. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases reported so far went up to 14,783. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) did not confirm any more deaths due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death and the number of such deaths remained at 210. This does not include persons who may have tested positive for Covid-19, but died because of comorbidities. With 120 more discharges, the total number of discharged patients went up to 13,077. This leaves 1,496 persons under treatment that include 64 in a serious condition on ventilators or BIPAP machines. Another 157 patients are breathing with oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/active-cases-dip-below-1500/articleshow/78918240.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco ‘lowering rates’ to sell power||NAGPUR: State power generation utility Mahagenco has been accused of not only violating the policy of level playing field meant for all power generation companies supplying power to state discom MSEDCL but also burdening consumers at a later stage. TOI had sent a WhatsApp message to Mahagenco spokespersons on Thursday but failed to get any reply despite repeated reminders. Other power companies have found serious anomalies in the declaration of merit order dispatch (MOD) by Mahagenco specifically in the period from the month of June onwards this year. MOD is the price at which electricity is offered for purchase for any month. Other power companies who compete with Mahagenco alleged that the state power company is declaring tariff at tweaked initial costs without factoring in coal surcharge and other costs levied by coal companies and quality of the coal received properly. As a result of this fudging of figures, Mahagenco gets an unfair advantage over its rival bidder power companies which have tariff structure based on all inputs. Thus, Mahagenco bags the bids while other power companies which use proper and prescribed methods of costing have no opportunity to sell as they are outbid by Mahagenco violating the level playing field norms in the MOD. Coal producer Western Coalfields Ltd (WCL) charges mine specific charges of Rs. 450 per metric tonne of coal it supplies to Mahagenco. However, the state power company does not factor in these charges while finalizing its MOD and thus works out a cheaper initial cost. The competing power companies thus lose the edge to sell power as its tariff is higher than the unfair one offered by Mahagenco. WCL chief managing director Rajiv Mishra confirmed that Mahagenco had agreed to pay the extra price. “This price is being charged from all our buyers as per the national policy,” he told TOI. On the other hand, the Mahagenco recovers its actual costs by way of supplementary bills covering up the difference between initial costs and actual costs. “At the end of the day, MSEDCL, which buys power from Mahagenco ends up paying more to its state company. MSEDCL would be saving hugely if it buys from other power companies which in the first place offered realistically worked out prices,” said a source representing power companies having power sale arrangement with MSEDCL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-lowering-rates-to-sell-power/articleshow/78918312.cms||Ashish Roy
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||NRI donates $100k to Kanipakam temple||Tirupati: Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakam in Chittoor district, which has been going through a cash crunch since the outbreak of Covid-19, was in for a pleasant surprise when a devotee, who didn’t want to be identified, donated $100,000 to two different trusts operated by the temple body. Temple EO Venkatesulu said this was the highest ever single donation received by the temple. “An NRI based in US wanted to fulfil his vow at Kanipakam temple, and donated $50,000 each to Annadanam trust and Gosamrakshana trust. The value of the donation in Indian currency would be around Rs 73 lakh,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nri-donates-100k-to-kanipakam-temple/articleshow/78918139.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Jagan: Block all gambling websites in AP||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy wrote to Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Wednesday, seeking direction to all internet service providers to block 132 gambling websites operating in Andhra Pradesh. The CM said in the letter that his government has amended the AP Gaming Act of 1974 to include online gaming, online gambling and online betting as an offence through Andhra Pradesh (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, which was notified on September 25 this year. Jagan described online gambling as a “severe social evil” causing “widespread despair” amongst people, who have committed suicide due to loss of money and addiction. Stating the objectives of the amendment, he said online gambling has been made a cognizable offence in AP and that even the managing directors of all these companies are liable for punishment under the Act. He also noted that the role of internet service providers can be termed as ‘assisting’ in case they do not take steps to block access of these websites to areas where this is illegal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-block-all-gambling-websites-in-ap/articleshow/78918080.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Surat: Embroidery worker gets ten years in jail for rape of minor||SURAT: A a local court convicted a 21-year-old embroidery unit worker for raping a 13-year-old girl and sentenced him to 10 years in jail on Wednesday. The convict had raped the minor multiple times in 2015 after developing friendship with her. Additional sessions judge and special judge for POCSO cases, P S Kala, convicted Bunty Rajput, a resident of Limbayat, for raping the survivor and also for kidnapping her. The offence was registered against Rajput in November 2015. The unit where the accused was employed was in the same locality where the minor lived with her family. They met often and Rajput called her to his unit where he assaulted her. They also often met each other and talked over the phone as well. Meanwhile, Rajput started working in another unit and later went to his native in Uttar Pradesh. They continued talking over the phone and in November 2015 Rajput, who had come to the city to meet her, picked her up from school and took her to a sugarcane farm in the outskirts of the city where he raped her before dropping her home. The gory details were revealed when the girl’s parents questioned upon returning late from school. Later police arrested the accused. “The convict developed physical relations with the survivor despite knowing that she is a minor school student," said Kishor Revaliya, public prosecutor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/embroidery-worker-gets-ten-years-in-jail-for-rape-of-minor/articleshow/78918894.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||Ropeway planned at Anjandhri Hills in Karnataka's Koppal||KOPPAL: Few sectors have suffered as badly from the Covid-19 crisis and the lockdown it necessitated than the tourism industry. For the ailing industry to rise out of the abyss, the stakeholders need to think out of the box to enhance the experience of visitors, which will help mitigate losses in the future. At the popular pilgrimage site of Anjanadhri Hills in Koppal district, not very far from the world heritage site of Hampi in Ballari, a ropeway is set to be built – the first-of-its-kind in North Karnataka – and in addition to attracting tourists, the structure will save devotees visiting the Lord Anjaneya temple the trouble of having to climb nearly 600 steps to see the deity. The state government has greenlighted the proposal submitted by the Koppal district administration to build the ropeway, and furthermore, allocated a sum of Rs 20 crore for its completion. The construction of the ropeway is part of the many projects undertaken as part of developing Anjanadhri Hills. Sources said that around 10 acres had been identified near the Sanskrit Pathashala for the building of the ropeway’s structures. “To avoid delay in acquisition of land, efforts are under way to buy the land directly from the farmers so we can commence work on the project at the earliest. Private companies from Mumbai, Kolkata and other states reportedly participated in a meeting convened by the Koppal administration, and evinced interest in helming the project,” a source said. Koppal deputy commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor said that the district administration was in the process of preparing an action plan for the building of the ropeway at Anjanadhri Hills. “There is also a proposal to build a yatri nivas, interpretation centre and other institutions atop the hill,” Vikas Kishor told TOI. He said that the action plan would soon be sent to the state government, and work on the ropeway would commence once it was approved. “We will have a clear picture of the way forward only when the government approves the action plan, and we are hopeful of getting the green signal soon. We hope to start work on the ropeway in the next few months,” the DC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ropeway-planned-at-anjandhri-hills-in-koppal/articleshow/78919331.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Ensure farmers get MSP for crops: AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy to officials||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday directed officials to ensure that no crop is purchased less than the minimum support price (MSP). He also asked officials to complete payment to farmers within 10 days of the purchase. Jagan, who held a review meeting with officials on ‘CM app’ and e-marketing, made it clear that no farmer should incur any loss and wanted immediate action to be taken on receiving any alert of farmers selling their crops below the MSP. “Ensure that they get remunerative price. Information about the MSP for crops should be made available at all 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) on a daily basis,” he said, and asked officials to monitor the remunerative prices of crops and review them if there is any price fall. The chief minister further told officials to ensure that farmers get their payment within 10 days of crop purchase. “Take required measures to procure paddy, groundnut and cotton that were damaged in the recent rains at a remunerative price and safeguard farmers’ interests,” he said. The officials informed that 5,812 crop purchase centres have been established across the state, as it was estimated that 1,09,24,524 metric tonnes of crops would be harvested this kharif season. On setting up of multipurpose facility centres at the RBKs, it was estimated that Rs 9,093 crore would be required to set up a total of 13 facilities, including warehouses, drying platform, collection centres, cold rooms for storage, custom hiring centres, primary processing centres, assaying equipment, janata bazaars, bulk milk cooling units, cattle sheds and aqua infra in select villages, procurement centres and e-marketing. The chief minister emphasised on providing infrastructure facilities to strengthen the RBKs and said pre-processing units and godowns are very much needed at the village level and told the officials to establish them on a priority basis. Jagan also stressed on strengthening the security and payment gateways along with delivery logistics and ensuring smooth transactions between the buyer and seller. “After placing an order, the crop should reach the buyer within 3-4 days without any hassles. The state has signed an MoU with Amul and other companies to provide employment opportunities to women and increase their income,” he said. He also stressed on milk procurement from those who benefited through Cheyutha and Asara schemes and instructed officials to assist those women in marketing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ensure-farmers-get-msp-for-crops-cm-to-officials/articleshow/78918101.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Revamped Bapu Museum sees steady rise in visitors||VIJAYAWADA: While there was a lot of skepticism when it came to maintaining a sustainable revenue model for the newly revamped Bapu Museum, officials cite that there has been a steady increase in visitors since the chief minister inaugurated the place on October 1. Officials from the State Archaeology and Museums Department cite that the once the deserted museum, which barely attracted anyone outside school field trips, now gets many visitors daily. Vani Mohan, commissioner of the department, said that despite Covid-19 around 200 people throng daily while the weekends sees over 500 people coming to the place. “The revamping of Bapu Museum has been a personal interest for me as I have always been keen on history. From getting the Rs 8 crore fund approved by the government of India, speaking to consultants, executing the work and most importantly getting the chief minister to inaugurate the initiative, a tremendous job has been done,” Mohan told TOI. The museum stands first in the country to have augmented and virtual reality to make the respective artefacts speak to the public explaining their history and significance. A digital wall and a touch-screen feedback kiosk was set up to make the entire museum experience more interactive. Explaining the challenges that still exists at the library, Vani Mohan said that the place needs more staff for maintenance and curators at the museum. The ticket price which has been increased to Rs 50 for adults and Rs 30 for children would not cover for the maintenance as the funds go directly to the treasury. Officials have proposed a self-sustaining model like a public private partnership or attract funds from CSR funds at the place which is yet to get an approval. Secondly, they are also looking for remaining sanction of funds from Union ministry of culture to complete light-and-sound show. “We are planning the same in other museums like Mylavaram in Kadapa, Penukonda, Kadapa town, Rajahmundry, Kakinada and Buddhist museum in Vizag,” the commissioner added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/revamped-bapu-museum-sees-steady-rise-in-visitors/articleshow/78918172.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Tests on hawkers to find Covid-19 spread after shopping surge||KOLKATA: Debraj Ghosh of Indira Hawkers’ Association at Gariahat had been down with Covid-19 since October 17. Debraj, of course, is not the only one. Reports are pouring in that many hawkers across major shopping zones in the city are infected with the virus — a result of the surge in pre-Puja shopping. The shopping frenzy got many hawkers and shoppers exposed to the infection, with social distancing and hand sanitisation having gone for a toss. Alarmed by the reports, hawkers’ associations across the shopping districts are now gearing up for rapid antigen detection tests (RADT) for hawkers to arrest further spread of the virus and continue with their trade in the rest of the festive period till December 25. “We have already made an appeal to the KMC health department to carry out the RADT at the earliest,” said Sarfaraz Ahmed, secretary, Bertram Street Hawkers’ Association. Anuj Debnath, secretary of Progressive Hawkers’ Association at Hatibagan said, “Many of my hawker brothers are down with fever. A few of them tested positive to the virus. Some continued to sell merchandise by taking paracetamol. Many of them, who are yet to undergo any test, are only taking rest at home. I have requested them to get themselves tested for the sake of their family members.” In the New Market zone, the surge in infection came in multiple waves. Immediately after hawking resumed in late July, there has been a spike in spread of the infection. In early September, some hawkers fell ill. “We have asked the elderly traders to stay away from hawking till the situation improves. Now, we can’t stop any hawker from doing business as they have been financially hit due to the lockdown,” said Kali Khatick, a hawker union leader of New Market-Chowringhee area, which has around 2,500 hawkers. Several Gariahat hawkers have tested positive in the past 15 days after a surge in shoppers ahead of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tests-on-hawkers-to-find-virus-spread-after-shopping-surge/articleshow/78920566.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Farmer has water in well, but discom won’t provide a pump||NAGPUR: Ramesh Wankhede (name changed on request) was very happy when he struck water at 15 feet while digging a well. He decided to install a solar pump to irrigate his field. However, now Wankhede is a despondent man. Even though his well is full of water, state-run power discom is not providing him a solar pump. The reason — Wankhede’s farm is in Saoner taluka, which is a dark zone in Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) records. Dark zone implies that groundwater level is below 60 metres (200 feet). Kalmeshwar, Katol and Narkhed talukas are also in dark zone. Interestingly, these areas are represented by energy minister Nitin Raut’s cabinet colleagues — Anil Deshmukh and Sunil Kedar. Wankhede is unable to understand MSEDCL’s logic. There is provision of obtaining a no objection certificate from Groundwater Survey and Development Agency (GSDA) for farmers having fields in dark zones and wishing to obtain a solar pump. “I can easily get NOC from GSDA, but the MSEDCL website is not allowing me to even apply. If you want a solar pump, you have to log on to MSEDCL’s website. When you try to choose the talukas of Nagpur district, there is no option for Saoner, Kalmeshwar, Katol and Narkhed talukas,” he told TOI. MSEDCL has provided an e-mail address for complaints in this regard. Wankhede had sent an e-mail four days ago, but did not get any reply. “Why are they not informing me through e-mail,” he told TOI. MSEDCL spokespersons said Saoner taluka is in dark zone and Wankhede’s field must be an exception. “However, GSDA is again doing a survey of dark zone talukas. If Saoner is out of the dark zone, the farmer will get a connection. He will have to wait till the survey is complete,” said a spokesperson. People are now opting for solar pumps because government provides it at subsidized rate and operating cost is negligible. Moreover, you get power throughout the day, which is not the case with electricity-driven pumps. MSEDCL provides supply at night for three to four days a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmer-has-water-in-well-but-discom-wont-provide-a-pump/articleshow/78918413.cms||Ashish Roy
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Can’t restore KP’s dome due to staff shortage: ASI to Bombay HC||NAGPUR: The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) on Wednesday expressed inability to undertake restoration work of Chhatri (dome) in the middle of Kasturchand Park, which is a heritage structure. In an affidavit filed before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday, the ASI cited shortage of sufficient conservation staff for the repair works. It was submitted in a suo motu PIL (No. 45/2017) taken up following media report about gross misuse of the historic place due to negligence of district administration who often rent it out for commercial activities. Shreerang Bhandarkar is the amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. “Being experts in maintaining heritage structures, the ASI can guide agencies/authorities that undertake works of repairs/restoration. However, as per archaeological norms, the ASI is unable to undertake any work related to RCC structure,” the affidavit filed by ASI superintending archaeologist Ramakrishna Reddy Kondula stated. The affidavit further stated that due to non-availability of staff, on its own it’s unable to undertake work pertaining to removing dome’s existing RCC beam, concrete roof leakage, deterioration of stein surfaces, replacing broken Chhaja (roof), stone jali (windows) repairs, lime plaster work and providing weather proof coat. “However, it could be done by an appropriate agency under guidance/consultation provided by ASI’s Nagpur circle,” it said. The affidavit, filed through assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar, was in response to HC’s orders to ASI’s director general to take a decision pertaining to repairs/restoration of heritage structure of the historic ground. Accordingly, the DG authorized the superintending archaeologist to take an appropriate decision after considering ground realities. After their visit to KP on September 5, justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala issued a series of directives to all stakeholders to consult experts for improving condition of the ground, including its levelling, clearing debris, guarding entire place, removal of paver blocks for jogging track around Chhatri, and deployment of guards till project completion among others. Daga’s family to fund installation of new statue Collector Ravindra Thakare in his reply through additional government pleader Deepak Thakre informed that he held an online meeting with Kasturchand Daga’s family members on October 13 for restoration of his statue that was damaged due to crashing of a big Neem tree on it. The family members, including Govind and Manmohan Daga, agreed to bear expenses for a new statue that would be made in Jaipur and installed at the same place. The collector added that his office had received Rs50 lakh for KP ground’s levelling and they would start work after receiving the entire amount by November 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cant-restore-kps-dome-due-to-staff-shortage-asi-to-hc/articleshow/78918278.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||KPCC endorses EWS quota, but questions the timing||T’puram/Kozhikode: KPCC political affairs committee, on Wednesday, decided not to oppose the LDF government’s decision to introduce 10% reservation for economically-weaker sections (EWS) among forward communities in government jobs. The meeting, which discussed the issue in the wake of IUML’s criticism, concluded that the decision was in line with the national policy of AICC. The UDF, in its manifesto for 2011 assembly poll, had promised economic reservation though the Oommen Chandy-led government didn’t implement it. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, however, questioned the timing of the introduction of the reservation. “There is a mala fide intention behind the decision to implement the decision just ahead of election season. The issue is still under the consideration of the nine-member Constitution bench of the Supreme Court. This should be a decision that needed a more cautious approach”, he said. Ramachandran said CPM brought up the issue now with an eye on ensuing elections. “This is a dangerous game. CPM will have to face a situation akin to the one it faced during the Sabarimala issue. This will be counterproductive because it is a double-edged sword,” he said. To a query, he replied that Congress shared the opinion put forward by the heads of Christian church on reservation. KPCC demanded that while implementing EWS, there shouldn’t be a dilution in existing reservation for other backward communities UDF constituent IUML had criticized the decision to introduce EWS reservation and is leading the alliance of minority organizations which are opposing the decision. The LDF had asked the Congress to take a stand on the issue when IUML raised its criticism. When the issue came up for debate in PAC, a few leaders expressed displeasure over the stand taken by IUML without discussion in UDF. Ramachandran said the stand of IUML on the issue has been consistent and there is no dispute between both parties on the issue. Meanwhile, CPM state secretariat alleged that there was an attempt by IUML and Jamaat-e-Islami to create communal polarization in the state for political gains by triggering a controversy over EWS reservation. “It may be recalled that in 2011, UDF that includes IUML promised economic reservation in its manifesto,” the secretariat said in a statement. CPM promised that while implementing EWS reservation, the government will ensure existing reservation for backward communities is protected. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran alleged that IUML’s bid to mobilize support against EWS reservation was happening without understanding the facts. “The concerns levelled can be addressed once the new act is implemented. When real facts come out, those who now support IUML will turn them down,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kpcc-endorses-ews-quota-but-questions-the-timing/articleshow/78918914.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Surat||Angadia firms demand resumption of Gujarat Mail||Surat: At a time when passenger trains are yet to start full-fledge operations after the lockdown, the worst-affected are the angadias or courier firms who now transport high-value consignments at the risk of their lives in private vehicles. They carry valuable goods including diamonds and jewellery to Mumbai and the road journey from Surat to Mumbai is fraught with unseen dangers. Under the aegis of All India Angadia Association (AIAA), these angadia firms have urged the Western Railway (WR) to resume operation of Gujarat Mail express between Surat and Mumbai at the earliest to facilitate safe transportation of such valuable goods. Angadia firms claim that the trains that are operating currently post lockdown, are not suitable for them as these mostly run during day time. Supply of such valuables from Surat usually takes place after midnight to help trade members receive the goods by next morning at their respective offices in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai. Nanu Vekariya, president of Surat Diamond Association (SDA) told TOI, “Many of the trade members take private vehicles to deliver goods in Mumbai, which is a risky business. It takes about six hours to reach Mumbai by road. Trains have always been the safest and fastest option for angadias.” President of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI), Dinesh Navadiya said, “During our meeting with the DRM of Mumbai division on Wednesday, we placed our demand for resumption of Gujarat Mail express and other short distance trains from Surat to Vapi, Bharuch and Vadodara to facilitate angadias as well as other daily commuters between these cities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/angadia-firms-demand-resumption-of-gujarat-mail/articleshow/78918776.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||No water in 2 wards of Satpur today||Nashik: Wards 7 and 8 of the Satpur division of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will not recieve water supply on Thursday owing to the pipeline leakage repair work. These two wards include Sahadev Nagar, Ayachit Nagar, Dadoji Konddev Nagar, Pramod Nagar, Gitanjali Society, Old pumping station area, ST colony, Shramik Nagar, Balwant Nagar, Rameshwar Nagar, Someshwar Colony, Sadguru Nagar, Narsinha Nagar, Ganesh Nagar, Guruji Hospital area, etc. Officials concerned have said that the supply will be restored from Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-water-in-2-wards-of-satpur-today/articleshow/78920620.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Couple leaves kid in taxi on way home from Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: A six-year-old boy, sleeping in the backseat of a yellow taxi, was left behind in the vehicle by his parents, who had apparently forgotten to get him down while rushing to get their luggage off the taxi’s boot on Tuesday evening, hours after they flew back to Kolkata from Lucknow. But, thanks to the fast intervention by cops and a quick thinking by the cabbie, the child was reunited with his parents within an hour after he had gone missing. The incident happened around 7.30pm on Tuesday after the family of four — a couple in their late 30s and their two kids aged 10 and 6 — took a pre-paid taxi from Kolkata airport. The family had returned from Lucknow and were heading to their Alambazar home near Dakshineswar. The man had sat on the frontseat while the mother with her two kids were in the backseat. While their 10-year-old daughter was awake, the six-year-old son, who was sitting right behind the driver’s seat, had dozed off. “After getting down at their home, they started taking out the luggage from the car. But none had noticed that the boy was left behind. The father said only after they went up home they realised that the boy had never got out of the car. They had the taxi’s counterfoil slip where our traffic control room’s number was printed, along with the car’s registration number. They called us and sought help,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, DC (traffic), Bidhannagar City Police. Upon receiving the SOS call, cops contacted the pre-paid counter at airport where a staffer checked database and called up the taxi owner. He then contacted the driver — Devtadeen Koery — and asked him to check if there was a kid in the backseat. Koery was surprised to find the boy still sleeping with his head against the car’s rear right door. “In my 14-year-long career, I have seen people leaving behind mobiles and bags. But I have never seen someone leaving a child behind. Since he was tucked at the rightmost corner, I couldn’t even spot him in rear-view mirror. I had almost reached airport by that time and took the child to the nearest traffic guard,” said Koery. Once he was taken to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport traffic guard, cops called his parents, who rushed to take their kid back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/couple-leaves-kid-in-taxi-on-way-home-from-airport/articleshow/78920614.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Gang creating fake PAN, Aadhaar busted||Tirupati: Kurnool police have arrested a high-tech gang involved in generating fake Aadhaar and PAN cards to avail benefits of various government schemes. Police also seized several laptops and desktops, printers and mobile phones from the gang. Speaking to reporters, district SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa said the 30-member gang established a network of agents and brokers to trap people by promising them benefits under various government schemes. “It emerged during the course of our preliminary investigation that each broker has processed nearly a hundred such applications to avail benefits under government welfare schemes illegally. For the service of generating fake Aadhaar or PAN cards, the gang used to collect Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per card,” said Fakeerappa. The illegal network was exposed following raids conducted by the police on several village secretariats across the district. While Pathikonda rural police arrested 14 persons in connection with the fraud, two were arrested by Nandavaram police. Eight persons resorting to similar fraudulent activities were arrested by the Adoni police, while the Banaganapalli police arrested six people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gang-creating-fake-pan-aadhaar-busted/articleshow/78920642.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||State discoms cut fuel surcharge||Ahmedabad: Consumers of state-owned power distribution companies (discoms) will have to pay less for the electricity they consume as the state government has decided to reduce fuel surcharge on power by 19 paise per unit for the period October to December 2020. The levy of reduced fuel surcharge by the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) affiliated discoms will translate into a relief of Rs 356 crore to GUVNL’s more than 1.40 crore consumers — all categories of customers except agriculture — in the state. The state power utility has worked out a fuel surcharge of Rs 1.81 per unit, to be levied from consumers for the October-December quarter. The fuel surcharge for the previous quarter of July-September was Rs 2 per unit, the government announced on Wednesday. A power distribution (discom) levies fuel surcharge or Fuel Price and Power Purchase Adjustment (FPPPA) from consumers to offset any increase or decrease in fuel (coal and gas) cost. The fuel surcharge is levied in addition to energy charges from the electricity consumers and this fuel surcharge is collected as per the formula worked by the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC). “The availability of international coal and gas at cheaper rates has led to the 19 paise per unit reduction in fuel surcharge for the third quarter of the current fiscal,” state energy minister Saurabh Patel said in a statement. “The primary reason for the fuel surcharge decline is that the state government purchased gas at cheaper rates in the interest of the state’s consumers and produced electricity using that gas. This ultimately reduced the power production cost. Hence, the state government decided to pass the lower production cost benefit onto the consumers,” Patel added. The four discoms of GUVNL are Uttar Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (UGVCL), Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (PGVCL), Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (DGVCL) and Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Ltd (MGVCL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-discoms-cut-fuel-surcharge/articleshow/78920608.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||2,600 NMC staffers observe ‘home quarantine’ stir for 7th pay perks||NAGPUR: Around 2,638 employees of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) resorted to one-day ‘home quarantine’ strike to press for implementation of 7th Pay Commission. The state government is yet to approve their demand despite the state assembly speaker Nana Patole issuing directives to that effect eight months ago. Surendra Tingane, president of Rashtriya Nagpur Corporation Employees Association (which is the only registered union in the civi body), told TOI, “Our ‘home quarantine’ stir seeking implementation of 7th pay commission recommendations was a grand success. As many as 2,638 employees, who had applied for leave, were in ‘home quarantine’ on Wednesday. We excluded 6,012 sanitary workers, firemen and those on Covid-19 duty from our stir. Those on duty worked wearing black badges.” A delegation of the union also met municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and collector Ravindra Thakare to forward their memorandum to the government. Apart from essential works like solid waste management, Covid-19 service, fire and other essential services, all works at the civic body were affected because of the stir. Tingane said the employees will continue the agitation in phased manner if the government failed to approve the demand. “NMC had passed a resolution and accepted to pay salaries as per 7th Pay Commission. Following Patole’s intervention, government had directed the NMC to give presentation on its financial condition, which was done in February. Patole had directed the officials to approve the demand in February itself,” he said. Tingane also said the state government has already accepted the same demand in many other municipal corporations. The NMC employees decided to protest after government last month okayed to implement the 7th pay panel recommendation in Chandrapur Municipal Corporation, but not in Nagpur. The government has kept pending the NMC’s proposal as it does not fit in the existing norms. The NMC’s administrative expenses are over 50% and it should be below 35% for allowing hike in salaries of employees or new recruitment. The 7th Pay Commission is due since January 1, 2016. ON the other hand, NMC employees are yet to get arrears of the 6th Pay Commission, with was implemented with effect from January 1, 2006 to November 30, 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-6k-nmc-staffers-observe-home-quarantine-stir-for-7th-pay-perks/articleshow/78918929.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 29, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Naval ship repair yard signs MoU with industry association||KOCHI: The Indian Navy’s Naval Ship Repair Yard (NSRY), Kochi, on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association’s (CODISSIA) Defence Innovation and Incubation Centre (CDIIC). The MoU allows NSRY to use world-class facilities of MSMEs based in Coimbatore for hardware development, material testing and analysis and obsolescence mitigation programmes in respect of legacy equipment. Admiral Superintendent NSRY (Kochi) Rear Admiral Deepak Bansal and CDIIC director V Sundaram signed the MoU on behalf of Indian Navy (NSRY, Kochi) and CDIIC respectively. CODISSIA is a body comprising more than 2,000 MSMEs, with an objective to promote and protect small-scale Industries in Coimbatore. “The MoU will foster cohesive involvement of both parties and help in solving problems projected by NSRY harnessing Government of India initiative of Atal Innovation Mission, which has been conceived to encourage innovation and technology development by engaging micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), startups and research and development institutions and academia,” said a Navy statement. Also, NSRY would be exposed to new manufacturing techniques, industrial safety and quality assurance which are being pursued by modern MSMEs. These would be vital for the yard, especially since it is poised for major expansion in the wake of an enhanced charter. NSRY has begun as an Electrical and Engineering Workshop in 1945 to support a small flotilla of Royal Indian naval ships based at Kochi. After the nation’s Independence, it was renamed as Base Repair Organisation (BRO) in 1948. With the induction of new ships and enhanced tasking, the BRO was later rechristened as ‘Naval Ship Repair Yard (NSRY)’ in 1988.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/naval-ship-repair-yard-signs-mou-with-industry-association/articleshow/78918931.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 patients drop below 50 in rural areas||Nashik: Rural areas of Nashik district have witnessed drop in fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time since June 30 with less than 50 patients registered per day. On Tuesday, the rural areas registered 38 coronavirus cases. “It was on October 21 that the rural areas registered drop in Covid-19 cases from three-digit figures to two-digit and has maintained the record since then. Now, the figures have dropped further indicating that the number of patients being treated successfully for Covid-19 are increasing while the spread of the infection has come down drastically,” a senior officer from the district health office of Nashik zilla parishad said. According to the officer, the number of Covid-19 cases per day swelled from 50 on June 30 to nearly 670 per day on September 16. “There have been concentrated efforts from all the departments to arrest the spread of the disease. Major help has come from the increased testing of suspects as a result of which more and more number of patients were diagnosed early and, hence, treated early. Besides, their diagnosis also helped in containing the spread of the disease,” the officer added. At present, the number of active patients in rural areas stands at 2,128.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-19-patients-drop-below-50-in-rural-areas/articleshow/78920594.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 29, 2020||Goa||PWD: Cut unstable side of Vaddem hill||Vasco: The public works department (PWD) has recommended cutting the entire unstable portion of the hill at Vaddem into a 30 degree slope. This action is expected to prevent further untoward incidents from occurring at the foot of the hill. The entire work is estimated to cost over Rs 1 crore. Asenior citizen had lost her life last month after a boulder came crashing down on her house at Vaddem. The PWD executive engineer, Margao office, has proposed cutting down the entire unstable side of the hill at Vaddem in response to a reminder sent to the office by the additional collector, disaster management authority, Margao. The PWD was asked to suggest safety measures to be put in place at the site of the Vaddem landslide. “Cutting down the entire unstable part to 30 degrees slope. This method can be adopted by local contractors and is found to be cheapest. The only disadvantage will be reduction to top plot area as higher slope will eat into this land which is flat,” stated the PWD letter. As the mass cutting will result in loss of property, special government approval will be required to undertake the work in private land. One or more houses will have to be demolished to create access for heavy earthmoving machinery and trucks to reach the site. The letter also said that there are other sophisticated methods like stabilisation of slopes by netting with steel mesh, netting by gio-grids or soil nailing, which requires state of the art designing and execution. But, the department neither has the expertise nor local contractors to execute it, the letter stated. It will also cost over Rs 4 crore. It may be recalled that on September 21, a huge boulder crashed into of 65-year-old Anita Borkar, killing her, while her son had a miraculous escape. Ever since, seven families are living in risk at the foot hill as more boulders remain stuck midway and threaten to roll down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-cut-unstable-side-of-vaddem-hill/articleshow/78921649.cms||Ruvina Khan
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||427 vehicles/minute, Vadaj is busiest traffic junction in west Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A report on traffic movement at nine of the city’s busiest junctions has revealed that every minute 142 to 420 vehicles pass by them during peak hours. These junctions include Vadaj, Pragatinagar, Sattadhar, Panjrapole and Shastrinagar in the western part of the city while four of the junctions are in the eastern parts of the city.  AMC officials claim that the Vadaj junction witnessed the maximum traffic movement during peak morning hours, close to 417 vehicles per minute , while Panjrapol was the least busy with 129 vechiles per minute. Analysis revealed that Vadaj junction saw an average rise of 50% in vehicle movement during evening hours as compared to peak morning hours. Officials claimed that the junction mainly witnessed commuters going towards Gandhinagar. Traffic rises between 6pm and 7pm and eases by 9pm. The analysis at the nine junctions was conducted for prospective flyovers or underpasses. The study was assigned by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to Institute of Infrastructure Technology Research and Management (IIT-RAM), Maninagar recently. Though the initial proposal in 2018 was to analyse 20 junctions, 11 junctions were kept on hold for Phase-2 study. According to another AMC smart city study, some of the junctions in the western part of the city also witnessed the maximum traffic violations. “Busy traffic junctions in the western Ahmedabad also witnessed maximum traffic violations. In a year, Shyamal Crossroads had 2.13 lakh traffic violations, followed by Shastrinagar with 1.6 lakh violations while Sardar Patel statue junction recorded 1.59 lakh traffic violations,” claimed a senior AMC official in the smart city department. A map prepared by the AMC on population densities and city’s zone characteristics clearly shows that areas that have high mixed land and dense road networks witness the highest traffic movement between junctions in the city. This phenomenon can be seen in west, central and east zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/427-vehicles/min-vadaj-is-busiest-traffic-junction-in-w-abad/articleshow/78920672.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 36% Covid victims brought dead, died within 24 hours of hospitalization||NAGPUR: Among 2,900 Covid-19 deaths in the district, 1,053 (36.31%) were brought dead or passed away within 24 hours of hospitalization. Also, 74.13% deceased were over 51 years old. The district became the 4th among 35 districts in the state to cross 3,000 deaths on October 21. The district’s case fatality rate was 3.26% on October 21, which was higher than state (2.64%), India (1.51%) and world (2.80%). Total positive cases were 91,988. The district office of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) collected detailed data regarding hospitalization of 2,900 deceased whereas data of remaining 100 could not be known. Of the 2,900 deaths, 359 (12.38%) were brought dead to Covid Hospitals, 193 (6.65%) deceased died within 12 hours of hospitalization, and 501 (17.28%) passed away within 12-24 hours. Thus, total number of deceased who died within 24 hours of hospitalization was 1,053 (36.31%). Also, 583 (20.11%) of total deceased died within 24-72 hours of hospitalization, while remaining 1,264 (43.58%) deceased passed away after 72 hours of admission in Covid Hospitals. If age-wise data of deceased is considered, highest number of 74.13% deaths were in age group of 50 and above. The findings of IGGMCH doctors, led by deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pande and infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde, say complications in Covid patients develop between 8-12 days after onset of symptoms, and this is critical, especially for comorbid and those aged above 50. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe said, “Onset of illness to commencement of treatment or medicines is golden period in clinical management. There is better outcome with narrowing of this period. Also, recovery rate of the district is above 91%, which is highly appreciable. All deaths within 72 hours of hospitalization indicate late testing and reporting to Covid hospitals since onset of symptoms, despite comorbidities and high age.” Medical superintendent of GMCH Dr Avinash Gawande said, “Some deceased lost golden period of treatment due to 3-4 or more days of treatment at private clinics. Some patients even reached government Covid hospitals in critical condition, after hospitalization in private hospitals for some days. Hypoxia is also one of the reasons behind deaths, especially in outstation patients who did not get oxygen on time.” Dr Balankhe added, “Earlier, patients with symptoms avoided tests and hospitalization due to social stigma, quarantine and other norms. Now, norms are relaxed so patients should immediately get tests done after onset of symptoms.” Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Those above 50 are most vulnerable, and should get priority in vaccination.” Dr Shinde also said the 43.58% deaths after 72 hours of admission stress on the need to start definitive treatment (antivirals) early. “In initial stage, drugs like Remdesivir were delayed in government-run Covid hospitals till patients became really sick.” In the district, deaths have remained higher among male compared to females. Among 3,000 deceased, 2,109 (70.3%) were men and 891 (29.7%) were women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/36-covid-victims-brought-dead-died-within-24-hrs-of-hospitalization/articleshow/78918942.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Dakshineswar Metro trial may start in November||KOLKATA: Trials and tests for the Dakshineswar Metro are likely to start on November 15. The test runs along the 4-km extension of the city’s existing north-south stretch to Dakshineswar is a prelude to its launch sometime in December, said officials. The trials will start with the self-operated engine run on November 15 and then there will be a joint testing of the system by Metro Railway and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL). Metro Railway, which runs the Kavi Subhas-Noapara Metro services and the truncated Sector V-Phoolbagan stretch of the East-West Metro, will be operating the new section. RVNL is the implementing agency of the extended corridor. Before the trials start, the crucial Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) equipment — a sophisticated software that prevents accidents — may arrive from Germany during the first week of November. These issues were discussed at a video-conference between the agencies on Tuesday. Even as Metro Railway has applied for inspection by the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for the 4-km extension, the crucial accident prevention technology, which was due to be delivered by Siemens from Germany in March, ran into lockdown restrictions. A report of the trials and the joint testing undertaken by Metro Railway and RVNL to check the section’s readiness will have to be sent to CRS’ Lucknow headquarters before it agrees to inspect and gives the date of visit. Officials said the trials and testing shouldn’t take much time because this was only an extension of the existing 27-km north-south corridor. “The TPWS software may be delivered sometime next week. It will take four or five days for its installation in the tracks. After this, we shall check the software’s performance,” a senior RVNL official told TOI on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dakshineswar-metro-trial-may-start-in-nov/articleshow/78920647.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Work on widening national highway to Shirdi starts, to be done in 2 years||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: Devotees travelling to Shirdi by road can look forward to a smoother ride as the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has begun widening the Sinnar-Shirdi section of the national highway. NHAI project director, Nashik, Dileep Patil said the work on the 51-km highway has begun and may take two years for completion. The widening of the highway would prevent frequent road accidents witnessed due to continuous rush of vehicles towards Shirdi from Sinnar and from the opposite side. The narrow road has claimed many lives in road accidents, including devotees who travel by foot to Shirdi. Patil said they would also be constructing two Bhakta Niwas along the highway, since a large number of devotees travel with ‘palkhis’ by foot to Shirdi around the year. The Bhakta Niwas, which would be complete with all the amenities, would help devotees take a break during the walk to Shirdi. Patil said that the road is being widened on hybrid annuity model (HAM). Under the model, the road developer is paid 40% of the project cost and the remaining over a period of 15 years. The current 10-metre road will be widened into 20 metres, apart from a median and a 5.5 metre wide palkhi route for devotees, who walk to the Shirdi Saibaba temple. Currently, the movement on the road has reduced since the Shirdi temple is closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/work-on-widening-national-highway-to-shirdi-starts-to-be-done-in-2-years/articleshow/78920633.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 29, 2020||Nashik||350 cops to be deployed in Malegaon on Eid-e-Milad||NASHIK: Over 350 policemen will patrol the streets of Malegaon on Eid-e-Milad to ensure that people do not violate any of the Covid-19 protocols laid down by the government while celebrating the day. Additional SP of Malegaon Chandrakant Khandvi said that apart from police personnel from the textile town, force of 150 has been sought from outside to ensure that the celebrations take place on a peaceful note. “We have already conducted meetings with citizens of Malegaon and have appealed to them to ensure that no government norm related to Covid-19 is violated during the celebrations,” said Khandvi, adding that the citizens are also advised not to organize any processions. People have been urged to celebrate the festival at their homes, said Khandvi. Ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 in Malegaon, all festivals that have been organized in the textile town have been in accordance with the government and police guidelines, said police. Even in May, citizens gave an overwhelming response to the police’s call of celebrating Ramzan Eid at their homes instead of gathering for a congregation to offer prayers With a good percentage of Muslim population in Malegaon, Eid-e-Milad is celebrated on an enthusiastic note every year. Police officials said that while the citizens have assured to celebrate the festival by following guidelines issued by the government and police, they were deploying the force as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/350-cops-to-be-deployed-in-malegaon-on-eid-e-milad/articleshow/78920656.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Civic chief appeal Nashik residents to maintain safety protocols during Diwali||NASHIK: Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Wednesday appealed to citizens to observe all Covid-19 safety protocols while preparing for the upcoming Diwali festival. Jadhav said that the number of new cases has dropped remarkably while that of the recoveries of has increased at large. Addressing the city residents online through social media, the municipal commissioner exuded confidence that the daily count of daily new cases will drop below 100 soon if all the city residents maintain safety protocols like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing in public places. Jadhav’s appeal comes in view of the rush of people in markets ahead of Diwali and the government projection of a second wave of Covid-19 during winter. The municipal commissioner also appealed to people to participate in Swachh Bharat Survekshan. Jadhav also vowed to bring Nashik city among top 10 clean cities in the country and first in the state. He said that the performance of Nashik in Swachh Bharat Survekshan has improved during the last two-three years. The participation of people is more important in the cleanliness survey as the evaluation of the the city’s performance is done on the basis of citizens’ feedback. During the address, Jadhav also appealed to people to approach the civic body if they are concerned about the city’s performance in the Swachh Bharat Survekshan. Their feedback will be forwarded to the central agency. “The NMC is taking all possible efforts to improve its ranking in Swachh Survekshan,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-appeal-city-residents-to-maintain-safety-protocols-during-diwali/articleshow/78920659.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees 2.9k new cases as 77% beds stay vacant||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,949 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,14,774, as the toll increased to 6,643 with 18 more people succumbing to the disease. As many as 3,609 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 26,622 active cases with 7,81,509 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 95.9%. With the declining case numbers and fewer active cases, nearly 77% of the total beds remained vacant. Of the nearly 32,000 beds available at 200 government and private Covid-19 hospitals, only 7,400 beds were occupied. Among them, 3,202 of 4,284 ICU beds are available. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-2-9k-new-cases-as-77-beds-stay-vacant/articleshow/78920683.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kochi||Archbishop flays IUML for opposing quota for EWS||Kottayam: The Syro-Malabar Catholic Church has slammed Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for opposing the state government decision to implement economic reservation. In an article written by Changanassery Archbishop Joseph Perumthottam in ‘Deepika’, a daily run by the Church, he also raised suspicion on the efficiency of the UDF. The article was published in the wake of protests by political parties like IUML against economic reservation. The archbishop said that it was sad that some communal forces are opposing reservation for the economically weaker sections (EWS) without any valid reason. “This opposition cannot be treated as an ideological one,” he said. In an apparent dig at IUML, he also questioned the emotion that makes one insist that nothing should be served on the plate of the person sitting next to him whereas there he has no shortage of supply. The archbishop lauded BJP and Congress for their favourable stand on implementing economic reservation. When the Constitution bill for economic reservation came up in Parliament, political parties, including Congress and the Left, supported it. The three who opposed the bill included two IUML members and one All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) member. It revealed the emerging communal face of IUML, he said. “The communal face of IUML was seen in the Hagia Sophia issue also,” he added. He also says that one needs to suspect that the polices of IUML is becoming a threat to other communities. Projects worth crores of rupees implemented by the state minority welfare department are for the Muslim community alone. Around 80% of concessions are only for this community. Oher minority sections were rejected during the implementation of even central projects by the department. Only Muslims get government aid for studying religion. How can we justify their opposition to even small concessions for other communities, he asked. Being conscious about one’s community is good and necessary, but it should not harm others, he said. The archbishop also criticized UDF’s alliance with the Welfare Party of Jamaat-e-Islami. Even a Muslim country like Bangladesh has handed rigorous punishment to the leaders of the outfit. How can secular minds approve such alliances, he asked. He said that the political nature of UDF has faded of late. He also asked whether the front has become so weak that it cannot even declare its independent stand on economic reservation. Why is it that state unit of Congress, the main constituent of the front, is not able to support the party’s stand at the national level? The party seems to have lost control over its MLAs who are taking different stands on various issues publicly, opined the archbishop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/archbishop-flays-iuml-for-opposing-quota-for-ews/articleshow/78918950.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Phone use deadlier than jumping lights’||AHMEDABAD: The use of mobile phones while driving has resulted in more fatalities than the jumping of red lights. In 2019, the state reported 122 accidents caused by use of mobile phones, while only eight were reported due to jumping of red lights. According to data released by the ministry of road transport and highways for 2019, in the 122 accidents caused by use of mobiles, 40 people lost their lives and 118 were injured. This means that one out of every three mobile phone related accidents involved a fatality. Meanwhile, only eight accidents took place due to jumping red lights in which four people died and four people were injured. A senior officer in the transport department said that accidents involving mobile phones in 2019 were less than those recorded 2018 where the state had reported 467 accidents due to mobile use in which 187 people lost their lives. The Morth report stated that Gujarat ranked 11th in the country in accidents due to mobile phone use in 2019, down five positions compared to sixth position in 2018. Studies have shown that drivers switch lanes more often and drive unpredictably when distracted by their phones. Amit Khatri, a road safety expert, said, “Effective surveillance with use of CCTV and issuing of e-challans has resulted in a reduction in jumping of red lights. I have observed that even at night, drivers stop at red lights which is a sign of positive enforcement. Use of phones while driving is banned but the government should enure drivers do not use Bluetooth to talk on phone which is a distraction. If the use of Bluetooth devices is banned, fatalities due to mobile use will fall drastically.” Dr Praveen Kanabar, member of the Ahmedabad Traffic Consultation Committee, said the number of accidents recorded are underreported. “Most accidents triggered by mobile phones are not registered as such because a compromise is struck. Being an orthopaedic surgeon I know that not many people report minor accidents to the police. The government has also accepted that the police is not investigating cases properly,” said Dr Kanabar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phone-use-deadlier-than-jumping-lights/articleshow/78920761.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 29, 2020||Nashik||District’s power related issues will be addressed: Subhash Desai||AURANGABAD: Industries minister and guardian minister of Aurangabad Subhash Desai told people representatives from the district that efforts are being made to ensure smooth power supply to industries, farmers and citizens. Desai had convened a meeting of officials concerned and people representatives in Mumbai on Tuesday to take stock of the power supply situation in the district. He told the officials concerned that complaints of erratic power supply were surfacing from almost every part of the district while agricultural pumps were not being provided with regular power supply. Energy minister Nitin Raut and minister of state for revenue Abdul Sattar, too, attended the meeting. Among other attendees were MP Bhagwat Karad, MLC Ambadas Danve and several MLAs from the district. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Rajya Veej Tantrik Kamgar Sanghatana felicitated technical workers who ensured good services during the Covid-19 pandemic in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/districts-power-related-issues-will-be-addressed-desai/articleshow/78920687.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nashik||Man wanted in Gujarat murder case held||NASHIK: The crime branch unit 2 of the city police on Monday arrested a criminal wanted in a murder case registered with the Nani Daman police station in Gujarat. The criminal has been identified as Jairam Londhe, a resident of Deolaligaon. He has been handed over to the Gujarat police who have taken his custody. According to police, Londhe was wanted in the murder case for the last eight months. PI Dinesh Bardekar of the crime branch unit 2 said that Londhe was a contract killer and that he was also involved with the Chhota Rajan gang. On Monday, the crime branch unit 2 got information that Londhe had arrived at his house in Deolaligaon after which the police laid a trap and arrested him. The Gujarat police had earlier contacted Nashik city police with respect to tracing Londhe in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-wanted-in-gujarat-murder-case-held/articleshow/78920682.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha recovery rate touches 90%, slight drop in fatality rate||NAGPUR: The Covid recovery rate touched 90% mark for the first time in Vidarbha while the fatality rate too slightly declined, even as fewer new cases came in as against discharged patients on Wednesday. With 1,380 Covid patients recovering in a day, 1,100 new cases were detected in the region while 27 patients passed away. The active case rate too remains well under 10%. This month, the new cases started dropping from the peak of 2,000-mark from October 2, when 2,082 were recorded. This came down to 658 two days ago, but it was blamed on low testing due to festivities. The highest recoveries, 3,435, too were reported on October 3 while after that numbers under this head have remained more than new cases. On Wednesday, no death was reported from Wardha. Fatalities were reported from Nagpur (12), Bhandara (3), Gondia (1), Chandrapur (4), Gadchiroli (1), Amravati (1), Akola (2), Yavatmal (1), Buldhana (1) and Washim (1). This takes the collective toll to 5,132. Washim reported lowest cases of the day at 8, out of 1,100. Nagpur (342), Bhandara (85), Wardha (33), Gondia (97), Chandrapur (228), Gadchiroli (118), Akola (26), Amravati (90), Yavatmal (52), Buldhana (21) and Washim (8) cases took the tally to 1,88,691. Similarly, among the 1,380 recoveries were Nagpur (458), Bhandara (78), Wardha (54), Gondia (123), Chandrapur (151), Gadchiroli (70), Akola (164), Amravati (153), Yavatmal (46), Buldhana (51) and Washim (32). The total Covid count is 1,69,934 now while 13,234 are active cases. Gadchiroli: A 57-year-old resident of Chamorshi died of Covid on Wednesday. The district reported 118 new cases and 70 recoveries. The district now has 914 active cases, while total cases are 5,541. So far, 55 have succumbed to the disease while 4,572 have defeated Covid. Washim: The district reported lowest new Covid patients at 8 cases, while 32 were discharged on Wednesday. A lone death took the toll to 137. The new cases took the tally to 5,647, discharged count rose to 5,047 while 462 are active. Buldhana: Of the 574 reports received from labs and testing centres, 553 were found negative while 21 were positive. One death was reported while 51 persons recovered and got discharged. According to official data, the district now has 9,174 cases, 8,469 recoveries, 122 deaths and 583 active cases. Bhandara: The district recorded 3 deaths, 85 new cases, and 78 recoveries on Wednesday. The death toll reached 209. The district has 885 active cases. Total caseload is 8,273 cases, and 7,179 discharged patients. Gondia: One death and 97 new cases were recorded while 123 were discharged on Wednesday. The new positive patients took the tally to 9,539 and Covid death toll so far to 123, recoveries to 8,590 and 826 active cases. Akola: The district reported 26 new cases, a whopping 164 recoveries, and two Covid deaths. The case tally climbed to 8,320. So far, 276 people have died here of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 7,678. There are 366 active patients. Yavatmal: There was only one death in Yavatmal district on Wednesday, but total case count crossed 10,000 mark. Of the 10,033 cases, 8,922 have been discharged so far. Today, a 78-year-old woman from the city died. The death is now 347. The district has 404 active positive patients, while 46 patients were discharged. Chandrapur: With spike of 228 patients, Covid-19 total in Chandrapur surged to 15,227 on Wednesday. The day also saw discharge of 151 patients taking total recoveries to 12,199. There were four deaths in last 24 hours, taking the toll to 227. There are now 2,851 active patients. Meanwhile, collector has ordered the health department to start mobile testing of people. Amravati: A spike of 90 cases took the district caseload to 16,130 even as 153 recoveries took the recovery rate to a healthy 92.94%. The recovery count reached 14,992 while a death of a 70-year-old man from Dhamangaon Railway took the toll to 362. This left 776 active cases, including 389 in home isolation. Wardha: The district saw 33 new cases and 54 discharges on Wednesday. The total reached 6,200 while recoveries are at 5,555, leaving 440 under treatment. The new cases were received from Wardha (17), Hinganghat (8), Selu, Arvi and Ashti (2 each), and Deoli and Karanja (1 each). The death toll of district stands at 205.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-recovery-rate-touches-90-slight-drop-in-fatality-rate/articleshow/78918964.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||‘We oppose Salgaonkar’s entry into BJP’||Panaji: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Wednesday said that Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar is holding meetings with BJP functionaries to join the party, but we are opposed to his entry. Lobo said that Siolim MLA Vinod Palyekar is not in the race to join BJP. Instead of taking up the issue of filling potholes on the roads in Saligao constituency, he is busy holding meetings to join BJP, Lobo told reporters. “Salgaonkar didn’t come to me to discuss joining BJP. We are against Salgaonkar joining the party. We have a lot of leaders in Saligao,” he said. Lobo said that party adworkers should be considered for a ticket to become MLA next time. “Why should an opportunity be given to Salgaonkar to become the next MLA. He is not from BJP,” he said. In June, in a move to further weaken the opposition, BJP was trying to split Goa Forward Party (GFP), an NDA ally, and admit two of its three MLAs into the saffron fold. Sources privy to the negotiations had said that the talks were being led by chief minister Pramod Sawant and party organising secretary Satish Dhond with Jayesh Salgaonkar and Vinod Paliencar. The move was aimed at embarrassing GFP president Vijai Sardesai who has been vocal against the government and instrumental in creating unity among the opposition. All three GFP MLAs, including Sardesai, a former deputy chief minister, were unceremoniously dropped from the cabinet, almost a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-oppose-salgaonkars-entry-into-bjp/articleshow/78921652.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Buy Marathwada cotton on minimum support price: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana||AURANGABAD: The Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) headed by Raju Shetti on Wednesday staged demonstrations in front of the cotton federation office in Aurangabad demanding that cotton from every taluka of Marathwada be bought as per the government’s prescribed minimum support price. The activists also demanded the authorities concerned to immediately start cotton purchasing centres. Under the guidance of Puja Ashok More of the party’s youth wing, several activists marched to the cotton federation office. More said that Marathwada is a pioneering cotton producing region. This time around, the farmers opted for the crop which they would use to meet their financial needs. “Currently, they are selling the crop for Rs 30 to Rs 35 per kg to local traders who have been exploiting the farming community,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/buy-mwada-cotton-on-msp-sss/articleshow/78920690.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Aapli Bus back on 5 routes, receives lukewarm response||NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Aapli Bus service resumed operation on Wednesday after more than 220 days due to the coronavirus induced lockdown. Though NMC had planned to operate 90 buses on 15 major routes, it changed its plan within 11 hours and resumed the service with 40 buses including 32 standard and 8 midi buses on five routes including Sitabuldi-Hingna Gramin Hospital, Sitabuldi-Butibori and Sitabuldi-Khaparkheda routes. All the three operators ensured their buses were sanitized before and after every shift on the day of the service. The bus service was started from 6am and plied till 10pm on the designated routes. Aapli Bus crew members were seen allowing only those wearing masks to board. However, not many were seen availing these facilities, presumably due to fear of contracting the virus. Major bus stands like Sitabuldi, Maharajbagh road saw very few passengers waiting for buses, while bus shelters on these five routes almost wore a deserted look. But the NMC’s Aapli Buses were greeted with an absolute lack of passengers. Hardly a few hundred availed the city bus service on the first day, said a senior official from the NMC’s transport department. At most of the starting destinations, the red buses waited for more time but to ferry only a handful passengers turned up. “We expected a lukewarm response due to the coronavirus threat,” the official pointed out and added that most of the Aapli Bus passengers were yet to get information about the resumption of the service. Within a couple of days, people will start using buses to commute within the city and outside Nagpur corporation limits. Many people waiting for buses complained about their frequency. “I’ve been waiting here for about an hour and a bus to Pardi is hard to come by. The frequency of buses should be increased,” pointed out Prakash Usreti a resident of Pardi. The official said the number of Aapli Bus fleet will be increased in a phased manner. He said the number of buses will be increased to 90 from November 2, and in the subsequent week it will increase to 150 and then the whole operation will resume, he said. After much delay and subsequent demand from various organizations including political leaders MLA Vikas Thakre, Congress corporator Sandip Sahare, NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe and party leader Prashant Pawar, the transport department had agreed to re-introduce bus services from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aapli-bus-back-on-5-routes-receives-lukewarm-response/articleshow/78918997.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Probe on in Ankita Shah case, CP tells SHRC||NAGPUR: Commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar has ordered an inquiry into the charges against Lakadganj police station officers for assaulting RTI activist advocate Ankita Shah and her husband Nilesh Makheja. The top cop through additional CP Navinchandra Reddy submitted his say before the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) that held its first hearing on Shah’s complaint on Tuesday at Mumbai. Kumar stated that an inquiry was going on through DCP-Zone-III on new facts brought to fore by Shah. On March 25, Shah and her husband Makheja had gone to the police station to lodge a complaint against a security guard and a neighbour who were hurling stones at stray dogs. “Instead of taking action, the cops allegedly roughed us up on grounds of not wearing masks, making videos in the station and detained us despite norms prohibiting detention of women after 6pm. We became victim of police ‘gundagardi’,” Shah alleged. “As per report submitted by Nagpur CP before SHRC, former CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay did not take any action that shows he was not at all serious about atrocities on a woman advocate and an activist. It was his duty to take a strict cognisance of the matter and direct registration of FIR immediately but he failed to do so,” Shah said. Considering inquiry report of ACP on March 31, 2020, Kumar issued a warning letter on October 12 to senior PI of Lakadganj police station Narendra Hiwre. Shah expressed anguish over leniency on PSI Kawre and two constables as Kumar just issued show cause notices to them asking why a fine of Rs1000 and Rs500 each should not be levied on them. “Show cause notice is not action. Also, the quantum of proposed punishment is very liberal, it is not exemplary,” Shah stated and demanded FIR against all concerned. Next date of hearing before SHRC is November 4 and Shah is planning to file a reply on the report submitted by Nagpur CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/probe-on-in-ankita-shah-case-cp-tells-shrc/articleshow/78919041.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Left, democratic parties demand power bill waiver||AURANGABAD: Activists from the left and democratic front have demanded the government to waive electricity bills of people who have used less than 300 units of power during the seven-month-long lockdown period. Led by Subhash Lomte, Ajmal Khan and Bhagwan Bhojane, the activists staged demonstrations to press for their demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/left-democratic-parties-demand-power-bill-waiver/articleshow/78920709.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Healthcare workers must furnish Aadhaar details to get vaccine||BELAGAVI: Healthcare workers, the priority group, must furnish their Aadhaar cards to receive the Covid-19 vaccine as the government plans a biometric-based delivery system across the country, officials revealed. At the district level, the health department is gathering data on private and public healthcare workers on the frontline of the battle against the pandemic to generate a database for a centrally monitored Covid-19 vaccination beneficiary management system (CVBMS). This is an extension of the existing electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN) module for individualised tracking of all beneficiaries who receive the vaccine. Officials say the deadline to gather data at the district level is October 31. While the healthcare workers’ database guidelines in the new CVBMS system do not list Aadhaar details, it later states that the document musty be produced at the time of vaccination. Dr Rajesh, reproductive and child health officer, Mangaluru district, confirmed Aadhaar is mandatory during vaccination. However, for the database, identity proof like voter ID, licence, passport, pan card and others are sufficient. Dr Rajesh, however, said the government is yet to notify a set of rules and regulations for a biometric-based vaccine delivery system. Dr Sashikanth Muniyal, district health officer, Belagavi, said, “The department already has every detail on each government employee, but now we are collecting data from contract and private workers.” The government is generating a comprehensive nationwide centralised data system on healthcare and it will include private establishments too, officials say. District health and family welfare offices will upload details on health facilities, both government and private, like primary healthcare centres, community health centres, corporate hospitals, nursing hospitals, polyclinics, OPD clinics and medical colleges in the private segment. Names, location and postal address of these facilities will be collected. The health department is also collecting details such as name, gender, date of birth, proof of ID (with photo), mobile numbers, postal code and employee ID of healthcare workers. Interestingly, healthcare workers will have to furnish mobile numbers linked to Aadhaar cards. In case s/he does not have such a number, then numbers of family members or friends — linked to Aadhaar — can be given.  While the registry appears a bright idea, Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya, general physician, raised questions on the safety of the data and transparency of the system. “The government only needs the exact number of healthcare workers and not their personal details to estimate the number of vaccines required,” Dr Kakkilaya said. “We do not know who is accessing this mammoth data which has every potential to be misused, especially in this era of cybercrimes. The top brass in the health sector must question the intention behind gathering this data.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/healthcare-workers-must-furnish-aadhaar-details-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/78919052.cms||Shreyas HS
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||After 7 months, physical Chandigarh municipal corporation house meeting today||CHANDIGARH: The physical general house meeting of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will be held on Thursday after almost seven months. The last meeting was held in February. No mediapersons and general public will be allowed in the gallery of the assembly hall. The meeting will be held following strict Covid-19 guidelines as the authority has taken all the precautionary measures to hold the meeting. The sitting arrangement has been planned keeping in view the social distance. All the councilors will sit by maintaining a gap and unlike the previous meeting, all the administrative officers, except municipal commissioner and secretary, will sit in the public and media galleries. Some of the municipal councillors will sit on the seats of the officers in the hall. Moreover, transparent glasses have also been placed temporarily at the sitting areas as a precautionary measure. The meeting is all set to witness heating arguments between the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress. The Congress is fully geared up to criticise BJP over various issues and terming their ongoing tenure as a complete failure in terms of developmental works in the city. On the other hand, BJP will try to target the municipal officers, but as the paucity of finances is the main issue, Congress is all set to raise this point too. Significantly, BJP will bring three main agenda items i.e. revision of water charges, rollback of GPS-enabled watches and allowing vendors to run business at their original places, except sectors 17, 22 and 19. Besides this, the saffron party will also discuss the agenda item to reduce the rent fixed for Sector 23-based shed market. Devinder Singh Babla, leader of the opposition in the MC-cum-senior Congress councillor said, “We will expose BJP over its consistent failure in bringing any kind of relief for people. Since lack of finances in the key issue behind all the problems in the MC, they could neither bring in additional budget from the Centre nor got any additional grant-in-aid (GIA) from the Chandigarh administration. Moreover, 20% reduction in the given budget has turned the financial situation from bad to worse.” Sweeper union demands will also be one of the important issues to be discussed. Congress municipal councillors have given a representation of sweeper union demands. They have given a representation to the mayor to reduce water tariff. “We have given these two representations to the mayor because these are genuine demands,” said Babla. Sources said the meeting will start at 2 pm and could extend till night hours. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, no arrangement has been made for lunch etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-7-months-physical-mc-house-meeting-today/articleshow/78919037.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||Deepika Padukone’s manager booked under NDPS Act||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has booked Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act after they found 1.7gm of hashish at her Versova home on Tuesday. The contraband falls under the category of ‘small quantity’ and attracts a punishment of one year rigorous imprisonment or fine up to Rs10,000, or both. NCB officials also seized three vials of CBD oil or cannabidiol, which has traces of cannabis, from her residence. Officials said she is not traceable and they have pasted a notice on her flat door for her to appear before them on Wednesday. She and Padukone were questioned last month as part of the NCB probe into drug use in Bollywood. NCB had alleged that Prakash’s name came up in WhatsApp chats on Sushant Singh Rajput’s manager Jaya Saha’s phone. Her statements were recorded but she was not booked. Prakash is an employee of a talent management firm. Advocate Ayaz Khan said, “CBD oil is legal and is easily available online. Of these three bottles, two were empty. As far as seizure of 1.7gm of hashish is concerned, it is a small quantity.’’ Experts say CBD oil, used for medicinal purposes, usually has low THC (less than 0.3%). Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is the chemical responsible for most of marijuana’s hallucinogenic effects. Anything higher can be classified as a cannabis product. Online stores do not mention THC content. NCB also arrested Nikhil Saldana (30) from Bandra. He is the 23rd accused to be arrested. Officials found evidence linking him to the drug peddling racket. Watch Bollywood drug nexus: Deepika Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash charged under NDPS Act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deepikas-manager-booked-under-ndps-act/articleshow/78920836.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 29, 2020||Nashik||36-year-old man killed in Nashik||NASHIK: A 36-year-old man was killed over a petty argument in the Nashik Road area of the city on Tuesday night. Police have arrested two people in connection with the murder. The victim has been identified as Prakash Dhale, a resident of Eklahara Road, Nashik Road. According to the Nashik Road police Dhale had a criminal history and was externed from the city in 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/36-year-old-man-killed-in-nashik/articleshow/78920716.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University issues SOPs for hostels, no night-outs for residents||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has issued SoPs for hostels on Wednesday. According to the SoPs issued, no resident will be allowed for night-outs or go out of the campus between 8 pm and 6 am. Residents will not be allowed to call visitors to the hostel. Parents will be allowed to meet only after the permission of the warden. Sharing of items i.e. phones, books, pens etc. has to be strictly avoided. No resident will be allowed to visit the common room or switch on the air conditioner. Research scholars will have to provide undertaking or consent (available on the DSW office notice board) of self that they want to avail hostel facility to attend and work in the department or research labs under the prevailing conditions of Covid-19. This undertaking should be forwarded by the supervisor concerned and chairperson with remarks that they will follow all the guidelines. Instructions have been issues for cleaning staff as well. They have been instructed to use separate set of cleaning equipment for toilets (mops, nylon scrubber) and separate set for cleaning sink. They have been instructed to always wear disposable protective gloves while cleaning washrooms. All the toilets and washrooms will be cleaned at least thrice a day. Mess workers will also be monitored. The contractors will prepare a daily health bulletin of workers and submit the same to the warden concerned every day before 5 pm. Mess workers will have to wear masks, gloves, cap and clean clothes. Vegetables should be cleaned with vinegar, salt powder and warm water. Milk packets should be washed with soap and water before opening the same for usage. Sources from the university said, “We will not open Sector 25 hostels as they are still with the Chandigarh administration. All the PhD students will be adjusted in different hostels of Sector 14.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-issues-sops-for-hostels-no-night-outs-for-residents/articleshow/78919050.cms||Kamini Mehta
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||RLA starts process for e-auction of CH01-CC vehicle series today||Chandigarh: The registering and licensing authority (RLA) of the Chandigarh administration is going to start e-auction of new series - CH01-CC - along with re-auction of 418 leftover special or vanity registration numbers of the 10 series i.e. CH01-CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS. The registration for participating will start on October 29 at 10 am and will continue till 5 pm on November 6. The e-auction will start at 10 am on November 7 and will finish at 5 pm on November 9. Vehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website https://parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same will be available on the UT transport department’s website www.chdtransport.gov.in and obtain the unique acknowledgement number (UAN). Those who have purchased their vehicles from a Chandigarh address will only be allowed to participate in the e-auction. The sale letter i.e. Form No 21, Aadhaar card and address proof of Chandigarh are mandatory for participating in the e-auction. After getting registered, the owner of the vehicle will have to deposit fee for participating in the e-auction and will also have to deposit the reserve amount for special or choice registration numbers. To facilitate the public, Punjab Governor-cum-UT administrator V P Singh Badnore in August last year had launched the registration of new vehicles (non-transport) at dealers’ point. Vehicle owners will no longer have to stand in long queues and make rounds of the registration and licensing authority (RLA). The city has 52 dealers of cars and two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rla-starts-process-for-e-auction-of-ch01-cc-vehicle-series-today/articleshow/78919051.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Those with appointment to visit PGI OPDs from Nov 2||Chandigarh: With the decision on opening PGI OPDs from November 2 onwards, it is expected that 40% of the patients will be denied appointment as the numbers have been kept limited and patients will be called per the discretion of the consultants. Also, there is no physical barrier or sheet at the patient-doctor area. Sources said a physical barrier was made at three places on trial bases in the hospital, but as those were costly, the move was scrapped. “The only saviour is the holding area, where patients will be asked to wait after screening and it is only after this that 10 to 15 people, along with a single attendant, will be allowed inside the OPD complex,” said a faculty member. However, for patients on wheel chair, a single attendant will not be a practical move. “There will be a lot of chaos on November 2 as most patients will walk in without appointments,” said another faculty. For OPDs which will resume after seven months, patients with online consultation or appointment will be allowed and no walk-in patient will be examined, as decided by the PGI authorities. This will also cause a lot of inconvenience. “The registration timings have been reduced. It was 8 am to 10.30 am earlier, but the new timings are from 8 am to 9.30 am. It is assumed that over 1,000 patients will be seen in the OPDs every day, which is one-tenth of the routine pre-Covid OPD count,” said a senior doctor. However, there are some doctors who feel it is not feasible to have plastic curtains or physical barriers as physical examination cannot be done this way. “We need to see non-Covid patients, who have been ignored for a while now. These patients might need some routine investigations, which cannot be behind the curtains,” said a faculty. In May, there was a contingency plan for reopening of physical OPDs. It was decided to have a separated entry and exit for doctors and patients. “The same has been ignored now when OPDs are going to resume. Most places have seen a surge after a drop in the Covid-19 infections. If safety is not taken seriously, we will surely see another wave,” said a senior doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/those-with-appointment-to-visit-pgi-opds-from-nov-2/articleshow/78919044.cms||Shimona Kanwar
October 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Three pick-up trucks seized with liquor||YAMUNANAGAR: Haryana chief minister’s (CM) flying squad caught three pick-up utility vehicles loaded with 702 boxes of country liquor and Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) being transported without permits near Vishwakarma Chowk and RK filling station, Mumidi, under limits of Yamunanagar City and Farakpur police stations on Wednesday. As per information, when questioned, the drivers of vehicles failed to satisfy the flying squad with supporting documents. Police said liquor was loaded from the go-downs of two liquor contractors in Yamunanagar, and it was caught without permits issued by the excise inspectors to supply the consignment to liquor vends. Sub-inspector (SI) Dinesh Sharma, who was leading the CM’s flying squad during the raid, said the liquor was meant to be supplied to liquor vends. SI Dinesh said none of vehicle drivers had a valid permit for transporting the liquor. “The drivers failed to produce any document related to the supply of the liquor from go-downs to liquor vends. We have written to the police to lodge cases against two wine firms and the drivers,” he said. In both cases, the police have registered two cases against liquor contractors and drivers under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections of the Excise Act at Yamunanagar City and Farakpur police stations on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cm-flying-squad-seizes-3-pick-up-trucks-carrying-liquor-without-permit/articleshow/78921653.cms||Jaskaran Singh
October 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: More rural pupils migrating to govt schools, says report||PUNE: More rural students in the state, both boys and girls and in all classes, switched from private to government schools between 2018 and 2020. This trend was highest among students in standard VI and above, according to the 15th Annual Status of Education Report (ASER 2020 Wave 1) released online on Wednesday. ASER 2020 was conducted in 26 states and four Union Territories. It reached as many as 52,227 households and 59,251 children between 5 and 16 years of age, teachers or head teachers from 8,963 government schools with primary classes. Dinkar Patil, chairman of the State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT), said the migration from private to government schools was because of the increasing quality of government schools in the state. “The switch-over may not be due to financial distress at all. Many government schools are performing well and the teachers are innovative. They have adopted modern technology, and hence more parents are choosing government schools over private schools,” he said. Educationist Heramb Kulkarni said although the ASER report indicates that children have moved to government schools, it is imperative to consider the total number of private schools in Maharashtra and the students studying in them in the past three years. “If these statistics are compared, a real picture will emerge. The trend of students going to government schools may be true for rural parts, but in urban and semi-urban areas, this trend is not common. Hence, the statistics for the last three years needs to be compared,” he said. The ASER report also said there has been a 30% jump in the proportion of children whose families own a smartphone in the state. But despite the Right To Education Act that ensures education for all children, 5.9% students between 15 and 16 years of age are either not enrolled currently or were never enrolled in any school in the state. The percentage is higher in girls in the same age group with 6.8% not enrolled in schools when compared with 5.1% boys. Social media tool  Regardless of the type of school or the state, WhatsApp was the most common medium through which activities and materials were received. In Maharashtra, 91.4% students received learning materials/activities in the reference week via WhatsApp whereas the remaining received it through phone calls (9.1), personal visits (11.3) and other mediums (7.7). Dinkar Patil, chairman of the State Council for Education Research and Training said WhatsApp has become the go-to medium for the education sector because of its user-friendliness. “It doesn't matter whether you are educated or not, whether you live in rural or urban areas, everybody has WhatsApp and anyone can use it. If the school creates groups for students, all they need to do is to send a link to the parent’s WhatsApp. The parent does not require any id or password to login. They can just open the app and click on the link and they can see the learning material or hear the audio. Hence, its accessibility is the biggest advantage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-rural-pupils-migrating-to-govt-schools-says-report/articleshow/78920724.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman, father, brother held for husband’s murder||Fatehabad: The police arrested a woman, her father and brother, all residents of Nurki Ahali village in Fatehabad, for allegedly murdering her husband, a resident of Hisar, by attacking him with an iron rod and a baton. Victim Nishant (32) died on October 24 after he was allegedly attacked by some persons. He had married Anita, who was from a different caste, a year ago. Fatehabad Sadar police station registered a case on the complaint of his brother Prince, against the victim’s wife Anita, brother-in-law Joni, mother-in-law Nishu, father-in-law Makhan, Anita’s uncle Balbir and his sons Goldy and Bitu, all residents of Nurki Ahli village in Fatehabad, three other relatives and 10 unknown persons under sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (common object of unlawful assembly), 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-father-brother-held-for-husbands-murder/articleshow/78921654.cms||---
October 29, 2020||India||Against curbs on cross-border data storage & sharing, says Amazon||NEW DELHI: Appearing before a parliamentary panel, Amazon India on Wednesday said it was opposed to restrictions on cross-border storage or sharing of data as proposed in the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019. The e-commerce and cloud computing giant said data was only a “byproduct” of Amazon’s services and that imposing such restrictions through legislation would have a far-reaching impact on the platform’s business and bottomline. A panel member and former minister, however, pointed out that Amazon appeared to want to continue “enjoying a free hand like it had for so long” and seemed opposed, as a result, to the legislation and the restrictions it would impose on it. Committee members also said Amazon’s fears around data localisation, compensation, privacy risks and violation of intellectual property rights were misplaced, especially in light of the fact that non-personal data had been left outside the purview of the proposed bill. Incidentally, Amazon had last week declined to attend the committee’s summons claiming its subject matter experts were overseas and unable to travel due to the coronavirus pandemic. Later, however, the company clarified that it would fully cooperate with the parliamentary panel, after which it appeared before the committee on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/against-curbs-on-cross-border-data-storage-sharing-says-amazon/articleshow/78922435.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 recovery rate reaches 91% in Marathwada||AURANGABAD: The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in Marathwada has currently reached 91.32 %, better than the state average of 89.2%. At 2.91%, the mortality rate in the region is, however, marginally below the state-level mortality rate of 2.63%, official records show. The total number of confirmed cases across eight districts of Marathwada has reached 1,24,744 by Monday, including 1,13,921 recovered patients. As many as 3,633 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in Marathwada which currently has over 7,000 active cases. Dr. Santosh Ranjalkar, president of Aurangabad chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday said that the growing awareness about early testing for Covid-19 as well as evolved treatment protocols have been reflecting in terms of increasing recovery rate. “The doctors both from private and state-run hospitals have been arriving at fix criteria for treating Covid-19 cases as per symptoms that vary from patient to patient. Different drug combinations have been evolved with the help of central authorities to treat Covid-19 patients as per complexity. These factors together with early testing has reduced loss of lives due to Covid 19,” he said. Aurangabad district leads with highest 93.26% recovery rate in Marathwada, followed by Parbhani (92.96%), Hingoli (92.48%), Nanded (92.26%), Latur (92.31%), Osmanabad (91.13%), Beed (87.53%) and Jalna (84.06%). Meanwhile, with winter season around the corner, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has appealed to citizens to take extra precautions to keep Covid-19 at bay. “Even if Aurangabad is witnessing the low transmission period of Covid-19, the upcoming winter season could produce conducive conditions for the novel coronavirus to remain more active. Every citizen must build his or her immunity by having health diet and follow general Covid-19 prevention rules such as wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing as a precautionary measure,” AMC health officer Neeta Padalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-recovery-rate-reaches-91-in-marathwada/articleshow/78920799.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ministers appear in court, secure bail||T’puram: Ministers KT Jaleel and EP Jayarajan appeared in person before the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on Wednesday and secured bail in the assembly ruckus case of 2015. They appeared before the CJM court after the high court on Tuesday refused the government’s plea for excusing the appearance of ministers . Jaleel and Jayarajan were among the six opposition legislators who were arraigned as accused in the case that was registered by the police on the complaint filed by the legislative assembly secretary. The LDF MLAs, who were then part of the opposition, had unleashed chaos inside the assembly on March 13, 2015 in a bid to disrupt the proceedings and prevent the then finance minister KM Mani –who was facing bribery allegations – from presenting the budget. The other accused in the case are K Ajith, K Kunju Muhammed, C K Sadasivan and V Sivankutty. In September, CJM had dismissed the withdrawal petition filed by the government. In his order, CJM R Jayakrishnan held that the visual evidence of the damage caused by the legislators were in public domain and failure to take appropriate legal action on such unlawful activities would send a bad message to the society. The magistrate also held that the court had arrived at this decision based on the high court directive that cases related to destruction of public property must not be dismissed without trial. Though the government challenged this decision before the high court, the lower court’s decision was upheld by the high court. Besides securing bail in the case, the two ministers also filed their withdrawal petitions before the court. The petitions will be heard on November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ministers-appear-in-court-secure-bail/articleshow/78919061.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman succumbs to severe head injuries||PUNE: Mangal Satvadhar (48) had sustained severe head injuries in an attack by an unknown assailant while she was asleep at her daughter’s house at Tuljabhavaninagar, Kalewadi, on October 16. She succumbed to the injuries on Tuesday after fighting for her life for 11 days. Satvadhar’s sister-in-law Chhaya Gunjal (55) had died in the attack on October 16. The Pimpri Chinchwad police still do not have any clue about the motive of the fatal attack. Satvadhar, who hailed from Beed, Ahmednagar, had been staying in Kalewadi with her pregnant daughter. “My aunt’s daughter recently gave birth to a baby boy. She could not see her grandson,” Satvadhar’s relative told TOI. The attack happened between 4am and 5am on October 16, when the family was sleeping at their three-room house. Around 4am, Chhaya’s mother-in-law left the house to visit a vegetable market yard. While leaving, she closed the door without putting the latch on, the family claimed. Some intruders came in and attacked Chhaya and Satvadhar with a blunt object before leaving the house. Vivek Mugalikar, senior inspector of the Wakad police station said, “When the attack happened, there was no electricity at Gunjal’s home and a few neighbouring houses so the CCTV cameras in the area were not working. When we checked the CCTV cameras in the vicinity, we noticed one person cutting the wire and disconnecting the electricity supply.” An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said, “We find it very strange that no one from the house knew when the attack happened. Except an elderly woman, who had gone out, all of them were fast asleep.” Mugalikar said, “We have recorded the statements of the family members. We have also checked their call details from their mobile phones. We are yet to find the motive for the murders.” Satvadhar was cremated at her native village in Beed taluka on Wednesday. She is survived by her husband, three daughters and two sons. “We are a family of farm workers. My aunt had gone to Pune for her daughter’s delivery about a month ago. She had stayed at her relative’s house for 15 days and just a fortnight ago she had gone to Kalewadi to help her daughter. We do not know why she was attacked. She had sustained head injuries and was unconscious in the hospital for 11 days,” a relative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-succumbs-to-severe-head-injuries/articleshow/78920763.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Close-knit celebrations in store for Eid-e-Milad||PUNE: The Muslim community in the city is gearing up for Eid-e-Milad celebrations but people have vowed to keep the festivities limited to their homes and avoid processions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Seerat Committee and community leaders confirmed they have not sought police permission for the procession and appealed to people to respect the pandemic rules. Eid-e-Milad would be celebrated widely around the world on October 30. This day is observed as the birthday of Prophet Muhammad. Seerat committee secretary Rafiuddin Shaikh said, “The city police has offered permission for a procession with 10 people but we have refused to organize it. The committee, comprising Islamic scholars and others, has decided not to organize the procession this year because of the pandemic. We have appealed to Muslims to offer prayers at home and distribute food, fruits, sweets and sharbat to needy and poor people including widows, orphans and patients.” Maulana Abdul Rahaman, secretary of the Sunni Ulema Council, Pune, said, “People from all castes and communities have been refused permission for celebrating festivals. Therefore, we decided not to apply for permission for the procession because the city is severely affected by coronavirus.” Haji Zakir Shaikh, president of All India Quami Tanzeem (Western Maharashtra), said, “The decision of not taking out procession to contain the spread of virus is in public interest but the Muslim community members representing masjids, madrasas and mohalla committees was not consulted before taking the decision. Every year, lakhs of people participate in the procession. This year, we will celebrate the Prophet’s birthday at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/close-knit-celebrations-in-store-for-eid-e-milad/articleshow/78920801.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 29, 2020||Madurai||HC notice to MKU on plea to probe scams in distance edu||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notice to the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) in a plea which sought a direction to initiate criminal investigation into the scandals in the university.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi ordered notice while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by M Lionel Anrony Raj, a resident of Madurai.The petitioner stated that over the years there were several complaints about the distance education programme especially with regard to the conduct of the examinations. He stated that from 2017 to 2019, a major scandal came to light and the then additional controller of examinations of the university was suspended on charges such as financial irregularities, award of marksheet without conducting examinations, collection of exorbitant fee, and award of degree within six months by allowing students to write al the exams in a single day.He stated that since the vice-chancellor (VC) had failed to take effective steps, yet another scandal came to light with regard to conduct of examinations for distance education course where the students were allowed to write the exam in the place of their choice and some centres have sent the answer sheets several months later.The petitioner further stated that on receiving such complaints, the VC had constituted a committee under his chairmanship. The committee had recommended to file a complaint to the CB-CID with regard to irregularities in conducting distance education exams. He stated that the university syndicate had also passed a resolution to hand over the issue to CB-CID for necessary investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-notice-to-mku-on-plea-to-probe-scams-in-distance-edu/articleshow/78920811.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 8 cr pollution penalty on Narol units stayed||Ahmedabad: The Supreme Court has stayed the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) from collecting Rs 8.16 crore from Narol’s textile units as compensation for polluting the Sabarmati by discharging untreated effluents into it. The apex court ruling was delivered on Monday. The Narol Textile Infrastructure & Enviro Management, which runs the Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) in Pirana Sewage Farm area, approached the apex court against the GPCB’s notice issued on August 5. The pollution control board was demanding the compensation for environmental damages assessed on the directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT). In response to the industrial units’ complaint that they were not heard even once by the NGT during the suo motu proceedings, the SC stayed the GPCB’s demand notice and sought a reply from it, said advocate Purvish Malkan. In this case, one Adiya Singh Chauhan had written a letter to the NGT last year stating that Narol textile industries’ CETP did not treat effluents in a proper manner and discharged them untreated into the stream of the Sabarmati. The NGT took up the case and sought a report from the GPCB. The board had recorded in its report in November 2019 that effluents were discharged into the river after treatment by the CETP but the outlet norms were not met as the CETP does not have adequate capacity. The NGT directed the GPCB to assess environmental damages and recover the compensation for restoration on the ‘Polluter Pays’ principle. The total compensation was assessed at Rs 3.63 crore. In February 2020, the NGT ordered the GPCB to re-assess the compensation. The GPCB revised the figure to Rs 8.16 crore. On July 7, the NGT ordered the GPCB to recover the compensation. The industries challenged the NGT order as well as the GPCB notice arguing that the entire proceeding were conducted ex parte. The industries said had they been granted an opportunity, they could have explained how the CETP was commissioned in 2017 and how significant improvement was recorded over the past year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-8-cr-pollution-penalty-on-narol-units-stayed/articleshow/78920838.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Plea to include OBC in population enumeration before 2021 census||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notice to the central government in a plea which sought to include OBC category in the house listing operation (HLO) and population enumeration (PE) before commencement of 2021 census.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi ordered notice while hearing a public interest litigation filed by R Thavamanidevi, a resident of Madurai.The petitioner stated that after Census Act 1948, came into effect, it was carried out in two phases - HLO and EP - using separate schedule for collection of information and the central government decided to delete the caste particulars from both HLO and EP except for schedule castes and scheduled tribes.She stated that for the past 70 years, despite, constitutional mandate to provide adequate representation to the backward classes, no sincere effort has been made to collect the OBC census. The central government had published a gazette notification for 2021 census for collection of HLO and information on 31 questions which had excluded OBC category.She also stated that the authorities have failed to see that the purpose for which the SC/ST category is included to provide adequate representation and the very same purpose exists for OBC as well. Since the authorities failed to consider her representation, Thavamanidevi moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-include-obc-in-population-enumeration-before-2021-census/articleshow/78920845.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Faridkot jail staffer caught taking ‘bribe’||Bathinda: The Punjab vigilance bureau arrested Faridkot jail assistant superintendent Harbans Singh on Wednesday on the charges of accepting Rs 15,000 as bribe from Tehna villager Satwinder Singh. A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the vigilance police station. Satwinder’s nephew, murder accused Jaskaran Singh booked at Jaito on March 16, was in the Faridkot jail, where Harbans Singh had found a mobile phone on him. Deputy superintendent of police (vigilance) Ashwani Kumar said the jail official had demanded the money from Jaskaran to let him off for keeping a communication device. Jaskaran asked his uncle, Satwinder Singh, for the money, who alerted the vigilance department. DSP said: “The jail official called Satwinder outside the jail and when Harbans Singh came up on Wednesday to collect the money, the assistant jail superintendent walked into the vigilance trap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/faridkot-jail-staffer-caught-taking-bribe/articleshow/78921657.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Man who killed nine in Warangal to hide one murder gets death penalty||HYDERABAD/WARANGAL: A local court in Warangal on Wednesday convicted and sentenced to death Sanjay Kumar Yadav, 24, a worker at a gunny bag manufacturing unit, in the sensational killing of nine persons. His victims included six members of a family. The killings had taken place at Gorrekunta village in May. Sanjay had in all killed 10 people. He had first killed his live-in partner in March. The rest of the nine killings were committed a couple of months later to cover up the first murder. The trial in the murder of his live-in partner is still on in Andhra Pradesh as he had committed the crime there. The prosecution also produced a video of Sanjay raping his live-in partner’s 16-year-old daughter. The video was found on Sanjay’s phone. A separate case has been registered against him for rape and under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, public prosecutor M Satyanarayana Goud said. Goud had argued in court that this was a rarest of rare case where the death sentence could be given because of the number of people killed, the manner in which they were killed and also that the accused had raped a minor. Sanjay, a native of Bihar, had migrated to Warangal six years ago to work at the gunny bag unit. While working at the unit, he had become close to the family of a colleague, Maqsood Alam, who had migrated from West Bengal to Warangal about two decades back. Sanjay became intimate with Maqsood Alam’s niece, Rafeeqa, 37, who cooked food for the workers and lived nearby with her three children. Rafeeqa had noticed Sanjay moving with her teenage daughter and confronted him. To fool Rafeeqa, Sanjay promised to marry her. In the guise of introducing her to his family in West Bengal, he along with Rafeeqa boarded a train on March 6. After the train reached West Godavari, Sanjay gave Rafeeqa butter milk mixed with sleeping pills and pushed her out of the moving train. “After killing Rafeeqa, Sanjay returned to Warangal alone. When Maqsood and his wife threatened to lodge a police complaint for Rafeeqa’s disappearance, Sanjay decided to eliminate their famiily,” the public prosecutor said. Sanjay mixed sleeping pills in the food consumed by Maqsood’s family and co-workers on May 20 night during a party. After they fell unconscious, he pushed them into an abandoned well adjoining the gunny bags unit. Autopsy reports also confirmed that the victims were alive when they were dumped in the well, the public prosecutor said. The bodies of the victims — Maqsood Alam, 50, his wife Nisha Alam, 45, their sons Shabaz Alam, 21, Sohail Alam, 20, daughter Bushra Alam, 22, Bushra’s three-year-old son, Bablu, co-workers from Bihar, Sriram, 35, Shyam, 40 and a driver Shakeel, 40, — were retrieved from the well on May 21 and May 22. “The trial commenced on September 21. First additional district and sessions court judge of Warangal, Jaya Kumar, convicted Sanjay Kumar Yadav under Sections 302, 380 and 354-C sections of the IPC and sentenced him to death,” the public prosecutor said. Sanjay is currently lodged at the Warangal Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-who-killed-9-in-warangal-to-hide-1-murder-gets-death-penalty/articleshow/78922186.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 29, 2020||Pune||Five held for bid to kill college student in Khadki||PUNE: The Khadki police arrested five men, including a criminal on police record, and detained two minor boys on Tuesday night for attempting to kill a 21-year-old college student with sharp weapons and creating a reign of terror at Idgah Maidan locality. Senior inspector Rajendra Sahane from Khadki police said on Wednesday, “Nine men, including two minor boys, armed with swords, sickles and hockey sticks visited Dargah Vasahat near Idgah Maidan on Tuesday evening in search of one Siraj Qureshi, but did not find him there. The suspects forced local residents to remain in their homes.” Criminal Aniket Chandane spotted student Sameer Pathan and his two friends chatting outside their home. The three friends started running away when Chandane asked his aides to catch them. The suspects caught Pathan at Kasai mohalla and hit him on his head and chest, while his two friends ran away,” he said. Sahane added, “Investigations revealed that Chandane and his associates did not know Pathan and his friends but carried out the attack merely to create a reign of terror in the locality. We have arrested Chandane and four others based on the information provided by Pathan and others. They will be in police custody remand till October 30.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-held-for-bid-to-kill-college-student-in-khadki/articleshow/78920805.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Jetties not for coal but for passengers, says Lobo||Panaji: Referring to the setting up of jetties in the state, ports minister Michael Lobo on Wednesday said that none are being built to transport coal but are in fact for passengers. He said a state requires at least one project like a marina to boost tourism. “ NGOs are spreading rumours that coal would be transported through these jetties,” he further said. The minister said he would even speak to Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and verify if anything is proposed by the trust which is against Goa and Goans. He said that under Sagarmala all powers will remain with the state government. Shooting down rumours of seaplane landings becoming a regular feature in the Mandovi, Lobo said that even if we “get a proposal to land seaplanes to boost tourism we will reject the proposal”. Lobo told reporters that there has been no policy decision taken by the state government to allow such landings in the state. “Mining barges are not in operation nor are casinos and hence the channel was empty so we allowed the landing. Once all the feeder boats and barges start we will not allow seaplanes to land in the Mandovi,” he said. A 15-seater DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft of Maldivian Aero, had landed at Panaji in river Mandovi this past Sunday for a technical halt while on its way to Ahmedabad. Lobo said dredging at the mouth of the Sal will be taken up at a cost of Rs 8 crore. Reacting to Ayush minister Shripad Naik opposing the setting up of new garbage treatment plant at Bainguinim, Lobo said that it is up to chief minister Pramod Sawant to take a decision whether to shift the plant from Bainguinim. So far, Goa waste management corporation has not taken any decision to shift the plant, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jetties-not-for-coal-but-for-passengers-says-lobo/articleshow/78921662.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Sputnik Vaccine may be available for use in India only by second quarter 2021||HYDERABAD: The Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V is likely to be available for use in India only around the second quarter of 2021 as the Phase III trials are not expected to wind up before March 2021 end and may even take longer. Confirming this on Wednesday, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories CEO Erez Israeli said the Phase III studies are expected to be completed only as early as March end and may even take April or May 2021 or beyond to complete. “It can be as early as March end but it can take longer…depends of course on the type of results that will be obtained…and if there will be no additional requirements by the authorities...it is not just about the trials but the ability to compile the data and obtain approvals...its a combination of Phase II studies in India, the global Phase III studies and the Phase III trials in India…,” Israeli said on Wednesday. He said Phase II trials are expected to be finished by December this year after which the company will get onto the Phase III human trials of the vaccine, for which Dr Reddy’s has entered into a tie-up with Russian sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF). Dr Reddy’s, which received approval to carry out Phase II/III studies in India just a couple of weeks ago, will be conducting Phase II trials on 100 subjects and Phase III studies on 1,500 volunteers. It will also be distributing 100 million doses of Sputnik V in India. Israeli, who was speaking in a post quarterly results conference call, also said the company has zeroed in on a manufacturing partner in India for making the vaccine. He, however, refused to disclose any details about the partner. Interestingly, while Sputnik V is the only Covid-19 vaccine that Dr Reddy’s is engaged with in India, Israeli said the company is exploring other vaccine options for other countries while refusing to divulge any further details. On the emergency use authorisation for Sputnik V in India, he said that would be a decision the Indian authorities would have to take and the company would not like to speculate on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sputnik-v-may-be-available-for-use-in-india-only-by-q2-2021/articleshow/78920876.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Molestation slur on youth||PUNE: The Bibvewadi police on Tuesday arrested an 18-year-old youth and detained two minor boys on the charge of molesting an eight-year-old girl at a garage in Gandhinagar on Tuesday. Senior inspector Kumar Ghadge of the Bibwewadi police on Wednesday said, “The girl was on her way to a shop when the youth and the two boys, aged 12 and 15 years, lured her to visit the garage. The youth, who works as a mechanic at the garage, confined her there.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/molestation-slur-on-youth/articleshow/78920828.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||34 out of 100 in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits have been exposed to virus||PUNE: A serological survey in Pimpri Chinchwad found history of Covid-19 in 34% of 5,000 people tested. The study, the largest so far in the Pune Metropolitan Region, surveyed residents of slums and apartments from all eight PCMC wards. Antibody prevalence was high (35%) among adults in the 51-65 age group. They were followed by the 12-18 age group, which had a seropositivity of 34%. Citizens in the age groups of 31 to 50 and 19 to 30 also showed considerable antibody prevalence, of 31% and 29% respectively. And despite many of them staying home for months, 28% of senior citizens in the twin towns (above 66 years of age) showed they had come in contact with the virus at some point in time. The survey also proved the virus takes advantage of household crowding. For example, 75% of residents from the slums of Pimple Nilakh gaothan, Trimurtinagar and Vinayaknagar had antibodies. But some high-income residential pockets of Sambhajinagar and Keshavnagar had the lowest prevalence of just 4%. Experts said the high prevalence means there are now fewer susceptible people in PCMC limits — a factor they said could reduce the impact of a second wave, if it comes. Sero surveys check blood samples for a specific class of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies called immunoglobulin G or IgG that appear within two weeks of infection. These antibodies do offer some immunity, even if the duration of that protection is under debate. And as per epidemiological theory, if 25% of a population has antibodies, the impact of subsequent infection waves could be much lower. “This survey has shown where people are most vulnerable to a second wave, if it comes,” an official from the PCMC’s health wing said. A similar survey by the PMC in August had come under criticism for its low sampling — 1,664 people from only five high-incidence zones. Experts said the study was just too small for a city with an estimated population of 35 lakh. But does the presence of IgG antibodies mean resistance to Covid-19? In an interview, virologist Priya Abraham, director of the National Institute of Virology, had said quantity matters too. “It (immunity) is largely dependent on concentration of antibody levels in the blood — called ‘antibody titer’,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/34-out-of-100-in-pcmc-limits-have-been-exposed-to-virus/articleshow/78920871.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 29, 2020||Patna||Nitish showers PM Modi with praise for aiding Bihar||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday promised that the civil enclave airport at Darbhanga would be upgraded into an international airport even as he showered praises on PM Narendra Modi at two joint rallies for helping Bihar. Addressing an election rally in the presence of PM Narendra Modi at the university ground in Darbhanga town, Nitish said, “Construction work on the civil airport (at Darbhanga) is going on in full swing. Once the airport becomes operational, a large number of people from this region will avail the facilities of air services from the civil airport. I have full confidence that one day Darbhanga civil airport will be finally upgraded into an international airport.” The CM extended special thanks to the PM for deciding to establish the Bihar’s second AIIMS at Darbhanga. “It is our wish that the state’s second AIIMS is opened at Darbhanga. The Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital is the oldest medical institution in the state after the Patna-based medical college. Now as the Centre has decided, the state’s second AIIMS would be established at Darbhanga. And, it is a matter of great happiness for us,” Nitish, who is also the JD(U) president, said. Nitish further praised the central assistance for the development of Bihar. He said, “The PM has taken certain special initiatives for the development of the state. More than Rs 50,000 crore was provided for construction of roads and bridges in the state, eight new medical colleges are being established with the assistance of Union government.” Nitish also thanked the PM for providing special trains for the safe return of migrant workers to Bihar during the lockdown period. Later, at another election rally at the Veterinary College ground in Patna, Nitish said the PM’s special initiatives for the development of Bihar could not be forgotten. “People of Bihar know that the PM had laid the foundation for the Patna Metro just before the beginning of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Now, the construction of Patna Metro rail is underway and it is not an ordinary fact that people of Patna would soon avail the facility of metro trains,” Nitish said showering praises on the PM. He said the Centre has taken up several development projects in the state capital. “Several schemes under the Patna Smart City Project are under the final stage. Very recently, the PM inaugurated sewerage treatment plants at Beur and Karmali Chak,” he said. Lauding the Centre’s assistance to poor families during the Covid-19 period, Nitish said more than 85 lakh poor families in Bihar were provided free refilling of LPG cylinders under the Ujjawala Yojana. Bihar CM further called upon the electors to give the NDA one more chance on the PM’s appeal. “If you provide us one more term, Bihar will be converted into a ‘developed’ state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-showers-pm-with-praise-for-aiding-state/articleshow/78923384.cms||Madan Kumar
October 29, 2020||---||Nitish showers PM Modi with praise for aiding Bihar||PATNA: Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday promised that the civil enclave airport at Darbhanga would be upgraded into an international airport even as he showered praises on PM Narendra Modi at two joint rallies for helping Bihar. Addressing an election rally in the presence of PM Narendra Modi at the university ground in Darbhanga town, Nitish said, “Construction work on the civil airport (at Darbhanga) is going on in full swing. Once the airport becomes operational, a large number of people from this region will avail the facilities of air services from the civil airport. I have full confidence that one day Darbhanga civil airport will be finally upgraded into an international airport.” The CM extended special thanks to the PM for deciding to establish the Bihar’s second AIIMS at Darbhanga. “It is our wish that the state’s second AIIMS is opened at Darbhanga. The Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital is the oldest medical institution in the state after the Patna-based medical college. Now as the Centre has decided, the state’s second AIIMS would be established at Darbhanga. And, it is a matter of great happiness for us,” Nitish, who is also the JD(U) president, said. Nitish further praised the central assistance for the development of Bihar. He said, “The PM has taken certain special initiatives for the development of the state. More than Rs 50,000 crore was provided for construction of roads and bridges in the state, eight new medical colleges are being established with the assistance of Union government.” Nitish also thanked the PM for providing special trains for the safe return of migrant workers to Bihar during the lockdown period. Later, at another election rally at the Veterinary College ground in Patna, Nitish said the PM’s special initiatives for the development of Bihar could not be forgotten. “People of Bihar know that the PM had laid the foundation for the Patna Metro just before the beginning of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Now, the construction of Patna Metro rail is underway and it is not an ordinary fact that people of Patna would soon avail the facility of metro trains,” Nitish said showering praises on the PM. He said the Centre has taken up several development projects in the state capital. “Several schemes under the Patna Smart City Project are under the final stage. Very recently, the PM inaugurated sewerage treatment plants at Beur and Karmali Chak,” he said. Lauding the Centre’s assistance to poor families during the Covid-19 period, Nitish said more than 85 lakh poor families in Bihar were provided free refilling of LPG cylinders under the Ujjawala Yojana. Bihar CM further called upon the electors to give the NDA one more chance on the PM’s appeal. “If you provide us one more term, Bihar will be converted into a ‘developed’ state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-showers-pm-with-praise-for-aiding-state/articleshow/78920931.cms||Madan Kumar
October 29, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Enforcement Directorate quizzes V K Ebrahim Kunju||KOCHI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday again interrogated former PWD minister V K Ebrahim Kunju at its Kochi office in connection with investigation into an alleged money laundering case. The former minister appeared before ED at around 11am and the questioning went on till late afternoon. The case pertains to the alleged deposit of around Rs 10 crores into the account of a vernacular daily in 2016. The money was deposited through two banks in Kochi following demonetization. A complaint was filed by Kalamassery native Girish Babu alleging foul play and the Kerala high court ordered ED to conduct a probe. According to sources, Kunju handed over some documents which claim that the deposited money was subscription fees collected for the vernacular daily. Kunju told media persons that the questioning was only to collect primary details. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-quizzes-ebrahim-kunju/articleshow/78919094.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht ex-Jathedar joins missing saroops issue, to protest||Amritsar: Joining the issue of 328 missing saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS), former Jathedar of Akal Takht Bhai Ranjit Singh has announced to stage a daylong dharna at the gate of SGPC to demand that acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal clear the confusion over the missing holy books and answer the questions raised by sangat. “Sikhs across the world are deeply hurt with the disrespect to SGGS and we have vowed to find every saroop that the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) claims to have gone missing,” said Ranjit Singh while talking to TOI on Wednesday. He said on November 7, he along with other Sikhs, would sit in front of the SGPC gate to seek answers from both Harpreet Singh and Longowal on the basis of the report advocate Ishar Singh’s team prepared in the case of missing saroops. He said they would sit till evening and if they do not get the answers, they would take the issue to the media. “We will not allow anyone to run away from their responsibility or feign ignorance about the current status of missing SGGSs,” said the former Jathedar. Condemning a resolution adopted by the SGPC executive body against holding a demonstration in the SGPC complex, he said no organisation could stop Sikhs from holding a demonstration if something seriously wrong has been committed. Meanwhile, representatives of various agitating Sikh bodies held a nearly two-hour sit-in near the Maharaja Ranjit Singh statue in Heritage Street protesting against the registration of criminal cases against their volunteers. Professor Balwinder Singh of Hawara Panel said, “We held a symbolic dharna to protest against the SGPC task force attacking the Sikhs agitating for their Guru who were dealt with utmost barbarity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/akal-takht-ex-jathedar-joins-missing-saroops-issue-to-protest/articleshow/78921666.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune Municipal Corporation joins hands with NGOs to make cycle tracks usable||PUNE: The civic body is closely working with road safety NGOs to tweak the designs of cycle tracks and make them more user-friendly. Several representatives of the NGOs have been saying that the cycle tracks are rendered unusable because of several reasons, including lack of connectivity and use by pedestrians. NGOs Save Pune Traffic Movement and Parisar are working with the civic body’s road department to experiment with the design on a 2-2.5km stretch along Pashan Road. Save Pune Traffic Movement director Harshad Abhyankar said the new footpath and cycle track developed at Karve Road last year prompted him to suggest the changes in design. “The cycle track between Maharshi Karve statue and the Karishma Society junction on Karve Road is hardly used by cyclists. They prefer riding on the carriageway. The situation at other cycle tracks in the city is similar,” he said. “There was a need to take a hard look at the situation and do something on an experimental basis. We gave a presentation to the civic body’s road department and they agreed to the idea. The project was stalled due to Covid-19. But it’s being revived now,” Abhyankar said. Dinkar Gojare, executive engineer of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s road department, said, “We recently received Rs2 crore from the National Clean Air Programme for developing cycle tracks. Based on people’s recommendations, we will develop a segregated cycle track along Pashan Road so that the pedestrians do not wander onto it.” The engineer said, “The track will be at the level of the carriageway but also separated from it as against being on the same level with the pavement. The design and drawing should be ready soon”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-joins-hands-with-ngos-to-make-cycle-tracks-usable/articleshow/78920842.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Tenkasi collectorate not at Melagaram, State tells court||Madurai: The state government has informed the Madras high court that the masterplan complex building for Tenkasi collectorate will not be constructed at Melagaram village. The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed with regard to the selection of the location for the construction of the collectoate building for the newly-bifurcated Tenkasi district. Additional advocate general M Sricharan Rangarajan submitted that the government had decided not to construct the building at the earlier site which was identified at Melagaram village and an alternate site will be chosen. The district collector also informed that a committee comprising commissioner of revenue administration, joint chief secretary, collector and district revenue officer had identified nine sites including Melagaram for construction of the building.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tenkasi-collectorate-not-at-melagaram-state-tells-court/articleshow/78920862.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Conduct archaeological excavation at riverbed along Athur: Plea in HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday ordered notices to the central and state governments in a plea which sought to conduct excavation at the riverbed along Athur village at Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Kamaraj, a historical writer based at Tuticorin district.The petitioner stated that several ancient structures were visible at the Athur riverbed and several ancient stone structures and brick stones of different nature are seen at the site. He stated that the Adichanalllur archaeological site is situated 15km away from this site and they could share a history as they are situated along the Thamirabarani river. Since carrying out excavation would throw light on the culture, the petitioner sought to carryout archaeological excavation at the riverbed.Similarly, V Narayanamoorthy, a freelance archaeologist at Dindigul district, filed a public interest litigation seeking a direction to conduct underwater archaeological excavation to find out ‘Kumari Kandam’ which is mentioned in several ancient Tamil literatures. The petitioner stated that Kumari Kandam, which was once located on the southern side of Kanyakumari had submerged under the Indian Ocean due to natural calamities. The court ordered notice to the central and state governments.The court also ordered notice to the governments in a public interest litigation filed by K Pushpavanam, who sought for a series of directions including the ASI to allocate more funds for protection and preservation of archaeological monuments in Tamil Nadu on a par with the allocation of funds for other states. The petitioner also sought to create a new ASI Circle in Tuticorin district and a special ASI wing exclusively for marine archaeology in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/conduct-archaeological-excavation-at-riverbed-along-athur-plea-in-hc/articleshow/78920893.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Covid-19 increases risks of stroke due to blood clotting’||Ahmedabad: A 45-year-old man from the city tested positive for Covid-19, and while in home isolation, felt one side of his body getting numb and difficulty in speech. He was rushed to a hospital where he was diagnosed with stroke caused by blood clotting – a direct impact of Covid-19. “Timely identification and intervention saved him from long-term implications such as paralysis,” said Dr Mukesh Sharma, a city-based interventional neurologist and stroke specialist. “Our observation is that Covid-19 has increased risk of stroke with prevalence of blood clotting by up to 10%. It is why most patients who are treated post recovery are given blood thinners.”Dr Arvind Sharma, head of neurology at a city hospital, said a 73-year-old woman had come to the hospital with paralysis. “After starting treatment, her Covid-19 report was positive. Her relatives were worried that due to her age she would require critical care. But no such thing happened – she recovered in a few days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-increases-risks-of-stroke-due-to-blood-clotting/articleshow/78920926.cms||Parth Shastri
October 29, 2020||Goa||Faulty ration cards to be cancelled||Panaji: The department of civil supplies is looking into the issue of faulty ration cards. It will cross check the genuineness of such ration cards and officers found guilty of issuing them will be suspended, minister of civil supplies and consumer affairs, Govind Gaude said. “Every ration card has been linked with the holder’s Aadhar card, so the question of fake ration cards doesn’t arise. All the ration cards we generate now are computerised. However, there are old ration cards that are handwritten and no longer in service,” he said. He said that Goa is the only state where 98% authentic Aadhar data entry has been done. “This data entry is done manually, so maybe there is a possibility of the person making a mistake in entering details. We will take action against the person after we find out,” he said. He has said that the director of civil supplies has been asked to conduct an enquiry in the matter. Some years ago, the issue of bogus ration cards had cropped up when it was found that some migrants in the state were using such cards to apply for an Aadhar card. “We are collecting all necessary documents. If an outsider approaches us for a new ration card, it can be given provided it is not duplicate and his name is not cited in any other part of the country. We are therefore asking them for a cancellation certificate from their state. To check if the beneficiary is registered in any part of India, the department is writing to their authority about the application received here and confirming it and asking for an NOC,” he said. On the civil supplies survey to check card holders, he said that it will be conducted in the next financial year. “In March-April-May, we can carry out the survey by going to houses without any fear. I have spoken to the CM about this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faulty-ration-cards-to-be-cancelled/articleshow/78921680.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: No fresh infections in 44% of 1,150 villages in district in last few days||PUNE: At least 502 of the 1,150 villages in Pune district, which had earlier recorded Covid-19 cases, have reported no fresh infections during the period ranging from five to 14 days, Pune zilla parishad (ZP) officials said on Wednesday. The official said this was apart from the 250 villages, where the virus never made an entry. In total, Pune district has 1,400 villages. The rural areas of Pune have recorded as many as 51,743 Covid-19 cases since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Of these, 47,626 patients have been discharged after successful recovery, while a total of 1,290 people have succumbed to the Covid-related complications. Till Tuesday, there were as many as 2,827 active cases in rural Pune. Ayush Prasad, the ZP’s chief executive officer, told TOI on Wednesday, “More villages reporting no fresh Covid-19 cases over the last week or two is a good sign. This trend raises hopes of the situation coming back to normal. The villages, where the cases were in triple digits, are now reporting single-digit cases.” He said, “The aggressive Majhe Kutumb Majhi Jababdari (My family, my responsibility) campaign for tracing and treating people affected by the virus has helped in containing the spread of the virus. We have created health infrastructure within a short period of time and this helped in timely treatment of patients. However, our death rate is still above 2.4%, which is worrisome for us. We want to bring it down to less than 2% as soon as possible.” Khed, Haveli and Maval tehsils in the district had most number of villages affected by the contagion. Khed’s medical officer BB Gadve said, “About 130 out of the total162 villages in our tehsil had recorded Covid-19 cases. Now, there are only 55 villages, mostly located close to Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas, reporting new cases. Overall, the situation has improved, considering that we were reporting 150-odd positive cases every day till some time back, We are now reporting as many as 30-35 cases per day.” Haveli’s block development officer Prashant Shirke said, “Covid-19 cases are on the decline in big gram panchayats like Wagholi, Loni Kalbhor, Manjri, Loni Kand, Narhe Ambegaon and Uruli Kanchan in the last three to four weeks. These villages were recording more than 50 positive cases daily till some time back. Now, this has been reduced to less than 20 per day. We expect to see a further decline in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-fresh-infections-in-44-of-1150-villages-in-district-in-last-few-days/articleshow/78920944.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Modi govt let down country, stimulus a hogwash: KTR||HYDERABAD: Faulting the Centre for blaming the ‘act of god’ for poor GDP growth rate, TRS working president KT Rama Rao said the (Narendra) Modi government had let down the country in the last two years. He also took potshots at the Centre’s economic stimulus which, he said, was hogwash and people were left to fend for themselves. He said the country’s GDP was slowing down eight quarters (two years) before the lockdown was imposed in March this year. “Now, the Union finance minister says the GDP would be either near zero or go minus in the current financial year due to the prevailing pandemic,” KTR said during an informal chat with mediapersons here on Wednesday. Quoting an RBI report on the state’s finances released on Tuesday, he said Telangana stood next only to Maharashtra in extending loan waiver to the farmers in the country. It spent Rs 27,718 crore in the last six years. The government had spent another Rs 28,000 crore on Rythu Bima, providing input subsidy and other pro-farmer schemes. “Telangana stood first in the country as far as the growth of GSDP is concerned. Telangana topped the list of big states with 14.2% growth. The contribution of agriculture sector to the GSDP has increased three-fold in 2019-20, which is phenomenal,” KTR said. On the other hand, the Modi government had promised Rs 20 lakh crore economic package to the agriculture sector, industries and common people in the country, Rs 15 lakh to every citizen’s bank account, two crore jobs and housing for all by 2022. “None of this has materialised till now,” he said. Lambasting the state BJP leaders, KTR said the BJP leaders were asking the state government to publish a white paper on funds released to Dubbak constituency. “In fact, the Centre should come out with a white paper on what it has given to the state so far. Telangana contributes lakhs of rupees in the form of taxes to the central pool. But, the NDA government at the Centre has not released funds for Mission Kakatiya, Mission Bhagiratha and accorded national status to Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project,” he complained. He said BJP state president Bandi Sanjay had claimed that the Centre had given Rs 7,000 crore to tackle Covid-19 in Telangana and some other leaders made baseless charges that the government had failed to take flood relief measures. “Bengaluru was also flooded recently. Their (BJP) government is ruling Karnataka,” KTR said. He said the four BJP MPs, including Kishan, have not managed to get additional funds to the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modi-govt-let-down-country-stimulus-a-hogwash-ktr/articleshow/78920949.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Hear CBI case first, ED’s later, Jagathi urges court||HYDERABAD: Jagathi publications, the Sakshi media house, on Wednesday urged the CBI special court in Hyderabad to first proceed with the CBI case filed against it and the case filed by enforcement directorate (ED), as an offshoot of CBI case, can be looked into later. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy said this before principal special judge B R Madhusudhan Rao of CBI courts whose court was also designated as ED special court. Simultaneous hearing is better. Or CBI case hearings should take place first, he said. Explaining the provisions of the prevention of money laundering Act (PMLA) under which the ED functions, the senior counsel said that ED derives its strength from a scheduled offence recorded by CBI. For instance, he said, if there is cheating as a crime in an FIR registered by CBI, ED comes into picture because cheating is a scheduled offence under PMLA and concentrates on money generated and laundered from such crime. To put it short, CBI looks at the crime whereas the ED looks at the proceeds of crime, Niranjan explained. That is the reason why we are saying that the trial court should first look at the aspect whether there was a crime committed in the first place. If the CBI court comes to a conclusion that there was no cheating, the alleged crime in the case, then the question of looking at the proceeds of crime does not arise at all, he argued. In fact a joint trial would protect the interests of a fair trial, he said. In the very Jagathi investments case,he reminded, this trial court itself had opined that a simultaneous hearing of both CBI and ED cases would meet the ends of justice. The judge posted the case to Thursday for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hear-cbi-case-first-eds-later-jagathi-urges-court/articleshow/78920979.cms||M Sagar Kumar
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Hamirpur horticulture college to make biodiversity registers||Shimla: The College of Horticulture and Forestry, Neri, Hamirpur, an affiliate of Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni, is preparing people’s biodiversity registers (PBRs) for Hamirpur, Una, Bilaspur, and Chamba districts, and 15 blocks. UHF vice-chancellor Parvinder Kaushal said: “The PBRs will help us identify threatened species for conservation planning and research.” Funded by the HP State Biodiversity Board, the project has a budget of Rs 27.5 lakh. The PBRs are being prepared based on the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, and the standardized formats of National Biodiversity Authority, Chennai. Neri college assistant professor Dushyant Sharma is nodal officer for the job, while Sanjeev Banyal, Deepa Sharma, Ravi Bhardwaj, and Richa Salwan are on the team. Parliament enacted the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, for the conservation, sustainable use and equitable sharing of biological resources. Under this law, 3,371 biodiversity management committees (BMCs) have been formed at all local bodies in the state. The PBRs contain comprehensive information on plants, animals, microbes, insects, and their possible use by the local communities. Human population, climate, topography, natural ecosystems, livestock resources, and livelihood patterns are also studied. These 32 types of formats include agricultural and fodder crops, fruits, plants (medicinal, ornamental, and timber), weeds, pests and crop insects, microbial diversity, domesticated animals, fish diversity, market for domesticated animals, market/fairs for domesticated animals and other products, people-scape, landscape, waterscape, soil type, trees, shrubs, herbs, tubers, grasses, climbers, key wild plant species, wild plants of medicinal importance, wild relatives of crops, wild ornamental plants, wild fumigate/chewing plants, timber plants, other plants in the wild, wild animal species, wild aquatic biodiversity, and wild aquatic species of importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hamirpur-horticulture-college-to-make-biodiversity-registers/articleshow/78921682.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cancellation & rescheduling of flights hassle passengers||PUNE: Many flyers are hassled over alleged sudden cancellation and rescheduling of flights as well as lack of updates from airlines following the suspension of night operations at the city airport from October 26 because of the runway re-carpeting work. Vikas Saini, set to fly to Delhi on November 6 and return on November 27, said most airlines were still taking bookings for night-time flights. “I have a GoAir flight from Delhi to Pune at 9.30pm on November 27. The customer service representative of the airline told me until Tuesday that the flight was on though the Pune-Delhi flight for November 6 had been cancelled by the airline,” Saini said. Shalwa Milind Karwe, scheduled to fly to Nagpur on November 25 and return on November 27, said, “I had no idea about the runway restrictions till Monday. I had booked a return ticket of an IndiGo flight for November 29, which was rescheduled to 11am. The timing was not suitable to me. Hence, I cancelled the ticket and booked a GoAir flight at 8.45pm on Sunday. I wonder why the airline confirmed my booking when the restrictions are already in place. I am trying to contact the airline but haven’t been able to speak to anyone yet.” Working professional Ajay Shandilya said, “It has become very difficult to contact the airlines even on social media. I had to fly from Pune to Delhi, and from there to Ranchi on November 15. I decided to avoid the Pune airport and booked a direct flight from Mumbai to avoid any confusions.” Emails were sent to airlines, including IndiGo, GoAir, SpiceJet, Air Asia and Vistara, with specific questions on alleged problems of passengers. But there was no response till the time of going to press. Those having connecting flights are facing different hardships. Varun Deshpande returned to the city from Ahmedabad with his parents on Tuesday evening. He said, “We had to fly from Pune to Ahmedabad on October 24. By chance, on October 23, I read a newspaper report on the runway closure. I called the airline (GoAir) and managed to get in touch with one of its representatives after holding the line for around 50 minutes. Since I had booked a round-trip, he told me that my Ahmedabad-Pune flight had been rescheduled. The airline did not give me any choice when it comes to cancellation of tickets.” He said the return flight, scheduled at 9pm, was changed into Ahmedabad-Delhi-Pune connecting flight. It took off at 8am with a nine-hour layover in Delhi. “My parents, both senior citizens, faced several problems. We finally reached Pune at 7.30pm on Tuesday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cancellation-rescheduling-of-flights-hassle-passengers/articleshow/78920864.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 29, 2020||Pune||NGT gives PMC 4 months to shut Baner garbage plant||PUNE: The National Green Tribunal’s principal bench in Delhi has ordered the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to close its wet garbage processing plant on Sus Road, Baner, and shift it to “any other location” within four months. “The plant is in violation of the right to clean environment of the inhabitants and is against the statutory norms,” a four-member bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice A K Goel said in an order on Tuesday. Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and expert members Satyawan Singh Garbyal and Nagin Nanda were other members of the bench, which said that the present site may be used for its original purpose of a biodiversity park. It said the district collector will be the nodal officer of a panel comprising central and state pollution regulators, the collector and PMC to monitor further course of action. Lawyer Saurabh Kulkarni, who represented applicant Sus Baner Road Vikas Manch, told TOI, “The PMC now has the option of moving an appeal in the Supreme Court. We have already filed a caveat in the apex court. The NGT has cited several violations while ordering closure of the garbage plant.” The Vikas Manch had filed the application on March 2, 2019, following which the green tribunal constituted a joint committee of experts to inspect the site and file a report. The bench said, “The project commenced in March 2019. The deficiencies noted in the report exist. Even today any fresh application can be filed with the grievance that the plant is operating in violation of the rules.”  “On merits, we find that consent to establish (the plant) is required under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. Admittedly, such consent has not been taken. Consent to establish must precede any authorisation (by pollution regulator) and thereafter, there has to be consent to operate from time to time,” it said. The bench said, “Apart from this procedural shortcoming, we find that the location of the plant at a hillock and in the vicinity of habitation is not desirable and is at the cost of the right of the inhabitants to pollution-free environment. It is also in violation of Rule 20 of the SWM Rules, 2016. Further, during the joint inspection, odour has been found in and around the premises, which itself violates the rights of the inhabitants in the vicinity.” “There is violation of statutory guidelines. Nearest residential apartment has been found to be within 66 meters from boundary of the plant. Housing societies within 107 meters from the outer boundary of plant and 15 apartments within 200 meters. Thus, the plant is within the prohibited distance,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngt-gives-pmc-4-months-to-shut-baner-garbage-plant/articleshow/78920921.cms||Vishwas Kothari
October 29, 2020||Madurai||‘Need votes? Install Maruthu brothers’ statue in Sivaganga’||Madurai: President of the Marudhu Senna Sangam, Karu Athinarayanan Thevar on Wednesday said that installing a statue for the Maruthupandiar brothers in Sivaganga, the land where they ruled, is a must if any party wants to garner the votes of the ahamudaiyar community, which has 20% representation in Tamil Nadu’s population.“We are expecting chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to announce the statue for Marudhupandiar in Sivaganga. This would ensure that he gets our loyal votes,” he said.Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Wednesday, he said that their community had lost out on the political scenario resulting in their people losing many of their rights. Political representation was a must for any community, including economic development, which the ahamudaiyar community has lost to other community clusters, he said.The ahamudaiyar community had widespread representation of over one lakh voters in 60 of the constituencies, including Thirumangalam, Thiruparankundram, Tiruchuzhi, and Sivaganga among others, he said. He said a statue was only the first step towards making their presence felt and next they would seek proper representation in politics as there were no MPs or MLAs from their community now. “If this is not done, we would work against the communities, which are given seats in constituencies where we are a majority,” he said.Realising our importance, this year, 10 ministers and 20 MLAs visited the memorial for the brothers in Sivaganga, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/need-votes-install-maruthu-brothers-statue-in-sivaganga/articleshow/78920932.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Doc dies after car catches fire in Sohna||Gurgaon: The half-burnt body of a 35-year-old doctor was found in his car on Sohna road near Bhondsi on Wednesday. His family said he left the hospital where he worked in the early hours of Wednesday after treating a patient, but didn’t return home. A preliminary investigation revealed that the car had a CNG kit caught fire due to some fault in the kit or leakage of CNG. Family members, however, have alleged foul play. The doctor, Kanwar Pal Raghav, was a resident of Ghamroj village. He was working with Krishna Hospital in Sohna. Police said Raghav last called his family at 12.30am on Wednesday and told them that he was treating a patient in the emergency ward and he would reach home late. A few hours later, villagers found his Maruti Celerio car burnt on Sohna road with his charred body inside. “Raghav was working in the night shift at the hospital since the lockdown. On Tuesday night, he was in the emergency ward and left the hospital early the next morning,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan. Police received a call around 6.30am from villagers and a team from Bhondsi police station reached the spot and took the body to the mortuary. He said a preliminary investigation revealed that the car had a CNG kit and some fault in the kit or leakage of the gas led to the car catching fire. Due to the fire, the car got locked automatically and Raghav died due to suffocation. “Prima facie, it appears to be an accident, but we have not ruled out any other possibility,” ACP Sangwan said, adding that they are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death. Meanwhile, family members said they suspect foul play. “We suspect Raghav was killed after someone set his car on fire,”his family said in a statement to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/doc-dies-after-car-catches-fire-in-sohna/articleshow/78921675.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Man, 53, with Covid-19 signs leaps off hosp building, dies||Madurai: A 53-year-old man ended his life by jumping off a government hospital building in Madurai on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Manoharan, 53, of Bibikulam. He was running a two-wheeler repair shop in his house. Manoharan complained of stomach pain a few days ago and was treated in a private hospital. He had Covid-19 symptoms and was admitted to Government Covid-19 Hospital at Anna bus terminal on Sunday. Samples were collected from him for Covid-19 testing, but the results were not informed to them, his relatives said. Manoharan woke up early in the morning. He left his bed and did not return. His wife reached the hospital around 6.30am and searched for him. Meanwhile, he jumped off the third floor of the hospital building. A police team from the Madhichiyam station rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Police said the reason for his suicide was not known. He used to take sleeping pills at home, but he did not get them in hospital. He had got some loans and could not repay them. On Tuesday night, he asked his wife to carry his mobile phone, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-53-with-covid-19-signs-leaps-off-hosp-building-dies/articleshow/78920960.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||200+ new cases in Bhopal, tally past 24,000||BHOPAL: 203 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the city on Wednesday, according to the health department. Overall, the total number of people who have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital has touched 24,107. As many as 203 people recovered from the infection on Wednesday. Since the pandemic began, 471 people have died due to Covid-19. On Wednesday, 2,248 Covid-19 tests were carried out. While 1,662 people were tested through rapid antigen test, 121 or 7.3% tested positive for the infection. Only 586 RT-PCR tests were conducted in the state capital here on Wednesday. The dip in RT-PCR tests continued for the fourth day running. Covid-19 positivity rate was double in the case of RT-PCR tests. About 18% of these tests were positive, according to health department reporting. Ten of the 27 labs did not report any testing on Wednesday. Gandhi Medical College (GMC) and JP hospital did not conduct Covid-19 tests. 78 of the new infections have opted under home isolation. Six policemen were among those diagnosed on Wednesday while 21 of those diagnosed with the infection are government employees and three are from the health department. 21 cases were reported from Bagh Sewania and 29 cases of the infection were from Kolar Road. Three members of a Danish Kunj family were also diagnosed with the infection. Five members of a family in Kolar, including a 70-year-old man, have been hospitalised after being diagnosed with Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/200-new-cases-in-city-tally-past-24k/articleshow/78919177.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Special cell to push medical college work||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed a separate cell to coordinate work related to the municipal medical college. The special cell will work on documentation, securing permission from the union government, coordination and other formalities. PMC plans to build the college at Naidu hospital. A dedicated cell has been formed to make sure that the civic health department deputes manpower to focus on the college amid increased workload due to the pandemic. “An assistant medical officer-rank official has been appointed as the head of the cell that has been tasked with securing all permissions at the earliest so that the construction of the hospital can be started soon,” said a senior PMC official. The PMC standing committee has given a green signal to the project. The college will come up at the premises of a municipal school near Naidu hospital. Two separate tenders, worth Rs1.6 crore, have been finalized. Officials said that the state government has given a go-ahead to the college and has submitted the proposal to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/special-cell-to-push-med-college-work/articleshow/78920983.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Kin appeal for release of 10 TN fishers lodged in K’taka prison||Kanyakumari: The kin of 10 Tamil Nadu fishermen and the South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) have appealed to the Union fisheries minister and chief ministers of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to release the men who are lodged in an Udupi prison in Karnataka after being booked on false charges.The men have been identified as C Robinson, 36, A Arulraj, 42, W Dennis, 56, S Arulseelan, 40, C Joseph Ajayan, 50, S Pravin, 18, S Subin, 20, J Rohan Dijo, 18, V Abin Samuel, 18, and R Zechariah, 27 from Kanyakumari district.SAFF general secretary Churchil said the men set off in a mechanised boat from the Beipur fisheries harbour in Kozhikode district, Kerala, on October 19. On October 23, they were engaged in fishing off the Malpe coast in Karnataka.He quoted the affected fishermen as saying that around 400 Karnataka fishermen surrounded them in 20 mechanised boats. “They forcefully made the 10 TN fishermen get on one of their boats and attacked them with weapons. The attackers had also lodged a forged complaint against the TN fishermen,” he said.It is learnt that the Karnataka fishermen accused their counterparts of fishing close to the shore. They added that the TN fishermen attacked them when they requested them not to fish near the shore.Churchil added that the Malpe police registered a case against the TN fishermen under several sections of the IPC.The kin sought help to get their injured men get treated, withdraw the cases registered against them, release them without delay and help them return home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-appeal-for-release-of-10-tn-fishers-lodged-in-ktaka-prison/articleshow/78920991.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad dentist rescued by AP cops from abductors||HYDERABAD/ANANTAPUR: The dentist who was abducted from his clinic in Bandlaguda on Tuesday was rescued in Anantapur on Wednesday by AP cops after they were alerted by Cyberabad police of the likely route taken by the kidnappers. The main accused Mustafa is a close relative of dentist Behjat Hussain’s (56) wife. He had hatched the plot to get Rs 10 crore in ransom to recoup his losses in business. While seven have been arrested, including six from city and one from the vehicle in Anantapur, Mustafa and 5 others are absconding. Hussain, a resident of Kismatpura, was abducted from his under-construction clinic at Bandlaguda by four burqa-clad men on Tuesday afternoon. On being alerted by locals, Cyberabad police launched a manhunt to nab the kidnappers by forming 12 special teams. A few hours after the kidnap, the accused sent a voice message to Hussain’s family through WhatsApp demanding Ra 10 crore as ransom in the form of bitcoins. They also threatened to kill the victim and his family if the ransom was not paid in 48 hours. Police analysed the call details from the WhatsApp message and tracked their movement. A few suspects were detained including Md Raheem (18) of Chandrayangutta, who kept a watch on the movement of the dentist, Sumit Chandrakanth Bhosale (28), Akshay Balu Vairekar and Vicky Datta Shinde of Pune, Md Imran and Md Irfan from Yellammabanda for giving logistical support. Based on the confession of the accused and technical evidence, Cyberabad police alerted Anantapur cops about the movement of the accused in a Bolero vehicle towards Karnataka. Rapthadu sub inspector PT Anjaneyulu and his team first spotted the gang near Marur toll plaza in Anantapur district at 2 am on Wednesday. After an an hour long chase, police surrounded the gang, forcing the accused to abandon the vehicle along with the dentist. Police managed to arrest one of the kidnappers, Sanjay, 19, a student from Udipi in Karnataka. “Anantapur police intercepted the kidnappers while they were escaping towards Kanaganapalli and rescued the victim,” Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar said. “Mustafa used to stay in Australia and he incurred huge loss in business. Subsequently, he returned to India and started real estate business in Hyderabad and Pune. Mustafa, who knew about the financial condition of Hussain, hatched a plan to kidnap him along with his friend Mubashir alias Khaled,” Sajjanar said. The duo roped in other accused from Hyderabad, Pune and Karnataka to execute the plan. Hussain, who suffered minor injuries on his hands while trying to resist the kidnappers at Bandlaguda, thanked the cops at the press conference. “I would have been a dead today. I think within 10 minutes of being chased they decided to kill me, but the rescue team saved me,” Hussain said. Six other accused including Mistafa, Ganesh, Mubashir, Puneet, Prithvi and Siri are absconding. Police seized three cars, seven cell phones, toy pistols and other incriminating evidence from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-dentist-rescued-by-ap-cops-from-abductors/articleshow/78922197.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s admits to ransomware attack, says still restoring data & investigating origin||Hyderabad: Barely a week after it become the target of a cyberattack, pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Wednesday admitted that the October 22 breach was a indeed ransomware attack and said they have roped in leading international cybersecurity experts to launch a comprehensive damage control exercise. Though top company officials refused to divulge the quantum of ransom that was demanded by the hackers, they said the company is in the process of recovering and restoring all data. “We have been restoring all the data from the back-ups. We took all the right kind of steps in terms of isolation, futher prevention, stepping up security, restoring with a very cautious and contolled approach...,” Dr Reddy’s Labs president & CFO Saumen Chakraborty said. Dr Reddy’s Labs CEO Erez Israeli indicated that no ransom was paid and that the company believes the attack had nothing to do with the Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy’s has entered into an agreement with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for conducting Phase 2/3 trials and distributing the vaccine in India. “Nothing against the law will ever be done by Dr Reddy’s...the Russian vaccine had nothing to do with attack…and I don’t see any damages coming from that...,” Israeli said. Company officials also said they are still investigating from where the attack originated and has kept the concerned authorities informed. Dr Reddy’s said “a comprehensive containment and remediation effort and investigation” was launched to address the incident. “As of date, our investigation has not ascertained if any data breaches in the incident pertain to personally identifiable information stored in the company’s systems,” it said. The cyberattack on Dr Reddy’s came a week after it got approval to conduct Phase 2/3 trials for Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India along with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) at a time when incidents of Covid-19 vaccine developers globally facing cyber threats have been on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-admits-to-ransomware-attack-says-still-restoring-data-investigating-origin/articleshow/78921019.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kozhikode||KSRTC modernization action plan to be rolled out in 6 months||KOZHIKODE: State transport minister A K Saseendran said that a comprehensive action plan for revival and modernization of KSRTC as part of the financial package announced by the state government will be implemented within six months. Addressing media persons here along with KSRTC CMD Biju Prabhakar on Wednesday, the minister said that the action plan would focus on implementing the measures recommended by Prof Sushil Khanna for reducing expenses and enhancing non-ticket revenue. “As part of tapping new revenue streams, we have drawn up plans to give land held by the corporation on long-term lease, strengthen logistics division of KSRTC and generate revenue by using more buses as retail marts, etc,” Saseendran said. He said that the corporation would purchase 100 new buses using Rs 50-crore plan grant and they are expected by January 2021. The minister said that the corporation was planning to purchase 310 CNG buses through funding from KIIFB. A new subsidiary company KSRTC-SWIFT will be formed for operating buses funded by KIIFB by January 1. The minister said that the corporation will undertake conversion of existing buses from diesel to CNG and LNG in a phased manner and has already started tender proceedings for purchase of CNG buses. Other modernization measures include total computerization for which Rs 16.9 crore would be spent this financial year. Vehicle tracking system, passenger information system and introduction of electronic ticketing machines will be launched by March 1, 2021. As part of revival package announced by CM Pinarayi Vijayan, Rs 1,500 interim relief will be paid to employees till next salary revision and efforts are on to make the payment along with next month’s salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ksrtc-modernization-action-plan-to-be-rolled-out-in-6-mths/articleshow/78919167.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Cop custody for 2 assailants in Lonavla case||PUNE: A magisterial court at Vadgaon Maval on Wednesday ordered the remand of Ibrahim Yusuf Khan (28), the alleged assailant in former Shiv Sena Lonavla city chief Rahul Shetty’s murder, and another suspect, Mohan “Thapa” Debbahadur Malla (47), in police custody till October 31. The Lonavala city police had on Tuesday night arrested Kondhwa resident Khan and Malla. Earlier on Tuesday, the police produced two other arrested suspects, Deepali Bhilare (39) and Suraj Agarwal (42), before the court that remanded them in police custody till October 31. Senior inspector of the Lonavla City police Manojkumar Yadav told TOI, “Three more suspects are on the run. Our six teams are searching for them. Prima facie, the murder was fallout of a previous enmity.” An officer from the Pune Rural police said, “The probe also revealed that Malla was with Khan when the latter hacked and shot dead Shetty. Malla helped Khan show the route till Jaychand Chowk in Lonavla and also escape from the crime spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cop-custody-for-2-assailants-in-lonavla-case/articleshow/78920963.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Synchrony inks MoA with UoH for agri project||Hyderabad: US-based consumer financial services player Synchrony has inked a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) with the University of Hyderabad (UoH) to fund India’s first disruptive blockchain project for providing financial services access to marginal farmers. The three-year public-private partnership includes a grant from Synchrony to UoH for the project that will focus on leveraging blockchain technology to help lenders provide financial aid to farmers with no collateral and fixed assets. The project will be headed by Prof Vijaya Bhaskar Marisetty, professor of finance, UoH, with Dr Varsha Mamidi, faculty member (machine learning), UoH, as co-investigator. It will build a financial services-based blockchain between a group of farmers in Tamil Nadu, a farmers produce organization SEEDS NGO and their primary lender Sammunati Financial Services, an agri-financing NBFC. NGO Nirmaan.org will coordinate the project. “Through our partnership, we are helping to push the technology boundaries to help farmers reach their financial goals. This grant can provide farmers access to blockchain technology and help them access the financial assistance they need to support their operations,” said Andy Ponneri, senior VP and business leader, Synchrony India. UoH vice-chancellor Prof Appa Rao said such innovative models will help bridge the gap between industry and academic institutions. Synchrony said the primary objective is to explore how technology can reduce costs for marginal farmers who have no access to loans from formal channels of lending. The project will also use AI-based tools to project future cash flows of farmers. With better monitoring and more accurate cash flow predictions, the project hopes to improve the lenders’ trust and reduce borrowing costs for marginal farmers, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/synchrony-inks-moa-with-uoh-for-agri-project/articleshow/78921012.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Edu dept mulls options to resume physical classes||Hyderabad: The Telangana higher education department is exploring different models in order to resume classes for junior, degree and post-graduate students in the state post Diwali. From adopting shift system to calling students on alternate days, officials have submitted various options to the state government. “We have proposed two shifts for intermediate students – from 8.30 am to 12.30 pm and 1.30 pm to 5.30 pm. Either first and second year students will be called in two different shifts or they will be divided as per their branch of study. This was proposed in order to maintain social distancing,” said Omar Jaleel, secretary, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education. The board is planning to finish the current academic year on time by March-April, 2021. As per the Telangana State Council of Higher Education, all degree and professional colleges across the state are likely to re-open post Diwali (November 14). As per the All India Council of Technical Education guidelines, classes for new academic session should commence latest by December 1. “We have proposed only one semester for this academic year as a lot of time has been lost in admissions due to the lockdown. We have submitted our suggestions to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao who is yet to take a decision on how the classes will commence across the state,” said an official. Following Andhra Pradesh government’s move to resume classes for school students from November 2, even the Telangana government is likely to take it decision soon. Sources said that schools may also reopen for class 9-12 students from November. The director of school education department has held multiple meetings with the stakeholders, including the health department officials, to consider reopening of schools in shifts for higher class students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/edu-dept-mulls-options-to-resume-physical-classes/articleshow/78920992.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Admissions on, social media buzzing with review requests||BENGALURU: Come admission season, choosing a school for their children is one of the toughest jobs parents have on their hands. With social media emerging as a reliable tool for instant communication, forums such as Facebook and WhatsApp buzz with inquires and discussions on schools, especially now with a pandemic raging. Bangalore Schools, a Facebook page with close to 50,000 members, is one of those go-to places for parents looking for the right school for their children. “We see parents asking for reviews on schools in their neighbourhood,” said Swetha Saran, admin of Bangalore Schools. “Sometimes they give a few options and ask people to pick the best among them. The forum has become a popular place as parents get a variety of reviews. As admin of the group, we tag parents whom we know and who send their children to these particular schools so that they can respond since they have firsthand experience.” Saran said sometimes parents reach out to them offline and they try and put them on to parents who have a child or children in a particular school. “We have members of school managements on the group too. We request them to mention that they belong to the school while recommending their institute. We try to give a balanced view,” she said. There are also other social media groups, like those exclusively for mothers, where such discussions take place. Some others take to WhatsApp groups of the apartment complexes where they reside in to learn about other’s experiences. Interestingly, schools have also begun posting admission notices in such forums to spread the word. “There are so many options available in our neighbourhood that choosing the right school is a tough,” said Saikiran, a resident in Whitefield. “The best way is to ask other parents. I feel that many give honest remarks on public forums. Since the number of reviews is large, we also get a wider perspective.” In Bengaluru, parents are spoilt for choice given the wide variety of schools — ranging from entrance-coaching oriented schools with rigorous academic training to progressive, alternative schools with emphasis on experiential learning. However, experts also ask parents to be cautious of the reviews. “Many people get easily influenced by these reviews. It’s a mob mentality,” said Ali Khwaja, founder Banjara Academy. “There are people who make nasty remarks for one bad experience and go to any extent to tarnish the school’s image. Parents have to be wary of the reviews and try to get a balanced view. They have to understand the curriculum and whether it suits their child’s interests, the proximity of the school and also the fee structure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/admissions-on-social-media-buzzing-with-review-requests/articleshow/78919184.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vacant Covid-19 beds set to be freed for general care||PUNE: Vacant Covid-19 hospital beds will soon be made available for general patients, officials from the Pune Municipal Corporation have said. The civic body had set aside nearly 4,500 beds from private and government hospitals to deal with the pandemic. But patient count over the past few days has been steadily dropping, which means resources can now be freed for people who need non-Covid care. According to data released by the PMC, nearly 50% of the beds that were reserved are currently vacant. These include critical-care units as well. A senior PMC official said, “The total number of Covid patients in hospitals is now far less than what it was soon after the Ganapati festival. There was a surge in the number of positive cases at the time. But for nearly a fortnight now, recoveries have been steadily overtaking the number of new cases which in turn has reduced the demand for hospital beds. Demand for hospital beds has also been low because of the home isolation policy. The official said these beds can be reserved again if the city registers fresh Covid spikes. Medical experts said freeing hospital beds for general care will be a good move. “It will let hospitals complete planned surgeries. These vacant beds can be released from Covid duty in phases,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Pune branch. Patil said the decision will benefit scores who need procedures such as eye surgeries and cardiac care. “Many had postponed surgeries due to the pandemic. The number of patients coming in for planned surgeries will go up further after Diwali,” he said. Even during the lockdown, doctors had warned against postponing surgical procedures. Delayed elective surgeries, they said, could turn into emergency procedures later. Such escalations impact chances of survival and apply strain on personal finances and the healthcare system. For example, surgeries for functional improvement such as joint replacement procedures may not affect survival, but their delay can, in some instances, lead to deterioration in quality of life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vacant-ncov-beds-set-to-be-freed-for-general-care/articleshow/78921006.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
October 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP climber Bhawna Dehariya makes it to the Guinness Book||BHOPAL: Mt Everest climber Bhawna Dehariya of MP has entered her name in the Guinness World Records for promoting the Indian Himalayan mountain range worldwide. She entered the record in an online event organised by Coimbatore-based Transend Adventures and Snow Leopard Adventures on 15 August 2020. Bhavana said that in the event, within an hour, photographs of her climb on a range of Himalayan mountains were to be shared on the Facebook page of the Mountains of India. “Thousands of mountaineers from all over the world took part in that event. I am happy to get a place in the Guinness Book,” she said. Coming from Tamia village of Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh, on May 22, 2019, she made the country proud by hoisting the tricolor on the highest peaks of the four continents of the world, including the summit of Mount Everest. In 2019, Bhawna had also scripted history by celebrating Diwali at Mt Kilimanjaro of the African continent and Holi at Mt Kosciusko of the continent of Australia. She had scaled 5,895 meters (19,341 feet) above sea level on Uhuru peak and gave a message to celebrate eco-friendly Diwali by keeping an earthen lamp on the peak on the day of Diwali. Bhawna is keen to summit seven highest peaks of the world. “I used to talk about scaling the highest peaks of the world since childhood,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-climber-bhawna-makes-it-to-the-guinness-book/articleshow/78919190.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Madurai gears up to welcome Edappadi K Palaniswami||MADURAI: AIADMK is gearing up to give chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami a grand welcome when he comes to Madurai on Friday to participate in the Thevar Jayanthi celebrations. Many parts of the city are being spruced up for the chief minister’s arrival. The Thevar statue on Goripalayam junction has got an additional backdrop and has been illuminated with colourful lights. Cutouts have been erected on the way from the Madurai airport to the city. The cutouts are being erected on behalf of minister for revenue, IT and disaster management, R B Udayakumar and minister for co-operatives, Sellur K Raju and MLAs including V V Rajan Chellappa. Meanwhile, Minister Sellur K Raju has asked his supporters to ensure that the chief minister gets a grand welcome when he comes to the city, as this is his first visit after being declared the CM candidate of AIADMK. The traders in the flower market said that they had got orders for huge quantities of flowers for decorations on Friday. Painters and artists too have been engaged as part of the arrangements. Civic authorities have already started cleaning the roads in the city for welcoming the chief minister.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-gears-up-to-welcome-cm/articleshow/78921037.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kozhikode||Captured tiger moved to Neyyar Lion Safari Park||KOZHIKODE: A tigress which was captured from Wayanad on Sunday has been shifted to Neyyar Lion Safari Park in Thiruvananthapuram. The state chief wildlife warden had issued orders in this regard on Wednesday. The forest department had earlier explored the viability of shifting the animal to Thiruvananthapuram zoo, but the plan had to be dropped after the zoo authorities informed that the Central Zoo Authority had objected to shifting wild animals to the zoo. Also, the zoo authorities have, in a letter to the forest department, said that the zoo lacked separate facility to keep animals from the wild under quarantine to prevent chances of transmission of parasites or diseases to captive animals. The forest department could not shift the captured tiger to the Thrissur zoo as constructions were underway there. After the capture, the nine-year-old tigress had been kept under observation at the Irulam forest station and was found to be healthy. According to forest department sources, there is another tiger, which was also captured from Wayanad, at Neyyar Lion Safari Park, which is under the state forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/captured-tiger-moved-to-neyyar-lion-safari-park/articleshow/78919199.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Missing businessman's kin give complaint application to police commissioner||PUNE: Missing city businessman Gautam Pashankar’s family members on Wednesday gave a complaint application to Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta seeking investigation into a dispute with certain people, for which he could have left them on October 21. Gupta told TOI, “The application has named few people. We shall verify all those details as a part of our investigation. For now, our top priority is to locate Pashankar.” The city commissioner of police (CP) said it would not be appropriate to reveal details of the ongoing investigations. Pashankar went missing on October 21. His son, Kapil, filed a missing person’s complaint with the Shivajinagar police on the next day. The police are investigating the role of a private financier, allegedly threatening Pashankar over dues. Gupta said, “From whatever circumstantial details collected so far, Pashankar appears to have left on his own. He has not made any phone calls to his family members. Nor has the family received any threat or ransom calls. We are exploring all angles and possibilities.” The family’s lawyer, Prasad Kulkarni, said they had filed a complaint application with the CP and the Shivajinagar police. He said, “The family thought the father (Gautam Pashankar) would return in two days. But when he did not, they went to his office and checked his financial transactions. They found that a few individuals were threatening him.” Pashankar’s son, Kapil, told TOI that his father was very attached to his sister, also a director in the real estate company that Gautam Pashankar was a director of. “He cannot take anything being said against my sister. So, when the person threatened to put my sister behind the bars, my father could have panicked,” Kapil said, adding that some of those named in the complaint application were “influential people with political connections”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/missing-bizmans-kin-give-complaint-application-to-cp/articleshow/78921007.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTU-H panel to inspect colleges in Dec||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad (JNTU-H) will conduct its annual fact-finding committee inspections to grant affiliations for the ensuing academic year 2020-21 in December. Due to the pandemic, the university had decided to grant provisional affiliations to all colleges that had submitted online application seeking affiliation. The college managements have now been asked to submit an affidavit stating that they will comply with all affiliation norms, failing which disciplinary action will be initiated against them. Apart from this, the varsity asked all colleges to sign an undertaking on affiliation fee and common service fee dues by November 2. “Provisional affiliation letters for academic year 2020-21 shall be issued to colleges subject to submission of undertaking with regard to dues (if any),” reads a JNTUH circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntu-h-panel-to-inspect-colleges-in-dec/articleshow/78921032.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Higher discharges bring active count below 13,000||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surged past 3 lakh-mark and reached above 3.01 lakh on Wednesday, with 1, 204 patients getting discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours. With this, the active caseload has dropped below 13,000 to 12,648 in the region. The new cases continued to remain below 1,000 in PMR on Wednesday, with 737 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the total caseload in the region surged above 3.21 lakh on Wednesday night. These included 1.60 lakh cases from the Pune municipal limits, 87,260 from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 73,764 from the rural and Cantonment areas. The region had recorded one lakh recoveries on August 19 and breached 2 lakh-mark on September 19. Since then the daily discharges have been up in the region as against new cases. Health officials said since October 1, the discharges have stayed more than daily cases in the region. Among 3.01 lakh discharges, almost 50% recoveries (1.50 lakh) have been recorded in the PMC limits. About 83,810 patients have been declared cured in the PCMC area so far, while the rural and Cantonment areas together have recorded 66,946 recoveries. Data released by the district health office has pointed at a steady rise in recovery rate in the region. The recovery rate was at 76% when the PMR had reported one lakh recoveries. When the recoveries reached the 2 lakh-mark, the rate increased to 76% and at 3 lakh recoveries, the region’s recovery rate has reached 93.6%. On Wednesday, PMR recorded 31 more deaths due to the infection, pushing total deaths due to Covid-19 to 7,798. The PMC limits reported 17 deaths, while 10 patients succumbed in the rural areas. The PCMC reported just four fatalities. Among the active cases, as many as 5,988 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 6,660 were in home isolation, a data released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated. A total of 6,488 samples were tested in the region on Wednesday, which pushed region’s total sample tests to 13.96 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/higher-discharges-bring-active-count-below-13000/articleshow/78921027.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Inspector, constable land in ACB’s net||Hyderabad: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested an SI and a constable of Gandhi Nagar police station for demanding and accepting Rs 30,000 bribe from a complainant to do an official favour. ACB sleuths also opened the bank locker of Mahbubnagar municipal commissioner V Surendar, who was arrested recently, and seized Rs 27 lakh cash and gold worth Rs 17 lakh. According to ACB officials, SI M Laxminarayana and constable N Naresh demanded the bribe from M Santosh Reddy of Habsiguda in a cheating case registered against him. “The bribe was demanded for a favour in the probe,” said an ACB official. Based on the complaint of Santosh Reddy, ACB team laid a trap and caught the duo near Gandhi Nagar police station They will be produced before the court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inspector-constable-land-in-acbs-net/articleshow/78921039.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Bar association secretary held for link in murder of lawyer: Pune police||PUNE: Advocate Ghanshyam Popat Darade (33), holding the office of the Pune Bar Association (PBA) secretary, was arrested on Wednesday on the suspicion of having a role in the murder of civil court lawyer Umesh C More. A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, told TOI, “Our investigation revealed that Darade provided tip-offs to the other arrested suspects about More’s movement on the court premises on the day he was abducted.” Inspector Manisha Zende and her team from the Shivajinagar police arrested Darade, hailing from Akole in Ahmednagar district and currently residing at Dattanagar in Katraj. A magisterial court on Wednesday remanded him in police custody till October 31. Darade was elected to the PBA secretary’s post earlier this year. More (32) was last seen driving out of the Shivajinagar court premises on October 1 in CCTV footage. Kapil Vilas Falke (34) of Chikhali, Deepak Shivaji Wandekar (28) of Beed and advocate Rohit Dattatreya Shende (32) of Market Yard were arrested after the police recovered a burnt body from the Tamhini ghat forest area on October 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bar-association-secy-held-for-link-in-murder-of-lawyer-police/articleshow/78920986.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Plea to stop e-pass system to increase tourist inflow to Kodai||Dindigul: Stakeholders of the tourism sector in Kodaikanal have urged the state government to do away with the e-pass system to increase the tourist inflow to the hill station. They have also sought to open the tourist spots such as Guna Cave, Pine Forest, Moir Point and Pillar Rock, which are maintained by the forest department.Tourists were allowed to Kodaikanal from September 9 by easing down the lockdown restrictions. However, e-pass was made mandatory. The restriction was relaxed only for those travelling through public transport, which has not benefited much as bus services are yet to begin. Due to this, traders say, they are under tremendous pressure of paying wages to their employees and keep their families afloat.A Abbas, president of Integrated Traders Association said, “The hill station witnessed decent trade activities for the first two weekends, after tourists were allowed to visit using e-pass. But, it has fell flat after that. Not many are visiting due to e-pass system.” M Michael, president of the newly-formed Kodaikanal Hills Tourism Development Council said that many people, who want to visit the hill station get disappointed as they their applications are not getting approved. The approval of e-pass is mired in opaqueness as there is no information shared on the public domain on number of applications approved in a day and rejections. “Most people from the hill station are relying on revenue from tourism activities. Deprived of business activities, people under innumerable problems, which can be solved only when free flow of tourists is ensured. When there is no restriction for travel in plains, we do not understand why it is enforced in hill stations alone. The reasons are not acceptable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-stop-e-pass-system-to-increase-tourist-inflow-to-kodai/articleshow/78921015.cms||V Devanathan
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government warns schools against flouting online class rules||BENGALURU: The department of public instruction has issued a circular which formally fixes the duration for live sessions of online classes. The timetable is based on the report of an expert committee. The circular also warns of disciplinary action against schools that flout the norms. As reported, S Suresh Kumar, primary and secondary education minister, had announced last week that the government “will soon” implement the expert committee’s report that was submitted in July. The minister had also directed the commissioner of public instruction to issue a circular in this regard. The circular, dated October 22, has instructed schools to follow a “judicious mix” of live and recorded sessions. Each live online session cannot extend beyond 30 minutes for students till grade 5 and 30-45 minutes for those till grade 10. Pre-primary classes (3-6 years) can have one session daily thrice a week; grades 1-2 two sessions per day thrice a week; grades 3-5 two sessions daily five days a week; grades 6-8 three sessions daily for five days a week and grades 9-10 four classes daily five days a week. Classes have to be interactive. Presence of parents in the online session is mandatory till class 2. For pre-primary to grade 2, the content mix has to be play, stories, rhymes and other innovative activities. In grades 3-5, the content has to be 25% curricular and rest co-curricular. In grades 6-8, both curricular and extracurricular should have equal weightage and in 9-10, there should be 75% curricular and 25% co-curricular. The minister said action will be taken against schools violating these norms as per section 124 (5) of the Karnataka Education Act 1983. The circular states the government issued the circular following media reports that online classes are affecting children’s eyes. Private schools had launched online classes after schools shut down in March following the nationwide lockdown. On June 15, the Karnataka government banned live online classes for classes LKG to Grade 5, but permitted recorded classes. It announced that an expert committee would be set up to fix modalities for grades 6 and above. On June 27, it issued another order with time restrictions for classes 6-10. A group of parents challenged the order in the high court, which stayed the June 15 and June 27 orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-warns-schools-against-flouting-online-class-rules/articleshow/78919251.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||5k BA seats vacant: GU to hold 5th round||Ahmedabad: After the end of four rounds of admission for BA courses, as many as 5,000 seats are lying vacant in Gujarat University affiliated colleges. The varsity has now decided to admit candidates who have cleared the Class XII supplementary exams in the next round, said sources in GU. As a result, GU will re-start the process for registration and PIN purchase for such candidates till October 31, sources added. There are currently about 43 colleges offering arts programmes at GU, said sources. In all, there are about 16,000 seats in various categories including EWS. The Admission Committee has completed four rounds. In four rounds, about 11,000 students have already confirmed their admission in different colleges.“In normal circumstances, these vacant seats would be assigned to colleges. But this year, due to Covid-19, it has been decided to hold another additional round ,” said sources. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5k-ba-seats-vacant-gu-to-hold-5th-round/articleshow/78921060.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gang ransacks 12 vehicles over family dispute||PUNE: A youth, upset over his sister’s love marriage with a man in their locality, created a ruckus at Vetalnagar in Chinchwad along with 10 accomplices late on Tuesday night and smashed windscreens of about 12 vehicles parked in the area with sharp weapons before fleeing. The Chinchwad police later arrested the youth and detained his minor accomplices on charge of rioting. “We have also invoked the Section 395 (dacoity) against the suspects after one of the residents complained that one of them snatched his smartphone while running away,” senior inspector Ravindra Jadhav of the Chinchwad police told TOI. The damaged vehicles include 10 autorickshaws and two motorcycles. The police said the main suspect’s sister married a youth from the same locality on Tuesday. “The main suspect was upset over his sister’s wedding. On Tuesday around 11pm, the main suspect and his 10 aides came to the locality brandishing weapons. They smashed windscreens of the autorickshaws and also toppled two motorcycles,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-ransacks-12-vehicles-over-family-dispute/articleshow/78921041.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||1,400 new Covid cases, 4 deaths in Telangana||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday scaled up testing to 40,081 tests, throwing up 1,481 new Covid-19 positive cases and four deaths. So far, a total of 2,34,152 cases and 1,319 deaths have been recorded in the state, while 2,14,917 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection even as 17,916 patients are under medical attention. With doubling up of testing, a corresponding jump of almost double cases was recorded in the state. The total number of samples tested in the state stands at 41.6 lakh and the number of samples tested per million population is 1,11,649. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded a total of 279 new cases — the highest among districts. GHMC was followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri with 138 cases, Rangareddy with 111 cases and Khammam & Nalgonda with 82 cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1400-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-t/articleshow/78921055.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three in net for property forgery bid||PUNE: The city police have arrested three persons on the charge of trying to transfer the ownership of an old building property on Tilak Road by using forged documents. One of the trio is a tenant in this property and the other two are sub-tenants, the police said. The property belongs to Shrimant Gayatri Devi Pant Pratinidhi, a member of the royal family of the erstwhile princely state of Aundh in Satara district. Her personal assistant, Balraj Arun Wadekar, who is also into real estate business, lodged an FIR with the Vishrambaug police. The matter came to light after the trio approached Wadekar to sell the property valued at over Rs3 crore. The city crime branch arrested Shashi Shankar Podwal (51) of Yerawada, Asif Jalil Khan (61) of Market Yard and Anwar Yunus Khan Pathan (54) of Gokhalenagar. Podwal is the tenant. The police said Wadekar had contacted Pant Pratinidhi to verify the trio’s claims. The latter told him that she had neither authorized any such transfer nor had she signed any papers. Wadekar told TOI, “I am not authorized to speak on the issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-in-net-for-property-forgery-bid/articleshow/78921028.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Sex workers to get Rs 5k/month from Maharashtra’s Covid-19 relief fund||PUNE: The state government is preparing a list of commercial sex workers (CSWs) from across the state to provide them financial assistance from the Covid relief fund. The CSWs will be given Rs 5,000 per month till the threat of the pandemic lifts. Those CSWs with children will get an additional Rs 2,500 per month. The amounts will be transferred to their bank accounts. Following a Supreme Court order on September 29, the state home department had issued a circular asking all district administrations to form committees to ensure that CSWs get dry rations and Rs 5,000 every month from the Covid relief fund. The circular had pointed out to the serious hardships being faced by the CSWs. In Satara district, 154 CSWs have already been identified for relief with help from non-government organizations. District women and child development officer Rohini Dhawle said 34 of the 154 women will get Rs 7,500 per month as they have children. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh told TOI that the proposal was in its final stages and would soon be implemented. Singh said efforts were being made to allot basic documents like Aadhaar, Pan or voter ID cards to the CSWs as few of them have these. Sources said many CSWs in Maharashtra have come from other states and do not have valid documents. Most of the CSWs in Satara are from neighbouring Karnataka and find it difficult to even communicate their problems because of the language issue. Meena Sheshu of Sangli-based Sangram, an NGO assisting the CSWs, said the women were undergoing unimaginable difficulties as they had completely lost their livelihood because of the pandemic. She said many of the women had taken money from private lenders who charge as much as 150% interest on the borrowed amounts. The Supreme Court order was issued during the hearing of an application filed by an NGO, Darbar Mahila Samanway Samiti, and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sex-workers-to-get-rs-5k/month-from-states-covid-relief-fund/articleshow/78921053.cms||Satyajit Joshi
October 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APSCHE revises curriculum for engineering programmes||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has revised the curriculum of engineering programmes, starting from the 2020-21 academic year, in a move aimed at equipping students with the required skills for industry. The curriculum mandates that students opt for five skill courses relevant to the industry, including two basic-level skill courses, one on soft skills and the other two on advanced-level skills. The students will be given the option of choosing between skill courses offered by the respective college and a certificate course offered by industry, a professional body, Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation or any other accredited body. A major change brought in the curriculum is the introduction of BTech with Honors or a BTech with a Minor. This is to give an opportunity for interested students to earn additional credits either in the same or related domain, making them more proficient in their discipline or be a graduate with multidisciplinary knowledge and job-ready skills. A mandatory internship, both industrial and social, is included in the revised curriculum. The internships are aimed at making graduates connect with the needs of the industry and society at large. It will be mandatory for students to intern in the industry/field for 10 months during the summer and also in the final semester. An APSCHE official said this is a model curriculum and universities and institutions may modify it based on their needs, infrastructure and available courses. “The Board of Studies of the varsities are empowered to identify as many tracks and pools as possible in emerging technologies and industrial relevance, and also in humanities and arts,” said the official. The curriculum revision was necessitated by findings from recent studies that showed only 25% of engineering graduates to be employable. The studies also showed that many graduates leave technical institutions without acquiring the required skills, leaving them unable to compete in the job market. As part of the revised curriculum, every student should put in a minimum of 180 hours for a community service project during the summer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/apsche-revises-curriculum-for-engineering-programmes/articleshow/78917953.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospital performs complicated heart valve procedure||Hyderabad: A sophisticated short-duration heart valve implant procedure was successfully performed on a 74-year-old woman from Vikarabad at a city-based private hospital. The patient was suffering from severe Aortic valve stenosis l. The procedure was performed five days ago using the Hydra Aortic Valve for the first time in the city.  “The patient has recovered well after the surgery and has since been discharged,” said Dr Saratchandra, senior consultant cardiologist, Virinchi Hospitals, who performed the surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosp-performs-complicated-heart-valve-procedure/articleshow/78921057.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB razes 30 nala encroachments||Secunderabad: Over 30 encroachments on open nalas in the Secunderabad Cantonment were razed down by Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials. “The SCB has not done a survey on encroachments of open nalas but based on the complaints from the residential welfare associations (RWAs), we have come to know that over 70% of open nalas, mainly Hasmathpet nala and Picket nala, were encroached upon,” M Devender, SCB senior superintendent (SWM), told TOI. “In the last one year, we have razed 30 encroachments which are free from court litigations. This year, after the floods in nearby colonies, angry residents complained to municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao when he visited the Cantonment a few days ago,” he said. “A day after KTR’s visit, SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy and SCB engineering and health & sanitation wings jointly inspected and identified bottlenecks over open nalas and decided to demolish them,” said the official. “The drive will continue and retaining walls will also be constructed on open nalas,” said a senior SCB engineering wing official. J Rama Krishna, former SCB vice president, met the central team, which visited the city, and sought financial aid of Rs 90 crore for infrastructure damaged in Cantonment due to the floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-razes-30-nala-encroachments/articleshow/78921050.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Goa||Monsoon withdraws from country: IMD||Panaji: The India meteorological department (IMD) announced withdrawal of the southwest monsoon on Wednesday. “After significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, the south west monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country on October 28,” IMD stated. The normal withdrawal date is October 14. This year there has been a 14-day delay. “There were back-to-back systems over the Bay of Bengal, and low pressure area and depression were formed in the later half of October which resulted in continuous rainfall activity in the central India region, The conditions for withdrawal were not prevailing due to which the country was getting rainfall,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. Dry weather prevailed over Goa on Wednesday. IMD said that there was “an appreciable fall” in maximum temperature over North Goa and no large change in maximum temperature over South Goa. The highest maximum temperature of 30°C was recorded at Mormugao. There was appreciable rise in minimum temperature over North Goa and no large change in minimum temperature over South Goa. The lowest minimum temperature of 24.6°C was recorded at Mormugao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monsoon-withdraws-from-country-imd/articleshow/78921751.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Pune||Monsoon 2020 exits from India, most delayed in 4 years||PUNE: Monsoon 2020 withdrew entirely from the country on Wednesday, marking its most delayed exit in the past four years. This was also the second most delayed monsoon exit from India since 1975. In 2010, southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on October 29, followed by 2016, when it withdrew on October 28. This not only makes 2020 and 2016 the most delayed withdrawals in a decade, but the monsoons of 2010, 2016 and 2020 also mark the most delayed exits from India in the past 45 years. Monsoon made a simultaneous exit from parts of Maharashtra on Wednesday, including Pune and Mumbai as well as the southern peninsular India, paving the way for northeast monsoon, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. “In view of significant reduction in rainfall over most parts of the country, southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the country on October 28, 2020. Simultaneously with the setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain commenced over the extreme south peninsular India on Wednesday,” IMD stated. IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told TOI, “Monsoon withdrawal takes place when several conditions are fulfilled. During monsoon, southwesterly winds blow over the Indian land mass, across the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. At the time of the exit of the southwest monsoon, the southwesterly winds are replaced by northerly winds over the northern parts of the country. These northerly winds also extend over the south peninsular India in the form of northeasterly winds after monsoon exit.” He said there has been a simultaneous onset of northeast rains, after the exit of the southwest monsoon. Sometimes it takes time for the north easterly wind regime to develop and strengthen over South peninsular India. But this time, he said, there was a simultaneous change in wind pattern from southwesterly to northeasterly, indicating northeast monsoon onset in south India. The Skymet Weather Services stated that the southwest monsoon activity had extended over central and southern parts beyond the scheduled dates. Withdrawal of monsoon had halted for more than two weeks, a source with the private forecaster said. Frequent weather systems in the Bay of Bengal moving across the central parts from Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh Maharashtra and Gujarat caused inclement rain over these states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monsoon-2020-exits-from-india-most-delayed-in-4-yrs/articleshow/78921068.cms||Neha Madaan
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra’s stamp duty cut leads to 75% rise in home buying||NAGPUR: The stamp duty cut by state government has spurred realty transactions in the city. The move has halved the effective stamp duty rate levied on purchase of property to 3% in the city against 6% earlier. The current rates are effective from September 1 to December 31, 2020. In September itself, there was a 75% increase in the number of sale deeds registered in the city compared to that in August. The data for October is yet to be complied but sources said that the trend was expected to continue. Builders said there was a major jump in the mid to low priced housing segment, with many who had held up the buying quickly inking the deals. The increase in registrations indicates the rise in property dealings. Stamp duty has to be paid along with registration and is levied over purchase of property. As against 3,942 sale deeds registered in August, more than 6,500 were registered in September, a hike of 75%. The duty collection too has grown by over 13% in September over August figures. In September, Rs 40 crore was collected against Rs 35 crore in August, according to data shared by the registrar’s office here. The collection, though, is still less than the monthly target. Due to the pandemic, the department has not been issued fresh targets for the fiscal. As it continues with the previous year’s targets, the achievement on monthly basis is lagging. With yearly target of Rs 785 crore, the average monthly duty collection is expected to be in the range of Rs 65 to 60 crore. At Rs 40 crore, September collections are thus behind the target. This is due to the reduction in rate of duty, said officials. The lockdown in March had brought down property transactions to negligible levels. Only eight deeds were registered in the month of April. In May, there was a jump and 841 documents were registered. In ,June it was over 3,900 and over 6,100 in July. It again fell to about 3,900 in August, the data revealed. The total collection so far stands at over Rs 186 crore which is 23% of the target. Builders said that the duty cut and other moves by the government had indeed spurred realty buying. Gaurav Agarwala, secretary of the Nagpur branch of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), said majority of the buying was happening in Rs 20 to 80 lakh segment. Apart from stamp duty, there are other factors too, he said. “The interest rates on home loans are at a 20-year low at around 6.85%. Even developers are looking to sell properties at competitive rates. At present, persons with steady income like salaried class are looking to buy properties. Even the government subsidy on Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana is available till March next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/states-stamp-duty-cut-leads-to-75-rise-in-home-buying-in-city-by-75/articleshow/78919231.cms||Shishir Arya
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||BC voters targeted in Dubbak: Panel to ECI||Hyderabad: The National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) on Wednesday wrote to the ECI saying that BC voters in Dubbak are being targeted by some political parties and sought to direct the local and state election officers to take steps to safeguard the BC voters. In a two-page letter to chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, NCBC member Achary Thalloju said that several BC voters have reported to the NCBC on the situation in Dubbak. “BC voters are getting frightened by police cases. Word is being spread that OBC beneficiary schemes will not be given to OBC voters in the constituency if they vote for any party other than the ruling party,” he said. The member said the NCBC is mandated to safeguard the interests of OBCs and seek steps to protect the interests of the voters of OBC community. He also said BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar, was reportedly manhandled by cops in Siddipet. The NCBC member also asked EC to transfer all police officials against whom complaints have been filed and acted in favour of a particular party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bc-voters-targeted-in-dubbak-panel-to-eci/articleshow/78921086.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop suspended over flood relief row||Hyderabad: A case has been registered against a police constable of Bahadurpura police station and his sons for assaulting locals in Devi Nagar during an altercation over the compensation amount for flood victims. After the incident, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar issued orders suspending the constable.  Two other constables have also been suspended for misconduct. On Tuesday night, locals of Devi Nagar in Kamatipura lodged a complaint against Bahadurpura constable Babu Rao and his two sons for assaulting them and causing injuries. The victims alleged that Babu, who already took Rs 10,000 flood relief fund in his wife’s name, again tried to collect the amount in his name. When locals objected, Babu and his sons assaulted three of them, causing minor injuries, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Charminar, Anjaiah said. After the incident, Anjani Kumar suspended Babu Rao.  Two other constables, G Sudhakar of Chilakalguda PS and M Sharath Kumar of City Armed Reserve, have also been suspended for misconduct. “In Hyderabad city police, we follow zero tolerance for any misconduct,” tweeted Anjani Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-suspended-over-flood-relief-row/articleshow/78921095.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Crucial meet on Polavaram project bills slated for Nov 2||AMARAVATI: The Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) will discuss on November 2 the clarification sought by Union ministry of Jal Shakti regarding reimbursement of project bills.The Union finance ministry’s directive to the Jal Shakti ministry on giving approval to the Polavaram project cost based on the 2013-14 price level has become a cause for concern for the state government as well as Union Jal Shakti ministry as the latter is the nodal agency for completing the national project. The finance ministry had asked the Jal Shakti ministry to see that PPA gives its nod to the total cost of the project at Rs 20,389 crore fixed based on 2013-14 price level. Jagmohan Gupta, joint secretary in the Jal Shakti ministry, is likely to attend the PPA meeting to be chaired by CEO Ayyar. AP special chief secretary (water resources) Dr Adityanath Das is also attending the crucial session to raise objections about the finance ministry’s directive. The state government is gearing up to give a detailed presentation to explain how and when the project cost has been revised and approved at various levels, including PPA. PPA had agreed to revise the project cost based on the 2017-18 price level. After going through various reports presented by the state government in the last few years and its own field studies, PPA had revised the project cost to Rs 47,725.7 crore. The price was arrived at after consulting senior officials in the Jal Shakti ministry and Technical Advisory Committee constituted from different ministries. The Jal Shakti ministry is in a quandary over the finance ministry’s advice to approve the project cost based on 2013-14 price level which leaves a gap of nearly Rs 30,000 crore. The government will ask the Jal Shakti ministry how it plans to complete the project by approving the project cost at Rs 20,389 crore. The Centre has already reimbursed nearly Rs 8,000 crore and plans to wind up the financial assistance with the payment of the balance amount. “The emergency meeting has been called to discuss the clarification sought by the ministry of Jal Shakti. We have to see how it transpires,” said a senior state government official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crucial-meet-on-polavaram-project-bills-slated-for-nov-2/articleshow/78917961.cms||Samdani MN
October 29, 2020||Kochi||‘Fractured skull may have killed leopard’||Thrissur: The preliminary findings of postmortem of leopard which died at Thrissur zoo indicate that the fracture on the skull must have caused the death. The seven-year-old female leopard had died on Tuesday evening and the postmortem was conducted by veterinarians Dr V Sunilkumar and Dr David Abraham on Wednesday. The leopard must have had a fall, causing deep injuries, though it appeared only as a hairline fracture on the skull. The leopard had no other lesions. However, its hind legs and left front leg were paralysed, zoo sources said. The samples collected from the carcass of the leopard will be sent for Covid tests and for routine toxicology and histopathology tests to different laboratories. The conclusion on the cause of death will be formed after the test results arrive, said Dr P S Esa, chairman of the Care Earth Trust. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fractured-skull-may-have-killed-leopard/articleshow/78919221.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru farmers eye big dividends with chia seed cultivation||MYSURU: Considered a superfood beacuse of its high nutritional value fibre, protein and Omega-3 fat content, chia seeds are slowly gaining popularity in India. The agriculture department has now decided to promote the Central American seed as there is huge demand for it in national and international markets. Farmers in Mysuru district are switching over to this crop cultivation from traditional tobacco, millet crops as it is fetching a decent price of Rs 25,000 per quintal. Moreover, the crop has come as a boon to growers who are struggling with animals destroying their crops. Chia seeds are disliked by cattle, sheep and goats. Speaking to TOI, joint director of agriculture, Dr M Mahantheshappa said the state government has provided one time of incentive of Rs 4,000 per acre of cultivation to a chia farmer. Over 3,000 farmers benefited from it and started cultivating the crop since two years. “As chia is considered a super food because of its high protein, fibre and Omega-3 fat content which can be found only in fish and it is helping ryots reap rich returns, the government has been encouraging farmers to take up cultivation on a large scale, Moreover, Central Food and Technological Research Institution (CFTRI) premier research institutions have recommended the government to encourage the farmers for this cultivation”, he said. After the state government started providing incentives, farmers are taking up its cultivation in large number especially in HD Kote, Hunsur, Periyapatna and parts of T Narasipur. Speaking to TOI, State SugarCane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthkumar who is also the founder of Raitha Mitra, Farmer Producing Company (FPC), said the company exported chia seeds to Singapore, Malaysia and US, besides selling them in the domestic market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-eye-big-dividends-with-chia-seed-cultivation/articleshow/78919053.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Guinness titles for virtual cancer run||Hyderabad: The Guinness World Records gave city-based Grace Cancer Foundation two titles with regard to hosting cancer awareness initiative ‘Grace Cancer Run’. The records acknowledged are for accruing ‘Most live viewers for a female health awareness lesson on YouTube as part of Cancer Awareness Drive’ and for ‘Most videos of people running/ jogging uploaded to Facebook in one hour as part of Cancer Awareness Drive’. The run had over a lakh participants from 115 plus countries on October 10 this year. Swapnil Dangarikar, official adjudicator of Guinness World Records, said, “At the moment we have more than 500 successful participants. We are still counting and will give a bigger number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guinness-titles-for-virtual-cancer-run/articleshow/78921062.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Nursing student from Karnataka receives offer of help from RGUHS registrar||MANGALURU: Help came pouring in for 21-year-old Buddana Gowda, a nursing student from Badami taluk in Bagalkot, within hours of a report being published in The Times of India under the headline ‘Nursing student tuns mason to save for fees’ on Wednesday highlighting the struggles he was going through in the pursuit of his ambition. Many readers of the paper have volunteered to lend financial assistance to the young man to help realise his dream. Determined to fulfil his dream of working in the medical profession, Gowda is currently working as a mason in Udupi so as to be able to save enough money to pay the fees for his course at a prestigious college. Among those who have extended a helping hand to Gowda is Shivanand Kapashi, registrar of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS). “RGUHS is offering a scholarship for students from this academic year. Although the last date to apply for the scholarship is past, the varsity will consider Gowda’s case as a special one. Based on his educational achievements, he will be able to avail of the scholarship,” Kapashi said. RGUHS syndicate member Dr HJ Jaikrishna opined that an eligible student ought not to be deprived of education owing to one’s financial condition. “We will give him the scholarship if he meets the varsity’s criteria,” Dr Jaikrishna said. On the other hand, many TOI readers have reached out to Gowda via e-mail, expressing their wish to help him. “I received a few calls when I was at work. I will respond to all those who have called at the earliest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/toi-impact-nursing-student-receives-offer-of-help-from-rguhs-registrar/articleshow/78918972.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Pandal, Durga idol burnt to ashes in Salt Lake||Kolkata: Hours before immersion, the Durga idols and the entire pandal at FD Block in Salt Lake were burnt to ashes in an early-morning fire on Wednesday. While a section of the organising committee hinted at sabotage, police and fire officers said an electrical short circuit might have led to the blaze. No one was, however, injured.State fire minister and local MLA Sujit Bose, who reached the spot and oversaw a team of state forensic sciences officials collect samples from the debris, said a detailed enquiry would be conducted to find out the reason. “We will conduct an inquiry to find out how the fire had started,” said Bose. The FD Block Sarbojonin Durgotsav Committee, which is celebrating its 36th year, decorated the pandal, inspired by The Jungle Book. While the Durga idol was kept inside a 3,000 sq-ft cave-like structure, a jungle, along with characters from the book, was recreated on the 2-acre FD Block park. Though the pandal and the idols were destroyed, two fire engines doused the flames before the rest of the park was affected.The fire was spotted around 6am by some residents of the area, dhakis and security guards outside the mandap. “Three of us had come out of the pandal to have tea from a nearby stall, when we saw the flames from a distance. We rushed towards the pandal and alerted the guards, who called the organisers. We poured buckets of water but within minutes, the entire pandal was ablaze and we had to move away,” said Bikas Ruidas, a dhaki.The loud noise of electrical equipment and other materials exploding woke up the residents living around FD park who witnessed the horror of the leaping flames engulfing the pandal from their windows and balconies. “It was a heart-rending sight and felt like somebody very close was dying a painful death. I felt helpless as I could not help. I just kept alerting puja organisers and called the fire department,” said Tapan Roy of FD 61.A section of organisers said foul play was behind the incident and blamed an internal feud. “A section of organisers had been against us holding the puja peacefully. I feel there has been some sabotage. There has been no negligence on our part. Even the CCTV footage shows the fire started from a corner of the pandal entrance, where there was no live electrical line, which could have led to a short circuit,” said Banibrata Banerjee, president, puja committee.However, Block committee members said there could always be a difference in opinion but nobody could have set the pandal, along with the idol, on fire. “There is nobody who can have such mentality or intention to commit such a crime,” said former FD block puja committee president Pradip Sengupta.State forensic sciences officials, who collected samples, idols and the burnt meter box, said they needed to test them before drawing a conclusion. “The pandal has been so severely burnt that it is impossible to locate the cause and seat of fire at this moment. We will run a series of tests to come to a conclusion,” said S K Saha, a senior forensic sciences official.(with inputs from Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandal-durga-idol-burnt-to-ashes-in-salt-lake/articleshow/78919271.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh police bags 48 awards at 67th Skoch Summit||VIJAYAWADA: Breaking its own record, the Andhra Pradesh police department won 48 Skoch Order of Merit awards during the 67th Skoch Summit held in New Delhi on Wednesday. The summit had 84 awards, of which 57% of them were won by AP police. At the 66th Skoch Summit, AP police won 37 awards. Speaking on the occasion, DGP D Gautam Sawang said the state government in 2019 and this year had won a total of 85 of these awards and has always stood first in the country in terms of using technology in policing. Out of these 48 awards, district police units received 20 awards in their individual areas of police, while the majority of awards (24) was won by police headquarters. These include technical services, communication, welfare and law and order and four other awards for the Crime Investigation Department (CID). CID won the four awards for Operation Muskaan—Covid-19, e-RakshaBandhan, e-Nirdesha and 4S4U initiatives. Police headquarters won awards for best practices in setting up family welfare desk during the pandemic for police personnel, automated vehicle alert system, e-DSR, home quarantine mobile application, e-hunt and Disha police stations. Vijayawada police won awards for cybercrime management, Covid-19 emergency response team and integrated crime prevention and monitoring with emergency response situation. Krishna district police won an award for their ‘Parivarthana’ programme which cracked down on arrack brewers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-police-bags-48-awards-at-67th-skoch-summit/articleshow/78924437.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Case against unidentified people for duplicating temple website||TUTICORIN: A case has been registered against unidentified people for creating a fake website replicating the original website of the famous Arulmigu Mutharamman Thirukovil at Kulasekarapattinam and naming it as Arulmigu Mutharamman ‘Church’’, Kulasekarapattinam, and circulating it on social media. “Based on a complaint preferred by officials from the HR&CE department, a case was registered under 505(ii) (statements conducing to public mischief committed in place of worship) of IPC and sections 66 and 67 of the Information Technology Act,” Tuticorin SP S Jayakumar said. The SP said the original website of the temple has not been hacked and that the image shared in the social media is fake. The case is investigated by the cyber crime wing of the Tuticorin district police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/case-against-unidentified-people-for-duplicating-temple-website/articleshow/78921148.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh police bags 48 awards at 67th Skoch Summit||VIJAYAWADA: Breaking its own record, the Andhra Pradesh police department won 48 Skoch Order of Merit awards during the 67th Skoch Summit held in New Delhi on Wednesday. The summit had 84 awards, of which 57% of them were won by AP police. At the 66th Skoch Summit, AP police won 37 awards. Speaking on the occasion, DGP D Gautam Sawang said the state government in 2019 and this year had won a total of 85 of these awards and has always stood first in the country in terms of using technology in policing. Out of these 48 awards, district police units received 20 awards in their individual areas of police, while the majority of awards (24) was won by police headquarters. These include technical services, communication, welfare and law and order and four other awards for the Crime Investigation Department (CID). CID won the four awards for Operation Muskaan—Covid-19, e-RakshaBandhan, e-Nirdesha and 4S4U initiatives. Police headquarters won awards for best practices in setting up family welfare desk during the pandemic for police personnel, automated vehicle alert system, e-DSR, home quarantine mobile application, e-hunt and Disha police stations. Vijayawada police won awards for cybercrime management, Covid-19 emergency response team and integrated crime prevention and monitoring with emergency response situation. Krishna district police won an award for their ‘Parivarthana’ programme which cracked down on arrack brewers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-police-bags-48-awards-at-67th-skoch-summit/articleshow/78924440.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||One more arrest in TRP scam: Cable distributor||MUMBAI: The crime branch made its 11th arrest in the TRP manipulation scam on Wednesday: a Thane-based cable distributor. Ashish Choudhary, 50, allegedly facilitated payment of cash to households which were told to keep some TV channels on in a bid to inflate their viewership figures. Wow, a music channel, is the latest to come under the scanner in the TRP scam, the others being Republic TV, Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, News Nation and Maha Movie. Choudhary who runs a cable distribution firm named Crystal Broadcast was remanded by a court to police custody till October 30. Choudhary is official distributor of News Nation. His advocate Ajay Dubey denied the charges. Choudhary’s name cropped up during interrogation of Abhishek Kolawade who runs a marketing firm named Max Media. Police said they have found a money trail linking the channels under probe with Choudhary and Kolawade. Police said Choudhary received payments from the channels for distribution to households where TRPs were being measured using bar-o-meters. Choudhary, in turn, paid around Rs 5 lakh every month to Kolawade for two years, police said. Kolawade was allegedly responsible for disbursing funds down the line to others running the scam. In a remand application, police said suspects Dinesh Vishwakarma, Ramji Verma, Harish Patil and Abhishek have also admitted to taking money fromthe five channels to increase their TRP, which is a key parameter used by media houses to decide placement of ads. Assistant inspector Sachin Waze said till now 46 statements have been recorded. There are some contradictions in statements of officials of Hansa Research and Broadcasting Audience Research Council or BARC, police said. Hansa was contracted by BARC to install bar-o-meters . Meanwhile, police said more than 100 people have written to them complaining about channels indulging in TRP manipulation. These complaints are from Bihar, West Bengal, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, and they are mostly about multiple slots occupied by certain channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-more-arrest-in-trp-scam-cable-distributor/articleshow/78921143.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||Producer who stabbed model in Mumbai hurt in mishap||MUMBAI: After stabbing a model-turned-actress on a busy road in Andheri (W), the producer, while trying to escape from Mumbai in his black Audi (MH-05-BS-1744), met with an accident on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway on Monday night. Versova police learnt this when they tracked down Yogeshkumar Singh (26) with the help of CCTV footage, which showed him crossing Dahisar check naka and his mobile tower location showed Vasai-Virar on the highway around 10.30pm. Singh was found at Platinum hospital in Vasai, where he was undergoing treatment for facial injuries after his car turned turtle around 47km from Andheri (W). Singh attacked Malvi Malhotra around 9pm at Sunderwadi in Andheri (W), 2km from her home on Monday when she was returning after discussing a project with a client at Andheri’s Café Coffee Day, a day after she returned from Dubai. “Singh, who has been following Malhotra for one year, followed her and even tried to force her into his car. When she walked ahead, Singh got annoyed and stabbed her in the stomach, tried to slash her face, and then sped away” police said. Zonal DCP Abhishek Trimukhe formed a team of senior inspector Raghvendra Thakur, inspector Sanjay Pawar, assistant inspector Rauf Shaikh and detection staff, who checked CCTV footage from the spot and followed Singh’s route. “Singh’s car was captured at Dahisar check naka CCTV cameras. This gave us a clue that he had taken the Ahmedabad highway. We then learnt that Singh lost control of his car and it turned turtle on the highway. Passing vehicles informed the control room and got Singh admitted to hospital,” said the police. Till late Wednesday, Versova police did not arrested Singh. “A team is keeping a watch on Singh. He will be arrested once he gets discharged. He has been booked for attempt to murder and stalking,” police said. Malhotra is stable after she underwent surgery for the stab injury on her stomach and 6-inch injuries on her hands. “Malhotra has undergone a six-hour surgery. She is recovering,” family friend Atul Patel told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/producer-who-stabbed-model-hurt-in-mishap/articleshow/78919988.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle density study after air pollution analysis: UT to NGT||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has submitted before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that vehicle density study can only be carried out after the completion of source appointment study. The vehicle density study will help the UT administration control air pollution and plan a proper public transport system. And source appointment study is for preparation of data to quantify the proportion of various elements to the overall level of air pollution. Last year, the UT administration had started the process to carry out the vehicle density study and the work was allotted to Punjab Engineering College (PEC). Thereafter, a fresh set of instructions were issued by the Centre and it was decided that the methodology will be finalised by the NGT. A senior UT officer said the NGT had directed states and UTs to carry out the study but parameters were to be fixed by the NGT in coordination with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The UT was waiting for NGT’s parameters. In a recent meeting, the UT administration apprised the NGT that the vehicle density study could only be carried out after the completion of source appointment study, which is to be done by the CPCB, he added. Recently, the NGT had asked the UT administration to formulate a graded response action plan (GRAP) for excessive number of vehicles plying the city roads. Chandigarh has reportedly the highest density of vehicles in India with around 12 lakh registered two- and four-wheelers. The number of vehicles is more than two per house. This year, lockdown put brakes on vehicle registration, which had witnessed a downfall for the second consecutive year in 2019 too. In 2019, 43,986 vehicles were registered and in 2018, 45,267. Every year, registration and licensing authority (RLA) auctions four series of new vehicle registration numbers along with leftover numbers of the previous years. In one series there are 10,000 numbers. So, on an average, around 40,000 to 45,000 vehicles are registered every year in Chandigarh. In 2010, 47,930 vehicles were registered and in 2011, 47,823. In 2012, the number witnessed a jump of around 2,000 vehicles, with total figure being 49,665, while in 2013, there was a dip of around 6,000, with the number being 43,363. But in 2014, vehicle registrations went up to 46,255. Highest density in India Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles in India with around 12 lakh registered vehicles, including two- and four-wheelers. The number of vehicles is over two per house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vehicle-density-study-after-air-pollution-analysis-ut-to-ngt/articleshow/78919274.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh police bags 48 awards at 67th Skoch Summit||VIJAYAWADA: Breaking its own record, the Andhra Pradesh police department won 48 Skoch Order of Merit awards during the 67th Skoch Summit held in New Delhi on Wednesday. The summit had 84 awards, of which 57% of them were won by AP police. At the 66th Skoch Summit, AP police won 37 awards. Speaking on the occasion, DGP D Gautam Sawang said the state government in 2019 and this year had won a total of 85 of these awards and has always stood first in the country in terms of using technology in policing. Out of these 48 awards, district police units received 20 awards in their individual areas of police, while the majority of awards (24) was won by police headquarters. These include technical services, communication, welfare and law and order and four other awards for the Crime Investigation Department (CID). CID won the four awards for Operation Muskaan—Covid-19, e-RakshaBandhan, e-Nirdesha and 4S4U initiatives. Police headquarters won awards for best practices in setting up family welfare desk during the pandemic for police personnel, automated vehicle alert system, e-DSR, home quarantine mobile application, e-hunt and Disha police stations. Vijayawada police won awards for cybercrime management, Covid-19 emergency response team and integrated crime prevention and monitoring with emergency response situation. Krishna district police won an award for their ‘Parivarthana’ programme which cracked down on arrack brewers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-police-bags-48-awards-at-67th-skoch-summit/articleshow/78917999.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: TN cadre IPS will be police observer||HYDERABAD: Just days ahead of the election in Dubbak, the Election Commission of India has appointed Tamil Nadu cadre IPS officer Saroj Kumar Thakur as a police observer. The by-election is scheduled to be held on November 3. Thakur, a 2010 batch IPS officer, being sent as an observer assumes significance in the aftermath of a series of incidents, including the seizure of Rs 18.70 lakh by cops from a relative of BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao and BJP demanding deployment of central forces and suspension of Siddipet commissioner of police Joel Davis. In a note on Wednesday, the chief electoral officer said: “In exercise of the powers conferred on it by Article 324 of the Constitution of India and Section 20B of the Representation of the People Act,1961, the Election Commission of India hereby appoints Saroj Kumar Thakur, IPS, as police observer for the by-elections to the Dubbak assembly constituency.” Thakur is presently serving as SP (cyber crime), division 3, Chennai. In the last two days, the BJP has been vocal in its criticism against Davis and also petitioned the ECI demanding that he be transferred immediately.. The BJP’s allegation is that police had deliberately tried to plant the money in the house of Raghunandan’s Rao’s father-in-law at Lecturers’ Colony in Siddipet town on October 26. This led to a furore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tn-cadre-ips-will-be-police-observer/articleshow/78921097.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||MahaMetro doesn’t want Nagpur bus services on its routes||NAGPUR: With a view to improve ridership on Sitabuldi to Hingna and Khapri routes, MahaMetro has approached Nagpur Municipal Corporation with a request to stop city bus service on these routes. In the past, too, MahaMetro had urged the civic body to carry out route rationalization for buses plying on Wardha road. In a letter to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, the MahaMetro has requested for route rationalization so that city buses run like feeder service for Metro. There were about 4,500 daily pass holders of city buses on Sitabuldi-Butibori route and 5,500 daily pass holders on Sitabuldi-Hingna route before the services stopped due to Covid outbreak. The municipal commissioner ruled out any possibility of stopping buses on these two routes. “I am not in favour of stopping an existing public service in any shape or form. I don’t believe in creating conditions that will destroy one public service to ensure the success of another,” he told TOI. The civic chief said he has asked MahaMetro to discuss the issue with transport department. A meeting between officials of NMC’s transport department and MahaMetro would be held once again over the latter’s proposal. Sources in the department said besides the pass holders, the city bus ridership on these two routes was highest among 111 routes across the city. In a letter addressed to the municipal commissioner, joint general manager of MahaMetro Mahesh Gupta stated the NMC bus service was not in operation from March 2020 due to Covid-19 restrictions. However, Metro’s commercial operations from Sitabuldi to Khapri and from Sitabuldi to Lokmanya Nagar Metro station on Hingna road have already commenced. “After resuming the operations of Metro and bus services, the following proposal for shifting of NMC bus pass holders to Metro can be considered so as to avoid duplication of public transport on same routes,” the letter said. Currently there are no bus pass holders in city bus service of NMC. So MahaMetro has requested these passes be issued from Khapri to Butibori instead of Sitabuldi to Butibori and from Lokmanya Nagar to Hingna instead of Sitabuldi to Hingna. MahaMetro also pointed out that it has ample space for parking of NMC buses at both the stations so buses can easily operate for Butibori and Hingna or beyond. In this way, the commuters can avail the facility of Metro as well as NMC buses at affordable cost to travel from Sitabuldi to Butibori and Sitabuldi to Hingna, the letter stated. The move will also decongest Wardha and Hingna roads and even High Court had issued similar orders of decongestion city roads. “After implementation of this proposal, bus trips from Sitabuldi to Khapri and from Sitabuldi to Hingna will get reduced resulting in decongestion on these roads, and lower pollution levels,” the letter said. According to a senior MahaMetro official, both Aapli Bus service and MahaMetro are public transport service for citizens of Nagpur. Instead of competing we should complement each other, he stated. If the civic body agrees, it could divert these buses on new routes and can be deployed on routes that feed Metro corridors. This will increase ridership of NMC bus service too and help to reduce NMC bus operation losses, the official claimed. NMC’s transport department source said the proposal was not feasible. In the past too it had submitted similar proposal when it launched operation on Sitabuldi-Khapri route. Aapli Bus service was launched to help people commute within the city and in nearby rural area. Metro’s proposal will add to their woes with they requiring to change services at different places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahametro-doesnt-want-city-bus-services-on-its-routes/articleshow/78919278.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration seeks Rs 36 crore more from finance ministry||CHANDIGARH: Reeling under a financial crisis, the UT administration has sought an additional financial grant of Rs 36.11 crore from the ministry of finance under revised estimates (RE). In its demand, the administration has given a detailed break-up on where the funds would be used. The administration has asked for Rs 33.10 crore under revenue segment and Rs 3.01 crore under capital segment. The administration has also shared the financial structure of each department till September to make the government understand its requirement. A copy of the additional demand under the revised estimates, which is with TOI, shows under the capital segment, Rs 3.01 crore is asked under major works category related to payment following the orders of the court. Under the revenue head, the amount is sought to pay wages to outsourced staff, make payment of uniform to CTU staff and to release scholarships in favour of left out beneficiaries for post-metric scholarships for Scheduled Caste students. “With very less amount of Rs 3.01 crore demanded under the capital head, which is for some payments against the land, it is fully clear that no major works are going to start in the city in this financial year throughout the city. In fact, the departments are facing problems in carrying out pending works too. Our prime focus is to give salaries and wages and fulfil the committed liabilities. We are struggling in this area and are hoping for some financial grant from the ministry under the RE,” said a senior official. The finance department of the administration has already told all the departments that the allocated money for a period will not be carried forward. “The departments are not able to keep the allocated money given for some specific period for another. If more money is required for some emergency, the permission from the authority is required,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-seeks-rs-36-crore-more-from-finance-ministry/articleshow/78919290.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 29, 2020||Pune||92% dip in bus registration in Pune RTO in last 6 months over past year||PUNE: Registration of buses at the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad has recorded a major dip this year. The figures provided by the Pune RTO revealed that the registration of buses dropped by 92% between April and October this year as compared to last year. In Pimpri Chinchwad, bus registrations dropped by little over 90% during the same period this year when compared to last year. There was no revival during Dussehra period, with registrations dropping by more than 91% this year at the Pune RTO office. Bus operators in Pune told TOI that of the 50,000 buses registered, just 10% to 12% were operational now. “The situation is pathetic. Schools are not functioning, tours are not happening, religious places are still closed. We are facing immense difficulties,” said Kiran Desai, secretary, Pune Bus Owners Association, and spokesperson of Bus Operator Confederation of India (BOCI). Prasanna Patwardhan, chairman and managing director of Prasanna Purple Mobility Solutions and president of BOCI, said that they were not expecting any improvement. “Passenger transport is in serious trouble. There is no new requirement and no businesses for existing vehicles. Till the time the vaccine is available, the situation is not going to improve much,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/92-dip-in-bus-registration-in-pune-rto-in-last-6-months-over-past-year/articleshow/78921099.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||To seal or not? 6 +ve at AMC HQ||Ahmedabad: On Wednesday, six officials, including an assistant municipal commissioner in the civic body’s headquarters at Danapith, tested positive for Covid 19. This building is the office of the municipal commissioner, all zonal deputy commissioners, and city engineers. The development put municipal health officials in a dilemma over shutting the office. Elsewhere, Covid-19 rules require that an entire residential block be quarantined if more than three cases are detected in a short period. The officials who tested positive belong to the planning and audit departments on fifth and six floors and had come in contact with an asymptomatic Covid patient. Three more officers on the fifth floor are awaiting their reports. “We cannot shut down the headquarters as the entire city’s municipal administrative operations are run from there. Intensive sanitization drive has been conducted in every office,” said a senior AMC health official. “As part of preliminary measures we have restricted all public movement into the building. There will be no public dealing at this office for a few days. The two canteens and a few offices on the ground floor have been shut.” Municipal officials clarified that public visits had been curtailed to a large extent since the beginning of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/to-seal-or-not-6-ve-at-amc-hq/articleshow/78921140.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll: TRS will win with big majority, says KTR||HYDERABAD: While exuding confidence of winning Dubbak seat with a bigger majority this time, TRS working president KT Rama Rao said he would not be surprised if both Congress and BJP candidates not even securing their deposits in the November 3 by-election. He said people had been supporting the TRS in every election in the state. “We have information that some senior Congress leaders will join other parties after the elections, including a leader who has become a political commentator (indirectly referring to Revanth Reddy),” KTR said during an interaction with mediapersons at Telangana Bhavan on Wednesday. He slammed state BJP president Bandi Sanjay and other leaders for using objectionable language against the TRS and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao over Siddipet money seizure issue. “For every scheme being implemented by the state government like Aasara pension, KCR Kits, 2BHK housing and other schemes, BJP claims the scheme money has been funded by the Centre except Siddipet money. The state Bharatiya Janata Party chief did not come for an open debate on the schemes and central assistance when minister T Harish Rao threw a challenge to him,” KTR said. He said the BJP had lost in 105 constituencies of 119 assembly segments in the 2018 elections. “The BJP is more in the social media than in the society (with people) and solely depending on ‘WhatsApp’ university by resorting to false propaganda against the government on various issues,” he said. On whether KCR would campaign in Dubbak, he said the TRS had won the Huzurnagar by-election with a massive majority without KCR’s campaign. “I don’t think there is any need for it. However, the TRS president will take a final call on it,” he said. He said Dubbak election campaign responsibility was given to Harish Rao. “Since Harish Rao is district in-charge minister, the party leadership has given him responsibility. Any credit will go to him for taking party candidate towards victory,” KTR said. He slammed state BJP president Bandi Sanjay and other leaders for using objectionable language against the TRS and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao during Dubbak election campaign||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-will-win-with-big-majority-says-ktr/articleshow/78921130.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Some residents say they are yet to get flood relief||Hyderabad: Dozens of flood-affected victims of the Old City have knocked the doors of relevant authorities saying that the monetary help being provided as an immediate relief by the state government has eluded them. Officials, accompanied with local leaders have visited flood-hit areas to hand over cash among the affected families. However, the relief has eluded some beneficiaries. “My house wall collapsed in recent rains and my utensils got damaged. The government announced they would help out affected families. But to my surprise, officials sent me back asking me to come once the entire house collapses,” alleged one of the residents, Nanda Kishora from Gowlipura. TDP minority cell demanded a probe and sought clarification on the intervention of local leaders in the money distribution process. “Affected families are not being taken into consideration by officials. Many families are sent back saying to consult concerned officials. But when they arrive in the areas, they do not want to listen to affected people. Some party workers are being called and cash is being handed over to selected people,” said Mohammed Ahmed, TDP GHMC minority cell vice president. “The entire matter should be probed without any further delay and actual affected families should be provided help,” added Ahmed. GHMC officials said they will look into the issue. “There are 50 families in Qadria colony and a member claiming to be affected received Rs 20,000 without verification,” alleged Mohamed Khasim, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/some-residents-say-they-are-yet-to-get-flood-relief/articleshow/78921136.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Bus kills man sitting on stationary bike||tnnMohali: A 38-year-old man was killed after a bus rammed into his stationary two-wheeler at Nijjer Chowk in Kharar early on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Pankaj Sharma, a resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar.Assistant sub-inspector Ajay Kumar said, “Pankaj was sitting on his bike when a speeding private tourist bus with a Haryana registration number ran into him around 2am.” Passersby took him to Kharar civil hospital. He was referred to PGI, but could not be saved.“Following the crash, the driver escaped, leaving the bus behind. The accused will be arrested soon. The bus has been impounded. After the postmortem, the body of Pankaj was handed over to his family,” the ASI added.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bus-kills-man-sitting-on-stationary-bike/articleshow/78919322.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fake call centre racket busted, 10 held||MUMBAI: A fake call centre racket operating from a rented flat in Palghar district’s Nalasopara (W) to extort money from US citizens was busted by Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) police on Wednesday. Ten persons, including three women, were arrested. The centre was run from the first floor at Sundaram Plaza for over two months. The staff, in their 20s, called up Americans, posing as cops and revenue officers. They would threaten victims with claims that drugs were found in their vehicles. The victims would be told to deposit $10,000-15,000. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector Jitendra Vankoti raided the centre. Police said the accused spoke with an American accent. Those arrested are residents of Vasai-Virar region. While police did not reveal the names of the masterminds, they suspect the youngster who lost jobs during lockdown were selected, trained and handed numbers of victims. Police said each accused was handed a script they had to read out to victims. Police said the victims were forced to purchase gift cards online, scratch the 16-digit number and share it with the accused. Police said the number would be shared with a ‘gang’ who would transfer some of the money to the call centre. Police said the amount could run into crores. The accused, who will be produced in Vasai court on Thursday, have been booked under IPC sections for forgery and cheating, and sections of Information Technology Act and Indian Telegraph Act. Nine laptops, routers and other equipment have been seized. Last month a fake call centre was busted in Malad. Six men were arrested for extorting money from Americans and Canadians by posing as revenue officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fake-call-centre-racket-busted-10-held/articleshow/78919990.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Food poisoning: 70 cows die, 30 fall ill at Mansa Devi Gaudham||tnnPanchkula: Seventy cows died and 30 got sick after consuming “poisonous feed” at Mansa Devi Gaudham late on Tuesday night. The Haryana assembly speaker and the deputy commissioner (DC) have formed a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the incident.Manager of the Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham, which is run by Panchkula Gaushala Trust, said he came to know about the incident at 9pm from the workers, who said some cows were crying in pain and a few had collapsed. He immediately called up the animal husbandry department for help.A team of doctors rushed to the gaudham at 10pm and provided treatment till morning to 100 cows that got sick. Only 30 responded to the treatment, said a doctor.Dr Anil Kumar, deputy director, animal husbandry, said, “Prima facie, the cows died due to food poisoning. Samples of feed have been collected and post-mortem of 70 cows is being conducted.”On Wednesday morning, Panchkula MLA and Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta along with DC MK Ahuja and cops reached the spot for inspection. The DC said they have formed a three-member team, comprising District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) CEO Nishu Singhal, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar and deputy director, animal husbandry, Dr Anil Kumar, to investigate the matter. Singhal will lead the team.Post-mortem reports and samples of feed have been sent to Lala Lajpat Rai University, Hisar, for checking.The DC said, “New standard operating procedures (SOPs) for gaushalas will be made so that such incidents do not happen again. The donated feed will now be checked before it is served to cows. People who come to donate feed will not be allowed to go near the cows.”Gupta, while interacting with mediapersons, said, “It is a very unfortunate incident. A special team of animal husbandry department will visit the gaushalas on a regular basis and also collect samples of cattle feed. I have given special instructions to the SIT to check all angles, and the guilty will be punished as per law.”There are seven sheds in the gaushala and the feed of two sheds was poisonous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/food-poisoning-70-cows-die-30-fall-ill-at-mansa-devi-gaudham/articleshow/78919334.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir: Make provision for fund in FCI cost sheet||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said the central government should not victimise farmers for agitating against the central agricultural marketing laws by refusing to pay rural development fund (RDF) component of Rs 1,100 crore on government paddy purchase. He added such machinations would hit farmers and mean that the process to finish the “mandi” system had begun. Condemning the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution for not making any provision for RDF in the cash credit limit extended for the current paddy procurement season, Sukhbir said this would adversely affect food grain procurement in Punjab. “Money received by the state from RDF, which was around Rs 1,850 crore per annum, was used to maintain 1,800 mandis and 70,000 kilometers of rural link roads,” he added. The SAD president said the Punjab government should be allowed to withdraw RDF from the cash credit limit it had received to purchase the paddy crop. “Not allowing the state to do this amounts to a direct attack on the rights of the state and is against the principle of federalism,” said Sukhbir. The Punjab Rural Development Act allows imposition of mandi fee to maintain mandi infrastructure as well as rural link roads. Funds under this head should not be denied under flimsy grounds of scrutiny as was being done by the consumer affairs department, he added. Sukhbir said Punjab was already reeling under an economic blockade due to stoppage of inbound goods trains. “Now it must not be subject to an attack on infrastructure built to facilitate farmers and rural areas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-make-provision-for-fund-in-fci-cost-sheet/articleshow/78921149.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Flood-hit doctor in Yakutpura seeks financial help from govt||HYDERABAD: Families have been hit hard by the recent floods in Hyderabad and have lost many possessions during the ordeal. Dr. Khairunnisa, 52, from Yesrab Nagar, Yakutpura has been residing in the city for the past 45 years but said she had never passed through such difficulties. She said that her spacious house turned into a dumping yard and got partially damaged. She added that furniture and household articles have been ruined. Narrating her ordeal, Dr. Khairunnisa told TOI that when the water entered the house, she was luckily rescued and shifted to a safer place nearby. During those days, she suffered a lot and even had to spent nights on the roadside or in mosques. “The floodwater left me in the lurch and I could not find anyone to help me out from this trouble. Though I have received Rs 10,000 as an immediate relief on behalf of government, the compensation is not sufficient to restore life as usual,” Dr. Khairunnisa said. Ruined household articles in the house premises stink and pose serious health hazards. A portion of boundary wall collapsed in the rain and remaining areas of the house need immediate attention. She sought government and GHMC to visit her house and know her problems. “The entire house stinks a lot. My house needs to be cleaned as the atmosphere is unhealthy . Further delay in help may become costlier for me and others here,” said the doctor. She added, “I am helpless, I can’t do all these things alone. I am badly in need of help. Please do the needful.” Dr Khairunnisa burst into tears while narrating her ordeal. The floodwater has claimed many lives and wreaked havoc in localities including Al Jubail colony, Ghazi-e-millet colony, Babanagar, where residents suffered a huge loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-hit-doctor-in-yakutpura-seeks-financial-help-from-govt/articleshow/78921150.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC moved for NCW chairperson’s removal||MUMBAI: Activist Saket Gokhale has moved Bombay high court to direct the Centre to remove National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma for her “communal” tweets. The petition was filed following NCW’s official tweet on October 20 that Sharma met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and discussed issues related to women safety, including “rise in love jihad cases”. It added that after the meeting, many of Sharma’s old tweets came to light “which are extremely misogynist and partisan”, and also not befitting someone who is responsible for preventing crimes against women and ensuring justice impartially”. Gokhale’s petition states that there is no term “love jihad” under extant Indian laws nor have any such cases been reported by the home ministry. It added that invocation of “rise in love jihad cases” by Sharma, when no such case exists, “points to a communal dog whistle policy intended to target Muslims, vilify inter-faith couples and create discord in society”. The petition stated that Sharma discussing “love jihad” with Koshyari in her official capacity and the NCW’s official tweet about it “is not a mere casual conversation but indication of an official policy of demonizing interfaith marriages that NCW intends to pursue under the present chairperson”. The petition stated that after the October 20 tweet, the Centre, through ministry of women and child development, had not initiated an “enquiry, probe or disciplinary proceedings into the action” of Sharma. Gokhale’s petition will come up for hearing in due course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-moved-for-ncw-chiefs-removal/articleshow/78919992.cms||Rosy Sequeira
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘Holding Rs 1,000 crore rural fund part of Centre’s plan to end MSP’||CHAND IGARH: Reacting to the Centre’s decision to put rural development fund (RDF) utilisation under scrutiny this year, the Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh claimed on Wednesday that it was the “first step towards the end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime”. “The RDF due to the state would actually be Rs 1,100 crore and the decision has come as a bolt from the blue for us. Last year, Rs 1,836 crore was the RDF collected on wheat and paddy crops. The assurances that MSP will continue even after the new farm laws are enacted is only a verbal assurance to misguide farmers,” said Singh, on reports of the Centre putting the RDF usage by the state government under scrutiny while finalising provisional rates of milled rice and gunny bags for the ongoing paddy season. “This is no precedent of the RDF being held back from the cash credit limit (issued to the state for procuring paddy and wheat each year) and there is every reason to connect the move to the apprehensions about the intentions of BJP at the Centre over the farm Acts,” he added. Deductions made by the state from the MSP and the utilisation of RDF are under scrutiny of the Union ministry of consumer affairs. The state charges 3% RDF on transactions in the grain markets during the procurement process, besides the marketing fee. The fund is used for developing infrastructure like construction of roads in the rural areas of the state. Sources in the finance department added collection of RDF had always been under the purview of state government and it had not come under the scrutiny of Centre in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/holding-rs-1k-cr-rural-fund-part-of-centres-plan-to-end-msp/articleshow/78921146.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Traditional ‘healer’ held for raping 7-year-old girl||TUTICORIN: A 55-year-old soothsayer, who also claimed to be a traditional healer was arrested by Srivaikuntam all-women police on Wednesday for raping a seven-year-old girl who was brought to him for treatment a month ago. He threatened to kill everyone in her family using black magic if they revealed the incident to the police. The accused, P Chinnathurai of Keela Puliyanga colony in Pudukudi Keelur village, was engaged in soothsaying and ‘treating’ people, especially children, for minor ailments such as stomach pain, boils and wounds using crude ways like tying threads on their hands. According to the police, the girl hailing from a village near Srivaikuntam suffered from a wound on her foot that did not heal for a long time. “Her mother suspected that it could be due to stepping on something evil. She took the girl to Chinnathurai for treatment on September 25 ,” Srivaikuntam AWPS inspector L Lakshmi Prapha said. The inspector told TOI that the man sent the woman to buy turmeric and egg from a shop and before she returned, he took the girl inside and tried to sexually abuse her. Even as the girl was in tears, he heard the woman return, and hurriedly met her at the doorstep to send her to the shop again to buy some more items. “He delayed the woman’s arrival by an hour and raped her. The mother thought that the girl was crying due to the medication. Later in the night, after hearing from the girl what had happened and seeing her bleeding, she questioned the accused. He threatened to kill the family with black magic,” the inspector said. The woman did not tell her husband, who works in Coimbatore, about the incident until 10 days ago. The man then asked her to bring the child to Coimbatore where they took her to a government hospital. It was the doctor who explained to them the seriousness of the offence and advised them to lodge a complaint with the police. On Tuesday evening, the girl’s parents returned to Tuticorin and lodged a complaint with the AWPS. Chinnathurai was booked under sections 5(m) (penetrative sexual assault on a child below 12 years) and 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, and 506(i) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused was arrested and lodged in the Thoothukudi district jail under judicial custody on Wednesday evening. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traditional-healer-held-for-raping-7-year-old-girl/articleshow/78921155.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||55-year-old woman dies in hit-and-run||tnnChandigarh: A 55-year-old woman was killed in a hit-and-run at sectors 44 and 45 dividing road on Tuesday night. Soma was a resident of Sector 44. Amandeep Singh, an eyewitness and resident of Sector 49, said in his police complaint, “Soma was going from Sector 45 to Sector 44 when a rashly-driven auto-rickshaw hit her and sped away.”Passersby informed the police and a PCR took her to PGI. She succumbed during treatment.Sector 34 police have registered a case against the auto driver, who is yet to be identified. Cops are checking the footage of CCTVs installed near the accident spot.Police said Soma was a ragpicker and also worked as a domestic help. “Her husband, too, had died in an accident a year ago. She is survived by two daughters,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/55-year-old-woman-dies-in-hit-and-run/articleshow/78919342.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Photos of victims in phone sealed killer’s fate||HYDERABAD: Migrant worker Sanjay Kumar Yadav had recorded a video of him sexually assaulting a minor girl with his cell phone. The video along with photos of some of the murder victims, retrieved by forensic experts from Sanjay’s phone, were part of the crucial evidence that led to his death sentence. During the trial, prosecution had produced 67 witnesses, 173 exhibits and 38 material objects before the court. Apart from the statements of eye-witnesses, who saw Sanjay moving at the gunny bag manufacturing unit, investigators also corroborated the statements by obtaining call detail record (CDR) of the accused, CCTV camera footage to indicate his presence near the crime scene at the time of the offence. Autopsy reports also confirmed that the victims were alive when they were dumped in the well and the forensic lab reports confirmed the chemical found in the body of the victims matched with the sample of sleeping pills seized from the possession of the accused, public prosecutor M Satyanarayana Goud said. The prosecution also produced photos of Bushra Alam and video of the 16-year-old girl, retrieved from the phone of the accused, before the court. “Sanjay clicked photos of Bushra Alam when she was unconscious after consuming food laced with sedative. He also recorded video of sexually exploiting the minor girl. A separate case has been registered against Sanjay under Section 376 of the IPC and Sections 5 and 6 of the POCSO Act for sexually exploiting the minor girl. The charge sheet has been filed in that case too and trial is likely to commence soon, the public prosecutor said. To execute his plan, Sanjay had purchased 120 sleeping pills from a medical store in Warangal in a span of two days. Police have also booked a separate case against the shop keeper for selling pills to the migrant worker without a prescription. Of the 120 sleeping pills, Sanjay had used powder of 60 pills to sedate the victims. Remaining pills were seized from his possession. Meanwhile, after the arrest of Sanjay, based on his confession, the railway police of Tadepalligudem altered the suspicious death case pertaining to Rafeeqa’s body to murder case, ACP Shyam Sundar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/photos-of-victims-in-phone-sealed-killers-fate/articleshow/78921152.cms||Mahesh Buddi
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Capt should talk to Modi, not browbeat farmers, says Mann||Moga: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab state president and MP Bhagwant Mann has accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of imposing sanctions on Punjab out of sheer frustration due to the farmers’ struggle against the Centre’s farm laws. Mann, speaking to journalists at Moga on Wednesday, said blocking of freight trains, withholding Rural Development Fund (RDF) and GST were revengeful acts on the part of the government at the centre against Punjab, which had contributed 90% to the country’s freedom struggle and food security. Mann said if the contentious farm laws were being opposed by the farmers and farmer organisations all across the country, the Modi government should hold talks with them to allay their apprehensions. Mann also said chief minister Amarinder Singh should not waste time by making appeals to the farmers with an ulterior motive of derailing their struggle at the behest of Modi rather should talk to the Prime Minister and have their issues and concerns resolved. He urged all party workers, volunteers, leaders and people from walks of life to extend their whole-hearted support to ‘Chakka Jam’ call given by struggling farmers for November 5. The leaders, cadres and volunteers have been directed not to use the party’s flag or raise any slogan on the occasion since it was the peasants’ struggle. Mann appreciated farm organisations for their peaceful and united struggle and cautioned them not to turn violent whatever was the provocation, as the Modi government was inventing ways and means to derail the farmers’ struggle by defaming them in one way or the other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-should-talk-to-modi-not-browbeat-farmers-says-mann/articleshow/78921154.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Angered by death, kin vandalise Vashi hospital, 4 held||NAVI MUMBAI: Kin of a 48-year-old patient, who died during treatment after being admitted in a critical condition, vandalised NMMC hospital in Vashi. They threw patients’ files and damaged medical equipment, besides manhandling staff early on Wednesday. Vashi police arrested four persons, including two sons and two relatives. Hospital medical superintendent Dr Prashant Jawade said, “Venkatesh Suryavanshi, a Juhugaon resident, was critical when shifted from Ashirwad hospital in Koparkhairane. He had TB and an HIV infection. His antigen test report was negative but he was treated in a Covid ward as a suspect. When the patient died around 3am, his kin turned violent. Police took away the accused.” Senior inspector Sanjeev Dhumal said an FIR was filed under IPC sections for assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of duty. “We invoked Epidemic Diseases Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Criminal Amendment Act. They will be produced in Vashi JMFC court on Thursday,” he added. Dhumal said three women were also allegedly involved in vandalism. They were seen in CCTV footage but will be arrested after establishing their roles. The accused were allegedly under the influence of alcohol so their blood tests have been done, he said. Dr Jawade said police were not deployed at the hospital due to risk of infection, but they demanded round-the-clock bandobast, which has now been provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/angered-by-death-kin-vandalise-vashi-hospital-4-held/articleshow/78919996.cms||George Mendonca
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Team to inspect Hussainsagar||Hyderabad: The state has constituted a 10-member committee, headed by engineering-in-chief of irrigation department, to conduct a comprehensive assessment of structures of Hussainsagar and submit a report within 15 days. The committee has been constituted in the wake of several lakes, including Hussainsagar, reached full tank level and flooded low-lying areas. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the irrigation department to check all 185 lakes in Greater Hyderabad and submit a report on their condition. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/team-to-inspect-hussainsagar/articleshow/78921167.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to launch land portal Dharani today||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate the land web portal Dharani at Muduchintalapalli in Medchal-Malkajgiri district on Thursday. Once land web portal Dharani is launched, the government will allow all the property transactions, including registrations and mutations, through the web portal. The state government has already started training tahsildars and nayab tahsildars on conducting property registrations through the land web portal Dharani . The state government suspended property registrations from September 1 in the wake of Dharani preparations and amendment to the Revenue Act. As per the new rules, while the agriculture property registrations would be done by tahsildars of respective mandals, non-agriculture property registrations would be done by sub-registrars of stamps and registration department. Meanwhile, the revenue department has issued orders that the new amended Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, would come into force from October 29. The portal will serve as a one-stop solution for matters related to land properties including mutations and instant registration online. It will put an end to massive corruption in the department and innumerable land disputes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-launch-land-portal-dharani-today/articleshow/78921162.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Over 15,000 road accidents in 2019 caused by valid licence holders||VISAKHAPATNAM: Those with valid driving licences were responsible for over 15,000 road accidents in Andhra Pradesh in 2019, a report by the Union ministry of road transport and highways has revealed. The latest report compiled by the ministry’s transport research wing shows 7,984 persons were killed and 24,619 persons injured in 21,992 road accidents in the state in 2019. The number of victims in 2019 was higher than that in 2018 (7,556). Accidents classified according to the status of drivers’ licence show that in 2019, a staggering 15,303 accidents were caused by those who possessed valid driving licences. Persons with a learner’s licence were involved in 1,262 road accidents while those without any driving licence were involved in 2,576 road accidents. Other persons (driver’s licence status not known) were responsible for 2,851 accidents. Police said even those with valid driving licences are guilty of violating traffic norms. A senior traffic police officer said that a majority of those with a valid driving licence are, in fact, untrained and pose a danger to other motorists and pedestrians. Many have not taken a test on the RTA driving track and few understand road rules, he added. On average, the traffic police and Road Transport Authority (RTA) officials booked between 80 to 120 cases of speeding in a day in the state. A senior police officer said Vizag city police on average register at least 800 to 1,000 cases related to traffic violations in a day. “We have only four speed laser guns and require at least 10 more to cover the major roads in the city to check speeding violations, as this has been another major reason for road accidents,” the officer added. RTA officials in Vizag city are equipped with two speed laser guns which are deployed at selected places to nab violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-15000-road-accidents-in-19-caused-by-valid-licence-holders/articleshow/78918042.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Plea in NGT on encroachments||Hyderabad: A petition was filed in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the lake encroachments and recent floods in Hyderabad. Petitioners Silveri Srishailam and Kota Srikanth alleged in the petition that due to illegal constructions and encroachments in water bodies, flooding takes place in various parts of Hyderabad every year. “Thousands of residents are facing flooding and drainage water has been entering into houses, cellars. The authorities of Hyderabad city of Telangana have not taken appropriate measures to stop inundation. Telangana has appointed experts of Kirloskar Committee and Voyanth’s Consultancy to study the reasons for inundation and remedial measures. They have made several recommendation such as removal of 13,500 illegal constructions on water bodies, nalas. But the authorities of Telangana have not implemented the recommendations of the expert committees...,” alleged the petitioners. “We have represented to the Prime Minister and other authorities to take action on encroachment of Gurram Cheruvu. No action was taken by the authorities though the representation was forwarded to chief secretary of Telangana by Prime Minister Office. The main reason for the massive destruction is the encroachment of water bodies, nalas, drainages... ,” the petitioners added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plea-in-ngt-on-encroachments/articleshow/78921159.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Nadda reminds CM of Cong’s ’17 pledge||Chandigarh: BJP president J P Nadda has accused various political groups of fooling farmers for the sake of opposing the Centre’s new agri-marketing laws. Attacking the Punjab chief minister, Nadda said if Captain Amarinder Singh had political honesty, he should tell people why the 2017 Punjab assembly elections manifesto of the Congress had promised to replace the mandi system with contract farming. Nadda said: “The Congress is opposing its commitments that the Modi government had now fulfilled. The political fronts posing as farm unions do only lip, service, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the real leader of farmers.” The BJP president said this in the first Kamal Sharma memorial online address delivered on Wednesday from Delhi. Former Punjab BJP president Kamal Sharma had died of heart attack at 48 last October. Nadda said: “The UPA didn’t implement the Swaminathan Commission report during its 10 years in power. The BJP government has not only implemented these suggestions but also upped the crop price 1.5 times.” Assuring farmers about no change in the minimum support price (MSP), he said the laws will rather allow them to sell their crop beyond the local mandis, freeing them of the age-old bondage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nadda-reminds-cm-of-congs-17-pledge/articleshow/78921156.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Madurai||Traffic diversions planned ahead of Thevar guru puja||MADURAI: The Madurai police have made traffic modifications for the upcoming Thevar guru puja. There will be an entry ban of trucks and other heavy vehicles into the city between 6 am and 10.30 pm on Friday. No vehicle will be allowed in the roads approaching Thevar statue at Goripalayam junction in the city except for the vehicles going to the statue to pay tribute. The vehicles should have obtained prior permission from the city police. Vehicles coming from Natham Road and Alagarkovil Road towards the city will have to take turn at Periyar Statue at Tallakulam and go via Raja Muthaiah Mandram, KK Nagar, Aavin Junction, Anna Nagar Main Road, PRT Bridge and Kamarajar Salai. Vehicles from Aavin Junction going to Natham Road should take Raja Muthaiah Mandram, Youth Hostel, Race Course Ground and Thamaraithotti. Vehicles from North Veli Street bound via Puthupalam should take turn at Palam Station Road-MM Lodge to take Kansapuram Road, Arasan Sweets and Periyar Maaligai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/traffic-diversions-planned-ahead-of-thevar-guru-puja/articleshow/78921161.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: PM Modi calls Tejashwi ‘Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj’||PATNA/DARBHANGA: As 71 seats went to polls in the first phase of the state polls on Wednesday, PM Narendra Modi addressed three rallies in north Bihar packing a punch against the Grand Alliance, especially targeting its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. The PM dubbed Tejashwi as “Jungle Raj Ke Yuvraj (prince of jungle raj)”, a euphemism for the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule of the RJD that he said was marked by “loot and kidnapping.” In a bid to clear the confusion in the NDA rank and file, Modi clarified at each of his rallies that the Chirag Paswan-led LJP is not a part of NDA. Chirag’s statements claiming that his party would form the government with BJP had been confusing NDA supporters. “When I say NDA, it only means BJP, JD(U), VIP and HAM(Secular). Cast your vote in favour of the candidates from these four parties and make NDA victorious,” he said. Praising the CM, the PM said, “Nitish Kumar will become the CM of NDA government to take the state’s developmental saga to its next stage of growth compatible with the new aspirational Bihar that has emerged after 15 years of development work done by him.” He added, “There was a time when people of Bihar only wanted good roads, safe drinking water, electricity, and the repair of Mahatma Gandhi bridge on Ganga near Patna. Today, the aspirational Bihar wants things like Bihta airport, air connectivity, IT hubs, good riverfronts to attract tourists, better civic facilities in cities and towns, piped drinking water supply and even natural gas.” He further said, “The aspirations will be fulfilled with central schemes, projects and assistance, and Nitish Kumar will implement them as head of the NDA government.” He chose the Kosi Mahasetu rail bridge for a special mention that he had inaugurated recently, with expeditious work done under his dispensation at the Centre. The PM addressed rallies at Darbhanga, the biggest town in ancient Mithila, at Muzaffarpur, the biggest town in the Tirhut region that constituted the ancient Bajji confederacy of eight tribes (speaking Bajjika), and finally in Patna where once lay the ancient metropolis Patliputra. At each of the rallies, the PM began his speech in the local languages, lacing the regions with their symbolic cultural identifications. At Darbhanga, he invoked the names of poet Vidyapati, “mother Sita” and also caste-based folk heroes like Raja Salesh, Vir Shiromani Chuharmal and Goraiya Baba. In anthropological terms, he called Darbhanga, along with Madhubani and Samastipur districts, as the land of ‘Gyan, khan (food), paan (betel leaf), makhan’, replete with ponds and rivulets that yield fish. The PM took to attacking the ‘jungle raj ke yuvraj’ without taking the name of Tejashwi, or any of the parties of the Grand Alliance. In his speech at Darbhanga, he used other epithets, like ‘commission khor’ and said: “What was the mantra of the previous governments? It was: ‘paise hajam, pariyojana khatam.’ They are eyeing the big-money projects which have to come to the state now.” He added, “At a time when so much money is to be spent on tackling the coronavirus pandemic, Bihar is faced with two dangers. The first is Corona and the second danger is from forces which have the tradition of looting and can make Bihar sick. Who knows better the track record of these forces than the people of Bihar? What more can they expect from the ‘jungle raj ke yuvraj (Tejashwi)’ in the state?” In Patna, he largely dwelt on wooing the youths, pointing out that the ‘Sankalp Patra' of BJP and NDA would address the employment issue of youths. “Youth will get government jobs and also in the industries established by private investors. But if ‘jungle raj’ forces form the government, the investors will run away,” PM Modi said, to counter the promise of 10 lakh government jobs made by Tejashwi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-calls-tejashwi-jungle-raj-ka-yuvraj/articleshow/78923193.cms||Abhay Singh
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Coronavirus proves its might, forces Rajinikanth to rethink political entry||CHENNAI: Rajinikanth may not take the much-promised plunge into politics. Or so says a leaked communique the actor is understood to have sent to his inner circle of advisers and well-wishers. Three sources close to Rajinikanth confirmed to TOI that he dictated the statement that attributes the hesitation to his health condition. A source said Rajinikanth doesn’t want to take a chance during the pandemic especially since he had a renal transplant in the US in the summer of 2016. The ‘letter’ also goes on to explain his doctors’ reservations over his getting active in politics in the absence of a Covid-19 vaccine. Rajinikanth, however, seeks to appear brave in the communique. “I do not fear for my life. I am more concerned about people’s welfare. To usher in the political change I had promised, I have to plunge actively into the political field. Midway through if my health deteriorates, it could pose fresh challenges to the political process itself,” read the leaked message. “He doesn’t call it off altogether,” said a source quoting Rajinikanth. “If I am to take the plunge, I have to launch it (political party) before January 15 and reveal my decision in December itself. I leave it to my fans and the people to decide what I should do, based on the then prevailing situation,” the statement said. It ends with a tagline – ‘People’s judgement is God’s judgement’. Rajini, in the statement, signed off with ‘Jai Hind’. “It was privately circulated for getting feedback from his close circle of friends and associates. But someone leaked it and that has incensed him,” said an associate. “The fact that there has been no denial from his side is a fair enough indication that it is his statement,” said another. Two others close to Rajini said the statement was leaked “to test the pulse of his fans and the people”. “The veracity of the content and his candour are intriguing. He seeks sympathy while justifying his hesitation in entering politics at such a time when a dangerous pandemic is raging,” said a close associate. “There was too much pressure on him from the BJP and the latest move is to buy time to see whether the pressure eases and if the BJP settles with the AIADMK,” said another source. “The statement’s content explains the reality. It will be inhuman to ask him to enter politics now, given his state of health,” a district-level office bearer of Rajini Makkal Mandram said. Se Ku Tamilarasan, a veteran dalit politician and four-time MLA, who has been in touch with Rajini, was careful in his reaction. “We are not sure whether the statement is his. If it is, his well-wishers will accept his stand, given his state of health. But, in this age of communication, Rajinikanth still has enough time to fight the ensuing assembly polls,” Tamilarasan said. An associate said Rajini is expected to make “a clarification or a reworded statement” soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corona-proves-its-might-forces-rajini-to-rethink-political-entry/articleshow/78921202.cms||D Govardan
October 29, 2020||Madurai||ZoHo Corporation to set up 10 rural centres in south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Software technology giant ZoHo Corporation is to establish ten rural centres in southern Tamil Nadu including Madurai and Theni in the next six months to tap rural talent, its founder and CEO Sridhar Vembu has said. Addressing CII’s Connect Madurai 2020 virtual conference, inaugurated by minister for revenue, IT and disaster management R B Udayakumar on Wednesday, Vembu said the work-from-home (WFH) situation has created a massive opportunity for all. ``We have seen that youngsters in the southern parts of Tamil Nadu are passionate, talented and creative. It is time to tap this talent and also bring back talent that was exported out of the rural areas. All our creativity comes from internal talent. The ten centres which are to be opened in the next six months in southern Tamil Nadu will be the seeds of a big banyan tree,” he said. Dr Sanjay Tyagi, director, Software Technology Parks of India, said that tapping rural talent in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) was important for India to become a five-trillion economy. Strengthening the information technology ecosystem in tier-two cities was important for achieving this goal. Managing director of ELCOT, M Vijayakumar, said that Tech Forum would be established in Vadapalanji IT Park in Madurai. It would work on latest technologies including AI and IoT as well as emerging technologies. It will work with educational institutions in the region. Chairman, CII Tamil Nadu Council, Hari K Thiagarajan and Madurai zone chairman Dr Satish Devadoss also spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/zoho-corpn-to-set-up-10-rural-centres-in-south-tn/articleshow/78921166.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Decomposed body fished out from flooded Osman Nagar||HYDERABAD: A body was fished out from Osman Nagar, Shaheen Nagar. Eight days after floods, the locality is still inundated in water. The body has not been identified yet. The body was found in a decomposed state near a house in Burhan Cheruvu Tank, Osman Nagar. After locals saw the body floating, they pulled it out using a boat and alerted the cops. The body has been shifted to the Osmania General Hospital for autopsy. “We are yet to identify the body. A case has been booked under section 174 of CrPc (unnatural death). After autopsy, the number of days the body was inundated will be revealed,” said B Bhaskar, circle inspector of Balapur police station. According to locals, there are other bodies near inundated houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/decomposed-body-fished-out-from-flooded-osman-nagar/articleshow/78921200.cms||---
October 29, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: PM Modi calls Tejashwi ‘Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj’||PATNA/DARBHANGA: As 71 seats went to polls in the first phase of the state polls on Wednesday, PM Narendra Modi addressed three rallies in north Bihar packing a punch against the Grand Alliance, especially targeting its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. The PM dubbed Tejashwi as “Jungle Raj Ke Yuvraj (prince of jungle raj)”, a euphemism for the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule of the RJD that he said was marked by “loot and kidnapping.” In a bid to clear the confusion in the NDA rank and file, Modi clarified at each of his rallies that the Chirag Paswan-led LJP is not a part of NDA. Chirag’s statements claiming that his party would form the government with BJP had been confusing NDA supporters. “When I say NDA, it only means BJP, JD(U), VIP and HAM(Secular). Cast your vote in favour of the candidates from these four parties and make NDA victorious,” he said. Praising the CM, the PM said, “Nitish Kumar will become the CM of NDA government to take the state’s developmental saga to its next stage of growth compatible with the new aspirational Bihar that has emerged after 15 years of development work done by him.” He added, “There was a time when people of Bihar only wanted good roads, safe drinking water, electricity, and the repair of Mahatma Gandhi bridge on Ganga near Patna. Today, the aspirational Bihar wants things like Bihta airport, air connectivity, IT hubs, good riverfronts to attract tourists, better civic facilities in cities and towns, piped drinking water supply and even natural gas.” He further said, “The aspirations will be fulfilled with central schemes, projects and assistance, and Nitish Kumar will implement them as head of the NDA government.” He chose the Kosi Mahasetu rail bridge for a special mention that he had inaugurated recently, with expeditious work done under his dispensation at the Centre. The PM addressed rallies at Darbhanga, the biggest town in ancient Mithila, at Muzaffarpur, the biggest town in the Tirhut region that constituted the ancient Bajji confederacy of eight tribes (speaking Bajjika), and finally in Patna where once lay the ancient metropolis Patliputra. At each of the rallies, the PM began his speech in the local languages, lacing the regions with their symbolic cultural identifications. At Darbhanga, he invoked the names of poet Vidyapati, “mother Sita” and also caste-based folk heroes like Raja Salesh, Vir Shiromani Chuharmal and Goraiya Baba. In anthropological terms, he called Darbhanga, along with Madhubani and Samastipur districts, as the land of ‘Gyan, khan (food), paan (betel leaf), makhan’, replete with ponds and rivulets that yield fish. The PM took to attacking the ‘jungle raj ke yuvraj’ without taking the name of Tejashwi, or any of the parties of the Grand Alliance. In his speech at Darbhanga, he used other epithets, like ‘commission khor’ and said: “What was the mantra of the previous governments? It was: ‘paise hajam, pariyojana khatam.’ They are eyeing the big-money projects which have to come to the state now.” He added, “At a time when so much money is to be spent on tackling the coronavirus pandemic, Bihar is faced with two dangers. The first is Corona and the second danger is from forces which have the tradition of looting and can make Bihar sick. Who knows better the track record of these forces than the people of Bihar? What more can they expect from the ‘jungle raj ke yuvraj (Tejashwi)’ in the state?” In Patna, he largely dwelt on wooing the youths, pointing out that the ‘Sankalp Patra' of BJP and NDA would address the employment issue of youths. “Youth will get government jobs and also in the industries established by private investors. But if ‘jungle raj’ forces form the government, the investors will run away,” PM Modi said, to counter the promise of 10 lakh government jobs made by Tejashwi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-calls-tejashwi-jungle-raj-ka-yuvraj/articleshow/78921170.cms||Abhay Singh
October 29, 2020||Mysuru||More than 2,000 students in Karnataka's Hassan detained in same class||HASSAN: The pandemic has turned the issue of fees demanded by private unaided schools in Karnataka into an even more contentious one than it previously was. Allegations have surfaced across districts of children being removed from WhatsApp groups used as a communication channel between teachers and students after parents failed to pay the fees on time. In Hassan district, however, the situation, as alleged by some of the parents, is more severe. Many private unaided schools in Hassan are allegedly holding back promotion of students for failing to pay the fee on time. Activists have pointed out that such a course of action is in violation of the provisions of Right To Education (RTE) Act, which strictly prohibits retention of students between classes one and nine. Data from the department of public instruction (DPI) in Hassan indicates that the number of students in classes one to nine who were not promoted on the completion of the 2019-20 academic year is twice as high as the corresponding figure reported at the end of the previous academic year. In Hassan taluk alone, 551 students of classes I to IX were not promoted to the succeeding class at the end of the 2019-20 academic year. “Across the district, 2,368 students have been denied promotion for the 2020-21 academic year. ‘No Detention’ policy is one of the key provisions of the RTE Act. Under this rule, no student from class I to VIII can be declared ‘failed’. This applies to students of class IX too, who must be given a second chance in the form of remedial examination,” said KS Prakash, Hassan deputy director of public instruction. He said that October 14 was the last date for all the schools to declare the names of students promoted to the succeeding class. “Owing to a few discrepancies in the figures, the concerned block education officers have been asked to collect the exact reason for detaining a student. It will be very easy to track the progress of all students through the ‘Students’ Achievement Tracking System’, but the schools need to reopen for this to be possible,” said Prakash, admitting that some of the unaided schools were detaining students on account of unpaid fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/more-than-2k-students-in-hassan-detained-in-same-class/articleshow/78919028.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru royal family scion Yaduveer, son spend time with Abhimanyu||MYSURU: Mysuru royal family scion Yaduveer and his son Aadyaveer spent some time with Abhimanyu, one of five Dasara elephants that left Mysuru after successful participation in Dasara, on Wednesday. The district administration and forest department had organized a simple puja ceremony for the elephants – Abhimanyu, Vikrama, Gopi, Vijaya and Cauvery – on the premises of Mysuru Palace. The priest chanted hymns for their safe return to the jungle. Yaduveer, who had stayed inside the Palace from past 10-days to perform the traditional rituals Navaratri festivities, drove a car with his son Aadyaveer Narashimaraja Wadiyar seated next to him to the place where elephants are camped. As the three-year-old Aadyaveer had only watched the elephants from the Palace balcony during the Dasara procession along with royal family members Pramoda Devi Wadiyar and Trishika Kumari, Yaduveer made his son touch and feel the massive animals. Both had a quality time with Abhimanyu by touching its tusks and trunk. DCF (Wildlife) MG Alexander and elephant handlers explained about the Dasara elephants. Officials fed the elephants sugarcane, bananas and jaggery to thank the pachyderms. Alexander and wildlife vet DN Nagaraj appreciated the mahouts and kavadis for their support during the Dasara fastivities. Later, the elephants boarded trucks that ferried them to their respective camps. While Abhimanyu will be shifted to Mathigodu camp, the other four elephants will be taken to Dubare camp in Kodagu. After participating in the procession which was held inside the Palace premises on October 26, the elephants were given rest on Tuesday before they were shifted back to their respective camps along with their handlers on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/yaduveer-son-spend-time-with-abhimanyu/articleshow/78919164.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt asks religious board to stop using state emblem||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has ordered the state Waqf board, which governs Muslim religious properties and is headed by a bureaucrat, and few other undertakings to stop using the official emblem of the government. The government sought adherence to an earlier order which listed out the institutions allowed to use the tricolour-embellished Tamil Nadu emblem. The Waqf board did not find a mention on the list. “It has been noticed that Tamil Nadu Waqf Board is using the State Emblem in tricolour. I request the Tamil Nadu Waqf Board and all offices under its control not to use the Tamil Nadu government state emblem by and to remove the state emblem from your letterheads forthwith,” B Chandra Mohan, principal secretary to the state government, minorities welfare department, said in a letter addressed to the board’s chief executive officer (CEO). The letter, dated October 12, directed Faritha Banu, the Waqf Board CEO, to inform all district Kazis to stop using the emblem. Government sources said Waqf Board is not the only state undertaking to receive such a letter as several others in other departments too have been told to strictly comply with the law. Each department head (on October 5) was asked to take action against this and update the details soon. The complete list of designated commissions/offices allowed to use them is governed by two orders (G.O No.739 and 871) issued in 1994. The move comes after complaints that office-bearers of state undertakings were misusing the emblem and that the government was keen on controlling this ahead of the election season, sources added. Improper use of the state emblem is a punishable offence and the violators can be booked under Section 260 read with 5 of the Indian Penal Code (improper use of government emblem or stamp). Karur-based businessman Anbunathan was the last person to be booked for this offence while using them in an unlicensed ambulance with a fake registration number. Transportation activist K Kathirmathiyon said these officials are not provided with G-series vehicle numbers (reserved for government staff). So they fix the emblem expecting merit and exemptions at toll plazas and check posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-asks-religious-board-to-stop-using-state-emblem/articleshow/78921164.cms||Ram Sundaram
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Op Muskaan, day 1: Over 4k kids rescued||Vijayawada: Police rescued 4,147 street children across the state on Wednesday as part of the Operation Muskaan drive. Officials said police teams from various districts conducted searches and rescued children engaged in child labour, begging and identified missing children. The highest number of children were rescued in Prakasam district, followed by Kurnool and Anantapur. Of the children rescued, 3,503 are boys and 644 are girls. They will be reunited with their parents, officials said, and counselling sessions held. Under Krishna district police limits, officials rescued 246 children and another 60 children were rescued under Vijayawada commissionerate limits. In the last four years since the Union ministry of home affairs has launched the initiative, over 12,000 children have been rescued. The drive was held around bus stands, rail stations, hotels and mechanic shops. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/op-muskaan-day-1-over-4k-kids-rescued/articleshow/78918064.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mumbai||Ex-CM Devendra Fadnavis complains of Rs 400-crore job scam||MUMBAI: BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis has complained of a Rs 400-crore scam after Maha Vikas Aghadi ministers promised to secure jobs of health workers recruited on contract under National Health Mission. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Fadnavis demanded a probe into the “scam” where ordinary citizens were being fleeced with promises of conversion of a contract job into a permanent one. Fadnavis said videos were circulating on contract workers being told to pay Re1 for a form, Rs500 as contribution to the organisation’s fund and Rs 1-2.5 lakh to be paid in an envelope. He said workers were told to pay in Rs500 and Rs2,000 denomination notes. “Many have taken loans or withdrawn savings from banks to fulfil the demands. There must be an in-depth inquiry, the guilty punished and those in government who are supporting this loot must be exposed,” he said. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the decision to convert a contract job into a permanent one was taken by the previous government, and a committee had been set up under then finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. “Allegations of bribes being sought were first brought to my notice in Gadchiroli. I immediately told the district superintendent and Nagpur deputy health director to probe it,” he said. Tope said the government was working on converting contract jobs in various sectors into permanent ones and urged people not to fall for bribe demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fadnavis-alleges-rs400cr-job-scam/articleshow/78919998.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Lucknow||Gonda man accuses 8 of forcing daughter to embrace Islam||LUCKNOW: Eight persons were booked for allegedly coercing a 16-year-old girl in Gonda to embrace Islam with the promise of marriage. The teen’s father, who lodged the FIR with Kernalganj police on Tuesday, also accused the groupof-eight of delivering violent threats and brainwashing his daughter with grandiose marriage plans in Dubai. Gonda SP Shailesh Pandey told TOI that the girl is undergoing medical test and arrests could be made only after her statement was recorded. She is a Class 12 passout and has been under medication for anxiety since 2013, said police sources. On October 17, the girl’s father complained to police that his daughter had been abducted. The girl was tracked within hours and one person, Imran, was arrested and sent to judicial custody. “On Tuesday night, another complaint was lodged by the girl’s father, who alleged that Arman Ahmad, Fatima, Zahir Ahmad, Mohammed Shahid, Salman and his wife, Amar and few others were forcing his daughter to convert to Islam. He has also stated his daughter was not in good mental health,” said Pandey. The complainant also said he was attacked with a knife by the accused on Monday night and his daughter was threatened. The eight have been booked for deliberate and malicious acts to outrage religious beliefs, rioting, rioting with deadly weapons and conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-accuses-8-of-forcing-daughter-to-embrace-islam/articleshow/78921770.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Trichy||1,281 street vendors to get Rs 10k loan||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has identified as many as 1,281 street vendors to benefit under the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) scheme in Srirangam zone. The scheme would facilitate a sum of Rs 10,000 to the street vendors to relaunch their business that was hit by the Covid-19 lockdown. The applications screened by the local body officials in September 2020 were forwarded to the respective branches where the street vendors maintain a bank account. As the district administration through the lead bank management has instructed all the banks to sanction the loans for applicants without hesitation, officials said that the street vendors shall get their financial support at the earliest. The working capital loan comes with an interest subsidy of 7% per annum, the marginal street vendors in need of financial support to boost their business ahead of Diwali season will make the best use of it to procure goods, officials added. The street vendors who get the loan amount will have to repay the sum within a year. There are around 3,940 registered street vendors in Trichy Corporation’s jurisdiction of which majority falls under Srirangam zone covering NSB Road, Big Bazaar Street, Teppakulam and Singarathope. With 1,319 street vendors actually targeted to be covered in the drive in Srirangam zone, officials said that interested and eligible street vendors if any can apply and they will be encouraged to avail the loan too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1281-street-vendors-to-get-rs-10k-loan/articleshow/78921787.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: TDP legislator quits over party stand on minorities||AMARAVATI: TDP MLC Pothula Sunitha on Wednesday sent her letter of resignation from the legislative council to chairman MA Shariff in protest over the party’s stand on poor and backward classes. In fact, Sunitha had joined YSRC long back following which the TDP moved a disqualification petition against her. Council chairman Shariff had already issued a notice to Sunitha twice in the last two months. The chairman had been contemplating taking action against her as she had not responded to the notices. Realising a disqualification was on the cards, Sunitha decided to quit the council on her own. In her letter to the chairman, Sunitha said that she was upset with how the TDP was allegedly creating hurdles to development and welfare of backward classes. Sunitha said the TDP had become an anti-backward, anti-Dalit party and hence would not continue in its ranks. Sunitha alleged that party president N Chandrababu Naidu and his son Lokesh were creating hurdles to interests of minorities and said she had decided to work under the leadership of YS Jagan Mohan Reddy who, according to her, is striving for the development of backward classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-legislator-quits-over-party-stand-on-minorities/articleshow/78918077.cms||Samdani MN
October 29, 2020||Goa||Lokotsav 2021 postponed to Apr||Panaji: The next edition of Lokotsav will be held in April 2021, art and culture minister Govind Gaude said on Wednesday. The festival that is annually held in January, is being postponed owing to the pandemic. “We need some time to make the necessary arrangements. If MHA guidelines disallow the hosting of large gatherings in January, we will be in trouble. So, we have postponed the Lokotsav to April,” he said. The minister further said there will be no reduction in the number of stalls nor will there be a limit on the number of visitors. “Lokotsav must be on a large scale and similar to the events held in previous years. Curtailing the number of stalls is not possible. We can limit the festival to six days instead of 10. However, that way more people will crowd the area in that span,” Gaude told TOI. He said the festival venue will remain Kala Academy’s Daryasangam. “We cannot change the venue because it is not possible for us to get infrastructure for the festival, like rooms for artists to stay, transportation costs, etc,” he said. The iconic venue is annually plagued with traffic and overcrowding in the peak hours, causing distress to motorists and residents in the vicinity. Gaude said the issues of traffic congestion and waste management will be taken care of.“We can ask the CCP for allotment of grounds near D B Road for parking,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokotsav-2021-postponed-to-apr/articleshow/78921207.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru City Corporation council says no to outside waste after three months||MANGALURU: Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC), that is battling to manage its solid waste, put urban local and panchayati raj bodies dependent on it for managing their waste, on three months notice. While directing ULBs and panchayat raj bodies to compulsorily segregate their waste at source, before handing it to the MCC for disposal, the civic body said it will stop accepting the same after three months, and they must make their own arrangements to handle it. A discussion centring on the recent high court judgment in wake of the Pachanady landfill disaster, dominated the monthly council meeting on Wednesday, where mayor Divakar announced the above decision. Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, while agreeing with the assessment of the opposition, that the ULBs and gram panchayats cannot be overnight asked not to send their waste to the Pachanady landfill, said they will have to meet the waste segregation norms. “The ULBs of Ullal city and Bantwal town municipalities and Kotekar town panchayat, and 15 gram panchayats abutting the MCC limits are dependent on MCC’s landfill at Pachanady. These bodies should be given time to make their own arrangements to handle their solid waste, the commissioner said. In addition, these bodies must also clear their past dues owed to MCC for handling waste, which is a flat rate of Rs 500/tonne of waste dumped,” he said. Earlier, responding to queries from corporators, Madhu Manohar, environment engineer, said that the MCC has directed the above ULBs and gram panchayats to send only segregated waste to the city corporation’s landfill. “We will not accept mixed waste henceforth,” he said. With the recent Pachanady landfill disaster, MCC will have to stop processing waste from other urban local bodies and gram panchayats sooner than later, Madhu said. Abdul Ravoof, leader of the opposition in the council, said it was a matter of shame that the high court had to censure the city corporation for its tardiness in handling the landfill disaster. The affected families had to obtain relief from the high court, which in its judgment has given a terse direction to the MCC to mitigate the sufferings of families and settle their claims at the earliest. Sridhar said MCC is in the process of complying with the directions of the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-council-says-no-to-outside-waste-after-three-months/articleshow/78918086.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP’s mask mandate for solo motorists raises hackles||BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) latest rule making it mandatory for solo motorists in four-wheelers to wear a mask, even if the windows of their automobiles are rolled up, has triggered outrage on social media, with users lambasting the civic body for its “mindless” directive. Social media users wondered why the government, which has done precious little to prevent crowding in markets or at election rallies, is so keen on ensuring a single person in a car wears a mask, despite s/he being alone in a closed space. Some even suggested that it has to do with the fact that BBMP marshals have been set targets to fine those not wearing masks. BBMP brass claimed the new Covid-19 safety rules, released through an order on Tuesday, were based on recommendations made by the technical advisory committee (TAC). However, the TAC’s August 29 report on the issue had not made masks mandatory for solo motorists. The report only said it is “desirable” that the driver of a four-wheeler wears a mask if s/he shows symptoms of Covid. However, the TAC sang a different hymn on Wednesday after another discussion on the issue, although it gave no scientific rationale for the change in decision. “We didn’t take into account the fact that a car moving on road is actually a public space,” said Dr MK Sudarshan, chairperson, TAC, who confirmed the Covid disease transmission perspective was discussed. “The BBMP decision is stricter than our recommendation. But it is enforceable and there will be no room for confusion. Any stricter enforcement is welcome.” Sudarshan also said enforceability becomes a problem if it is mandatory for only symptomatic solo motorists to wear a mask. Sources say the BBMP tweaked the TAC’s recommendations as it found verifying whether a solo motorist is symptomatic or not could be a logistical nightmare. They also said police were consulted before a decision was taken. However, citizens pointed out that BBMP’s circular does not explain the rationale behind making masks mandatory when a person is driving a car alone with the windows rolled up. “What’s the rationale behind this? That’s the thing BBMP must explain. This has come at a time when marshals, who have been authorised to enforce the mask rule, have been given targets,” said Zibi Jamal, member, Whitefield Rising. Sudarshan R, a techie, called BBMP’s circular “meaningless”. “While I completely support wearing masks in groups, public places and when riding two-wheelers, what and who are we protecting by asking for a mask when there is a single occupant in a closed car? I find this an unnecessary invasion of personal privacy. Similarly if my wife and I, who don’t wear a mask at home, are in a car with the windows closed, why should we wear masks? Tomorrow would BBMP ask people living in a house also to wear masks? Isn’t that a matter of personal preference as long as we are not impacting anyone outside?” Sudarshan said. Tara Krishnaswamy, co-founder, Citizens for Bengaluru, said the government is going overboard on trivial matters, while it has ignored preventing crowding in markets, congregations and large-scale events. “Why are election rallies, which are nothing but crowding, allowed? What’s of more concern? The BBMP is losing forest to the trees by leaving grave issues at stake. There is already Covid fatigue among the public and the authorities are completely losing the plot with such rules,” she said. People have also been raising questions on why the government has not been able to prevent spitting in public places, which is more dangerous than a single occupant in a car not wearing a mask. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmps-mask-mandate-for-solo-motorists-raises-hackles/articleshow/78919496.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 35% people not wearing masks, Edappadi K Palaniswami tells officers||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday said 35% of the population in the state was not wearing masks and that the district administrators should ensure strict compliance of rules. The government has distributed 46 lakh reusable cloth masks to the poor in Chennai, and 4.95 crore in the rest of the state. During a video conference with district collectors ahead of extending the lockdown, the chief minister said, “People are careless and don’t wear masks, unaware of the severity of the disease. The administration should get them to comply with.” Palaniswami pointed to the Deepavali festive season and the rush on streets and told the local bodies to pay special attention to spray disinfectants in the Covid-infected areas. The districts that record more than 100 cases a day should bring them below 100 ahead of Deepavali, while those that record less than 100 should get them below 50, and districts that see 50 cases a day should see nil cases, the collectors were told. Palaniswami said the opposition should stop defaming his government’s Covid-management given that the virus spread was getting reduced in the state. The neighbouring states, which the opposition was pointing to earlier to ease the curbs, were lately seeing a high number of cases, he said. The state government has spent Rs 7,372 crore towards Covid-management, including Rs 1,983 crore towards health expenditure. The number of daily cases has come down to less than 3,000 in the past four days and active cases also reduced to 30,000. Recovery rate has been 94.57% and the death rate 1.53%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/35-people-not-wearing-masks-cm-tells-officers/articleshow/78921191.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 300 crore for repair of Hyderabad roads, says KTR||HYDERABAD: The roads in Hyderabad which bore the brunt in the recent floods will be repaired at a cost of Rs 300 crore.  Stating this, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said an amount of Rs 68 crore had been sanctioned to strengthen the retaining wall from Hussainsagar to Golnaka (near Amberpet) for a distance of 8 km. A new retaining wall from Golnaka to Musi will also be built. At a review meeting here on Wednesday, the minister asked the officials to take up road restoration works on a war-footing. He also told them to set up retro fittings on all flyovers so that rainwater is drained out. Officials were asked to set up helpline numbers for citizens so that they could raise complaints related to silt and debris accumulated post floods. As per GHMC records, 445 stretches of bitumen roads covering 146 km were damaged. A total of 1,211 cement concrete roads covering 376 km also suffered damages and the loss was estimated at Rs 376 crore. In 101 stretches, nalas were damaged and the cost of repairs was put at Rs 83 crore. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan said all the damaged roads would be restored. “Inputs given by the irrigation department are being taken into consideration while repairing the damaged lakes,” said Rammohan, who also attended the review meeting. GHMC in a statement said, “As part of a special drive, 18,000 metric tonnes of waste was collected and Rs 10,000 financial assistance is being handed over to the flood-affected families.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-300-crore-for-city-roads-ktr/articleshow/78921231.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Brain death delinked from organ donation||BENGALURU: Hospitals in Karnataka can withdraw the life-support system provided to a braindead comatose patient irrespective of his or her family consenting for organ donation. According to an advisory from Jeevasarthakathe, Karnataka’s cadaver organ transplant regulatory body, the life-support system can be withdrawn on second brain-death certification and by keeping the patient's family in the loop. In India, brain death is defined in coordination with organ transplant; life support is withdrawn only if the patient’s family consents to donate the organs. The Jeevasarthakathe advisory effectively delinks brain death and cadaver organ transplant, and provides for withdrawal of life support even if the family doesn’t agree to donate the organs. If the patient’s family agrees to organ donation, life support must be provided till organs are harvested, said Jeevasarthakathe authorities. The government order about this is yet to be issued. The gap between brain death and cardiac death could be a couple of hours or days, burdening the ICU and ventilation infrastructure as well as draining patients’ families financially and emotionally. In February 2020, the Kerala government took a bold move with well-defined clinical protocols to certify a person braindead and withdraw life support. The advisory issued in July is largely unknown to the medical fraternity in Bengaluru. Several hospitals TOI approached for comment didn’t know about it. “In Karnataka, brain-death declaration is made only if the patient’s family agrees to organ donation. In cases where the consent does not come, the life-support system is continued till the patient has cardiac death,” Dr Kishore Phadke, convener, Jeevasarthakate, said. He said the advisory was drafted after consulting experts from the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru. The move helps the family overcome ethical dilemma, besides upholding the dignity of the ailing person and stopping giving false hope to relatives and futile medical interventions. To certify brain-stem death, a patient should be deeply comatose, on ventilator because of lack of spontaneous respiration and all brain-stem reflexes should be absent. In India, brain death has been defined only in connection with cadaver organ donation under the Transplantation of Human Organs Act, 1994, which has led to certification being viewed mostly as a procedure only to aid organ donation. As per the advisory, the first step is to diagnose brain-stem death by conducting a series of tests, including an apnea test. Once declared braindead by a panel of intensive-care specialists in the hospital, the second brain-death declaration happens after six hours. Dr Rajendra Kumar S, head of department, critical care, Columbia Asia Hospital, Hebbal, said the advisory should ideally come as a government order so that it’s easy to counsel family members. “(If it’s not an order, then) what if the family sues the doctors saying the patient may have survived if treatment was continued?” Dr Kumar said. When it becomes a law, variations in practice in different hospitals will come down, he added. According to Dr Rajesh Mohan Shetty, consultant critical care medicine, Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, there is hardly any communication about the advisory among doctors. “The Kerala model was well defined. It’s a good move in Karnataka. When the patient’s family would not give consent for organ donation, life support still continues, and it has always led to confusion. However, we don’t know whether the advisory is legally binding,” he said. The advisory* One doctor from the brain death certifying panel in the hospital must perform prescribed tests, and others must witness and interpret it. All tests must confirm the absence of brain stem reflexes. Imaging study to prove absence of electrical activity or blood flow should be done * Two consistent medical examinations must be done. If criteria for brain death are met, then the committee shall declare patient dead and discontinue medical support * Time of death is time of second brain death declaration * Family members, caregivers should be provided with brainstem death confirmation report signed by all four members of brainstem death certifying panel * Events of ‘brainstem death declaration’ and ‘retrieval of organ tissues’ should be delinked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-brain-death-delinked-from-organ-donation/articleshow/78922479.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 45-year-old accused of raping minor daughter||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 45-year-old man is on the run after allegedly raping his minor daughter and making her pregnant, in a colony under Malkapuram police station limits in Vizag city. The accused is a mason by profession. Police said the accused is addicted to liquor and has two daughters. His wife has been bed-ridden for a long time. Under the influence of liquor, he had been raping his elder daughter for the past few months. Recently, the girl’s maternal aunt came to know about the incident and took the girl to a hospital after she complained of pain in the abdomen. The doctors said the girl is pregnant and needed medical attention. She later lodged a formal complaint with the police on Wednesday. Based on her complaint, Malkapuram police have registered a case and have launched a manhunt to nab the accused. The victim would be sent to KGH on Thursday for a medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/45-year-old-accused-of-raping-minor-daughter/articleshow/78918093.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Salem||2,516 new cases in Tamil Nadu, fewer tests during puja holidays||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 2,516 new cases of Covid-19 to the state registry after testing 71,147 people for the viral infection. The 35 deaths reported by hospitals across the state pushed the cumulative death toll to 11,018 cases. “There was a drop in testing over the past three days as many labs were either closed or working in partial shifts for puja,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan told the medical experts team during a meeting with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Last week, the state tested more than 80,000 on most days. However, the positivity rate has come down steadily, he said. The positivity rate was the highest in Chennai at 7.1%, followed by Coimbatore (6.2%). “In the next few days, the state will focus on reducing case fatality and test positivity rate. This is possible when people wear masks, follow social distance and SOPs,” he said. Though the daily deaths have steadily declined, Tamil Nadu has the second highest case fatality rate after Maharashtra among five states that have reported the highest number of cases so far. On Wednesday, case fatality rate in Maharashtra was 2.6%, 1.54% in Tamil Nadu, 1.36% in Karnataka and 0.82% in Andhra Pradesh. Analysis by the state showed that the case fatality rate of people above 60 years of age has been the highest in October. The death rate for the age group increased to 9.11% from 6.44% in September and 8.26% in August. On Wednesday, at least four people who succumbed to the infection had no comorbid conditions. Of the 35 deaths, 29 were above the age of 60. This includes one woman, who was 101 years old. There was one person above 90 and five above the age of 80. Rapid changing treatment protocols issued by the WHO and ICMR has been extremely challenging for doctors. “It was decided that TN will stick on to the best practices we have followed. For instance, we will continue with remdesiver and plasma therapy,” said director of medical education Dr Narayanababu R. While Chennai reported 688 cases on Wednesday, five other districts – Coimbatore (218), Erode (155), Chengalpet (150), Salem (147) and Tiruvallur (138) reported a three digit increase in fresh cases. In deaths too Chennai (9) and Coimbatore (7) topped the table, while 20 districts reported zero deaths. On Wednesday, the eleven northern districts together reported 1,305 cases, 20 deaths and had 13,136 active cases. The western districts reported 749 cases, 12 deaths and 8,375 active cases. The central and south districts reported 243 and 219 cases respectively. While central districts reported two deaths, the south reported one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/2516-new-cases-in-tn-fewer-tests-during-puja-holidays/articleshow/78928657.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||2,516 new cases in Tamil Nadu, fewer tests during puja holidays||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 2,516 new cases of Covid-19 to the state registry after testing 71,147 people for the viral infection. The 35 deaths reported by hospitals across the state pushed the cumulative death toll to 11,018 cases. “There was a drop in testing over the past three days as many labs were either closed or working in partial shifts for puja,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan told the medical experts team during a meeting with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Last week, the state tested more than 80,000 on most days. However, the positivity rate has come down steadily, he said. The positivity rate was the highest in Chennai at 7.1%, followed by Coimbatore (6.2%). “In the next few days, the state will focus on reducing case fatality and test positivity rate. This is possible when people wear masks, follow social distance and SOPs,” he said. Though the daily deaths have steadily declined, Tamil Nadu has the second highest case fatality rate after Maharashtra among five states that have reported the highest number of cases so far. On Wednesday, case fatality rate in Maharashtra was 2.6%, 1.54% in Tamil Nadu, 1.36% in Karnataka and 0.82% in Andhra Pradesh. Analysis by the state showed that the case fatality rate of people above 60 years of age has been the highest in October. The death rate for the age group increased to 9.11% from 6.44% in September and 8.26% in August. On Wednesday, at least four people who succumbed to the infection had no comorbid conditions. Of the 35 deaths, 29 were above the age of 60. This includes one woman, who was 101 years old. There was one person above 90 and five above the age of 80. Rapid changing treatment protocols issued by the WHO and ICMR has been extremely challenging for doctors. “It was decided that TN will stick on to the best practices we have followed. For instance, we will continue with remdesiver and plasma therapy,” said director of medical education Dr Narayanababu R. While Chennai reported 688 cases on Wednesday, five other districts – Coimbatore (218), Erode (155), Chengalpet (150), Salem (147) and Tiruvallur (138) reported a three digit increase in fresh cases. In deaths too Chennai (9) and Coimbatore (7) topped the table, while 20 districts reported zero deaths. On Wednesday, the eleven northern districts together reported 1,305 cases, 20 deaths and had 13,136 active cases. The western districts reported 749 cases, 12 deaths and 8,375 active cases. The central and south districts reported 243 and 219 cases respectively. While central districts reported two deaths, the south reported one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2516-new-cases-in-tn-fewer-tests-during-puja-holidays/articleshow/78921233.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||3,000 BE students of NU marked absent in tampered files||NAGPUR: Three files carrying the data of nearly 3,000 Bachelor of Engineering (BE) final-year examinees of Nagpur University (NU) have been found to be tampered with. These students were marked “all absent” for the online papers held in the last two weeks. In the notice to which these files have been attached, the students have been asked to re-appear in the exam on Thursday. The tampered files and the notice have gone viral on social media. The file pertaining to BE Civil 8th semester has details of 2,621 examinees, while the other two files have records of 273 examinees. The files have been found to be forged to the extent of having only wrong information about attendance of examines. Rest of the data such as roll number, name, mobile number and subject is same as in the NU records. NU has planned re-exam for all those affected students who failed to login into the ‘Pariksha App’ on their exam date due to server snags, software failure and other issues. The university had been claiming to have conducted the exams successfully for more than 95% students after initial hiccups. A JD College of Engineering student said they heaved a sigh of relief after correct files were received by the college. “Just a couple of students need to reappear. All of us had submitted the paper despite glitches and repeated attempts,” the student said. Another student from Kamptee said they are worried as the personal mobile numbers of many girls had gone viral. Demanding a high level inquiry into the data leak, student activist and former Management Council member Mahendra Nimbarte said this clearly indicates the files have been leaked from the Exam Section itself. “The Amravati University has blacklisted Promarc Company, but NU is paying it in crores despite these serious blunders and compromising with students’ data. This is not the first time such data has been leaked, but for years NU hasn’t taken any action. Promarc must be blacklisted for maligning NU’s image and wasting resources” he said. Though Board of Examinations and Evaluations (BoEE) director Prafulla Sable didn’t pick up TOI’s calls, a senior Promarc official said the data wasn’t leaked from their side. “It may have happened from the university’s side, we don’t interact with the students directly. Probably, some official could have sent that data to the students. But now, NU has taken corrective measures. It has emailed the entire data directly to the college’s login, from where it would be sent to their respective examinees,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3000-be-students-marked-absent-in-tampered-files/articleshow/78919500.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 29, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Tigress found dead in Bhadra reserve forest||CHIKKAMAGALURU: A five-year old tigress was found dead in Kodi section of Teguru Hills in Hebbe range forest in Bhadra tiger reserve forest on Tuesday. According to officials, the big cat died at least four days ago. DCF Takhat Singh Ranawat, ACF Changappa, activist Veeresh G and others visited the spot and examined the carcass of the tigress. DCF Takath Singh told reporters that there is no external injury to suggest fighting between two big cats. The cause of the death will be confirmed after the post-mortem. It is being investigated to know whether the tiger was died due to any illegal activity to hunt animals in the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tigress-found-dead-in-bhadra-reserve-forest/articleshow/78919216.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: FIR for animal sacrifice at Kamptee temple||NAGPUR: In a rare kind of action, an offence has been registered against sacrifice of animals at a temple in Kamptee. Strongly condemning the act, MP Maneka Gandhi has warned that the police will take strict action against such cruel acts. The incident took place on Tuesday afternoon at Durga Saptashakti temple in Kamptee. 24-year-old Srushti Chahande Dhoble was passing by the temple. “I heard wailing noises of animals. When I went inside, I saw three goats, brutally tied up with garlands around their necks. They seemed to be crying out in pain,” she said, adding that many children were also present at the temple. Srushti then started video recording the initial stages of the process, following which she landed up in a heated argument with the locals who allegedly did not allow her to enter the temple. She then sought support from city’s animal activist Karishma Galani who is also a member of the government’s Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA). Galani immediately raised the issue with Maneka Gandhi who directed local police officials to take urgent action. A team of cops reached the temple and seized two goats. According to Srushti, one goat was already sacrificed by then. Police have registered a first information report (FIR) against unidentified persons under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 and Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act, 1995. Kamptee police officials stated that they are investigating into the matter and trying to identify the owner of the temple and other people involved in the act. Sacrificing animals post the festive season of Navratri is a common practice in many parts of the country. Speaking to TOI, Gandhi stated that sacrifice of animals at any religious place is illegal all across the country. “Though the number of such cases has gone down, such acts are still taking place. The police have become quite active and they are stopping sacrifice of animals after getting tip-offs,” said Gandhi. Warning of strict action against animal sacrifice, Gandhi added, “It is a cruel and vicious act. There is no need to please god through bloodbath. People should stop taking lives of other beings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fir-for-animal-sacrifice-at-kamptee-temple/articleshow/78919515.cms||Manka Behl
October 29, 2020||Erode||2,516 new cases in Tamil Nadu, fewer tests during puja holidays||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 2,516 new cases of Covid-19 to the state registry after testing 71,147 people for the viral infection. The 35 deaths reported by hospitals across the state pushed the cumulative death toll to 11,018 cases. “There was a drop in testing over the past three days as many labs were either closed or working in partial shifts for puja,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan told the medical experts team during a meeting with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Last week, the state tested more than 80,000 on most days. However, the positivity rate has come down steadily, he said. The positivity rate was the highest in Chennai at 7.1%, followed by Coimbatore (6.2%). “In the next few days, the state will focus on reducing case fatality and test positivity rate. This is possible when people wear masks, follow social distance and SOPs,” he said. Though the daily deaths have steadily declined, Tamil Nadu has the second highest case fatality rate after Maharashtra among five states that have reported the highest number of cases so far. On Wednesday, case fatality rate in Maharashtra was 2.6%, 1.54% in Tamil Nadu, 1.36% in Karnataka and 0.82% in Andhra Pradesh. Analysis by the state showed that the case fatality rate of people above 60 years of age has been the highest in October. The death rate for the age group increased to 9.11% from 6.44% in September and 8.26% in August. On Wednesday, at least four people who succumbed to the infection had no comorbid conditions. Of the 35 deaths, 29 were above the age of 60. This includes one woman, who was 101 years old. There was one person above 90 and five above the age of 80. Rapid changing treatment protocols issued by the WHO and ICMR has been extremely challenging for doctors. “It was decided that TN will stick on to the best practices we have followed. For instance, we will continue with remdesiver and plasma therapy,” said director of medical education Dr Narayanababu R. While Chennai reported 688 cases on Wednesday, five other districts – Coimbatore (218), Erode (155), Chengalpet (150), Salem (147) and Tiruvallur (138) reported a three digit increase in fresh cases. In deaths too Chennai (9) and Coimbatore (7) topped the table, while 20 districts reported zero deaths. On Wednesday, the eleven northern districts together reported 1,305 cases, 20 deaths and had 13,136 active cases. The western districts reported 749 cases, 12 deaths and 8,375 active cases. The central and south districts reported 243 and 219 cases respectively. While central districts reported two deaths, the south reported one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/2516-new-cases-in-tn-fewer-tests-during-puja-holidays/articleshow/78928655.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Peddacheruvu: Blocked channels, no link to Musi dumps miseries on residents||Hyderabad: Colonies around Ramanthapur Peddacheruvu get inundated every time the lake swells. Residents have been dreading the monsoon for the past two decades and their worst nightmare came true on October 14. Over the years, Peddacheruvu, which literally means Big Lake, has shrunk to one-third its actual size. An analysis on the ground revealed that recurring floods in Habsiguda and Ramanthapur colonies are due to the shrunk Peddacheruvu, where inlet and outlet channels have been compromised. Construction of buildings in full tank level (FTL), no desilting, broken connectivity with Osmania University Lake and Moin Cheruvu in upstream and Ramanthapur Chinna Cheruvu downstream and lack of drain to link Musi river are the other reasons for the flooding. Former Uppal MLA NVSS Prabhakar said, “Inlet channels in the catchment areas of Osmania University and Habsiguda are damaged and open into colonies of Ramanthapur. OU lake outlet is blocked and buildings in Deshmukh Colony has shrunk Moin Cheruvu. Due to heavy rain of 20 cm in OU catchment area, the OU Lake got filled to capacity and storm water followed its natural gradient and made its way to Peddacheruvu through colonies and choked the inlet channel abutting St Joseph School.” GHMC officials had permitted new buildings as FTL decreased. Lack of coordination between GHMC, HMDA, irrigation department and revenue officials led to destruction of the lake, he added. “Dense habitations have come up downstream near Chhinnacheruvu. There is no link to Musi. A special drain should be built to take the flood water to Musi. Irrigation officials have changed FTL six times in six years and every time they decreased FTL, paving the way for construction of new buildings in private patta lands. Patta holders have stopped desilting work. Cases were booked when we did Swachh Bharat and lake beautification work,” the BJP leader said Local politicians D Srinivas and Yadagiri claimed they own a large part of the lake land. Lake has been divided into plots and sold out. Ravindra Nagar, Lakshmi Nagar, Maheswari Nagar and Sai Chitra Nagar in upstream and Indranagar, Netajinagar, Shantinagar and Pragati Nagar downstream were inundated during the recent floods. Uppal MLA B Subash Reddy, who had faced the ire of the locals when he toured the colonies recently, said, “In 2017, when the colonies got inundated, officials then had made temporary arrangement to dewater the lake. Water is not flowing out naturally, but it has to be pumped out using motors. The original nala is somewhere near Indranagar, but it has been closed and turned into a road. Then, the outlet near Madhura Bar has also been closed.” The temporary nala that passes besides Croma building was in a zig-zag fashion and has an engineering defect. Irrigation officials recently surveyed and offered a solution. They suggested construction of an outlet channel at Madhura Bar, which would pass through godowns, Aravindnagar and Don Bosco and empty in the Musi, he added. “Several came near St Joseph’s school in the past five years. Locals submitted an affidavit on Rs 100 stamp paper stating that it is their responsibility for floods, went to court, got stay order and also got GHMC permission to construct buildings. Now, the solution is to acquire private patta lands. So far, 15 plot owners agreed to take TDR (transferable development rights) and handed over their properties to GHMC. If all plot owners come forward, then GHMC can get control over the lake,” the MLA said A Kishan, a resident of Sai Chitra Nagar, told TOI, “We survived in the fllod water for over a week. Even now, the slush mixed with sewer water is flowing on the roads. Water came into houses and Manasa Hospital nearby had to shift patients to upper floors as storm water flooded the ground floor. We had faced floods in 2011, 2017 and now. We need a permanent solution for the problem. People downstream are resisting pumping out water.” As the water was not drained out from Peddacheruvu, an irrigation contractor was roped in from Vizag to dewater the lake. The previously constructed drain had an engineering defect, where the road is at higher level than the water outlet from the lake. Ch Shyamsundar Reddy, a contractor who has been deployed to dewater the lake, says, “We have been dewatering the lake during every flood in Ramanthapur using motors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peddacheruvu-blocked-channels-no-link-to-musi-dumps-miseries-on-residents/articleshow/78921297.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||77% Covid-19 beds vacant as recovery rate goes up||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,949 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,14,774. The toll increased to 6,643 as 18 more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 3,609 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 26,622 active cases with 7,81,509 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of 95.9%. West Godavari reported 492 new cases, followed by Krishna (457), Guntur (421) and East Godavari (417). Five districts posted less than 100 cases on Wednesday with Kurnool adding only 32 cases. Of the 18 deaths, three each are from Anantapur, Guntur, West Godavari and Krishna, two each from Chittoor and East Godavari, and one each from Prakasam and Visakhapatnam. Andhra Pradesh has so far tested 77.73 lakh Covid-19 samples, including the 77,028 people tested for the novel coronavirus on Wednesday, with an overall case positivity rate of 10.4%. With the declining case numbers and fewer active cases, nearly 77% of the total beds remained vacant as per real-time data provided by the state health department. Of the nearly 32,000 beds available at 200 government and private Covid-19 hospitals, only 7,400 beds were occupied, indicating 77% unfilled beds. Among them, 3,202 of 4,284 ICU beds are available. Similarly, of 16,650 oxygen beds, 3,995 beds are occupied. In the general beds category, of the 11,143 beds, only 2,325 are filled with Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/77-covid-19-beds-vacant-as-recovery-rate-goes-up/articleshow/78918116.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Officials can’t hold re-poll after results are out, rules Madras HC||CHENNAI: Making it clear that the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (SEC) cannot order re-election in a panchayat after declaring the results, the Madras high court has quashed the re-election ordered for the post of president of Kukumalankulam village panchayat, Cuddalore. Justice N Anand Venkatesh has also directed the commission to declare R Jayalakshmi, the original victorious candidate, as the elected candidate for the post. The commission ordered the re-election on the grounds of confusion over the election symbols allotted to the candidates. Asserting that such confusion arose only after the announcement of the result on January 2, the judge said, “this is a clear after-thought and an apparent attempt made to dislodge the election process for reasons best known to the election authorities.” The election officer had declared that the candidate who stood under ‘auto rickshaw symbol’ had polled the maximum votes and won the election. That is where all of a sudden, some material alterations have been attempted to be made in Form 9. This alteration is now sought to be taken advantage of and there is an attempt to create confusion as if there was a mistake in allotment of the symbol, the court added. “It is apparent from the material placed before this court that there was a clear interference in the election process from some unknown hand, who wanted the losing candidate as the successful candidate,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said. When this became legally impossible due to the overwhelming material, the commission has chosen to cancel the very election itself by pointing out some discrepancy in the forms, the judge said. He added that the material placed before the court shows that it is not a case of any discrepancy in forms but, it is a clear case of an attempt being made to materially alter statutory forms and subvert the entire election process. Highlighting the constitutional importance of the local bodies, the judge said, “This court has the duty to set right the illegality that has cropped in conducting the election, in the peculiar facts of the present case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/officials-cant-hold-re-poll-after-results-are-out-rules-hc/articleshow/78921292.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||IIM-Bangalore to start UG programme in liberal arts in golden jubilee year||BENGALURU: Come 2023, the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIM-B) will start an undergraduate programme in liberal arts at its new campus in Anekal. The programme is part of IIM-B's expansion plans. "Just as we made a significant contribution in management education, we see the next big challenge as creating a new generation of leaders who have multiple perspectives needed to lead India to face challenges of this century. We plan to launch a unique four-year UG programme in liberal arts at our new campus from our golden jubilee year 2023," Prof Rishikesha T Krishnan, IIM-B director, said at the foundation day programme on Wednesday. The other programmes planned are in creating high-quality digital education for hospital management and public policy. "IIM-B has been a pioneer in MOOCs (massive online open courses) and digital education in management. Building on our expertise, we want to create outstanding digital learning experiences for sectors which require it the most including hospitals and healthcare, MSME, public policy and management," Prof Krishnan said. It also has plans for an online bachelor programme in digital entrepreneurship. The third platform in expansion is impactful research where efforts are being made to address bigger challenges to the nation. The three focus areas in research are MSMEs, manufacturing and healthcare. Dr Devi Shetty, chairman, board of governors, IIM-B, said: "The pandemic could make us disillusioned. But remember, if there is one country that will emerge winner in this crisis, it is India. That is because we have learnt to manage ourselves among adversities, we Indians are very adaptable." Chief guest Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology, division of gastrointestinal sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said: "The need for universal health coverage in India has been brought into sharp focus, but healthcare in India was in dire need of reform long before the pandemic.."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iim-bangalore-to-start-ug-programme-in-liberal-arts-in-golden-jubilee-year/articleshow/78922482.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 29, 2020||Chennai||‘Illegal’ admission to Postgraduate medical seats: Madras HC orders CB-CID probe||CHENNAI: Asserting that there is a ‘larger design’ adopted by private medical colleges in Tamil Nadu in collusion with the state authorities to make illegal admissions to PG medical courses, taking advantage of the pandemic situation, the Madras high court has ordered a CB-CID probe to unearth the conspiracy. The agency must probe the amount received from each candidate admitted by self-financing colleges on the cut-off date (August 31) and file a report by January 30, 2021, said Justice N Anand Venkatesh. “During this academic year, the pandemic has been taken advantage of to stage-manage and fill nearly 74 seats with un-meritorious candidates,” said the judge on Wednesday. Conspiracy is something which can only be inferred or deduced from a given set of facts. The analysis made by the court based on the data provided by the authorities, clearly brings out a conspiracy between the officials belonging to the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) and self-financing colleges, the judge said. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas moved by candidates who had been denied admission to PG medical courses desired by them as the state failed to conduct mop-up counselling to fill vacant PG seats in private medical colleges. Some candidates who got provisional admission through counselling were also denied admission by the colleges which allegedly demanded fee over and above the one fixed by the fee-fixation committee. When the pleas came up for hearing, the DME informed the court that mop-up counselling could not be conducted due to the extraordinary situations induced by the pandemic within the August 31 admission deadline fixed by the Supreme Court. However, a detailed analysis made by the court based on the data provided by DME clearly demonstrated that private colleges had virtually given admissions to candidates for some of the important clinical courses who otherwise do not deserve any admission through regular counselling. “There is something more than what meets the eye when it comes to filling seats in private medical colleges other than by way of counselling. Obviously, these are all candidates who are capable of pulling strings and already had a clear understanding with the college concerned,” the judge said. Every year some mechanism is devised by the self-financing colleges to fill up vacancies illegally, the court added. “A student who secures a seat in this manner, is a bigger danger to this society. After completing the course, by hook or crook, they will be handling the lives of innocent people,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said. He added that a society which perpetrates or encourages or celebrates mediocrity, particularly in admission to PG medical courses, is bound to sink and perish at some point of time. The court then directed the CB-CID to investigate as to whether there was any conspiracy between the officials of DME and self-financing colleges in filling the stray vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/illegal-admission-to-pg-medical-seats-hc-orders-cb-cid-probe/articleshow/78921302.cms||Sureshkumar
October 29, 2020||---||Gutsy Bihar defies Covid, votes like in normal times||PATNA: Putting apprehensions of a low turnout amid the Covid-19 pandemic to rest, voters in Bihar came out in large numbers in the first phase of the assembly polls held in 71 constituencies across 16 districts on Wednesday. Despite the pandemic, the overall turnout of 54.3% voter turnout was lower by less than one percentage point compared to the 2015 assembly election polling percentage of 54.75%. According to CEO H R Srinivasa, Banka recorded the highest 59.6% of voter turnout followed by Jamui (57.4%), Gaya (57%) and Kaimur (56.9%). Munger recorded the lowest at 47.3%. “The first-phase polling passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements and strict Covid19 guidelines in place,” Srinivasa said, adding that PPE kits, sanitizers, hand gloves were made available at all polling booths. Prof. DM Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, gave equal credit to voters who defied Covid-19 fears and the Election Commission for the huge voter turnout despite the pandemic. “Both the voters and the EC should be given credit for it. The commission succeeded in winning the confidence of electors, who cast their votes amid coronavirus threat,” he told this newspaper over the phone. “If the poll percentage is taken into account, it indicates a change. Voter turnout at some places like Banka was over 59%, which shows that people mostly in rural areas were enthusiastic to cast their votes and visited polling stations even putting their lives in danger,” Diwakar added. The fate of 1,066 contestants, including eight ministers of Nitish Kumar cabinet, has been sealed. The ministers whose political fortunes were sealed in the EVMs are, Shailesh Kumar, Jai Kumar Singh, Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma, Brij Kishore Bind, Ram Narayan Mandal, Vijay Kumar Sinha, Prem Kumar and Santosh Kumar Nirala. RJD candidate from Jamui Vijay Prakash demanded polling to be cancelled in 55 polling booths after malfunctioning of EVMs. Prakash said the EC should pay attention to his demand. The officials, however, said that the EVMs were replaced soon after receiving complaints and polling resumed. Prakash is pitted against Shreyasi Singh of BJP. Shreyasi, daughter of former Union minister late Digvijay Singh, is contesting election for the first time. She joined the BJP in New Delhi ahead of the assembly polls. Former CM Jiatan Ram Manjhi, former assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary, state agriculture minister Prem Kumar, don-turned politicians Anant Singh and Prahlad Yadav are among the main contestants in the first phase. Barring a few exceptions, the voters were satisfied with the arrangements at the polling booths. “I didn’t have to face any problems at the polling booth. There was no rush of voters,” said Reena Devi, a voter of Dehri assembly constituency in Rohtas district. FIRs were lodged against two contestants Prem Kumar of BJP and Sidharth Saurabh of Congress for violation of the model code of conduct. While Kumar was accused of wearing a face mask with the party’s symbol in Gaya, action against Sidharth was initiated after a video showing him offering cash went viral on social media. Sidharth is in the fray from Bikram constituency. Of the 71 seats that went to polls in the first phase, JD(U) of Nitish Kumar is contesting on 35 seats and BJP on 29. The RJD under the leadership of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has fielded its candidates on 42 seats and its alliance partner Congress is contesting 21 and CPI-ML (Liberation) eight seats. HAM(S) and VIP are contesting six seats and one seat, respectively. Chirag Paswan’s LJP is in the fray in 41 seats. RJD has nominated its sitting legislators in 25 seats, JD(U) and BJP have put up their sitting MLAs in 23 and 13 seats, respectively. Eight sitting MLAs of Congress and one each of HAM(S) and CPI-ML (Liberation) are also in the fray. However, seat positions are likely to change in this election from 2015 as JD(U) is now a part of the NDA. In 2015, JD(U) had contested with RJD and Congress as part of the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance. While BJP is hoping to make gains, the JD(U) may suffer some losses due to LJP, which is contesting against it in at least 10 seats. The LJP stronghold includes Dinara, Suryagarha and Amarpur. Earlier, Chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora thanked the electorate of the state for their active participation in the first election held amid Covid19 pandemic. He hoped that the polling percentage would increase in the next two phases to be held on November 3 and November 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/gutsy-bihar-defies-covid-votes-like-in-normal-times/articleshow/78921304.cms||Ramashankar
October 29, 2020||Patna||Gutsy Bihar defies Covid, votes like in normal times in first phase of assembly elections||PATNA: Putting apprehensions of a low turnout amid the Covid-19 pandemic to rest, voters in Bihar came out in large numbers in the first phase of the assembly polls held in 71 constituencies across 16 districts on Wednesday. Despite the pandemic, the overall turnout of 54.3% voter turnout was lower by less than one percentage point compared to the 2015 assembly election polling percentage of 54.75%. According to CEO H R Srinivasa, Banka recorded the highest 59.6% of voter turnout followed by Jamui (57.4%), Gaya (57%) and Kaimur (56.9%). Munger recorded the lowest at 47.3%. “The first-phase polling passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements and strict Covid19 guidelines in place,” Srinivasa said, adding that PPE kits, sanitizers, hand gloves were made available at all polling booths. Prof. DM Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, gave equal credit to voters who defied Covid-19 fears and the Election Commission for the huge voter turnout despite the pandemic. “Both the voters and the EC should be given credit for it. The commission succeeded in winning the confidence of electors, who cast their votes amid coronavirus threat,” he told this newspaper over the phone. “If the poll percentage is taken into account, it indicates a change. Voter turnout at some places like Banka was over 59%, which shows that people mostly in rural areas were enthusiastic to cast their votes and visited polling stations even putting their lives in danger,” Diwakar added. The fate of 1,066 contestants, including eight ministers of Nitish Kumar cabinet, has been sealed. The ministers whose political fortunes were sealed in the EVMs are, Shailesh Kumar, Jai Kumar Singh, Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma, Brij Kishore Bind, Ram Narayan Mandal, Vijay Kumar Sinha, Prem Kumar and Santosh Kumar Nirala. RJD candidate from Jamui Vijay Prakash demanded polling to be cancelled in 55 polling booths after malfunctioning of EVMs. Prakash said the EC should pay attention to his demand. The officials, however, said that the EVMs were replaced soon after receiving complaints and polling resumed. Prakash is pitted against Shreyasi Singh of BJP. Shreyasi, daughter of former Union minister late Digvijay Singh, is contesting election for the first time. She joined the BJP in New Delhi ahead of the assembly polls. Former CM Jiatan Ram Manjhi, former assembly Speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary, state agriculture minister Prem Kumar, don-turned politicians Anant Singh and Prahlad Yadav are among the main contestants in the first phase. Barring a few exceptions, the voters were satisfied with the arrangements at the polling booths. “I didn’t have to face any problems at the polling booth. There was no rush of voters,” said Reena Devi, a voter of Dehri assembly constituency in Rohtas district. FIRs were lodged against two contestants Prem Kumar of BJP and Sidharth Saurabh of Congress for violation of the model code of conduct. While Kumar was accused of wearing a face mask with the party’s symbol in Gaya, action against Sidharth was initiated after a video showing him offering cash went viral on social media. Sidharth is in the fray from Bikram constituency. Of the 71 seats that went to polls in the first phase, JD(U) of Nitish Kumar is contesting on 35 seats and BJP on 29. The RJD under the leadership of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has fielded its candidates on 42 seats and its alliance partner Congress is contesting 21 and CPI-ML (Liberation) eight seats. HAM(S) and VIP are contesting six seats and one seat, respectively. Chirag Paswan’s LJP is in the fray in 41 seats. RJD has nominated its sitting legislators in 25 seats, JD(U) and BJP have put up their sitting MLAs in 23 and 13 seats, respectively. Eight sitting MLAs of Congress and one each of HAM(S) and CPI-ML (Liberation) are also in the fray. However, seat positions are likely to change in this election from 2015 as JD(U) is now a part of the NDA. In 2015, JD(U) had contested with RJD and Congress as part of the Mahagathbandhan or Grand Alliance. While BJP is hoping to make gains, the JD(U) may suffer some losses due to LJP, which is contesting against it in at least 10 seats. The LJP stronghold includes Dinara, Suryagarha and Amarpur. Earlier, Chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora thanked the electorate of the state for their active participation in the first election held amid Covid19 pandemic. He hoped that the polling percentage would increase in the next two phases to be held on November 3 and November 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gutsy-bihar-defies-covid-votes-like-in-normal-times/articleshow/78923141.cms||Ramashankar
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Awards list has unearthed some hidden gems: Kota||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Erstwhile undivided Dakshina Kannada (DK) has received fair representation among 65 Rajyotsava awards that the state government announced on Wednesday. Achievers in the field of literature (Valerian D’Souza aka Valli Vagga), music (K Lingappa Sherigar Kateel); judiciary (M K Vijaya Kumar); horanadu Kannadiga (Kusumodhar Deranna Shetty Kelthadka); institutions (Dharmothana Trust, Dharmasthala) have made it to this list. Apart from these achievers, the department of Kannada and culture that announced the list has selected Dubai-based septuagenarian NRI educationist-businessman Mohammed Meeran Saheb from Shiroor for his contribution to social work and Udupi Srinivas for his contribution to science and technology. The list has some unknown gems from amidst the large coastal diaspora, DK district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari told TOI. Meeran Saheb told TOI that while he is not quite sure why his name is on the list, given that there are more deserving candidates than him, he said that he is elated that the government considered him worthy of the same. Charity has been a strong point in my life from my childhood days, said the businessman who shuttles between Dubai, Bengaluru and Shiroor. “I have worked hard to help people in need, irrespective of their caste, creed or religion,” he said. The Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Dharmothana Trust started by D Veerendra Heggde, Dharmadhikari, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala, has carved a niche for itself in renovating ancient temples. The trust thus far has renovated 253 monuments in 25 districts in Karnataka, and the state government has recognised the trust as a partner institute, keeping in mind its track record in preserving monuments of historic importance, Heggade said. Having soldiered for Konkani and Kannada literature for the past 56 years, writer Valerian D’Souza ,73, who started his literary journey at 17, has penned over eight books and more than 150 short stories. Born in Vagga in Bantwal taluk, Valerian, better known by his pen name Valli Vagga, has settled in Mysuru. “This award is an unexpected recognition and one that has come without any recommendation. I am thrilled with the same,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/awards-list-has-unearthed-some-hidden-gems-kota/articleshow/78918132.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Trichy||Udhayanidhi pic in new bus stop kicks up row||Trichy: The presence of DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin’s image in a newly established bus stop here has kicked up a controversy with political parties condemning it for giving importance to a person who does not hold any public office. The Alathur bus stop was built using Thiruverumbur DMK MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi’s constituency development fund. The recently inaugurated facility, which has the images of former chief minister M Karunanidhi, DMK president Stalin and Thiruverumbur MLA on it, also displays the picture of Udhayanidhi. “The DMK youth wing secretary could be a close friend of Thiruverumbur MLA but displaying his friend’s picture in a bus stop built with taxpayers’ money is unacceptable. This will set an unhealthy precedence,” said S R Kishore Kumar of Makkal Needhi Maiam’s advocate wing. The display of pictures of party leaders in bus stops is not new as the one at Anna Nagar link road here also bears the images of leaders. The AIADMK unit has also slammed the undue importance given for a DMK functionary who is neither an elected representative nor holds a public office. “It is Trichy corporation which has to be blamed for its negligence in allowing the portrait to come up at Alathur bus stop. They must remove it,” S Raja, former AIADMK councillor, said. Finding itself embroiled in the controversy, the civic body said it has received complaints. “We will remove the image,” an official with the engineering department of the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/udhayanidhi-pic-in-new-bus-stop-kicks-up-row/articleshow/78921795.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 29, 2020||India||Recover Rs 208 crore aid that ineligible farmers got: Government to Maharashtra||NASHIK: The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Yojana department of the Union agriculture and farmers’ welfare ministry has directed the Maharashtra government to recover Rs 208.5 crore from 2.3 lakh farmers with immediate effect as they had received the government aid under the scheme despite being ineligible for the same. According to sources in the office of the commissioner of agriculture, Maharashtra, the money is to be recovered only from farmers who had received the aid despite being income tax payers. “Farmers who pay income tax were excluded from the scheme. However, it is possible that the farmers had filed their application for the PM Kisan Yojana — in which the beneficiaries get Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments — knowingly or unknowingly. The PM Kisan Yojna department has found out the names and credentials of individuals who are ineligible and has directed the state government to recover the amount,” Vinaykumar Awate, deputy commissioner of Agriculture Census, told TOI over the phone from Pune. As per the information provided by sources in the office of the Commissioner of Agriculture, Pune, the highest number of ineligible beneficiaries have been found in Satara district. The recovery process has been initiated against 19,289 farmers in Satara. Close behind Satara are the districts of Ahmednagar (17,890 farmers), Pune (16,101), Jalgaon (13,942), Solapur (13,793), Kolhapur (13,791), Sangli (13,061) and Nashik (12,054). The district where the fewest ineligible beneficiaries have been found is Gadchiroli (777), the sources said. Of the 2,30,282 farmers who must now return the money, 2,20,067 had received only one instalment, while the rest had received multiple instalments of Rs 2,000 since December 1, 2018, when the scheme was launched. So far, 264 farmers have cleared their dues of Rs 24.8 lakh — 253 farmers from Aurangabad district who returned Rs 23.7 lakh, and 11 from Nashik who cleared Rs 1.1 lakh. Revealing how the government identified the ineligible beneficiaries, sources said that the farmers had to upload their Aadhaar and PAN details to avail of the scheme. This information was tallied by the ministry. It then found that roughly 2.3 lakh farmers had already paid taxes and, therefore, were not eligible for the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recover-rs-208-crore-aid-that-ineligible-farmers-got-government-to-maharashtra/articleshow/78922480.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 29, 2020||Trichy||Work on platform no. 8 in Trichy nears completion||Trichy: The construction of platform number 8 in Trichy Junction railway station, is nearing completion with most of the civil works having been completed. “The construction work with toilets and passenger shelter is almost complete. Authorities from the signalling department have commenced their work. Once the work is completed, trains would be operated after getting clearance from the commissioner of railway safety,” a senior official from the Trichy railway division said. The new platform would enable speedy reception and despatch of trains, which in turn is expected to improve punctuality and benefit passengers, the official added. The work was taken up by the division as part of the beautification of the station at Rs 30 crore, including Rs 7 crore for platform 8. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-platform-no-8-in-trichy-nears-completion/articleshow/78921825.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Shadow of Covid-associated stroke lingers over recovered patients||Visakhapatnam/Guntur: Covid-19 is likely to pose neurological problems, including brain stroke, even after a patient recovers from the virus. Latest research on the after-effects of the infection indicates that about 5% of patients can suffer from haemorrhagic stroke, resulting in the rupture or leak of a blood vessel. Added to it is the risk of ‘silent stroke’ among obese or overweight people, especially those with a habit of smoking, say doctors on the occasion of World Stroke Day (October 29). Elaborating on the co-relation of a brain stroke with Covid-19, Dr S Gopi, neurologist at King George Hospital (KGH), said patients can suffer from two kinds of strokes. “In the first type, patients with Covid-19 symptoms later on develop stroke as a multi-organ involvement. In the second type, some patients can have stroke as an initial manifestation and are later found to have infected the virus. These are mostly young patients without any risk factors for brain stroke. Haemorrhagic stroke resulting in rupture or leak of blood vessel is more likely to occur in patients already suffering from Covid-19, though the likelihood of ischemic attack cannot be ruled out,” Dr Gopi explained. Dr Ch Vijay, consultant neurologist at Kims Icon Hospital, said he has already come across around 25 cases of stroke cases that are related to Covid-19. “Some of these cases occurred as a post-Covid complication. Due to the vascular (blood vessels) involvement in the development of the disease, the incidence of brain stroke has increased in Covid cases and also as a post-Covid complication during the pandemic,” Dr Vijay said. Experts caution people to be alert in handling neurological disorders by consulting with doctors early. “Stroke continues to be one of the leading causes of disability in India and it has become more troublesome after this pandemic,” said Dr N Sampath Kumar, senior neurologist at Narayana Medical College. Dr Sampath added that Covid-19 patients suffer from increased risk of thrombosis, which makes the blood to thicken or become sticky. “Blood supply of a particular part of the brain is cut off, resulting in stroke symptoms. It can also cause a shower of clots in different parts of the brain. Novel coronavirus-related strokes can happen without traditional risk factors, and people below the age of 45 years are vulnerable too,” Dr Sampath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/shadow-of-covid-associated-stroke-lingers-over-recovered-patients/articleshow/78918143.cms||Sulogna Mehta
October 29, 2020||Hubballi||JD(S) MLA charges Karnataka deputy CM Govind Karjol with indulging in revenge politics||VIJAYAPURA: MLA for Nagthan assembly constituency in Vijayapura district Devanand Chavan of the JD(S) has charged deputy chief minister Govind Karjol of indulging in politics of revenge. “I defeated Karjol’s son Gopal in the assembly elections and he is extracting revenge by withholding funds for my constituency,” said Chavan, accusing the deputy CM of abusing his power by interfering in the functioning of departments such as police, food and others in Nagthan constituency. “Karjol is only listening to his followers. Many projects have received the government’s nod, and tenders have been awarded to private companies, but officials, acting at the behest of Karjol, are not commencing work on any of them. As a result, people in my constituency have not received a single rupee in compensation despite having suffered in the flood,” Chavan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jds-mla-charges-karjol-with-indulging-in-revenge-politics/articleshow/78919378.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Kolkata||Bangla air link restored, but 6-city curbs still on||Kolkata: Thirty-seven passengers arrived in Kolkata on Wednesday on board the first post-lockdown scheduled flight from Bangladesh operated under the air bubble agreement between the two countries. The return flight had 30 passengers on board. Bangladeshi private carrier US Bangla Air, which operated the flight between Dhaka and Kolkata on Wednesday, resumed services with a six-days-a-week schedule. On the other hand, with Kolkata still restricting arrival of flights from other metros to three times a week, the 140 daily flight count for the winter schedule hovers around the 95-mark on most days of the week. Biman Bangladesh, which will start operations on Tuesday, will initially fly three times a week. Regent Air, the third Bangladeshi private carrier that operated to Kolkata before the lockdown, and the three Indian airlines — Air India, IndiGo and SpiceJet — have also said they will resume operations but are yet to submit a schedule. Passengers travelling both ways have to get Covid tested bef-ore boarding.The news of flight resumption spread cheer among hoteliers and owners of guest houses and shops in the New Market belt. Around 4,000 rooms have remained vacant since March-end and turnover of trade, including business at New Market, has dipped by 50%-60% due to the absence of Bangladeshi customers. “It is good that flights have resumed. We want bus services between Kolkata and Dhaka to also restart,” said Calcutta Hotels, Guest Houses and Restaurants Owners’ Association functionary Monotosh Saha. While Bangladeshis comprise nearly 80% of the foreigners who stay in the Marquis Street, Free School Street, Tottee Lane, Stuart Lane, Chowringhee Lane, Sudder Street and Lindsay Street area, businesses are also concerned about domestic travel. Business travel to Kolkata is still muted due to the restrictions on flights from other cities. Though Travel Agents’ Federation of India and Travel Agents’ Association of India have written to the state multiple times seeking removal of the curbs, there has been no move to address the issue. While 140 flights can operate daily according to the winter schedule, the flight count continues to stay around the 95-mark on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday.“The winter schedule will make sense if the embargo on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur is lifted. We hope the government will make an announcement in the next few days,” said an airport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-air-link-restored-but-6-city-curbs-still-on/articleshow/78919582.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Customs seize gold worth Rs 33 lakh at Mangaluru airport, nab one||MANGALURU: Customs officials arrested an international traveller for attempting to smuggle gold stashed inside his body at Mangaluru International Airport on Monday. The accused Abubakar Siddique from Dakshina Kannada had arrived from Dubai on board a SpiceJet flight and was accosted by sleuths of customs on arrival based on passenger profiling, Joannes George, joint commissioner of Customs stated on Wednesday. The 24 carat gold on purification weighed 634 grams. It was in melted form in three separate large capsules. The capsules per se weighed 761 grams, George said. Value of the purified gold has been estimated to be Rs 33 lakh. The passenger was subjected to a mandatory Covid-19 test and produced before the jurisdictional court. Customs officials on October 20 had seized 531grams of gold worth Rs 27.4 lakh at MIA. Arecanut trader robbedTwo miscreants waylaid and assaulted Deepak G Shetty, an arecanut trader, with sharp-edged weapon and forcibly snatched a bag containing Rs 3.50 lakh cash in it at Pajekodi in Biliyoor village of Bantwal taluk on Tuesday. The incident took place when the trader was returning home in his motorcycle around 6.30pm. The pillion rider among the two miscreants who came in a motorcycle stabbed Deepak and snatched the money bag. The assailant also snatched a gold chain weighing around 12 grams from the neck of Deepak, superintendent of police BM Laxmi Prasad said. A cellphone in Deepak’s possession too has gone missing, the SP said. A case has been registered at Uppinangady police station under sections 341 and 394 of IPC. Further investigation is on, the SP noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/customs-seize-gold-worth-rs-33l-at-mia-nab-one/articleshow/78918169.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||No prior nod needed, just e-registration for travel, Tamil Nadu govt tells court||CHENNAI: The e-pass system in Tamil Nadu has been replaced by e-registration regimen, which is an automated process requiring no prior approval for travel, the Tamil Nadu government has informed the Madras high court. International travellers entering the state and travellers to hill stations must do e-registration prior to their travel, Tamil Nadu advocate-general Vijay Narayan told the first bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Wednesday. “The state government has passed a government order on October 27 modifying the restrictions for movement of public in view of the pandemic,” he said, adding that through e-registration, a traveller should provide his basic details like address and contact number for the purpose of contact-tracing in case of spike in Covid-19. The issue pertains to a PIL filed by K R Ezhil Nadhi challenging the restriction imposed by the government prohibiting travel to hill stations in the state. Representing the petitioner, advocate Abishek Jebaraj contended that in view of the powers exercised by the Union ministry of home affairs, guidelines were issued on September 30, which restrains the states from imposing lockdowns outside containment zones. It was made clear that there must be no restriction on inter and intra state movement, he argued. It was the petitioner’s contention that e-registration requirement should be made post-travel and authorities should not insist on a pre-travel registration. Refusing to concur with the submission, the bench said the state has substantially resolved the problem by passing the government order and disposed of the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-prior-nod-needed-just-e-registration-for-travel-govt-tells-court/articleshow/78921334.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt wants buses to run with full seating capacity||NEW DELHI: Buses in Delhi may run with full seating capacity in the coming days if a proposal of Delhi government sent to lieutenant governor, who is the chairperson of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), is accepted. In a recent meeting of DDMA, transport minister Kailash Gahlot had said that the restrictions on the number of passengers allowed in public transport buses should be reviewed. At present, only 20 passengers are allowed in each bus at any given time in order to ensure social distancing. Delhi, which already has just about half the number of total buses it requires, is witnessing crowds at bus stops during peak hours and long waiting period for commuters as most buses arrive full at bus stops. “The file has already been sent and from the present limitation of 20 passengers, the proposal is to run buses with full seating capacity but no standing passengers,” Gahlot told TOI. Passengers, however, will have to wear a face mask throughout the bus journey. “With only 20 passengers allowed in each bus at a time, there will naturally be a shortage of capacity when the combined Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster Scheme fleet of 6,598 buses is deployed on roads,” a Delhi government official said. “That is why, a similar proposal was sent earlier too,” he added. AC buses in Delhi can accommodate 35 passengers each and are not allowed to carry more than 18 passengers at a time. Non-AC buses, the fleet size of which is much higher, can accommodate 41 passengers each and are allowed to carry maximum 20 passengers. If DDMA allows full seating capacity, the carrying capacity of buses will increase by 100%. The official said that apart from problems faced by commuters leading to the proposal for increasing the carrying capacity of buses, revenue losses being faced while operating buses also had been taken into account. “We had increased the number of bus trips, apart from rationalising trips, to help provide transportation to as many commuters as possible but more trips also mean more revenue loss as it becomes difficult to even recover operational cost,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-wants-buses-to-run-with-full-seating-capacity/articleshow/78921356.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 29, 2020||Trichy||BJP cadres want PM picture in govt offices, protest||TRICHY: More than 20 BJP members blocked a road near the old bus stand in Pudukottai on Wednesday demanding that Prime Minister Nadrendra Modi’s portraits be kept at state and central government offices. Police arrested the protesters, including Pudukottai district president of BJP’s industrial wing J Seenivasan. The BJP cadre sat on the road with the portraits of Modi condemning officials’ refusal to heed to their demand. On October 9, Seenivasan petitioned the district collector seeking directions to all the central and state government offices to keep the portraits of Modi. “We went to meet the collector on a few occasions when officials informed us that they were awaiting a reply from the higher authorities in Chennai,” he said. Since there was no reply from officials, the BJP members procured 200 framed portraits of the Prime Minister and decided to hand them over to all the offices. However, revenue divisional officer Balathandayuthapani called them for talks and asked them to wait till they received communication from Chennai. “We were disappointed to learn that the officials sent the letter to Chennai only on Wednesday and were not serious on our demands following which we staged a protest,” said Seenivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-cadres-want-pm-pic-in-govt-offices-protest/articleshow/78921837.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Wholesale cost of onion drops by Rs 20||CHENNAI: A week after onion prices skyrocketed with the staple vegetable costing more than Rs 100 a kilogram in city neighbourhood markets, its rate has taken a turn and is falling at the Koyambedu wholesale market. Better arrivals caused a drop by Rs 20. While first quality onion in wholesale is sold at Rs 70/kg, it cost Rs 90 a week ago. Ones of lower quality is available for Rs 50. The city’s wholesale market has seen a jump in the number of supply trucks ferrying 200 tonnes of extra onion, largely from Maharashtra. V R Soundararajan, former member of market management committee of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) and onion wholesale trader, said the current prices will continue till Diwali. “In fact, prices of all other vegetables also dropped as demand reduced since the festival days of Ayudha Puja,” he said. Ladies finger, which was sold for Rs 25/kg last week, costs Rs 10-15 at the wholesale market, while potato and beans costs less by Rs 10 and Rs 20. According to S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, the prices of almost all vegetables has dropped by Rs 5 to Rs 10 and onion rate by Rs 20. “Interestingly, even carrot prices have begun falling because arrivals of different varieties of vegetables has increased this week. Moreover, we have received only one container of imported onions as there is not much demand for it, due to better supply of locally sourced onions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wholesale-cost-of-onion-drops-by-rs-20/articleshow/78921353.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Meerut||Conduct inspection of Kasturba Gandhi residential schools or face action, block edu officers warned||Meerut: The Uttar Pradesh education department has instructed the block education officers to conduct a weekly inspection of Kasturba Gandhi Residential Schools and warned them of "apt action" if they failed to abide by the order.The authorities said despite repeated reminders, the education officers were not conducting inspections.“This is to inform all of you to ensure that a weekly inspection of Kasturba Gandhi Residential Schools should be conducted. Despite repeated reminders, these inspections are not being done, which is extremely disappointing,” reads the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, state project director, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan.The order further reads: “Inspection of these schools should be done and a report in this regard should be sent on the state government authorities’ email id. “If any block education officer fails to send these details, he will face apt action,” warned Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/conduct-inspection-of-kasturba-gandhi-residential-schools-or-face-action-block-edu-officers-warned/articleshow/78918176.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Restoration of 8th – 9th C Hanol temples stopped after locals say they were not consulted||Dehradun: Restoration and conservation work of Hanol’s Mahasu Devta temples, which started late last month, has been stopped. Priests and local residents raised objections over the renovation works, saying they were not consulted. They said that the renovation work could disturb the structure of the shrines, known for their wood and stone architecture. Harish Chandram Rajguru, pradhan of Hanol and Chatra village, where Mahasu Devta temple is located, told TOI, “ASI never took the locals into confidence about the renovation work here. They started construction without taking permission from the deity. Besides, they are leveling the ground to an extent which will restrict the number of people who can enter the temple at once. The excess digging will also ruin the flowering plants here.” Chakrata sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Aproorva Singh, who heads the temple committee, told TOI that orders have been issued to the ASI to stop the restoration work. “It is a law and order issue. The ASI did not consult the temple committee or even the district administration. I have asked the ASI to stop the work and take the people concerned in the loop first. I have also shared details of the development with the district magistrate,” the SDM said. Meanwhile, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) chief (Doon circle) RK Patel on Wednesday wrote a letter to secretary (tourism and culture) Dilip Jawalkar, updating him on the status of the restoration work and seeking help from the department to clear the doubts of local residents. “Mahasu Devta temple is a monument of national importance and to ensure its promotion and regular maintenance is the responsibility of the ASI,” Patel wrote in the letter. Speaking to TOI, he said, “We started working on conservation of the Mahasu Devta temple in the last financial year. A plan was prepared by the director general of ASI. The work was supposed to start in March this year but got delayed due to the pandemic. We managed to start in the last week of September. This is the second biggest conservation and restoration of an ASI-protected monument in Uttarakhand after the Jageshwar temple (in Almora). Those raising objections are some anti-social elements.” Giving details of the restoration work, Patel explained that more than 20 different big and small items of work will be executed under its ongoing project, which will last around six months. The renovation, which costs around Rs 1 crore, aims to give the shrines a better visual appeal. “The temple complex is a blend of Jaunsari and Himachali wooden architecture. The ASI is working to strengthen the foundation of the original temple, which has been weakened by waterlogging in the area. Also, since the woodwork was made years after the brick temple, the foundation is not strong enough to support both. We will lay concrete flooring outside the main temple, conserve small sites within the main temple premises in their original state and also construct separate entry and exit points,” Patel said. He added that the ancient wooden structure had been painted by local residents, which will be removed and the original wood polished, to make it look real. “Some damaged parts of the temple had been repaired using cement, which will be restored in the traditional style,” he said. Commenting on the misgivings of local residents, he said, “We have already formed a team to communicate with the locals and discuss their doubts. It is obvious that devotees will face difficulties while the restoration work is underway but that is no reason to stop it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/restoration-of-8th-9th-c-hanol-temples-stopped-after-locals-say-they-were-not-consulted/articleshow/78918189.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Of 3,000+ Covid red zones, maximum are in South West district||NEW DELHI: The number of containment zones breached the 3,000 mark in the city with South West district having the highest number of sealed zones at 558, followed by South (505). North East district had the lowest number of red zones at 82. Times ViewCovid-19 cases were expected to spike as normalcy was being restored. But the sharp rise both in the number of cases as well as containment zones in recent days is a matter of concern. Health officials should read the warning signs and get to the root of the problem lest the outbreak, and consequently fatalities, spiral out of control.Officials said the numbers had risen owing to creation of micro-containment zones for effective management and to ensure that only the least amount of people were put under lockdown. In the past six days, 281 containment zones were created and their numbers rose steadily along with the Covid-19 positivity rate. On October 20, there were 2,716 containment zones in the city. This increased to 2,724 a day later and reached 3,047 on October 27. “Creation and de-containment is a dynamic process. The zones are continuously monitored. After successful implementation of the containment plan, scaling down begins and finally the zones are de-sealed after 21 days,” said an official. All districts largely have the same population pattern, but the distribution of containment zones is quite different. The number of active cases among them is also not distributed according to the population. For instance, East and Shahdara, and Central and North East districts have similar population patterns, but the distribution of containment zones is different in them. An official said that unlike the initial months of the outbreak of the pandemic, the scale and strategy of containment zones had changed significantly. A month ago, all districts started making micro-level containment zones. A single flat with infected people in a highrise was converted into a containment zone instead of the entire tower. In planned areas, only the affected house was sealed at the discretion of the authorities. In comparison, in April and May some containment zones had over 40,000 people residing in them. “Micro-containment zones are easier to monitor and screen and there is negligible scope for violations compared with large red zones. Everyone living within a containment zone is tested, irrespective of being symptomatic or asymptomatic. Symptomatic individuals who test negative further undergo RT-PCR testing,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/of-3000-red-zones-max-are-in-south-west-district/articleshow/78921364.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 29, 2020||Meerut||National wushu player now works as labourer at Uttar Pradesh farm to feed his family||MEERUT: National laurels could not help Ravi Suryavanshi, 21, earn a decent living. Despite having secured top ranks in national wushu championships, Suryavanshi is these days working as a labourer at a farm in Meerut’s Incholi. He even had to sell shoes. Days before the Covid lockdown in March 2020, Suryavanshi returned from Sports Authority India's (SAI) Bhopal campus to UP. “My parents are labourers and due to the lockdown, they did not get any work. I was diagnosed with typhoid and we were in dire need of money for my medication and food. We borrowed money from relatives and it has to be returned. There is no other way out. I need to work as a labourer to feed my family,” Suryavanshi said on Wednesday. Living in a single room accommodation, his parents and three siblings have always pinned hopes on Suryavanshi’s sporting events. But this year, it has been all dry and a struggle. “I don’t expect the government to dole out funds, but a job, as per my abilities, is the least other sports players and I can get in these trying times. I practice every day. However, I cannot take the prescribed diet due to limited funds and this can affect my performance. I go to the farms – at times marigold farm and rice fields - to earn Rs 200 a day,” Suryavanshi added. After studying in a government school, Suryavanshi is now waiting for the BA final-year result. His feats include bronze medals in several national championships and a silver in 14th Junior National Wushu Championship. “Earlier, I was selling sports shoes for a living. I am trying to sell them in the rural areas now so that I don’t suffer further losses,” the wushu player said. With the past seven months being a steep climb, Suryavanshi said that he has received calls from the SAI campus in Bhopal to return. The campus is slated to reopen in November. “While my stay and diet will be taken care of there, things will be financially difficult back home. I am looking to participate in future championships so that I can again earn some money,” Suryavanshi said, hoping that all is not lost as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/national-wushu-player-now-works-aslabourer-at-up-farm-to-feed-his-family/articleshow/78918186.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Cong highlights delay in Lokayukta Bill in U’khand||Dehradun: In the wake of the Uttarakhand high court ordering a CBI probe into the allegations of corruption against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, the state unit of Congress has raised the issue of delay in passing the Lokayukta Bill in the state assembly. Congress leader Qazi Nizam-ud-Din, who is also the member of the select committee set up for the appointment of Lokayukta in the state, said that “the delay is unexplainable as the ruling party claims zero tolerance for corruption”. Nizam-ud-Din, who represents the Mangalaur constituency of Haridwar district, said that the ruling party had tried to dilute the bill by keeping the chief minister out of its ambit. Earlier in 2017, the Trivendra Singh Rawat government had tabled the Lokayukta Bill in the state assembly and a select committee was also formed in the matter. While the select committee — formed to look into the various aspects of the bill — has given its consent, the bill has not yet been passed in the House. “As a member of the select committee, I was in favour that the CM should also be included under the Lokayukta ambit. We studied some examples on Lokayukta in other states and made recommendations,” Nizam-ud-Din told TOI. Congress state chief Pritam Singh, who is also the MLA from Chakrata constituency of Dehradun, said, “Soon after assuming office in 2017, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat in a press briefing had claimed to bring Lokayukta in Uttarakhand within 100 days but the incumbent BJP government is in its fourth year and yet there is no sign of Lokayukta. While the CM is claiming zero tolerance for corruption, his own party MLA is highlighting corruption in the state. It shows that the ruling party is not interested in bringing Lokayukta in Uttarakhand.” Meanwhile, Munna Singh Chauhan, BJP chief spokesperson and Vikasnagar MLA, asserted that bringing Lokayukta is no panacea for all issues relating to corruption. “If you see the larger picture, we have been successful in creating an atmosphere in the state where not a single major case of corruption has been reported. All those found involved in corrupt practices have been booked and put behind the bars,” said the lawmaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-highlights-delay-in-lokayukta-bill-in-ukhand/articleshow/78918216.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 29, 2020||Dehradun||Missing man’s body found, probe on||Rudrapur: A 43-year old man was allegedly shot dead in Kelakhera town of Udham Singh Nagar district. The man has been identified as Prem Singh Bairagi, a resident of Beriya Daulat village. He had gone missing on Tuesday night and his body was found near Ganguly river in Fatehpur village on Wednesday, said the police officials. He was a caterer by profession. Prabhat Kumar, SHO of Kelakhera police station, told TOI that Bairagi's body was spotted by a local farmer. "He had sustained two bullets in his chest and head. The reason behind his murder is yet to be ascertained. The family members of the victim have told us that he left the house on Tuesday night and his phone was also found switched off. We are collecting available CCTV footage and four police teams have been constituted to identify and arrest the accused persons," SHO Kumar added. The police suspect that the assailants were aware of Bairagi’s movements. Meanwhile, the family members of the victim have said that he didn't have enmity with anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/missing-mans-body-found-probe-on/articleshow/78918204.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Suicide bid? PGI cook found grievously injured in Sec 38||Chandigarh: A 53-year-old man was found grievously injured under mysterious circumstances in the forest area of Sector 38 (west) on Wednesday morning.The injuries were inflicted on Atul Thapa, a resident of Sector 39, with a sharp-edged weapon. He is under treatment at PGI.Police said Atul, a native of Nepal, went missing on Tuesday night. “It is suspected that he tried to kill himself with a knife,” said a cop.Atul works as a cook on a contractual basis at PGI and lives with his two sons in the city. His wife, daughter and the third son live in Nepal.His nephew, Ramesh Thapa, said, “My uncle had left house around 8pm on Tuesday. His family thought he might have gone to a relative’s house. When he did not return home, they started looking for him.”While searching for him, Ramesh and his family reached Sector 38 (west) and found his cycle. At some distance, Atul was lying in a pool of blood. They informed the police and a PCR took him to PGI. Ramesh said he was suffering from depression and might have tried to commit suicide by stabbing himself with a knife. His cellphone, too, was found near the spot.  Cops said he first tried to hang himself from a tree with his belt, but it broke. He, later, stabbed himself. Police have recovered a knife from the spot.A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/suicide-bid-pgi-cook-found-grievously-injured-in-sec-38/articleshow/78919640.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Trichy||Edappadi K Palaniswami opens air quality checking stations in Trichy||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday inaugurated the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) at the Bharathidasan University (BDU) and St Joseph’s College (SJC) Trichy. The digital display board is installed near the entrance of both the institutions and the reading of the air quality would be displayed to create awareness among the public. The two institutions are among the 25 places across the state where CAAQMS were established. The station will measure the air quality of around 5km distance and evaluate a total 16 parameters including particulate matter (PM 2.5, 10) and other pollutants like sulphur dioxide, ammonia, carbon monoxide. It is also equipped to measure meteorological parameters like rainfall, solar radiation, wind direction, wind speed, temperature and humidity.The data from the station will help the government agencies to inform the public regarding the current level of air pollution, formulating strategies, policy and decision making. All the 25 CAAQMS stations, each worth Rs 2 crore are continuously monitored online and interlinked to TNPCB and IIT, Chennai. The data from the station can be used by scientists, academicians and students for teaching and research purposes. BDU has asked interested people to approach K Thamaraiselvi from the department of environmental biotechnology for details. “Air quality monitoring networks will keep track of air quality in various places such as residential areas, industrial areas, commercial areas, roadside areas, and reference areas in the city,” said M Arockiasamy Xavier, principal of SJC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-opens-air-quality-checking-stns-in-trichy/articleshow/78921843.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru police commissioner inspects Thokkottu flyover||MANGALURU: The death of a young newly married couple in a ghastly accident at Thokkottu flyover on Tuesday evening saw the Mangaluru city police brass descend there a day later, seeking solutions. With Mangaluru city taffic police (MCTP) officers in tow, city police chief Vikash Kumar Vikash deliberated on the situation arising from the accident threadbare with officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Vikash Kumar told TOI that it is a constant endeavour of the city police to identify such accident spots and take corrective action, and not get spurred by any specific incident. “We flag any and all such potential spots with the authorities concerned – NHAI in this instance—and strive to arrive at some corrective action that will help save precious human lives,” he said. “We will take some concrete decisions regarding this particular accident zone shortly,” he noted. “We are aware of a few unscientific road approaches within the city police limits, which in turn tend to cause accidents if the motorists are not careful,” Vikash Kumar said. MCTP officers have made note of all such spots and requested the authorities to take corrective action, he said, adding this process will continue in the future as well. “If the onus is on MCTP to address the situation, it is dealt at our level,” the city police chief said. The Tuesday accident in which Rayan Fernandes and Priya Fernandes, residents of Bajal, lost their lives, saw a flurry of agitated responses on social media, with netizens questioning the NHAI over the design of the flyover, and city police for not enforcing speed limits on what is perceived to be an unscientific opening at the Ullal end of the flyover. Motorists coming from the service road from Thokkottu have to take a right turn, at the end of the flyover, to go to Ullal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/city-police-commissioner-inspects-thokkottu-flyover/articleshow/78918199.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Meerut||One dead, 2 injured in clashes between two groups of same family over farm land||Muzaffarnagar: A 30-year-old man died and two others were injured in clashes between two groups in Muzaffarnagar’s Purbaliyan village on Wednesday. The clashes, which erupted after an argument between the groups, allegedly over an old enmity regarding ownership of farmland, escalated into a fight. Shots were fired and a 30-year-old man was killed. Police have formed teams to arrest the accused.According to eyewitnesses, soon after an argument erupted between the two groups from the same family, they started kicking and punching, and even using sticks and sharp objects against each other. Then, someone from one of the groups started firing, in which Vipin (30) sustained a bullet injury.He was rushed to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Two others were also injured in the clash. They are being treated in hospital, said sources.It is being said that both groups often used to fight over ownership of farm land, that relatives and villagers have tried to strike a compromise between them but to no avail.After being informed, police rushed to the spot and took control of the situation. A case under Section 302 of IPC was registered against five accused. Police have already raided several locations to arrest the accused.Senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav said, “Old enmity between the family groups led to the incident. Several police teams were pressed to arrest the culprits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/one-dead-2-injured-in-clashes-between-two-groups-of-same-family-over-farm-land/articleshow/78918200.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: IMA chief Mohammed Mansoor Khan gets bail in ED case, but not out of jail||BENGALURU: The high court granted conditional bail to Mohammed Mansoor Khan, main accused in the multi-crore IMA ponzi scam of which money laundering is being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate. He, however, will remain in jail as he is yet to get bail in the main case which is under CBI probe. Mansoor has been in judicial custody since August 1, 2019. Mansoor had approached the HC after the trial court rejected his bail petition in the ED case a couple of months ago. He said he had come to India voluntarily, surrendered to police and cooperated with the investigation which is now complete. He claimed he has surrendered his passport as well. Considering these facts, Justice Srinivas Harish Kumar allowed his bail petition on October 19. The judge directed Mansoor to furnish a bail bond for Rs 5 lakh and two sureties for like sum. Mansoor has to regularly appear before the trial court till conclusion of trial and mark his attendance every fortnight at the office of Directorate of Enforcement, Bengaluru. The court stipulated that Mansoor should not alienate any of his properties till conclusion of trial and if the need arises, he should disclose the purpose to the trial court which in turn will impose conditions for it. Mansoor claimed he has been suffering from hypertension for a long time. He's also suffering from a heart ailment and has been diagnosed with unstable angina coronary artery disease and 100% blockage. He's also suffering from spine degenerative spondylosis. He claimed that if released on bail, he could get better treatment in a hospital of his choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-ima-chief-mohammed-mansoor-khan-gets-bail-in-ed-case-but-not-out-of-jail/articleshow/78922494.cms||---
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||4 deaths, 345 new Cov cases in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported four Covid casualties, 345 new infections and 452 people recovering from virus on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,00,569 cases. Of these, 5,363 are active, 94,326 have recovered and 880 have died. The state’s recovery rate stood at 93.79 %, almost three percentage points higher than the national figure. Two deaths were reported from Ranchi and one each from Lohardaga and Deoghar. Ranchi continued to clock the highest figure with 92 fresh infections while Dhanbad was second with 53, followed by Bokaro with 30. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-deaths-345-new-cov-cases-in-jharkhand/articleshow/78920553.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||4 bikes seized and Rs 43k collected as fine in a day for speeding||Ranchi: The district police on Wednesday launched bike checking drives across several areas in the city to curb rash driving and violation of other traffic norms and seized four bikes in this regard. In addition, the cops collected Rs 43,000 as fine in a single day from the violators. City SP Saurav said, “We checked 131 bikes as part of drives which were conducted in Lalpur, Kanta Toli, Sujata Chowk, Rajendra Chowk, Hinoo and Booty More.” This comes a day after state DGP M V Rao said police would keep a close watch on rash driving. Rao had warned parents, who have given their children high-speed bikes, that their kids will be imprisoned if they are found driving beyond the speed limit and with modified silencers. Rao had said that the bikers would be dealt with iron hand as they were putting others’ lives in danger. Meanwhile, in order to intensify its crackdown on bikers, the state police are planning to procure speed guns and interceptors. Presently, the cops are finding it difficult to register cases in the absence of mechanical proofs of speeding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-bikes-seized-and-rs-43k-collected-as-fine-in-a-day-for-speeding/articleshow/78920521.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM takes DVC auto-debit row to Bermo bypoll pitch||Bokaro: Chief minister Hemant Soren attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre during an election rally at Dughda in Bermo on Wednesday for auto-debiting Rs 1,417.50 crore from the state’s account with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The Union government had recently asked the RBI to deduct the amount to clear the dues of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Notably, the Chandrapura power plant of the DVC is located 3-4 kilometres from the rally site. “The money given to the DVC has stalled the pace of development in the state and this cannot be tolerated,” Soren said, adding that the Centre did not wait to get the consent of the state before deducting the money. Soren then warned the Centre and said: “The entire country would plunge into darkness if the state decided to give a befitting reply to the Union government. So do not try to provoke us, as we Jharkhandis have a record of forcing economic blockade. The coal from here lights up the entire country but the BJP government is trying to keep us in darkness.” Soren also said that BJP was favouring capitalists and selling government institutions to a select few. “One such example was the double-engine government of former chief minister Raghubar Das that sold Patratu Thermal Power Station. Moreover, some people sitting in New Delhi are trying to divide the country along the lines of caste and religion. But people should not fall in their trap.” The Jharkhand CM also criticised BJP over the farm bills and the delay in publishing the results of Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC). “Results for JPSC exams did not come out during the tenure of Raghubar Das. Moreover, the former government appointed teachers but the court has given a verdict against those appointments. However, we are trying to save the jobs.” The meeting was also addressed by Congress ministers Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-takes-dvc-auto-debit-row-to-bermo-bypoll-pitch/articleshow/78919638.cms||Divy Khare
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad residents go without water after pipeline bursts||Dhanbad: Residents in the coal town of Dhanbad are facing an acute water crisis for the last five days after a drinking water supply pipeline leaked in Deoli area of Govindpur. Around 10 days ago, a minor leakage was spotted in the pipeline of Maithon Water Supply scheme, but lack of repair lead to the pipe to burst on October 24. Munna Singh, a resident of Barmasia locality, said, “The festival this year was badly affected due to a water crisis as people remained busy procuring water, which is a basic need.” “Such was the situation that we had to purchase water for bathing besides drinking on Navami and Dashmi before going to temples,” Singh said. Mannan Sinha, a resident of Hirapur, said, “We have a 2,000 litre overhead tank and if we knew there will be a crisis of water, we would have ensured judicious use. We could have managed at least a week. The authorities not only failed to repair the leakage immediately, but also did not inform the people when the crisis will be over.” An extensive repair work was launched on Tuesday and around 11am on Wednesday, another leakage was spotted. Repair works continued, but normal water supply is likely to restored only by Wednesday evening when all the 19 towers are filled, said Manish Kumar, executive engineer of the drinking water and sanitation department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-residents-go-without-water-after-pipeline-bursts/articleshow/78919524.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||Poll awareness vehicles used to bring supporters to meeting venue||Dumka: Vehicles deployed for voter awareness campaigns in the tribal heartland of Dumka were used to bring in many people who were in the audience at the venue of the election rally addressed by chief minister Hemant Soren in Gando village on Wednesday. As per Election Commission norms, government machinery and infrastructure cannot be used for canvassing. Anti-Covid norms were also flouted as these vehicles crammed with JMM supporters who were without masks. “JMM workers had promised us that vehicles will be sent to our homes to bring us here. We habe no idea about what these vehicle are meant for or if it is against the model code,” said an elderly woman stepping out of a four-wheeler decked up with awareness banners and posters. Civil SDO Maheshwar Mahto said the administration has no information of any such incident. “We will launch an investigation and if these charges are true, we will lodge a case of violation of model code and take action against the candidate or the party concerned.” Recently, BJP accused the ruling JMM of misusing government machinery in the run-up to the bypolls and taking help of deputy development commissioner (DDC) Sanjay Singh to influence voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/poll-awareness-vehicles-used-to-bring-supporters-to-meeting-venue/articleshow/78919533.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||No of active Cov cases lowest in 100 days, 3 deaths take toll to 894||Ranchi: With recoveries continuing to outnumber new Covid infections in Jharkhand, the number of active cases fell below the 5,000-mark for the first time since July 27. Meanwhile, the state reported three fresh Covid casualties on Wednesday, taking the toll to 894. With 301 new infections and 505 recoveries, the state’s cumulative caseload stood at 1,03,188 cases, of which 4,814 are active and 97,480 have recovered. Among the three casualties on Wednesday, two were in East Singhbhum and one in Lohardga. Ranchi continued to report highest number of fresh infections with 105 cases, followed by East Singhbhum with 48.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-of-active-cov-cases-lowest-in-100-days-3-deaths-take-toll-to-894/articleshow/79049981.cms||Gaurav Pandey
October 29, 2020||Ranchi||Army jawan from state falls off Ladakh cliff, dies||Ranchi: Thousands of people on Wednesday paid tributes to Abhishekh Kumar Sahu (25), an Indian Army jawan of the signalling corps posted in Ladakh. Sahu died on October 24 at a hospital after he slipped and fell from a cliff earlier on the same day. Governor Droupadi Murmu, state cabinet minister Champai Soren and senior administrative officers were also present at Birsa Munda International Airport on Tuesday evening when Sahu’s body was flown in. On Wednesday, people waited in large numbers while his mortal remains were being carried to his village, Chorya, under Chanho block in Ranchi district. A fleet of at least 300 bikes and several vehicles trailed the procession to his village. At Chorya, people with national flags and banners bearing Sahu’s pictures lined up on both sides of the road. Chanho block development officer Vijay Kumar said, “The last rites were performed with full military honours. We were present at the village to maintain law and order.” Meanwhile, villagers demanded a sum of Rs 10 lakh from the state governement for Sahu’s family, a statue and a welcome gate after him in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/army-jawan-from-state-falls-off-ladakh-cliff-dies/articleshow/78920634.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
