October 30, 2020||Business||Onion traders to get three days' time before enforcement of stock limits: Government||NEW DELHI: The Union government on Thursday said onion traders will be given three days' time for grading and packing of onions from the date of purchasing the commodity from mandis before stock holding limits come into force. In the wake of spiralling onion prices, the government has imposed stock limits on retail and wholesale onion traders with effect from October 23. Till December-end, retailers are allowed to stock onions only up to 2 tonnes while wholesale traders can keep up to 25 tonnes. The latest decision to provide give a window of three days comes amid traders' facing difficulties in offloading onions in the market due to the stock limits. The limits have been imposed to check prices as well as boost domestic supply of onions and prevent possible hoarding of the commodity. "Keeping in mind the needs of wholesale and retail onion traders, it has been decided that three days' time for grading/ packing etc from the date of purchase of onion in the mandi will be given before the stock limits are imposed," consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Thursday. In this regard, a directive has been issued to state governments to ensure compliance, an official statement said. Onion supplies have come under pressure across the country due to likely damage to the standing kharif crop in key growing states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. As a result, retail prices of onion are ruling over Rs 80 per kilogram in most parts of the country. The Union government has taken several measures to check price rise and improve domestic availability, including banning exports of onion and onion seeds. Onion from the buffer stock is being offloaded to boost domestic supply. Besides, the government is exploring options to import the commodity till fresh crop starts hitting mandis from next month. On account of likely damage from heavy rains, the government expects kharif and late onion kharif output to be lower at 37 lakh tonnes this year, down by 6 lakh tonnes from the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/onion-traders-to-get-three-days-time-before-enforcement-of-stock-limits-government/articleshow/78939880.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||How to celebrate a safe yet magical Halloween amid the pandemic||Halloween is almost upon us, but this year we may have to miss all the fun parties at most of the city restopubs due to COVID-19 restrictions. And a few restobars that are planning to host parties on October 31, are also trying to keep it low-key. But then, it is unfair not to have fun at all. Worry not! Here are a few tricks and tips you can try to make Halloween magical even when you are cooped up at home... Spooky décor ideasOne of the highlights of a scary-themed Halloween party is to add spooky elements while decorating the interiors of your house. Spruce up your home with scary décor items like Halloween swirl dangler streamers, Jack O’lanterns string lights, pumpkin or skull shaped lights, hanging skeletons, blood-dripping hand made of fibre, ghoul inside a cage, keeping artificial cobwebs around the house and paper bats. The Halloween festivities will not be complete without clicking pictures with your buddies, so keep a supply of spooky props handy while posing for pictures. Eerie dress code Halloween is all about eccentric and eerie costumes. Avoid overcrowding by inviting only your close friends. Make sure you have a spooky dress code set for the party. Ask your buddies to wear scary and colourful masks. Do not your protective face mask underneath. If any of your friends cannot turn up for the party, get on a virtual ghostly dress-up meet through a video call. Sweta Ghosh, a marketing professional, who is planning to call over a few friends for a Halloween get-together at home, said, “Since most of us are still working from home, it is easier to make arrangements for a Halloween house party. It is also safer rather than heading to any restopub. Since Halloween this year falls on a Saturday, it is my day off and I can devote time doing up my living room with scary décor items that I bought last year. I’ve also ordered a few this time from online shopping sites. I have asked my friends to come dressed in weird outfits and face painted to match with the theme of Halloween. I will order food from outside and make some cocktails at home. Also, a movie marathon is on the cards for the Halloween night.” Funky food and beveragesWhat’s a party without some delectable food and drinks? Prepare a menu that not only sounds scary but looks funky too. Cocktails or mocktails like Jack o’ lantern, pumpkin punch cocktail, cobweb-shaped cupcakes and skull-shaped pizza will surely take the fun of Halloween a notch higher. Prepare colourful cookies and dumplings to lift their mood of kids in the house. You can also order in dinner and cocktail pre-mixes for the party. According to Rohitashwa Guha, city-based home chef, the most creative you can get is by serving an interesting mix of snacks and beverages to your guests. He suggests, “You can go for ghost-shaped shepherd's pie, blood and soul cocktail made with white rum, gin, tomato and orange juice, served with skull-shaped popcorns, mutton brain and liver pate served on bone shaped crackers. You can also keep syringes filled with bloody Mary cocktails. Apart from these, spooky potato faces fry, Demon's eggs (eggs stuffed with shrimps and bacons), bloody velvet cheese cake, lung and heart-shaped pizza inside ribs also add the much-needed spook to your Halloween party menu. These delicacies will surely impress your guests at the get-together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/how-to-celebrate-a-safe-yet-magical-halloween-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/78933428.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
October 30, 2020||India||India dealt with border crisis with China with firmness, maturity: Foreign secretary||NEW DELHI: India has dealt with the "worst crisis" in decades along its border with China with "firmness and maturity" despite facing the challenge of the coronavirus pandemic, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Thursday. In an address at a leading think-tank in Paris, Shringla mentioned two recent terrorist incidents in France, one of which he said had its origins in Pakistan, noting that the civilised world needs to act with firmness to address the threat of terrorism. Delving into major geo-strategic issues, he said the immediate challenges have not been able to distract India from broader strategic goals, especially in the Indo-Pacific Region where it is moving purposefully at multiple levels to create an "open, inclusive architecture". Shringla arrived here as part his week-long tour of France, Germany and the UK. His visit to France came as the country grapples with another terror attack. Three people have died in a knife attack at a church in Nice on Thursday which was described by French President Emmanuel Macron as an "Islamist terrorist attack". Shringla, in his address at the Institut Français des Relations Internationales (IFRI), said India and France face similar non-traditional security threats in the form of radicalism and terrorism, and the fight today is not against specific communities or individuals but against a "radical politico-religious ideology." Referring to cross-border terrorism from Pakistan, the foreign secretary said India has continued to ward off the menace from its western border. "Despite the pandemic, we have dealt with the worst crisis in decades on our border with China and we have done so with firmness and maturity. At the same time, we have continued to ward off terrorism from across our western border," he said. "Our immediate challenges have not distracted us from broader strategic goals, especially in the Indo-Pacific Region, where we are moving purposefully at multiple levels to create an open, inclusive architecture. India is emerging at the centre of a network of initiatives," he added. About the threats of terrorism and radicalism, Shringla said radical ideology espouses violence and separatism, very often fanned and supported by foreign influence, adding such forces seek to destabilise pluralist societies. "It was horrifying to hear about the two recent terrorist incidents in France, one of which, as is very often the case, had its origins in our western neighbourhood -- Pakistan," he said. "For the past three decades, we have experienced what unbridled radicalism can wreak and what malevolent violent forces it can unleash. The civilised world needs to act together and act with firmness to address this threat to our cherished democratic value systems," he added. India has deplored the personal attacks against President Macron following his tougher stance on radical Islam. Macron has been facing criticism from various Muslim-majority countries after he defended cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad and said Islam was a religion in "crisis". His comments came in the backdrop of the beheading of French teacher on October 16 outside Paris in broad daylight. In his address, Shringla said the fight today is not against specific communities or individuals but against a radical politico-religious ideology that attempts to negate the progress made by secular democracies, particularly when it involves the equality of all citizens, regardless of religion or ethnicity, and rights of women. He also talked about convergence of interests between India and France in the Indo-Pacific. "We remain committed to upholding the rules-based international order, underpinned by the rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes," he said. "Our objective remains advancing the security and the economic interests of all countries having legitimate and vital interests in the region. Our Indo-Pacific concept has gained increasingly wider acceptance," he said. Shringla touched upon a number of key issues including India's handling of the pandemic, New Delhi's relationship with France as well as with Europe and transition in global geo-politics. "We are cautiously optimistic that India may have crossed the point of inflection in the pandemic. This has been a whole-of-society effort. Our doctor, nurses and public health workers have persevered with admirable dedication," he said. "Over 17,000 dedicated Covid facilities were set up with 1.6 million isolation beds. Over a million people are being tested daily. Our daily caseloads have reduced from a peak of over 90,000 per day a few weeks ago, to less than 50,000 per day now," he added. Shringla said the post-Covid world will be shaped by business and commerce as well as technology and sustainability, and nurtured by norms and values, by old-fashioned notions of trust, reliability and stability. "Whether in France or in India, these are attributes at the heart of our republican ideals. These are attributes that define our countries at home and motivate us abroad," he said. He said India's own thinking about deeper global economic engagement will be influenced by both geopolitical divides and pandemic pressures. "There was already a reassessment of FTA experiences, keeping in mind the unsettling impact they have had on India's manufacturing. The attention could now shift to becoming part of global value chains, complemented by focused trading arrangements," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-dealt-with-border-crisis-with-china-with-firmness-maturity-foreign-secretary/articleshow/78941052.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Foodies ignore social distancing at NCR eateries||People across NCR are gradually stepping out of their homes and frequenting food joints or roadside eateries. However, many are also flouting social distancing norms and mask rules. While some take off their masks, some barely cover their nose while others crowd and flout social distancing norms when they are eating out with friends and family. People flouting social distancing norms and mask rules is becoming a common sight at roadside eateries across NCRHow am I supposed to eat with a mask on?: CustomersVendors say that customers get offended and sometimes, they even leave the stall when pointed out for not wearing a mask. “How am I supposed to eat with a mask on?”, “I thought mandatory mask rule was for roaming around, and not for eating out,” are some of the excuses that people cite for not wearing a mask. Dalchand of Mangla Chaat Waale in Mayur Vihar, says, “Many customers take off their masks as soon as they stand in a queue. On an average, one person spends 20 minutes at a food stall, out of which he/she spends only five to seven minutes on eating, but even for the rest of the time, most of them do not wear a mask. Not just them, even those who visit us for takeaways also remove masks, citing breathing issues.” Even those standing in queues for takeaways are regularly spotted flouting safety protocols‘Mask violators discourage others from visiting stalls’Arbind Singh, National Coordinator, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI), says, “Not many have warmed up to the idea of eating out at a food joint or a roadside eatery. And when they see mask violators at food stalls, it further discourages them from visiting stalls.” ‘Prefer meeting friends outside, so we can remove the mask and chat freely’Visit any food stall across NCR, and it is a regular sight to see people chatting for hours without wearing any masks, or not covering their faces properly, or even dangling around their neck. Even those standing in queues to take away their food deliveries often flout social distancing norms and even take off their masks. Ajitesh, who recently visited a food stall in Sarojini Nagar with his family, says, “When you are at an eatery, masks are not required. In fact, we prefer meeting our friends and family members at an outdoor food joint, so we can remove the mask and chat freely.” Many customers prefer meeting their friends and family members at outdoor food joints across the city, claiming it enables them to remove the mask and chat freely‘No social distancing maintained while using sanitisers’People crowd at stalls and even while using the sanitisers kept at the eateries, people stand so close that it becomes a safety hazard rather than a safety measure. Anjani Chaurasia, who recently visited a food stall in Lajpat Nagar, says, “While most vendors are maintaining social distancing with limited staff members and have even kept hand sanitisers at tables, at some eateries, I have observed that it is the customers who stand so close while using sanitisers that they end up flouting social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/foodies-ignore-social-distancing-at-ncr-eateries/articleshow/78931379.cms||Niharika Lal
October 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Foodies ignore social distancing at NCR eateries||People across NCR are gradually stepping out of their homes and frequenting food joints or roadside eateries. However, many are also flouting social distancing norms and mask rules. While some take off their masks, some barely cover their nose while others crowd and flout social distancing norms when they are eating out with friends and family. People flouting social distancing norms and mask rules is becoming a common sight at roadside eateries across NCRHow am I supposed to eat with a mask on?: CustomersVendors say that customers get offended and sometimes, they even leave the stall when pointed out for not wearing a mask. “How am I supposed to eat with a mask on?”, “I thought mandatory mask rule was for roaming around, and not for eating out,” are some of the excuses that people cite for not wearing a mask. Dalchand of Mangla Chaat Waale in Mayur Vihar, says, “Many customers take off their masks as soon as they stand in a queue. On an average, one person spends 20 minutes at a food stall, out of which he/she spends only five to seven minutes on eating, but even for the rest of the time, most of them do not wear a mask. Not just them, even those who visit us for takeaways also remove masks, citing breathing issues.” Even those standing in queues for takeaways are regularly spotted flouting safety protocols‘Mask violators discourage others from visiting stalls’Arbind Singh, National Coordinator, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI), says, “Not many have warmed up to the idea of eating out at a food joint or a roadside eatery. And when they see mask violators at food stalls, it further discourages them from visiting stalls.” ‘Prefer meeting friends outside, so we can remove the mask and chat freely’Visit any food stall across NCR, and it is a regular sight to see people chatting for hours without wearing any masks, or not covering their faces properly, or even dangling around their neck. Even those standing in queues to take away their food deliveries often flout social distancing norms and even take off their masks. Ajitesh, who recently visited a food stall in Sarojini Nagar with his family, says, “When you are at an eatery, masks are not required. In fact, we prefer meeting our friends and family members at an outdoor food joint, so we can remove the mask and chat freely.” Many customers prefer meeting their friends and family members at outdoor food joints across the city, claiming it enables them to remove the mask and chat freely‘No social distancing maintained while using sanitisers’People crowd at stalls and even while using the sanitisers kept at the eateries, people stand so close that it becomes a safety hazard rather than a safety measure. Anjani Chaurasia, who recently visited a food stall in Lajpat Nagar, says, “While most vendors are maintaining social distancing with limited staff members and have even kept hand sanitisers at tables, at some eateries, I have observed that it is the customers who stand so close while using sanitisers that they end up flouting social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/foodies-ignore-social-distancing-at-ncr-eateries/articleshow/78932253.cms||Niharika Lal
October 30, 2020||Varanasi||Ladies’ day out in Varanasi||A ladies club recently organised an online event for its members.They were given a task of presenting their hobby, ramp walk with nature, which included any of the five elements like earth, air, water, sky and fire. Another task was cooking but the highlight of the ten-day long event was Banaras Big Memsahab, in which the ladies had to enact their female role model. The winners of the Big Memsahab were awarded in a formal event. Sangeeta Agrawal was the winner while Namita was the first runner up and Shipra Bhargava second runner up, respectively. (L) Namita (R) Palak (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Namita (R) Palak (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Sangeeta (R) Sanjana (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Sangeeta (R) Sanjana (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Shweta (R) Shipra (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Shweta (R) Shipra (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) The programme was conducted by Manisha Kishnani, Poonam Maheshwari, Jyoti Chandak and Palak Rupani. (L) Sneha (R) Varsha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Sneha (R) Varsha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Jyoti (R) Manisha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Jyoti (R) Manisha (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ladies-day-out-in-varanasi/articleshow/78936266.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||Any Indian hesitation on LAC will hit bid to check China: US||NEW DELHI: India's confrontation with China is being watched closely across the world and any hesitation on part of India will demoralise and hurt efforts to check Beijing's expansionist agenda, the US told the Indian side during the 2+2 discussions here on Tuesday. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo is understood to have made the point during the talks with foreign minister S Jaishankar and defence minister Rajnath Singh. US secretary of defence Mark Esper was also part of the discussions. The US side is understood to have expressed strong solidarity with India over the challenge posed by the People's Liberation Army along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. The faceoff, which began in early May, is set to stretch into the winter and has accelerated a convergence between the US and India on strategic issues. Read AlsoUS, India must focus on threat posed by China: Secretary of state Mike PompeoUS secretary of state Mike Pompeo on Tuesday stressed on the need for Washington and New Delhi to work together to counter the threat posed by Beijing to "security and freedom". Pompeo's comment came during the crucial 2+2 dialogue between India &amp; the US. Defence secretary Mark Esper too focussed onPompeo's sharp remarks on China during his visits to India, Sri Lanka and Maldives brought about an angry Chinese response accusing the US of meddling in bilateral matters. The Chinese foreign office said there has been good progress in discussions with India on the border tensions and there was no space for a third party. Read AlsoChina says border standoff with India bilateral issue; criticises US' Indo-Pacific strategyBEIJING: China on Wednesday said its border standoff with India in eastern Ladakh is a bilateral issue, and asked the US to "stop" its Indo-Pacific strategy, terming it as an attempt to impose American hegemony in the region. The remarks by the Chinese foreign ministry came a day after Secretary ofHowever, the situation on the LAC is frozen with the next round of military commander level talks likely to be held as India has written to the Chinese side suggesting a date be set. The Chinese side has called for vacation of the Pangong Tso area while India has insisted that de-escalation must take place all along the LAC. Sources said India was not particularly perturbed that Pompeo's comments might have come at a time when efforts are on to defuse the border row. It is pointed out that the talks were in any case going nowhere and as long as the US did not speak of mediation, there was no reason to feel discomfited. Pompeo is seen to be energetically helming the anti-China policy and the rhetoric is not necessarily related to the US election alone. The secretary of state is viewed as someone with a longer career in public life even as he is a Trump ally. The US president has pitched himself as a leader willing to take on China even though in the past, some of his positions have proved to be quite transactional. Watch Any hesitation on part of India will hit bid to check China, says US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/any-indian-hesitation-on-lac-will-hit-bid-to-check-china-us/articleshow/78942036.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||India names new envoy to Pakistan||NEW DELHI: India has proposed appointment of diplomat Suresh Kumar, an IFS officer of 2006 batch, as its charge d'affaires in Islamabad, official sources said. As TOI had first reported on September 20, Pakistan had rejected the appointment of Jayant Khobragade, India's first choice for leading the scaled-down mission, saying that he was too senior for the post. Khobragade is an IFS officer of 1995 batch and served as ambassador earlier. India had in June this year asked Pakistan to halve its mission strength here saying that most Pakistani officials here were engaged in espionage and terrorism-related activities. Before that India had declared two Pakistani officials here persona non-grata for their involvement in espionage. Pakistan's reciprocal action saw India too recalling half of its staff from Islamabad. While India had proposed Khobragade's name in June, Pakistan finally rejected visa to him three months later. India now expects Pakistan to quickly approve visa for Kumar and allow him to assume charge. Pakistan had recalled its high commissioner last year following India's decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and asked India also to do the same. After it denied visa to Khobragade, Pakistan had said that it had downgraded relations to register its strong protest and condemnation of India’s "illegal, inhuman and unacceptable actions" in J&K. Islamabad had claimed that by proposing a senior diplomat, who had already served as ambassador in another post, India was trying to circumvent the effect of downgrading of diplomatic relations. "However, keeping in view the diplomatic norms, Pakistan has counselled India to nominate an officer with seniority commensurate with Pakistan’s decision of downgrading the diplomatic relations," it had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-names-new-envoy-to-pakistan/articleshow/78942171.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||Air travel has lower Covid risk than grocery shopping, eating out: Study||MUMBAI: The risk of getting infected by coronavirus is lower on board an aircraft than say during grocery shopping or eating out, according to a study published by Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health. There are caveats to this though. Passengers should wear face masks, aircraft air conditioning/filtration systems should function well, cabin surfaces should be disinfected and appropriate ventilation should be maintained from gate to gate at the departure and arrival airports. The big takeaway was the importance of layered risk mitigation strategies. The recently released report has presented scientific evidence on the effectiveness of various non-pharmaceutical interventions—like wearing face masks—to control the transmission of the virus on board aircraft. The strategies included consistent operation of ventilation systems, disinfection of surfaces, consistent wearing of face masks, and procedures during boarding and deplaning to maximise social distancing among passengers and crew members. The study did not look at the effectiveness of any single strategy and proposed using layered risk mitigation strategies. When the aircraft cabin conditioning system is fully operating, the mask-wearing passenger in the nearest seat to a masked infectious person will have a substantially reduced exposure, the study said. “The estimated dose inhaled by an adjacent passenger over a few hours of exposure is likely to be less than the amount necessary to cause a secondary infection,” it found. In fact, aircraft ventilation offers enhanced protection for diluting and removing airborne contagions in comparison to other indoor spaces with conventional mechanical ventilation and is substantially better than residential situations, the study said. “This level of ventilation effectively counters the proximity travellers will be subjected to during flights. The level of ventilation provided aboard aircraft will substantially reduce the opportunity for person-to-person transmission of infectious particles, when coupled with consistent compliance with mask-wearing policies.” “Mask compliance reduces the dispersion of larger droplets that may deposit on surfaces, while general airline cleaning practices and passengers sanitising hard surfaces around their seats lowers the probability of contacting SARS-CoV-2 infected surfaces, which is already low to begin with,” said the report. “Requiring passengers to attest to the absence of Covid-19 symptomatology, mandating they comply with all the airline’s Covid-related procedures, including physical distancing during boarding and deplaning. provides some degree of protection (it is yet to be determined).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/air-travel-has-lower-covid-risk-than-grocery-shopping-eating-out-study/articleshow/78942226.cms||Manju V
October 30, 2020||World||Trump, Biden fight for Florida, appeal for Tuesday turnout||TAMPA: President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden are encouraging voters to turn out in person on Election Day next Tuesday, both campaigning in Florida, a state all but essential to the Republican's pathway to another term. More than 73 million Americans have already voted, absentee or by mail, and Trump and Biden are trying to energize the millions more who will vote on Tuesday. While the Election Day vote traditionally favors Republicans and early votes tend toward Democrats, the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States, has injected new uncertainty. Trump and Biden were appearing in Tampa hours apart on Thursday. They're visiting the western end of the state's Interstate 4 corridor, an area known for rapid residential growth, sprawling suburbs and its status as an ever-changing, hard-fought battleground during presidential elections. "You hold the power. If Florida goes blue, it's over," Biden told supporters Thursday. Trump was celebrating a new federal estimate that the economy grew at a stunning 33.1% annual rate in the July-September quarter - by far the largest quarterly gain on record - making up ground from its epic plunge in the spring, when the eruption of the coronavirus closed businesses and threw tens of millions out of work. "So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,'' Trump said in a tweet, predicting dire consequences if Biden is elected. But economists warned that the economy is already weakening again and facing renewed threats as confirmed viral cases are surge, hiring has slowed and federal stimulus help has largely run out. Biden, in a statement, criticized Trump over the report. "The recovery is slowing if not stalling,'' he said, "and the recovery that is happening is helping those at the top but leaving tens of millions of working families and small businesses behind." The visits come as Biden has framed his closing argument to voters on responsible management of the Covid-19 pandemic and Trump promises that the nation is on course to "vanquish the virus'' even as it sets records for confirmed new infections. The president had been scheduled to hit another Southern battleground state, North Carolina, on Thursday evening but canceled his event in Fayetteville as Tropical Storm Zeta brought wind gusts reaching 50 mph to the area. Trump is holding hold three rallies on Saturday in Pennsylvania before launching on a whirlwind tour of battlegrounds including Florida, Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania in the closing 48 hours of the race. Biden, meanwhile, heads later in the week to three more states Trump won in 2016: Iowa, Wisconsin and then Michigan, where he'll hold a joint Saturday rally with former President Barack Obama. Biden's campaign also announced he will visit Minnesota Friday hours before Trump holds a rally in one of the few Clinton-voting states Trump is hoping to pick up this year. The pandemic's consequences were escalating, with deaths climbing in 39 states and an average of 805 people dying daily nationwide _ up from 714 two weeks ago. The sharp rise sent shockwaves through financial markets, causing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to drop 900-plus points. Trump, who frequently lauds rising markets, failed to mention the decline on Wednesday. Trump is betting on the GOP's vast field and data operations, and efforts known as "poll flushing'' - monitoring precinct lists for who has and has not yet voted - to provide a late boost of votes on Election Day. The Republican National Committee, which has more than 3,000 field staff and claims more than 2.5 million volunteers, will use that information to reach out to Trump supporters to ensure they get to the polls. Nowhere may those efforts be more important than in Florida. Without the battleground state's 29 electoral votes, Trump's path to victory is exceptionally difficult. Trump was introduced in Tampa by his wife, first lady Melania Trump, who praised her husband's presidency, saying "under Donald's leadership, we have blocked out the noise and focused on you, the American people." Trump is banking on local news coverage of his visit to overcome a substantial advertising deficit stemming from a late cash crunch. Biden and his allies are outspending Trump and his backers by more than 3-to-1 in Florida - about $23 million to about $7 million - in the final push to Election Day, according to data from ad tracking firm Kantar/CMAG. Biden, meanwhile, is pouring tens of millions of dollars into a torrent of online advertising that will deliver his closing message of the presidential campaign, highlighting his promise to govern for all Americans while blasting Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president,'' Biden says in one of the digital ads, which will take over the masthead of YouTube.com on Thursday. "I will work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do. That's the job of a president - the duty to care for everyone.'' How much exactly Biden will spend is unclear. His campaign says it is putting a "mid-eight figure'' dollar amount behind over 100 different ads, which means they could be spending as little as $25 million - but potentially much more. The ads will run on social media platforms including Instagram and Facebook, streaming services such as Hulu and music applications like Pandora. The Republican National Committee, meanwhile, launched its closing message to voters Thursday, not mentioning Trump, in an apparent aim to help GOP candidates up and down the ballot with a focus on traditional Republican messages around lowering taxes and health care. In both Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, and the adjacent Pinellas County, Democrats are crushing vote-by-mail. As of Wednesday morning, 53,000 more Democrats than Republicans had voted by mail in Hillsborough. In Pinellas, the largest of the four counties in the state to switch from Obama to Trump in 2016, that number was just shy of 30,000. Republicans in both counties have a slight edge in the state's in-person early voting, which began last Saturday as Trump himself voted in Palm Beach County downstate, and the GOP will likely need a strong showing on Tuesday to overcome Democratic leads. Because of concerns about submission deadlines, Postal Service backlogs and the potential for drawn-out legal challenges, Democrats are pressing their backers who have yet to return ballots to head to the polls in person. The aftereffects of Hurricane Zeta were holding back voters at a number of polling places in northern Florida and northern Georgia that lost power. In Georgia, state officials weren't sure how many of the 336 early voting locations statewide were closed or delayed in opening. In Douglas County, in Atlanta's western suburbs, all six polling locations were without power, as were county offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-biden-fight-for-florida-appeal-for-tuesday-turnout/articleshow/78942263.cms||---
October 30, 2020||World||Trump, Biden fight for Florida, appeal for Tuesday turnout||TAMPA: President Donald Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden are encouraging voters to turn out in person on Election Day next Tuesday, both campaigning in Florida, a state all but essential to the Republican's pathway to another term. More than 73 million Americans have already voted, absentee or by mail, and Trump and Biden are trying to energize the millions more who will vote on Tuesday. While the Election Day vote traditionally favors Republicans and early votes tend toward Democrats, the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 227,000 people in the United States, has injected new uncertainty. Trump and Biden were appearing in Tampa hours apart on Thursday. They're visiting the western end of the state's Interstate 4 corridor, an area known for rapid residential growth, sprawling suburbs and its status as an ever-changing, hard-fought battleground during presidential elections. "You hold the power. If Florida goes blue, it's over," Biden told supporters Thursday. Trump was celebrating a new federal estimate that the economy grew at a stunning 33.1% annual rate in the July-September quarter - by far the largest quarterly gain on record - making up ground from its epic plunge in the spring, when the eruption of the coronavirus closed businesses and threw tens of millions out of work. "So glad this great GDP number came out before November 3rd,'' Trump said in a tweet, predicting dire consequences if Biden is elected. But economists warned that the economy is already weakening again and facing renewed threats as confirmed viral cases are surge, hiring has slowed and federal stimulus help has largely run out. Biden, in a statement, criticized Trump over the report. "The recovery is slowing if not stalling,'' he said, "and the recovery that is happening is helping those at the top but leaving tens of millions of working families and small businesses behind." The visits come as Biden has framed his closing argument to voters on responsible management of the Covid-19 pandemic and Trump promises that the nation is on course to "vanquish the virus'' even as it sets records for confirmed new infections. The president had been scheduled to hit another Southern battleground state, North Carolina, on Thursday evening but canceled his event in Fayetteville as Tropical Storm Zeta brought wind gusts reaching 50 mph to the area. Trump is holding hold three rallies on Saturday in Pennsylvania before launching on a whirlwind tour of battlegrounds including Florida, Michigan, Georgia and Pennsylvania in the closing 48 hours of the race. Biden, meanwhile, heads later in the week to three more states Trump won in 2016: Iowa, Wisconsin and then Michigan, where he'll hold a joint Saturday rally with former President Barack Obama. Biden's campaign also announced he will visit Minnesota Friday hours before Trump holds a rally in one of the few Clinton-voting states Trump is hoping to pick up this year. The pandemic's consequences were escalating, with deaths climbing in 39 states and an average of 805 people dying daily nationwide _ up from 714 two weeks ago. The sharp rise sent shockwaves through financial markets, causing the Dow Jones Industrial Average to drop 900-plus points. Trump, who frequently lauds rising markets, failed to mention the decline on Wednesday. Trump is betting on the GOP's vast field and data operations, and efforts known as "poll flushing'' - monitoring precinct lists for who has and has not yet voted - to provide a late boost of votes on Election Day. The Republican National Committee, which has more than 3,000 field staff and claims more than 2.5 million volunteers, will use that information to reach out to Trump supporters to ensure they get to the polls. Nowhere may those efforts be more important than in Florida. Without the battleground state's 29 electoral votes, Trump's path to victory is exceptionally difficult. Trump was introduced in Tampa by his wife, first lady Melania Trump, who praised her husband's presidency, saying "under Donald's leadership, we have blocked out the noise and focused on you, the American people." Trump is banking on local news coverage of his visit to overcome a substantial advertising deficit stemming from a late cash crunch. Biden and his allies are outspending Trump and his backers by more than 3-to-1 in Florida - about $23 million to about $7 million - in the final push to Election Day, according to data from ad tracking firm Kantar/CMAG. Biden, meanwhile, is pouring tens of millions of dollars into a torrent of online advertising that will deliver his closing message of the presidential campaign, highlighting his promise to govern for all Americans while blasting Trump's handling of the coronavirus pandemic. "I'm running as a proud Democrat, but I will govern as an American president,'' Biden says in one of the digital ads, which will take over the masthead of YouTube.com on Thursday. "I will work as hard for those who don't support me as those who do. That's the job of a president - the duty to care for everyone.'' How much exactly Biden will spend is unclear. His campaign says it is putting a "mid-eight figure'' dollar amount behind over 100 different ads, which means they could be spending as little as $25 million - but potentially much more. The ads will run on social media platforms including Instagram and Facebook, streaming services such as Hulu and music applications like Pandora. The Republican National Committee, meanwhile, launched its closing message to voters Thursday, not mentioning Trump, in an apparent aim to help GOP candidates up and down the ballot with a focus on traditional Republican messages around lowering taxes and health care. In both Hillsborough County, which includes Tampa, and the adjacent Pinellas County, Democrats are crushing vote-by-mail. As of Wednesday morning, 53,000 more Democrats than Republicans had voted by mail in Hillsborough. In Pinellas, the largest of the four counties in the state to switch from Obama to Trump in 2016, that number was just shy of 30,000. Republicans in both counties have a slight edge in the state's in-person early voting, which began last Saturday as Trump himself voted in Palm Beach County downstate, and the GOP will likely need a strong showing on Tuesday to overcome Democratic leads. Because of concerns about submission deadlines, Postal Service backlogs and the potential for drawn-out legal challenges, Democrats are pressing their backers who have yet to return ballots to head to the polls in person. The aftereffects of Hurricane Zeta were holding back voters at a number of polling places in northern Florida and northern Georgia that lost power. In Georgia, state officials weren't sure how many of the 336 early voting locations statewide were closed or delayed in opening. In Douglas County, in Atlanta's western suburbs, all six polling locations were without power, as were county offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-biden-fight-for-florida-appeal-for-tuesday-turnout/articleshow/78942264.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||Confession to NDPS cops barred as evidence: SC||MUMBAI: In a landmark ruling that spread some cheer among defence lawyers, the Supreme Court on Thursday held that ‘confessional statements’ made before an investigating officer of an agency other than the police force are barred from being used as evidence to convict an accused under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. A majority 2:1 decision of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman and Navin Sinha (Justice Indira Banerjee dissented) held that officers invested with powers under the NDPS Act to record statements are ‘police officers’ under provisions of Section 25 of the Evidence Act that do not attach any evidentiary value to statements made before cops. “As a result, any confessional statement made to them would be barred under the Evidence Act, and cannot be taken into account in order to convict an accused under the NDPS Act,’’ said the bench while deciding a bunch of appeals — some of them pending for over a decade against convictions in drugs cases. The judgment by Justice Nariman ruled, “A statement recorded under section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an offence under the Act.’’ It said that an argument to distinguish police officers who belong to the police force from officers of the Narcotics Department “has no legs to stand on’’. It analysed the law and definition of ‘police officers’ to conclude that “the expression ‘police officer’ does not only mean a police officer who belongs to the State police force, but includes officers from other departments as well, such as the excise department, who are otherwise invested with all powers of investigation’’. The court importantly said, “Further, if the distinction between a police officer as narrowly defined and the officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau is something that is to be stressed, then any interpretation which would whittle down the fundamental rights of an accused based solely on the designation of a particular officer, would fall foul of Article 14, as the classification between the two types of officers would have no rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute in question, which is the prevention and detection of crime.’’ The judgment in effect upset two previous SC verdicts on the issue of evidentiary value of such statements under NDPS Act. The SC judgment means that in drug cases, NCB would also now need to produce corroborating evidence and cannot rely heavily or only on a confession of an accused to nail him or her during trial. A confession shall merely be “relevant” for the purpose of proving the truth of any facts contained in such a statement but will need corroboration. The SC essentially observed that if confessional statements made before an officer were to be treated as evidence, then it would be a direct infringement of the constitutional guarantees contained in Articles 14 (right to equality), 20(3) (right not to self-incriminate) and 21 (right to life and liberty) of the Constitution. The apex court equated the confession given under the NDPS Act to investigating officers to those given under the repealed Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) and the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA). But the top court said confessional statements used under TADA and POTA were done with safeguards under the Acts themselves. Advocate Taraq Sayed, who handles NDPS cases, later said, “According to the SC judgment, officers of NCB, Customs and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) also would now be termed as ‘police officers’ when they are investigating an offence and recording statements of the accused under section 67 of the NDPS Act. While so far, statements of accused recorded, by say NCB, were treated as admissible evidence during the criminal trial, making it easy to secure convictions and were used to deny bail also at a pre-trial stage, this judgment significantly changes that position and would require the specialised agencies to prove their cases through other witnesses and recovery of drugs.’’ Advocate Satish Maneshinde, who represented Rhea Chakraborty in her bail application before the Bombay HC recently in an NCB case, said: “A large number of people have been incarcerated and punished on the basis of statements forcibly extracted by coercion and threats to innocent individuals, violating their fundamental rights in the last 35 years “Even in the case of all accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput drugs case there’s hardly any recovery and independent evidence to charge them with serious offences. They are languishing in custody on the basis of inadmissible statements.” A large number of accused will now be able seek bail and liberty more swiftly, he added. In her dissenting judgment, Justice Banerjee ruled that only officers empowered to exercise all the powers of a police officer including of filing a chargesheet, can be deemed a ‘police officer’ under section 25 of Evidence Act and Special NDPS Act contains no such provision to file a police report.. She also said that a five-Judge Constitutional bench ruling on this issue in Ramesh Chandra Mehta vs Collector of Customs was binding on the three-Judge bench. “.It is obvious that no two statutes can be identical. There may be differences. If there were no differences, It would not be necessary to enact a separate statute. The question is whether there were any such differences which can logically lead to the conclusion that the law as interpreted in those judgments would not apply to the NDPS Act,’’ she said adding that in her view the differences “do not make any difference to the law laid down …and which have held the field for over fifty years.’’ The test to determine whether an officer is deemed to be a police officer within the meaning of Section25 of the Evidence Act is, whether such officer has all the powers of a police officer including the power to file a report under Section 173 of the Criminal Procedure Code (chargesheet), she said holding that the 50 year old view that a statutory power to file a chargesheet is an essential ingredient of power of a ‘police officer’ cannot be displaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/confession-to-ndps-cops-barred-as-evidence-sc/articleshow/78942299.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 30, 2020||India||India objects to wrong map on Saudi banknote, seeks correction||NEW DELHI: The government has strongly taken up with Saudi Arabia, both here and in Riyadh, the issue of distortion of India’s map on a new 20 riyal Saudi bank note and asked the Saudi authorities to immediately take corrective action. The note was issued by Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority on October 24 to mark the occasion of Saudi presidency of the G-20. The map displayed on the note, however, seems to depict the UTs Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh as independent territory. The foreign ministry described it as a gross misrepresentation of India’s external boundaries, while reiterating that J&K and Ladakh are integral parts of India. “We have seen the bank note referred by you which gives an incorrect depiction of India’s external territorial boundaries,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “We have conveyed our serious concern to Saudi Arabia, both through their ambassador in New Delhi as well as in Riyadh, for this gross misrepresentation of India’s external territorial boundaries on an official and legal banknote of Saudi Arabia and asked the Saudi side for taking urgent corrective steps in this regard,” he added. Saudi authorities are learned to have denied that the note was meant to make any cartographic assertion. India, however, has asked for the map to be immediately corrected. The note is said to feature Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and the 2020 G-20 summit logo on one side, while the other depicts G20 nations. Pakistan was learned to have separately registered a protest with Saudi Arabia on the issue. There was outrage on social media in Pakistan earlier this week as the Saudi map also doesn’t show PoK and Gilgit-Baltistan as parts of Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-objects-to-wrong-map-on-saudi-banknote-seeks-correction/articleshow/78942361.cms||---
October 30, 2020||World||French prosecutor: Nice killer Tunisian, entered from Italy||NICE, FRANCE: France's anti-terrorism prosecutor says the man who killed three in a Nice church was a Tunisian aged about 20 who entered France from Italy. Jean-Francois Ricard told a press conference late Thursday that the man arrived in Italy by reaching the Mediterranean island of Lampedusa on Sept. 20, and traveled to Paris on Oct. 9. Read AlsoFrance knife attack: Church sexton had throat slit while preparing for MassIn video footage obtained by Reuters, shot from a balcony across the street from the church, police officers with guns and Tasers raised, could be seen in the side entrance of the church, looking inside. Gunshots could be heard. It was not clear from the footage what they were shooting at.The travel information came from a document on the man from the Italian Red Cross, Ricard said. The attacker was seriously wounded by police and is being treated in a hospital. The attack in Mediterranean city of Nice was the third in two months in France that authorities have attributed to Muslim extremists, including the beheading of a teacher. It comes during a growing furor over caricatures of the Prophet Muhammad that were republished in recent months by the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo _ renewing vociferous debate in France and the Muslim world over the depictions that Muslims consider offensive but are protected by French free speech laws. Ricard detailed the gruesome scene encountered inside the Nice basilica where a man and woman were killed by the attacker. The third victim, a 44-year-old woman who managed to flee, died at a nearby restaurant. A 60-year-old woman whose body was found at the entry of the church, suffered ``a very deep throat slitting, like a decapitation,'' Ricard said. The 55-year-old man also died after deep cuts to his throat, the prosecutor added. An investigation was opened for murder and attempted murder in connection with a terrorist enterprise, a common term for such crimes. The prosecutor said the attacker, who was born in 1999, was not the radar of intelligence agencies as a potential threat. Watch Shocking: Knife-wielding attacker shouting 'Allahu Akbar' beheaded woman in French church, killed 2 other||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/french-prosecutor-nice-killer-tunisian-entered-from-italy/articleshow/78942481.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||SC relief for Uttarakhand CM in graft case||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the order of Uttarakhand HC directing CBI to lodge FIR against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on allegations of corruption and criticised the court for passing the “drastic” order “behind the back” as the CM was not a party in the case and he was not even heard. In a relief to Rawat, who came under political pressure after the adverse HC order, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah noted that the HC passed the order even though there was no prayer made by the petitioner to register FIR against the CM. The bench was convinced that the validity of the HC decision has to be examined and it passed the order after a brief hearing. The bench said, “There was no such prayer in the petition (before the HC ). It was a suo motu proceeding. When there was no such prayer then how can the high court pass such order.” “The state and the chief minister were not even party in the petition. It was a drastic order which took everyone by surprise. It requires consideration,” it said. Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the state and the chief minister, contended that the HC erred in passing such an order which could destabilise the government. He said the complainant did not even go to police to lodge FIR and the HC was wrong on law to pass order on the basis of political allegations. Pleading for immediate stay on implementation of HC order, Venugopal said it would create law and order problems and agitations had already started after the order. He said, “It was not something that a HC is competent to do and an FIR cannot be lodged without hearing the chief minister in this case, which will unsettle the elected government.” The HC had on Tuesday directed CBI to file an FIR and investigate allegations of corruption levelled against Rawat on a petition by Umesh Kumar Sharma, owner of a local news channel. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Sharma, told the SC that he had no problem if stay is granted. Sibal, however, said the allegations are very serious and the SC must examine them as there are WhatsApp messages of the CM and money was allegedly deposited in bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-relief-for-uttarakhand-cm-in-graft-case/articleshow/78942681.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
October 30, 2020||India||Neither my wife nor me related to CM: Retd prof||DEHRADUN: Harender Singh Rawat, 65, a retired Doon-based professor, is in the eye of a storm after allegations by TV journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma that he was one of the main beneficiaries of the alleged bribe money that was transferred to his accounts by a Ranchi-based person at CM Trivendra Rawat’s behest. While Sharma in his allegation had mentioned Harender and his wife Savita as “brother-in-law and sister-in law of the CM”, Harender alleged that neither his wife nor he were related to the CM in any manner. “The only thing we have in common with the CM is our surname but that does not make us relatives. I want to state that my wife is not the sister of CM’s wife as is being alleged and I have no links with the CM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/neither-my-wife-nor-me-related-to-cm-retd-prof/articleshow/78942770.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||India||After 2-month wait, India gets CIC in former diplomat Sinha||NEW DELHI: The government has cleared the name of former diplomat and central information commissioner Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha is tipped to be appointed as the country’s next chief information commissioner. The file with names recommended by the PM-led selection committee for the post of CIC and three information commissioners has been sent to the President for approval and a notification is expected soon, sources said. Deputy CAG Saroj Punhani and Ahmedabadbased veteran journalist Uday Mahurkar are among the three names recommended for appointment as ICs, it was learnt. The CIC has been without a chief since August 27 when Bimal Julka retired. In the Commission that can have up to 10 commissioners besides the chief, five posts of information commissioners are currently vacant. With Sinha’s name cleared for chief ’s post, and three new ICs to be appointed, the Commission will now have seven ICs. . The PM-led selection committee had first met on October 7 to consider the names recommended by the search committee for the post of the chief and vacant IC posts in CIC. However, the meeting was inconclusive and a second round of meeting was held last week where the names were finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-2-month-wait-india-gets-cic-in-former-diplomat-sinha/articleshow/78942796.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||SC to Bombay HC: Take up Varavara’s bail plea promptly||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Bombay high court to expeditiously hear a plea filed by wife of Telugu poet and activist Varavara Rao for his bail on medical grounds and also consider whether the writer should be shifted from jail to hospital for better treatment. Rao and several other are facing charges for alleged naxal links in connection with the Bhima-Korgaon violence of January 1, 2018, attributed by Pune police to the inflammatory speeches made by some of the activists during the Elgar meet held the previous day. A bench of Justices U U Lalit, Vineet Saran and S Ravindra Bhat said the bail plea is pending in the HC so it would be better if the HC decides the case. The court was hearing a plea filed by Rao’s wife who alleged that her husband’s medical condition was deteriorating and if he was not shifted to hospital for treatment, he may not survive. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for the petitioner, said that she was not pressing for bail but to enforce the fundamental right to health and dignity of a person who is in jail. The SC bench thereafter asked the HC to take up petition filed by Rao and his family expeditiously and if possible within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-bombay-hc-take-up-varavaras-bail-plea-promptly/articleshow/78942811.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||SC turns down reinstatement of cop acquitted of murder charges||NEW DELHI: Acquittal from a murder case was no cleanser to warrant a police constable’s reinstatement in service, the Supreme Court ruled on Thursday while agreeing with the Rajasthan government that taking back a murder accused in service would erode the police force’s image in the eyes of the public. In 2002, the police constable was arrested for alleged involvement in a murder. During pendency of trial, he faced disciplinary proceedings. The trial court acquitted him in October 2003. But the disciplinary proceedings held him guilty of charges and dismissed him from service in December 2003. It said criminal trials required evidence beyond doubt, while disciplinary proceedings took a broad view based on material facts. A single judge bench of the HC rejected his plea for reinstatement, but a division bench ordered his reinstatement. Deciding the state government’s appeal, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrchud and Indira Banerjee said there may not have been sufficient evidence to fasten guilt on the constable but “the state had sufficient material to conclude that the connection of the respondent constable to the incident would affect the reputation of its police force and that the presence of the respondent as a member of the force was not in the interest of public administration”. “Evidently direct evidence to sustain a charge of conspiracy is difficult to come by even in the course of a criminal trial. Quite independent of this is the issue whether the connection of the respondent constable with the circumstances leading to the murder affected his ability to continue in the state police force without affecting its integrity and reputation. The latter aspect is the one on which the judgment of the division bench is found to be deficient in its reasoning,” said Chandrachud, writing the judgment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-turns-down-reinstatement-of-cop-acquitted-of-murder-charges/articleshow/78942831.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
October 30, 2020||Business||Parliamentary panel questions Paytm about Chinese investment; Google over resisting data localisation||NEW DELHI: Indian e-commerce finance company Paytm on Thursday offered a suggestion to the joint committee of Parliament on personal data protection bill that the government should “handle” encryption and decryption of data held by tech companies, only to withdraw it after several objections by members of the panel. The only indigenous Indian company among tech majors like Google, Amazon, Facebook and Twitter to be examined by the panel, Paytm was asked about the quantum of Chinese investments it has received, why parts of Paytm revenues, via its digital payment gateways, were pumped back to China, and the details of Paytm’s online betting App, which was removed temporarily from Google Play Store for violating its gambling policies earlier this year. Paytm vice presidents Narendra Singh Yadav and Dharmendra Jhamb acknowledged about 35% Chinese investment in Paytm, and also that some sensitive and personal data may be transferred outside India “for the purpose of processing” when explicit consent is given by the “data principal” for such transfers. Read AlsoTwitter tenders apology before house panel on Leh map mess-upMicro-blogging site Twitter on Thursday tendered a verbal apology before the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) for showing Leh as part of Chinese territory on its location setting.Separately, the committee also directed posers at Google which argued, in a 25-page note it submitted to the panel, that “India should avoid data localisation”, arguing that it is “ill-suited to protect privacy and security”. Sources said the committee took a dim view of the arguments put forward by Google’s representatives Geetanjali Duggal, Aman Jain and Rahul Jain, and asserted that the PDP Bill, once enacted, would only strengthen privacy and security. The committee also asked Google pointed questions about its links and operations in China and whether the Chinese Navy is indeed, its client. In addition, the committee sought to know whether the effective tax rate paid by Google was “absurdly low” in comparison to the revenues it generated through its businesses in India, and over the tech major’s market control of the smart phone market since android phones use Google as a platform. With the tech companies evading some and unable to answer other questions by the committee, panel chief Meenakshi Lekhi is understood to have directed both Paytm and Google to turn in affidavits in one week’s time, on behalf of the company’s highest authorities and containing responses to each of the committee’s posers on backward linkages, corporate and revenue models, what is done with the data they hold, and company norms over data privacy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/parliamentary-panel-question-paytm-about-chinese-investment-google-over-resisting-data-localisation/articleshow/78942848.cms||Swati Mathur
October 30, 2020||India||BCG vaccine could help elderly fight Covid: ICMR||PUNE: The nearly century-old Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine can help the elderly fight off infections such as Covid-19, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research has said. The researchers said the vaccine “increased memory cell responses and total antibody production in the elderly”. Their findings are yet to be peer-reviewed. The ICMR, from July through September, enrolled 86 individuals — all above 60 — for the BCG vaccine study: 54 in the vaccinated and 32 in the unvaccinated arm. Researchers followed up with the vaccinated group a month after their shots. They found that the vaccine boosts natural and adaptive immunity among healthy individuals. “The BCG vaccination was associated with enhanced innate and adaptive memory cell subsets as well as total antibody levels in elderly individuals, suggesting its potential utility in SARS-CoV2 infection,” the scientists concluded. “For the elderly, it can be a useful tool which can increase their ability to fight off infections in a situation like Covid-19,” said ICMR senior epidemiologist and chief scientist Dr Samiran Panda. The research offers hope for an age group that has recorded an inordinate number of Covid-19 deaths. Dr Panda said the study, once peer-reviewed, will definitely become a major contribution to global response against Covid-19. Those not included in the ICMR research were: elderly who had tested positive for SARS-Cov2 infection by either antibody (serology) or PCR tests; HIV-infected or individuals; transplant recipients; those on dialysis or anti-psychiatric medications; those who are hypersensitive to vaccinations and those who were diagnosed with TB six months before the study. Previous studies involving elderly individuals have shown that the BCG vaccination protected against respiratory infections. Watch Century-old BCG vaccine could help elderly fight Covid-19, says ICMR study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bcg-vaccine-could-help-elderly-fight-covid-icmr/articleshow/78942858.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 30, 2020||Business||Covid vaccine delivery: India to help neighbours scale up cold chain, storage capacity||NEW DELHI: India will help all countries, especially its neighbours, in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for delivery of Covid-19 vaccine, the government said on Thursday. The foreign ministry said India has organised two training modules for its neighbouring countries in which about 90 health experts and scientists have participated. “We propose to expand these programmes to include other interested countries. From October 17-19, a delegation of the departments concerned visited Bangladesh and had fruitful discussions with their Bangladeshi counterparts on the current stage of vaccine development in India and modalities of clinical trials in Bangladesh,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. Coronavirus outbreak: Live updates“In due course, depending on the trials in India, we propose to expand our cooperation with other countries also in clinical trials and capacity building for vaccine development, production and delivery,” he added. On Bangladesh, the government said a bilateral air bubble had been operationalised with effect from October 28 with two flights of US-Bangla Airlines flying on the Dhaka-Kolkata and Dhaka-Chennai sectors. Watch Covid-19: India to help neighbours scale-up cold chain, storage capacity of vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-to-help-neighbours-scale-up-cold-chain-storage-capacity/articleshow/78942880.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Rajkot||Youth held for raping minor girl in Vanthli||Rajkot: A 19-year-old youth was detained for allegedly raping a 10-year-old girl in Vanthli of Junagadh district on Thursday afternoon. Police said the accused, Akshay Solanki, had allegedly raped the girl after taking her to his house in Santhalpur Dhal locality on Lions Nagar Road of Vanthali. “After the crime, the girl returned home and went to sleep without taking her lunch. When her mother spotted blood in her knickers and inquired, she confided her sordid tale to her, following which her mother approached us and lodged the complaint against Solanki,” said B K Chawda, inspector with Vanthli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-held-for-raping-minor-girl-in-vanthli/articleshow/78940923.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Patna||Turncoats make battle interesting in Saran||CHHAPRA: There are many turncoats in the fray in Saran district, which has 10 assembly segments. Altogether 144 candidates are trying their lick from the 10 seats, which go to the polls on November 3. EKMA: It was once known for brass and bronze industry and also for ‘Prasadi Nath Math’ at Parsagarh where great scholar Rahul Sankrityayan had his early education. After its creation, Manoranjan Singh alias Dhumal Singh of JD(U) represented this constituency in 2010 and 2015. This time his wife Sita Devi is the JD(U) nominee. Kameshwar Singh, who contested on RJD ticket in 2010 and as a BJP candidate in 2015, is in the fray from LJP. RJD has fielded a comparatively new but local player Sri Kant Yadav. The contest is likely to be triangular. MANJHI: Vijai Shankar Dubey of Congress defeated Keshav Singh of LJP by 8,866 votes in 2015. This time CPM has got the seat as the Mahagathbandhan partner. It has fielded Satyendra Yadav, a student leader of his time, against JD(U)’s Madhvi Kumari, president of the party’s women cell. Dominated by Rajputs, Brahmins and Yadavs, this constituency is likely to see a triangular contest. Madhvi has been convincing the voters about the development done by the Centre and state government. BANIAPUR: Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) has got the seat as NDA partner this time. Tarkeshwar Singh of BJP and Birendra Ojha of JD(U) failed to get tickets and contesting on LJP and VIP ticket, respectively. Tarkeshwar and Birendra along with 11 others are pitted against sitting RJD MLA Kedar Nath Singh, the younger brother of former MP Prabhu Nath Singh, who is in jail. Waterlogging, unemployment, migration, lack of industrialization and college for women are some of the election issues in this constituency. TARAIYA: Once considered as the ‘mini Chittorgarh’ of Saran district, its original nature changed after delimitation and now it is dominated by Rajputs and Yadavs. Mudrika Prasad Rai of RJD was elected in 2015 but the party this time has given ticket to Sipahi Lal Mahto. Mudrika and Shailendra Pratap Singh, JD(U) state secretary, are contesting as rebels. BJP has fielded Janak Singh, who represented the seat in 2010 but lost to Mudrika in 2015. MARHAURA: There are 22 candidates in the fray. JD(U) has fielded Altaf Ahmed Raju against RJD MLA Jitendra Kumar Rai, who is trying to make a hat-trick this time. Candidates from RLSP, BSP, LJP and independents are trying hard to break the M-Y equation. CHHAPRA: Sitting BJP MLA C N Gupta is facing challenge from Randhir Kumar Singh of RJD. Dr Vijaya Rani Singh, RJD rebel Sunil Rai and 13 others are in the fray. Randhir, who had lost to Dr Gupta in 2015, is the son of former Maharajganj MP Prabhu Nath Singh. GARKHA(R): Known for freedom fighter Jaglal Choudhary and his son Indradeo Choudhary, Muneshwar Choudhary of RJD had defeated Gyan Chand Manjhi of BJP in Garkha in 2015. But RJD has fielded Surendra Ram this time while Muneshwar is contesting on JAP-Loktantrik ticket. The contest appears to be between BJP and RJD. AMNOUR: Amnour was also created after delimitation in 2008. In 2010, Krishna Kumar Singh of JD(U) won the seat but in 2015, Shatrughan Tiwari alias Chokar Baba of BJP won. BJP has dropped Chokar Baba and given ticket to Krishna Kumar, who left JD(U). Chokar Baba is also contesting as an independent candidate. There are 14 candidates from here. PARSA: This constituency has been represented by former CM Daroga Prasad Rai, his wife Parvati Devi and son Chandrika Prasad Rai 14 times. Only in 1977, Ramanand Rai had won from here. Thereafter, Chhote Lal Rai of JD(U) defeated Chandrika of RJD in 2005 and 2010. But in 2015, Chandrika defeated Chhote. This time, Chhote is contesting from RJD while Chandrika is the JD(U) candidate. LJP has fielded Rakesh Kumar Singh, who is made it a triangular contest. Altogether 10 candidates are in the fray. SONEPUR: Famous for Harihar Kshetra Mela, this constituency is dominated by Yadavs and Rajputs. Vinay Kumar Singh of BJP, who had lost to Ramanuj Prasad of RJD, has the same opponent again. However, electrification of Aquilpur village, sanction of another bridge over the Ganga at Dighwara and many other facilities may change the voters’ mood this time. There are 15 candidates in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/turncoats-make-battle-interesting-in-saran/articleshow/78939378.cms||H K Verma
October 30, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: 780 new +ve cases, 4 more deaths in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 780 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar in the past 24 hours, taking the state tally to 2,14,163 on Wednesday. Officially, four deaths were reported, which took the toll to 1,069. However, with 2,04,317 recoveries, there were only 8775 active cases in Bihar. As per the data shared by health department, one death each was reported from Bhagalpur, Madhubani, Purnia and Siwan district. AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths on Wednesday, including two a day before. The deceased belonged to Sasaram, Rohtas, Munger and Sheikhpura. The hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 11 patients were admitted and eight got discharged on Wednesday. There were 192 Covid patients undergoing treatment in the hospital, including 72 in ICU. NMCH did not report any death. According to the hospital administration, three people were discharged and one Covid patient got admitted. Patna again had the maximum 178 cases, taking the district tally to 35,091. However, there were only 2276 active cases in Patna, which has reported 261 deaths so far. Covid-19 cases registered in some other districts included Purnia (58), Saharsa (50), Muzaffarpur (40), Nalanda (40) and Kishanganj (31). State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1073 people recovered in the state in the past 24 hours and Bihar’s recovery rate stood at 95.40%. In the same time period, 1,40,452 samples were tested and so far 1.04 crore samples have been tested in the state, the state government claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/780-new-ve-cases-4-more-deaths-in-state/articleshow/78919827.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 30, 2020||Patna||CM’s legal adviser passes away at 94||PATNA: Senior lawyer Ram Balak Mahto (94), the longest-serving advocate general of the state government in Patna high court and CM Nitish Kumar’s legal adviser, died after suffering a cardiac arrest at a private hospital here on Wednesday night. Mahto became advocate general for the first time in April 1980. His last tenure was of two-and-a-half years which ended in July 2017. After that, Mahto was made CM’s legal adviser and continued to hold the position till his last. In a condolence message, the CM said, “Mahto had a versatile personality who created his own identity. He had ensured government’s win in several important legal matters.” Mahto became state government’s advocate general for six times. He was equally trusted and respected by CM Kumar as well as former CM Lalu Prasad. He held the position of advocate general during the tenure of both the CMs. One of Mahto’s two sons, Birendra Kumar, is an MLA from Teghra constituency of Begusarai. He had successfully contested the 2015 assembly elections as RJD candidate. However, he is JD(U)’s candidate from the same seat this time.Bar Council of India chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, while condoling Mahto’s demise, said legal fraternity has lost a luminary and an expert in constitutional law. Patna HC senior advocate Y V Giri has also mourned Mahto’s death, saying his place would not be replaced in near future. Senior advocate Yogesh Chandra Verma, chairman of coordination committee of all three associations of lawyers at high court, has also condoled Mahto’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cms-legal-adviser-passes-away-at-94/articleshow/78938459.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Business||SP offers cashless plan to Tatas to fast-track exit||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group has sought a vertical split of Tata Sons’s assets and liabilities in proportion to its 18.37% stake as part of its plan to exit the holding company of the Tata Group. It has proposed that its share of assets in Tata Sons (after adjustment of its liabilities) be swapped with stocks of listed Tata companies. In its submission to the Supreme Court on Thursday, the SP Group said this non-cash settlement would “eliminate valuation disputes, minimise financial pressure on Tata Sons” and was “quicker to implement”. SP has submitted that a capital reduction through a separation of assets may be ordered under Section 242 of the Companies Act. Extinguishing its shares of Tata Sons by swapping them with the shares of listed entities, like TCS, would be a simple solution to offer a fair value compensation to it, the Pallonji Mistry family-owned group said. Such a separation is quite different from a buyout under Article 75 of Tata Sons’ Articles of Association. Under this Article, Tata Sons’ majority shareholders by a special resolution could force SP to transfer its shares to them any time. SP termed this provision “oppressive”. TOI in its edition on October 29 reported that Tatas could look at a non-cash settlement with the SP Group, an offer which the latter made on Thursday. SP had estimated its Tata Sons stake to be worth more than Rs 1.75 lakh crore, but this was disputed by the firm, citing applicability of illiquidity discounts to the valuation of a holding company. SP stated that in the proportionate asset separation scheme, there is no valuation dispute as Tata Sons’ main assets — the listed entities’ share prices are quoted daily — and the Tata brand have been valued by the holding company. A neutral third-party valuation can be done for the unlisted assets adjusted for net debt (gross debt minus cash). It further said that Tata Sons would continue to enjoy a control premium in the listed companies after the non-cash deal. In the proportionate asset separation scheme, except for TCS, SP’s stake in each of the listed entities would be less than 10%. In case Tata Sons does not want to dilute its stake in certain companies, it could accept the value in either cash or TCS stocks. SP added that the scheme would minimise the requirement for Tata Sons to increase borrowings (if Tata Sons opts for a cash payout) and would be quicker to implement with minimal disruption to the listed operating entities. SP has sought separation from Tata Sons as a relief in its minority shareholder oppression case. The Supreme Court is expected to hear the final arguments in the matter on November 2. The apex court could suggest settlement and SP would have to forgo the oppression charges against Tata Sons. SP decided to sever its 70-year-old ties with Tata Sons after the latter thwarted its attempts to pledge its Tata Sons shares amid the financial stress precipitated by the Covid pandemic. It also realised that it was stuck with an investment which it cannot easily monetise because of restrictive share transfer clauses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sp-offers-cashless-plan-to-tatas-to-fast-track-exit/articleshow/78941848.cms||Reeba Zachariah
October 30, 2020||Patna||Lalu family citadel Raghopur stands by Tejashwi Yadav||RAGHOPUR: Residents of Raghopur block in Vaishali district have no option but to use countrymade boats for at least six months in a year for commuting in the sandbar area surrounded by the Ganga north of Patna. Villagers claim they have seldom seen their sitting MLA Tejashwi Prasad Yadav visit here but despite that, they want to see him as the next CM of Bihar. It’s a seat that also elected his father Lalu Prasad and mother Rabri Devi in the past. The Mahagathbandhan’s CM face and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi is seeking a second term from Raghopur assembly segment, which comprises two blocks Raghopur and Bidupur. Tejashwi, whose 10 lakh government job promise resonates with the youth in Raghopur, is pitted against Satish Kumar Yadav of BJP and LJP’s Rakesh Roshan, who has made the contest triangular. Giving a rough estimate of the caste- combination in Raghopur, RJD’s Bidupur election officer incharge Pramod Kumar said, “Yadavs number around 1.30lakh, followed by Rajputs (40,000), Muslims (22,000) and Paswans (18,000) among others.” Asked about the contest this time, Pramod said, “There is no doubt about Tejashwi Ji’s victory. However, Rakesh of LJP has made the contest triangular as he can get all of Paswan votes and a good number of Rajput votes as he belongs to the same caste.” The banks of Ganga at Raghopur fairly describes the level of development in this riverine area. Around 30 countrymade boats can be seen anchored with two and three wheelers aboard or sailing to the other side. Sitting on a boat on his way to Bidupur on the other side, Shambhunath Singh (50), who works at a factory in neighbour Hajipur said Raghopur block has a high school, middle school, bank, PHC but the connectivity to rest of the state from here remains possible only for six months when the pontoon bridge is installed. “This assembly seat has elected Lalu Ji twice and Rabri Ji once. Tejashwi Ji won from here last time but didn’t show his face again. Nevertheless, his fort stands strong here owing to caste combination and appeal among the youths,” Singh said. Jaleshwar Rai, a Yadav sand trader, echoed similar claims, saying, “Tejashwi did not do much development work in the constituency but he is the favoured one.” Boatman Randhir Rai also spoke vociferously in support of Tejashwi and claimed that the pontoon bridge started getting made every year at the initiative of the younger Yadav scion. “The ambitious project of Kachchi Dargah- Bidupur bridge also started when Tejashwi was road constriction minister in Mahagathbandhan government,” he said. Pramod Bhagat (80), a farmer in Bidupur said CM Nitish Kumar did development work in the area but Tejashwi will be the CM this time to fight PM Narendra Modi. Fellow farmer, Ajay Rai, however, countered Bhagat, saying, “No, PM Modi is a strong leader at the Centre, we support him but we want Tejashwi here. We don’t want any khichdi of Nitish-Modi here.” Tejashwi addressed an election meeting at Raghopur on October 26, which was attended by a large crowd chanting ‘Tejashwi Yadav Zindabad’. Raghopur will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-family-citadel-raghopur-stands-by-tejashwi/articleshow/78939008.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 30, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Brain-dead diamond artisan brightens up lives of eight||SURAT: He had been giving rough diamonds the lustre and shine for nearly a decade. And, in his death too, 28-year-old Piyush Mangukiya brought a glow in the lives of as many as eight critically ill patients. Eight organs including heart, kidneys, lungs, liver, eyes and pancreas, were transplanted in needy patients in Ahmedabad and Mumbai, on Thursday. In fact, this is said to be the first donation where all eight organs of a deceased have been transplanted. Mangukiya, who was working with Shree Ramkrishna Exports, suffered severe head injuries after his bike slipped on the road near Sayan check-post on October 24. He was rushed to SMC-run SMIMER Hospital and later shifted to a private hospital where doctors declared him brain dead on Wednesday. Mangukiya is survived by his wife Nayna, daughter Dhanshree (9) and son Panth (6) who live in Nandini Society in Kamrej adjoining Surat. Narayan Mangukiya, the donor’s father, said, "We had read about cadaver donations in the newspapers, but did not know the process. After final rites, his body would have turned into ashes. It's better that my son’s vital organs give new life to people. We will feel that he is living in all these eight people now.” After the family’s consent, the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) convener Dr Pranjal Modi in Ahmedabad was informed and the procedure was initiated. Two eyes were donated to Surat Eye Bank. “This was the first case where eight organs have been donated,’‘ said Nilesh Mandlewala, founder and president, Donate Life, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/brain-dead-diamond-artisan-brightens-up-lives-of-eight/articleshow/78940627.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Mercury takes a dip across Rajasthan, Mount Abu coldest||JAIPUR: Mercury continued to take a dip across the state as majority of the places witnessed a fall of almost 4°C in the minimum temperatures. Mount Abu in hills and Churu in plains remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 7°C and 12.3°C, respectively, was recorded, the Met reports said on Thursday. Attributing the continued dip in the mercury to the active northerly winds and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office stated that many places in the state will continue to witness a fall in the mercury. People in Jaipur got up to the coldest morning of the season so far as a minimum temperature of 17.1°C was recorded. For the first time in this season so far, Jaipur had witnessed its minimum temperature below 20°C. In the afternoon, it was mainly a sunny day when a maximum temperature of 33°C was recorded in the city. Asked if official announcement of winters can be made, a senior officer of Jaipur Met office, said, “At many places like Churu, Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Sikar and Pilani winters have arrived. We can officially say that the places where minimum temperatures are on or below 15°C, winters have arrived.” Many places in the state have already started witnessing its minimum temperatures below 15°C. “Within a week winters would cover entire state and majority of the places would witness dip in the mercury,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. People living in Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Sikar, Churu and Pilani have already started wearing winter cloths especially during late evening and early morning hours. “For winters, the minimum temperatures which are early morning temperatures first start dipping and thereafter they impact the maximum temperatures which are the day temperatures,” the officer added. In its forecast Jaipur Met office stated that mercury will continue to take a dip across the state. Many places in the state would witness its minimum temperatures on or above 15°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mercury-takes-a-dip-across-raj-mount-abu-coldest/articleshow/78941515.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Rare yellow turtle saved from fisherman’s net in West Bengal's Burdwan||KOLKATA: A turtle with bright yellow shell — not a common sight — was recently rescued from a fisherman’s net in Burdwan. Foresters later found that it was an Indian flapshell turtle (Lissemys punctata), protected under Schedule I of the wildlife protection act, which had the unusual colour due to pigmentation loss. Chief wildlife warden V K Yadav said that the turtle has already been released in a river and that this was not the first such turtle recorded in Bengal. “The fisherman had spotted the turtle trapped in a net and informed our staff. A few years ago, I had personally clicked pictures of a yellow flapshell turtle in Howrah,” he said. Programme director, India, Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA), Shailendra Singh, said, “This is a result of pigmentation loss due to genetic mutation. In such cases, genes that are responsible for natural colour and pattern of an animal get mutated.” According to him, he had records of a yellow flapshell turtle from north Bengal in 2017. “In 2019 and 2020, we found records of yellow flapshell turtles in Uttar Pradesh, too,” he added. Amid the euphoria, Singh has also sounded an alarm. “In such cases, people should show restraint on social media, otherwise demand of the animals will rise in illegal markets,” he said. In July, residents of a village in Odisha’s Balasore had spotted a yellow turtle. It was rescued and handed over to the forest department. The Indian flapshell turtle is a freshwater species of turtle found in South Asia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rare-yellow-turtle-saved-from-fishermans-net/articleshow/78940395.cms||---
October 30, 2020||---||Bihar election 2020: 34% crorepati candidates in Phase II of polls||PATNA: Like earlier, major political parties in the state have fielded crorepati candidates in assembly elections this time too. Of 1,463 candidates in fray for the second phase of polls, 495 are crorepatis, including many from the RJD and the BJP. As per the affidavits submitted to the Election Commission of India (ECI), at least 46 of 56 RJD candidates in the second phase are crorepatis. The BJP follows RJD with 39 crorepati candidates. Of 52 candidates of Chirag Paswan-led LJP in the second phase, 38 or 73% are crorepatis. Around 81% candidates of the JD(U) with assets worth over Rs 1 crore, 25 of JAP-L, 24 of RLSP, 20 of Congress, four of VIP and 144 independents are also in the fray in the second phase.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The second phase of polls will be held in 94 assembly constituencies spread over 17 districts on November 3. Of the total candidates in the second phase, 1,315 are men, 147 women and one is transgender. Among all crorepatis, Congress candidate and party’s state general secretary Sanjeev Singh is the richest candidate with assets worth over Rs 56 crore (including Rs 2.92 crore moveable and Rs 53 crore immovable). Sanjeev is in fray from Vaishali constituency against Siddharth Patel of JD(U) and Ajay Kumar Kushwaha of LJP. Read AlsoBihar polls 2020: 502 MLA aspirants have criminal historyNot all candidates, however, have criminal cases of serious nature against them. Of the 502 candidates who have declared criminal cases against them, 389 (27%) face cases of serious nature, including murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, rape and crimes against women.There are three crorepati candidates in Vaishali district, including RJD’s Deo Kumar Chaurasia, who has been fielded from Hajipur. Chaurasia has assets worth over Rs 49 crore. He is the second richest candidate on the list of crorepatis in the second phase. Another crorepati from the Vaishali’s Lalganj constituency is Vijay Kumar Shukla, an independent. He owns assets worth Rs 49,23,90,471. Congress candidate from Paroo in Muzaffarpur Anunay Sinha, on the other hand, owns assets worth over Rs 46 crore. He is closely followed Congress’s Bhagalpur candidate Ajit Sharma (Rs 43.2 crore) and Janata Party’s Kundan Singh, who is contesting from Bachhwara in Begusarai (Rs 38.6 crore).  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); According to a report released by the Bihar Election Watch and the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), 118 candidates have assets worth Rs 5 crore and above and 185 others own assets worth Rs 2 crore to Rs 5 crore. BJP’s Chanpatia candidate Umakant Singh, who has assets worth Rs 15 crore, has declared Rs 8 crore as liabilities. Even Congress’s Ajit Sharma has liability worth Rs 6 crore. Meanwhile, incarcerated RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Yadav, who is contesting from Ragopur, has assets worth Rs 5.88 crore, up from Rs 2 crore in 2015. His elder brother Tej Pratap owns assets worth Rs 2.8 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/34-crorepati-candidates-in-phase-ii-of-bihar-polls/articleshow/78938883.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||EC sends new expenditure observer||Hyderabad: After rushing in a police observer to Dubbak, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has sent an expenditure observer to the constituency. IRS officer Naresh Bundel arrived in Dubbak on Thursday. Naresh being sent to Dubbak is significant as Manish Dwivedi, who was deputed earlier as an expenditure observer, is already in the constituency. Siddipet district collector Bharati Hollikeri, who is also the district election officer, said people can contact Naresh on phone number 91666-80749 to submit complaints.Siddipet police recently seized Rs 18.7 lakh from the house of a relative of BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao. —Sushil Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ec-sends-new-expenditure-observer/articleshow/78959849.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 30, 2020||---||Grand Alliance will form govt in Bihar: Sachin Pilot||PATNA: Former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan and Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Thursday said that the Mahagatbandhan (Grand Alliance) will definitely form the government in Bihar. Pilot also said that if chief minister Nitish Kumar led-NDA government of Bihar claims to have done a lot for the people of the state then he should table a white paper on the work done. “BJP and JD(U) are compelled to answer the agenda set by us. They first made fun of our 10 lakh job promise and after three days they promised to create employment for 19 lakh youths. It is the same like their two crore job promise and Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s account in ‘Jan Dhan Youjana’. People will see the work done in 15 years and not the promises made in the manifesto,” Pilot said and added that BJP’s promise for free Coronavirus vaccine to people of Bihar is also a poll gimmick. Training guns at Nitish he said during Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar had the worst management. The problems faced by students stuck in Kota were also a blot on the government. He also criticized the NDA leaders for making personal attacks on RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s family. Pilot, who is a star campaigner of Congress, later campaigned for Bankipore candidate Luv Sinha and Patna City candidate Praveen Kushwaha. In another press conference, Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala hit out at the state government over another violence in Munger on Thursday, which he said had happened within 72 hours of the first incident. “It was Nitish Ji and Sushil Modi ji’s police and administration which opened fire in Munger. How can a CM and deputy CM order his officers to open fire on unarmed people? Nitish Ji is still the CM and Sushil Modi Ji is still the deputy CM. Law and order is their responsibility,” said Surjewala, alleging the duo were trying to protect Munger SP and DM. Transfer of both the officers is a mere eyewash, said Surjewala. Raising five questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he asked, “Who is behind thrashing innocent people without any reason? Who is responsible for opening fire? Who will take the responsibility of killing Anurag Kumar? Instead of giving justice, why was Munger burning again within 72 hours? Who is responsible for ‘JD (U)-BJP Mahajungle Raj’?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ga-will-form-govt-in-bihar-pilot/articleshow/78948764.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 30, 2020||---||Bihar polls 2020: 502 MLA aspirants have criminal history||PATNA: One-third of 1,463 candidates in the second phase of assembly polls have criminal cases pending against them, according to two watchdogs which analysed the affidavits filed by the MLA aspirants with the Election Commission. Not all candidates, however, have criminal cases of serious nature against them. Of the 502 candidates who have declared criminal cases against them, 389 (27%) face cases of serious nature, including murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, rape and crimes against women. According to a joint report of Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Bihar Election Watch, maximum candidates facing criminal charges are from RJD (64%). Of the RJD’s 56 candidates, 28 or 50% have serious criminal cases against them.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Read AlsoBihar election 2020: 34% crorepati candidates in Phase II of pollsOf 1,463 candidates in fray for the second phase of polls, 495 are crorepatis. At least 46 of 56 RJD candidates in the second phase are crorepatis. The BJP follows RJD with 39 crorepati candidates. Of 52 candidates of Chirag Paswan-led LJP, 38 are crorepatis.The JAP-L comes second with 32 of its 58 candidates embroiled in criminal cases and 20 have criminal cases of serious nature against them. Of the 56 candidates BJP has fielded, 29 face criminal cases. Similarly, 28 candidates of LJP, 24 of RLSP, 20 of JD(U), 14 of Congress, 16 of BSP and 156 independents also face criminal cases. At least 49 candidates have pending cases related to crime against women. Four of them face rape charges. As many as 32 candidates face murder and 143 attempt to murder charges. In Vaishali’s Lalganj constituency, 15 candidates face criminal charges, including Rakesh Kumar of Congress, LJP’s Raj Kumar Sah, BJP’s Sanjay Kumar Singhand RLSP’s Dinesh Kumar Kushwaha. In Siwan’s Maharajganj constituency, 14 candidates have criminal antecedents, including Vijay Shanker Dubey of Congress, Deo Ranjan Singh of LJP and Hem Narayan Sah of JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/502-mla-aspirants-have-criminal-history/articleshow/78938947.cms||Faryal Rumi
October 30, 2020||Kanpur||Physically challenged girl raped in UP's Kannauj||KANPUR: A seven-year-old deaf and mute girl was allegedly abducted from her house in Kannauj’s Saurikh area, raped and dumped in the bushes at the highway on Thursday. The police on being alerted swung into action and took a suspect into custody for questioning. The child had gone missing from her house on Thursday morning. Her family members launched a frantic search but in vain. The incident came to light after the girl, who was profusely bleeding returned home. The family said that the child went missing around 8.30 am on Thursday when she had stepped out to play. “The child has a speech impairment. Because of this, she could not raise an alarm while being kidnapped,” said a family member. After the girl’s family couldn’t find her in the village, they informed neighbours and relatives, who also searched for her but to no avail. She, however, returned on her own later. Family members claimed that the child’s clothes were stained with blood and there were bruise marks all over her body. The girl’s family later visited local police station and lodged a complaint. SP Kannauj Amrendra Prasad said, “A case under relevant sections of IPC, besides POCSO Act has been registered, besides, police have detained a suspect and his questioning is underway. The girl has been sent for medical examination.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/physically-challenged-girl-raped-in-kannauj/articleshow/78939161.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Business||Amazon briefs Sebi, BSE on Singapore ruling||BENGALURU: Amazon has written to markets regulator Sebi and the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), updating the authorities about the recent ruling from the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). The Centre had granted an interim stay on the Rs 24,713-crore deal of Reliance acquiring Future Group’s assets. Two sources aware of the matter said Amazon wrote to Sebi and the BSE on Thursday, urging them to consider the international arbitration ruling before giving any nod to the merger, which was announced in August. On Sunday, Amazon got an interim relief over its dispute with Future Group, managing to pause the merger process for at least 90 days. It is expected the SIAC will come out with a final order within this deadline. “They (Amazon) updated the authorities to make sure everyone knows the ruling officially,” one of the sources said. An Amazon India spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. Currently, both Amazon and Future Group are planning their next course of action on the dispute, which sources said could still land in the Delhi high court. “Right now, it’s like who will blink first regarding the implementation of the order. Amazon is waiting to see Future’s official response to the company over the ruling,” a person aware of the matter added. On Monday, echoing Reliance, Future Group had issued a statement saying it does not think the Singapore ruling is enforceable in India and that it must be tried in an “appropriate forum under the provisions of the Indian Arbitration Act”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-briefs-sebi-bse-on-spore-ruling/articleshow/78941778.cms||Digbijay Mishra
October 30, 2020||Business||‘Seeing strong leisure travel within India’||Saurabh.Sinha@timesgroup.com Months of stay-at-home during the national lockdown has led to a “surprising level” of demand for leisure travel, says Oberoi Group CEO Vikram Oberoi. Globe-trotting, well-heeled Indians will now explore their country, feels the veteran of the Indian hospitality industry. India has now restored all existing visas, except tourist, and foreigners can come for business and conferences. Things should look up now... Hotels have been open for some months now. How is the demand? Domestic leisure travel has seen a significant revival after the lockdown was lifted and hotels being allowed to reopen is a big positive for the industry. Leisure travel from Indian guests has been strong across all brands and segments. The whole industry was surprised by the level of travel from leisure guests. Any hotel in a leisure location has greatly benefitted from increased demand in this segment of travel. We hope corporate travel will also resume, although some amount of that is taking place. What emerging travel trends you are seeing? We are witnessing Indian guests travelling (within the country) and discovering India more than they have done in the past. People were travelling overseas and now they will travel within India. This is a welcome trend for all of us in the industry. People have been confined and restricted (to their homes during the lockdown). The feedback we are getting is that they really want to start travelling again — whether it is corporate or leisure — to meet friends and relatives or discover destinations. I have no doubt the industry will bounce back and be stronger and better than it was earlier. How will 5-star weddings be like in the pandemic world? The wedding season will soon begin with strict guidelines for hosting social gathering to maintain enhanced hygiene and sanitation norms. All hotel companies will follow those guidelines. In many places, the size of the gathering is restricted to 50 or 100 guests. Guests experience comfort and safety in branded hotels due to hygiene standards. I am sure all auspicious wedding dates will see all hotels doing wedding business with a focus on the new norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/seeing-strong-leisure-travel-within-india/articleshow/78935696.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to issue trade licences to regulate businesses in city||Dehradun: With the aim to regulate businesses being run in various localities of Dehradun, the city municipal corporation on Thursday decided to issue trade licences to the business owners. For this purpose, ‘E-Nagarsewa’ portal has been launched for registering traders under various categories.The portal has separate categories for different types of businesses, officials said. The street vendors, too, can register themselves on the portal and deposit the registration fees to seek licence.Talking to TOI, Vinay Shankar Pandey, municipal commissioner, said, “The registration on the portal will regulate the business being run. It will also ensure the safety of the people and facilitate the process of providing municipal facilities to the business owners. The registration for street vendors and food cart owners makes them accountable for delivering hygienic and safe food to the people. The exercise will help the DMC to boost its revenues for carrying out development work.”The trade licence would help the authorities to place the business being run in a locality under relevant rules and safety guidelines set by the state government. “The E-Nagarsewa portal, which is maintained by the department of urban development, also has the facility of depositing property tax for both residential and commercial buildings. In times of social distancing, the online facility is giving people the opportunity to deposit their dues in time”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-issue-trade-licences-to-regulate-businesses-in-city/articleshow/78938546.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Business||We have got our mojo back: Cognizant CEO||Chennai: Brian Humphries took over as the CEO of Cognizant in April 2019 and announced a ‘fit for growth’ programme which involved cost cutting initiatives and exiting non-core areas. He tells TOI that Cognizant is on its course to become industry bellwether again. Excerpts:What is your take on the September quarter earnings? We’re really pleased with the quarter and solid financial results. We executed well. We strengthened our competitive position, and you’ve seen us outgrow nearly every single major services competitor globally on a YoY and a constant currency basis. We got good momentum into business with bookings up 25%-plus in the quarter. Digital is very strong with year-to-date bookings up over 40% and Wall Street have paid attention to this. We’ve exceeded expectations yet again. We increased our guidance for 2020. We’ve had six upgrades in the last four months and stock prices are up 20% year-to-date. Our employees seem happier in multi-year levels of engagement. Voluntary attrition is down five quarters in a row. So, we feel very optimistic.Is there a steep decline in your operating margin?No, this is very explainable. First of all, there is a one-time GAAP-only tax cost of approximately $140 million that has dragged down GAAP earnings, which relates to the repatriation of $2 billion dollars of cash from our subsidiary in India. Fundamentally, this is a good story because we are investing in the business more than ever before. Our goal is to increase the relative commercial momentum and revitalize Cognizant. So we’re making a series of investments across talent, digital, commercial, and branding to make sure that we actually achieve that. In some regards, I think people who can stand back, may see this quarter as the beginning of Cognizant’s return as the economic bellwether for companies that are undergoing digital transformation and indeed the bellwether for the IT services industry.When will you get your bellwether status back?This quarter, as you’ve seen, we outgrew almost every single integrated services company in the world on a year-on-year basis. We’ve already increased our momentum significantly over the last three quarters, and our bookings growth of 25%-plus in the quarter is a very strong indication that we have our mojo back.Your attrition levels are down on a quarterly basis, but they’re still high.Actually, our attrition levels are at multi-year lows at 10% on a voluntary basis. You’ve got to look at attrition both on a voluntary basis as well as an involuntary basis. Part of what we’ve been trying to drive is a push towards meritocracy and a performance culture. That has led us to remove certain people. We are, however, largely through with our fit-for-growth restructuring initiatives.Our people engagement survey shows scores consistently above industry benchmarks, and significantly up versus prior surveys.When will the new employee payout policy come in? By how much?It differs country by country, but it will be based on merit, which is fundamental to a culture of meritocracy. The effective increases will be in Q4 starting October 1, and the bonuses that we are accruing will be paid out in the spring.What are your recruitment plans for the year? We expect to hire about 17,000 campus hires, which is one of the highest percentage of campus hires-to-total hires since 2016. And, so as these associates finish their training programmes, they will become billable in 2021. In some regards, it’s a linear business model. We'll continue to invest. But the real story here is how delivery headcount will grow to accommodate our growing backlog following our bookings momentum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/we-have-got-our-mojo-back-cognizant-ceo/articleshow/78940301.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
October 30, 2020||Patna||3 Darbhanga seats to see triangular contest||DARBHANGA: Widely known for the two universities—Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) and Kameshwar Singh Darbhnaga Sanskrit University (KSDSU)— Darbhanga will go to the polls in the second and third phase. Out of 10 assembly segments in the district, five including Darbhanga rural, Benipur, Alinagar, Gaurabauram and Kusheshwar Asthan (Reserved), will go to the polls in the second phase scheduled on November 3. The twin township of Laheriasarai and Drabhanga have a long cultural history and have been an integral part of Mithilanchal. Darbhanga Rural: Five term RJD MLA Lalit Yadav is facing a tough fight against JD(U) nominee Faraj Fatmi, son of former RJD MP and JD(U) member Mohd Ali Ashraf Fatmi. Yadav had a cakewalk for all the five terms due to M (Muslim)-Y (Yadav) equation. However, Faraj, it seems is a force to reckon with this time. Meanwhile, LJP has fielded Pradip Kumar Thakur, an old BJP warhorse, who has been denied ticket, making the contest triangular. Altogether, seven candidates are in the fray. Benipur: This constituency is witnessing a triangular contest between Binay Kumar Chaudhary of JD(U), Mithilesh Chaudhary of Congress and Kamal Ram Binod Jha of LJP. Binay was made JD(U) district president last year and then fielded from this constituency represented by Sunil Chaudhary in the last election. Mithilesh is considered close to Kirti Azad, who is campaigning for him. While 14 candidates are in the fray, triangular contest is between the three Brahmin candidates. Alinagar: Mishri Lal Yadav, an RJD-turned BJP worker, joined VIP and got ticket from the party for this segment. The other main contenders are Binod Mishra from RJD and Ram Kumar Jha of LJP. Abdul Bari Siddiqui of RJD represented this segment, which came into existence in 2010 after delimitation. A Brahmin fielded by RJD speaks volumes because maithil Brahmins reside in a large number in this area. Total 10 candidates are in the fray from this segment. Gaura Bauram: Altogether 24 candidates are in fray from this assembly segment necessitating two ballot units on each booth. Mukesh Sahnis’s VIP has fielded Shwarna Singh, while RJD has fielded Afzal ali Khan and LJP has fielded Rajiv Kumar Thakur. The seat is presently represented by JD (U)’s former minister Madan Sahni. Kusheshwar Asthan (Reserved): Altogether 15 candidates are in the electoral race from this assembly segment this time. Dr Ashok Kumar of Congress, Sashi Bhushan Hazari of JD (U), Punam Kumari of LJP and other 12 candidates as Independents or lesser known parties are in the ray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-darbhanga-seats-to-see-triangular-contest/articleshow/78939776.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
October 30, 2020||Patna||JD(U) and RJD fight in 3 Sitamarhi assembly seats||SITAMARHI: Famous for being the birthplace of Goddess Sita (Janki), Sitamarhi district is situated along Nepal border in north Bihar. It has eight assembly segments and more than 24 lakh voters. Three of the assembly segments — Sitamarhi, Runnisaidpur and Belsand — will go to the polls on November 3. In 2015, RJD won in Runnisaidpur and Sitamarhi while JD(U) claimed Belsand seat. Sitamarhi: Considered a BJP stronghold, but RJD won here in 2015. Former minister Sunil Kumar Pintu, his father Hari Shankar Prasad and even grandfather Kishori Lal Sah have represented the seat several times. But Pintu lost to RJD candidate Sunil Kumar in 2015. But in 2019, he was elected to the Lok Sabha on a JD(U) ticket. This time, altogether 12 candidates are in the ray. Sitting MLA Sunil is in direct fight with BJP nominee Mithilesh Kumar, a PhD degree holder. Local political observers feel the upper caste voters may polarize in favour of Mithilesh and OBC and Muslims are likely to back Sunil. The silent town voters may change the scene. Belsand: Considered the ‘Chittorgarh of Sitamarhi’, Belsand has mostly been represented by socialist leaders since independence. Thakur Girija Nandan Singh, Ramanand Singh, Ram Surat Singh, Prof Digvijay Pratap Singh, former Union minister late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and former minister Brishin Patel represented the constituency in the past. It is stretched in Sitamarhi and Sheohar districts. Altogether 15 candidates are trying their luck, including sitting JD(U) MLA Sunita Singh Chauhan. RJD has fielded former MLA Sanjay Kumar Gupta while Md Nasir Ahmad is contesting on the LJP ticket. Runnisaidpur: Famous for Balushahi sweets, mango and litchi. Runnisaidpur block is situated between Muzaffarpur and Sitamarhi on NH 77. Nine candidates are in the fray, including sitting RJD MLA Mangita Devi. Two Bhumihar stalwarts — Pankaj Kumar Mishra of JD(U) and Rajesh Kumar Chaudhary’s wife and former MLA Guddi Chaudhary of LJP are testing their luck. Mangita comes from Yadav clan and her father-in-law Bhola Rai had represented the seat in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-and-rjd-fight-in-3-sitamarhi-assembly-seats/articleshow/78939799.cms||Shyam Kishore Singh
October 30, 2020||Business||TVS Motor Q2 net profit dips to Rs 196 cr||Chennai: TVS Motor Company has clocked net profit of Rs 196 crore in the second quarter, down 23% from Rs 255 crore clocked in the year-ago period. The company’s profit before tax before exceptional items grew 14% at Rs 267 crore during this quarter as against Rs 234 crore during the quarter ended September 2019. The company earned Rs 4,617 crore in revenues during the quarter, up 6% YoY. Total two-wheeler sales of 8.34 lakh for the quarter was almost similar to last Q2 number of 8.4 lakh while exports were up by 8%. Motorcycle sales of 3.7 lakh units were slightly higher than the 3.4 lakh units clocked Q2FY19. Scooter sales of 2.7 lakh units were down from 3.33 lakh units in the year ago period. TVS shares were down 1% to close at Rs 422.3 on the BSE on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-motor-q2-net-profit-dips-to-rs-196-cr/articleshow/78940379.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Business||SBI gets $1bn from JBIC to fund Japanese auto cos||Mumbai: SBI has signed a low-interest $1-billion loan agreement with Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) — an export credit agency to finance manufacturers, suppliers, and dealers of Japanese automobiles in India under Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative. JBIC will extend support of $600 million, while other Japanese banks — SMBC, MUFG Bank, Mizuho Bank, Shizuoka Bank and Bank of Yokahama — will bring in the rest. JBIC will provide a guarantee for the portion co-financed by the participating banks. SBI said the loan is intended to promote smooth flow of funds for business operations of Japanese automakers in India. “We are entering into an untied loan from Japan for the first time. This will assist in achieving our PM’s vision of making India ‘Atmanirbhar’,” said SBI deputy MD C Venkat Nageswar. According to JBIC MD and CEO Masayuki Tanimoto, surveys showed that India is the most favoured country for Japanese investment, and this is a step to strengthen the relations between the two countries. The loan was being extended at a very low interest rate, according to sources, but SBI did not disclose the rate. Japanese majors dominate the country’s automobile industry and most top companies — Honda, Yamaha, Toyota, Suzuki, Mitsubishi and Nissan have a presence in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-gets-1bn-from-jbic-to-fund-japanese-auto-cos/articleshow/78942238.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 30, 2020||---||Lalu family citadel Raghopur stands by Tejashwi Yadav||RAGHOPUR: Residents of Raghopur block in Vaishali district have no option but to use countrymade boats for at least six months in a year for commuting in the sandbar area surrounded by the Ganga north of Patna. Villagers claim they have seldom seen their sitting MLA Tejashwi Prasad Yadav visit here but despite that, they want to see him as the next CM of Bihar. It’s a seat that also elected his father Lalu Prasad and mother Rabri Devi in the past. The Mahagathbandhan’s CM face and RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi is seeking a second term from Raghopur assembly segment, which comprises two blocks Raghopur and Bidupur. Tejashwi, whose 10 lakh government job promise resonates with the youth in Raghopur, is pitted against Satish Kumar Yadav of BJP and LJP’s Rakesh Roshan, who has made the contest triangular. Giving a rough estimate of the caste- combination in Raghopur, RJD’s Bidupur election officer incharge Pramod Kumar said, “Yadavs number around 1.30lakh, followed by Rajputs (40,000), Muslims (22,000) and Paswans (18,000) among others.” Asked about the contest this time, Pramod said, “There is no doubt about Tejashwi Ji’s victory. However, Rakesh of LJP has made the contest triangular as he can get all of Paswan votes and a good number of Rajput votes as he belongs to the same caste.” The banks of Ganga at Raghopur fairly describes the level of development in this riverine area. Around 30 countrymade boats can be seen anchored with two and three wheelers aboard or sailing to the other side. Sitting on a boat on his way to Bidupur on the other side, Shambhunath Singh (50), who works at a factory in neighbour Hajipur said Raghopur block has a high school, middle school, bank, PHC but the connectivity to rest of the state from here remains possible only for six months when the pontoon bridge is installed. “This assembly seat has elected Lalu Ji twice and Rabri Ji once. Tejashwi Ji won from here last time but didn’t show his face again. Nevertheless, his fort stands strong here owing to caste combination and appeal among the youths,” Singh said. Jaleshwar Rai, a Yadav sand trader, echoed similar claims, saying, “Tejashwi did not do much development work in the constituency but he is the favoured one.” Boatman Randhir Rai also spoke vociferously in support of Tejashwi and claimed that the pontoon bridge started getting made every year at the initiative of the younger Yadav scion. “The ambitious project of Kachchi Dargah- Bidupur bridge also started when Tejashwi was road constriction minister in Mahagathbandhan government,” he said. Pramod Bhagat (80), a farmer in Bidupur said CM Nitish Kumar did development work in the area but Tejashwi will be the CM this time to fight PM Narendra Modi. Fellow farmer, Ajay Rai, however, countered Bhagat, saying, “No, PM Modi is a strong leader at the Centre, we support him but we want Tejashwi here. We don’t want any khichdi of Nitish-Modi here.” Tejashwi addressed an election meeting at Raghopur on October 26, which was attended by a large crowd chanting ‘Tejashwi Yadav Zindabad’. Raghopur will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/lalu-family-citadel-raghopur-stands-by-tejashwi/articleshow/78943865.cms||Piyush Tripathi
October 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls 2020: Yogi promises ‘Ayodhya invite’ for every state village||PATNA: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on Thursday sought to galvanise people of Bihar, especially the youth, by invoking their primordial faith in Lord Rama and the temple coming up in his name in Ayodhya. Seeking votes in favour of NDA in the second phase of polling on November 3, he promised that he would personally see to it that at least one person from every Bihar village is invited to temple inauguration in Ayodhya. “I had specially planned to invite at least one person from every village in Bihar to participate in the function when PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya,” Adityanath said, addressing a rally at Daraunda in Siwan district. He added, “But I could not do it due to the coronavirus pandemic, and the temple construction could not wait. So when the temple is completed, I will invite at least one person from every village in the state. Here, I see in the audience that most of you are youths.” He continued with his series of addresses mostly on national themes apart from assailing the five-party Grand Alliance of RJD, Congress and the three Left parties. The national themes included Ram temple, the abolition of triple talaq, abrogation of Article 370, containment of terrorism, PM Narendra Modi facilitating the purchase of land in Kashmir “even by Biharis,” steps for the poor in the PM’s first term (2014-19), and finally, PM Modi vowing to “eradicate Maoism and Naxalism” from the country. Adityanath sought votes for all NDA partners, including for BJP’s Karanjit Singh alias Vyas Singh at Daraunda and for Sita Devi of JD(U) at the Ekma seat in neighbouring Saran district. The opposition candidate at Daraunda is Amarnath Yadav of CPI(ML), and Srikant Yadav of RJD in Ekma. CPI(ML) has also fielded its sitting MLA Satyadeo Ram at Darauli (SC), Amarjeet Kushwaha at Ziradei, both in Siwan district, and Jitendra Paswan at Bhore (SC) in Gopalganj, while CPM nominee at Manjhi in neighbouring Saran is Satyendra Prasad Yadav. From the NDA’s point of view, the Daraunda seat has become complicated for BJP nominee Karanjit Singh as his candidature is being opposed by JD(U) sections led by Ajay Singh (husband of Siwan MP Kavita Singh) and Jitendra Swamy (son of former four-time MLA and one-time MP late Uma Shankar Singh) from BJP. So how far Adityanath would be able to galvanise NDA supporters is anybody’s guess. He assailed Congress and RJD for practising and promoting, as he alleged, “their typical ‘parivarvad’ for amassing wealth through corruption,” adding that they have always thought that the resources of the country and state were meant for their “families”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/yogi-promises-ayodhya-invite-for-every-bihar-village/articleshow/78938918.cms||Abhay Singh
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Social media campaign turns fiery||HYDERABAD: The TRS and BJP election campaign on social media took off at a feverish pitch with both the parties sharing videos of their leaders challenging each other to resign on the promises delivered and funds released for various schemes. The first post on candidates’ strengths and weaknesses, their educational qualifications and personal attributes went viral. The posts on pensions for workers turned acrimonious when a BJP worker posted a video saying that Rs 1,600 pension was paid by the central government. After this, finance minister Harish Rao went ballistic at a rally vowing to resign if it is proved that the Union government was paying the pension. These vidoes have also gone viral. Firebrand BJP MP Dharmapuri Arvind’s controversial remarks on the TRS and Siddipet CP Joel Davis received a lot of eyeballs, while the rebuttal of the finance minister that his (Arvind) win in Nizamabad was just a fluke had also caught the attention of the people. Thanks to the rules of Covid-19, no public meeting with more than 100 people is allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/social-media-campaign-turns-fiery/articleshow/78941561.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Liquor dispenser’ truck seized, 2 held||KOLKATA: On Thursday morning, cops on duty found jars and pouches filled with spurious liquor being dispensed from a truck in the Mathpukur-Pragati Maidan-Tiljala belt with women scampering to collect them. After the truck was seized, police learned that the liquor was being distributed through a chain of women operatives just before Diwali. Two of the accused have been arrested and are being questioned to get to the gang’s kingpin. “Around 11.30am, two women — Dipti Kundu (58) from Hooghly and Kalpana Sardar (45) from Mathpukur — were arrested near Mallickpara Harijan Club when they were busy collecting packages dropped by the unidentified vehicle. Each packet contained around 18 litres of undiluted liquor. In all, 144 litres of liquor was seized. The women could not give any satisfactory explanation about the liquor. A case under 46(A)(c) WB Excise Act has been started against them,” said DC (East) Gaurav Lal. The gang, cops claimed, earlier used to buy popular whiskey and vodka brands and pour the liquor into other bottles. They would then reseal the original bottles with cheaper liquor inside and sell them in bulk with genuine liquor online. The stocks were advertised online and sold at prices lower than the original IMFL in a localized manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-dispenser-truck-seized-2-held/articleshow/78940382.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Sex racket busted in Kolkata's Garia, 7 arrested||KOLKATA: Police unearthed a prostitution racket, arresting four men, aged between 28 and 38, along with two women — both homemakers — and a minor girl from a house in a crowded area of Garia on Wednesday night. Locals had alerted Narendrapur police about the racket operating out of the house. Cops kept an eye on the house in Garia’s Nabagram. By early evening, two women and a girl were seen entering the house, followed by four men soon after. Cops then moved into the house and arrested all seven. The minor girl, aged 17, was sent to a government home after being taken into custody. “We were tipped off by locals about the racket,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sex-racket-busted-in-garia-7-arrested/articleshow/78940378.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
October 30, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University hostels open for science faculty PG students, scholars||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University (AU) reopened its hostels for postgraduate students and research scholars of its science faculty and technical courses after more than seven months under the Unlock 5.0 guidelines. On Wednesday night, dean of students welfare (DSW) KP Singh convened a meeting with all hostel superintendents and issued necessary guidelines for maintaining Covid-19 safety protocol. The decision comes days after several students protested on campus and urged the varsity to reopen hostels for women inmates. In March, when the first cases of Covid-19 were recorded AU had directed all inmates to vacate the hostels. The decision was followed by frequent protests. On October 15, a few girls from different districts reached their hostels expecting to be allowed to enter after the Unlock 5.0 guidelines were announced. However, they were declined entry. They first tried to seek approval from the authorities, but later started protesting at the vice-chancellor’s office. They were joined by other students and former AU Students Union president Richa Singh. Later at night, police registered a case against the five students, three male students and Singh. They were sent to jail after midnight. On Wednesday evening, the dean of students’ welfare issued an order to reopen hostels in order of the notification issued by the AU registrar NK Shukla. “At present, hostels have been opened for students and researchers of science faculty and technical classes so that they can continue teaching in the laboratory. However, hostels have not been opened for other students,” said DSW KP Singh. Meanwhile, student leaders demanded that the hostels should be opened for all inmates. “For the time being, research scholars of arts and other postgraduate students who need to work in the laboratories should be permitted to stay in hostels,” said Ajay Kumar Yadav Samrat, a student leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-hostels-open-for-science-faculty-pg-students-scholars/articleshow/78939003.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: It’s no cakewalk for don’s wife in Mahnar||MAHNAR (VAISHALI): “Is baar Rama Singh ka chhakka lagna tay hai (This time Rama Singh is set to hit sixes),” claimed 46-year-old Suresh Chauhan, a resident of Chamrahara village under Mahnar assembly constituency in Vaishali district amid a chorus of hectic election campaigning. Although Rama Kishore Singh, known for his muscle power, is not in the fray, he is seeking votes for his wife, Veena Singh, who is contesting election for the first time on an RJD ticket from the Mahnar assembly constituency. The RJD denied ticket to Rama, a native of Kumhar Kaul village, due to strong opposition from veteran socialist leader and former Union minister, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, before his death. Political rivalry between the two Rajput leaders is no secret. JD (U) sitting MLA Umesh Singh Kushwaha, on the other hand, is seeking re-election. CM and JD (U) chief Nitish Kumar urged people to vote for Umesh. In a veiled attack on the RJD, he said, “What happened with Raghuvansh Babu when he was with the RJD is known to all.” Raghuvansh’s son Satya Prakash Singh, who had joined the JD (U) after his father’s death last month, spoke against RJD chief Lalu Prasad at the election rally on Monday. “My father remained with Lalu Prasad throughout his political career, but was humiliated at the fag end of his life,” he said. A resident of Panapur (Shahpur) village, Satya Prakash, referred to the letters written by Raghuvansh to Nitish from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Delhi where he was admitted for treatment. “Unke baare mein kya kahna jisne Raghuvansh Babu ko bhi nahi chhora (What to talk about the person who did not spare Raghuvansh Babu),” the 45-year-old asked. The local residents were, however, a little bothered about Rama’s criminal background. “It is not Rama Singh, but his wife, who has been fielded by the RJD. We hope she proves her worth. She opted for VRS from the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited to join politics,” said Jai Prakash Singh, a resident of Shahpur village. Many believed that there was a direct contest between the RJD and the JD(U), but the entry of LJP candidate Ravindra Kumar Singh has turned the contest into a triangular one. “Mujhe lagta hai ki yahan se LJP baazi mar legi (I think the LJP will win the election),” said Dilip Kumar Sah (34), a grocery shopkeeper at Mahnar Bazar. Rama was elected as an MLA from Mahnar in 2005. In 2010, he lost to Dr Achuta Nand of the BJP. Five years later, Umesh won the seat by a margin of over 26,000 votes. Back then the JD (U) was part of the RJD-led Grand Alliance. Lack of jobs and development works in the area are among the major issues dominating the political scene in the constituency. The issues related to development project for better use of hundreds of acres of barren land in Panapur Chaur was raised by Raghuvash in his letters. Besides, the businessmen of Mahnar Bazar are at the receiving end due to poor law and order situation. “Yahan kewal aman aur shanti chahiye (We want only peace and tranquillity),” a businessman, Rakesh Sah, said and added that most legislators hardly visited the constituency after elections. Rajputs, Yadavs and Paswans will play a decisive role in the election. Rameshwar Paswan (75), a resident of Surha Tola, said, “We are with Chirag Paswan and people belonging to his community will support the LJP candidate. For how long does Nitish want to serve as the CM? Are 15 years not enough?” A 49-year-old migrant worker, Ram Jivan Paswan, pointed out, “We are sitting idle and there is no work in the village. The state government had promised to help the poor during the Covid-19 lockdown, but nothing happened.” Mahnar will go to the polls in the second phase on November 3. Around 2.87 lakh voters will exercise their franchise. Among them, 1.54 lakh are men and 1.33 lakh women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/its-no-cakewalk-for-dons-wife-in-mahnar/articleshow/78939032.cms||Ramashankar
October 30, 2020||Patna||Ruling parties using 30 choppers to counter me: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Responding to PM Narendra Modi’s ‘jungle raj ka yuvraj’ jibe at him, Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday said the PM should have instead talked about important issues concerning the state like unemployment and special package. The PM had made a veiled attack on the RJD leader in Darbhanga on Wednesday, describing him as the ‘yuvraj (prince)’ of ‘jungle raj’, the term used to describe 15-year rule of Tejashwi’s parents Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi in the state. “He is the country’s PM and can say anything. I do not want to react. The central and state governments as well as the BJP, arguably the world’s biggest political party, are after me. They are using 30 helicopters to counter me. People of the state know the reality and they will teach these forces a lesson,” Tejashwi said. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said such an attack on a 31-year-old leader by the PM of the country showed nervousness in NDA. “A PM should not talk like this. People of the state were expecting him to condemn Munger police firing and Muzaffarpur shelter home incidents. Unfortunately, the PM and the CM are currently busy only in attacking the RJD,” he added. Meanwhile, addressing different rallies for the second phase of assembly elections, Tejashwi lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar over “corruption”, unemployment, migration and lack of industries. “People have to migrate to other states for treatment, education and livelihood. The person who could not set up a single factory in 15 years will do nothing in the next five years. Give me one chance and I will work for the betterment of all castes and religions in the state,” Tejashwi said in Madhubani. In another rally at Darbhanga, Tejashwi said his DNA was pure and he will usher in development in the state if voted to power. “Nitishji is the biggest enemy of the state. He cannot see unemployment,” Tejashwi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-ruling-parties-using-30-choppers-to-counter-me/articleshow/78939094.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 30, 2020||---||Ruling parties using 30 choppers to counter me: Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: Responding to PM Narendra Modi’s ‘jungle raj ka yuvraj’ jibe at him, Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday said the PM should have instead talked about important issues concerning the state like unemployment and special package. The PM had made a veiled attack on the RJD leader in Darbhanga on Wednesday, describing him as the ‘yuvraj (prince)’ of ‘jungle raj’, the term used to describe 15-year rule of Tejashwi’s parents Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi in the state. “He is the country’s PM and can say anything. I do not want to react. The central and state governments as well as the BJP, arguably the world’s biggest political party, are after me. They are using 30 helicopters to counter me. People of the state know the reality and they will teach these forces a lesson,” Tejashwi said. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said such an attack on a 31-year-old leader by the PM of the country showed nervousness in NDA. “A PM should not talk like this. People of the state were expecting him to condemn Munger police firing and Muzaffarpur shelter home incidents. Unfortunately, the PM and the CM are currently busy only in attacking the RJD,” he added. Meanwhile, addressing different rallies for the second phase of assembly elections, Tejashwi lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar over “corruption”, unemployment, migration and lack of industries. “People have to migrate to other states for treatment, education and livelihood. The person who could not set up a single factory in 15 years will do nothing in the next five years. Give me one chance and I will work for the betterment of all castes and religions in the state,” Tejashwi said in Madhubani. In another rally at Darbhanga, Tejashwi said his DNA was pure and he will usher in development in the state if voted to power. “Nitishji is the biggest enemy of the state. He cannot see unemployment,” Tejashwi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-ruling-parties-using-30-choppers-to-counter-me/articleshow/78948727.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 30, 2020||Patna||Grand Alliance will form govt in Bihar: Sachin Pilot||PATNA: Former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan and Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Thursday said that the Mahagatbandhan (Grand Alliance) will definitely form the government in Bihar. Pilot also said that if chief minister Nitish Kumar led-NDA government of Bihar claims to have done a lot for the people of the state then he should table a white paper on the work done. “BJP and JD(U) are compelled to answer the agenda set by us. They first made fun of our 10 lakh job promise and after three days they promised to create employment for 19 lakh youths. It is the same like their two crore job promise and Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s account in ‘Jan Dhan Youjana’. People will see the work done in 15 years and not the promises made in the manifesto,” Pilot said and added that BJP’s promise for free Coronavirus vaccine to people of Bihar is also a poll gimmick. Training guns at Nitish he said during Covid-19 pandemic, Bihar had the worst management. The problems faced by students stuck in Kota were also a blot on the government. He also criticized the NDA leaders for making personal attacks on RJD supremo Lalu Prasad’s family. Pilot, who is a star campaigner of Congress, later campaigned for Bankipore candidate Luv Sinha and Patna City candidate Praveen Kushwaha. In another press conference, Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala hit out at the state government over another violence in Munger on Thursday, which he said had happened within 72 hours of the first incident. “It was Nitish Ji and Sushil Modi ji’s police and administration which opened fire in Munger. How can a CM and deputy CM order his officers to open fire on unarmed people? Nitish Ji is still the CM and Sushil Modi Ji is still the deputy CM. Law and order is their responsibility,” said Surjewala, alleging the duo were trying to protect Munger SP and DM. Transfer of both the officers is a mere eyewash, said Surjewala. Raising five questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he asked, “Who is behind thrashing innocent people without any reason? Who is responsible for opening fire? Who will take the responsibility of killing Anurag Kumar? Instead of giving justice, why was Munger burning again within 72 hours? Who is responsible for ‘JD (U)-BJP Mahajungle Raj’?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-will-form-govt-in-bihar-pilot/articleshow/78938984.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 30, 2020||Patna||Election Commission axes Munger DM Rajesh Meena, SP Lipi Singh after fresh violence||PATNA: The Election Commission on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of Munger DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh after rampaging mobs torched three police stations and two outposts in the town over Monday’s police firing on a Durga Puja immersion procession. The offices of at least three top officials, including the SP, were ransacked and their vehicles set ablaze. As the Kotwali, Mufassil and Kasim Bazar police stations burned, the attackers stood by to prevent fire tenders from dousing the flames, officials said. The Purab Sarai and Basudeopur outposts were gutted, too. The Election Commission has directed Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao to conduct an inquiry into the mob violence and submit a report within a week. Meena and Singh have been asked to report to the general administration department and state police headquarters, respectively. Rachana Patil, a 2010 batch IAS officer, has joined as the district election officer of Munger while Manavjeet Singh Dhillon has taken over as SP. "DIG (Munger range) Manu Maharaaj is camping in the town to prevent any untoward incident. Additional security forces have also been rushed to Munger," ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said. A civilian identified as Aniruddh Poddar (22) was killed in Monday's police firing, which followed a clash between two groups during the immersion procession of Munger's famed "Badi Durga" idol. At least 20 others, including 13 police personnel, were injured. RJD's Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP's Chirag Paswan took potshots at CM Nitish Kumar over the police firing, which they likened to General Dyer ordering the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Munger, among the 16 districts where Phase 1 of the assembly elections were held on Wednesday, reported the lowest voter turnout of 47.3%. Watch Munger firing case: EC orders removal of DM and SP, inquiry to be completed in 7 days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-axes-munger-dm-sp-after-fresh-violence/articleshow/78939784.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Call for quarantine divides Durga Puja organizers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A call for week-long quarantine of Durga Puja organizers and volunteers by Forum for Durgotsav, the umbrella body representing over 350 puja organizers in Kolkata, has met with mixed response. While some have started staying home as a measure of abundant caution, others have shrugged off the suggestion, terming it impractical. “We had requested all puja committees to observe a seven-day quarantine after Durga Puja got over. This was not just about members of puja committees, but also locals who participated and helped organize the puja and volunteers who helped manage the crowds. In my locality, we are staying indoors till at least Sunday,” said forum founder Partho Ghosh, who is also the secretary of Sib Mandir puja on Lake Temple Road. Forum president Kajal Sarkar, too, has quarantined himself. “I had undergone an operation a few days ago and need to be careful. At the same time, those who were on the frontline of the puja organization need to take a break. During the puja, as well as in the fortnight before that, they would have come in contact with numerous people and could have been infected. Some of them will be asymptomatic. But we need to exercise caution to ensure that others don’t get infected by our carelessness,” said Sarkar. But not all are convinced about the need for quarantine. Suruchi Sangha general secretary Kingshuk Maitra argued that the exercise was meaningless since the crowd was more at the point where the police set up barricades and not inside the pandal. “We maintained social distancing inside the pandal. But at the point where visitors were stopped, there was no social distancing. Those who manned these points need to exercise caution and undergo checks. We have to anyway make arrangements for Lakshmi puja and offices resume from Monday. So how can we go into quarantine?” he asked. Sources said there were sporadic cases of organizers showing Covid symptoms, but key members of the forum denied knowledge of any particular case. The forum had also suggested that the pandal workers and dhak players be tested before and after the Puja to ensure they do not return to their villages with Covid. While many got them tested before the Puja, most skipped the testing after the festival. Forum secretary Saswata Bose, who is also the secretary of Hatibagan Sarbajanin, said he had got the pandal workers tested before they returned home to Debra, but the dhakis had returned home in a hurry, unwilling to wait for the tests. At Suruchi Sangha, two workers who had displayed symptoms had been sent to Bangur for check-up and were kept in isolation. However, they were found to be Covid negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/call-for-quarantine-divides-durga-puja-organizers/articleshow/78940359.cms||Subhro Niyogi
October 30, 2020||Patna||All eyes on 4 seats in Khagaria district||KHAGARIA: The Khagaria district, popularly known as ‘farkiya’ since Mughal period, was once part of the erstwhile Monghyr district. It is ravaged by floodwaters of the Ganga, Burhi Gandak, Kareh, Kamla, Bagmati and Kosi during the monsoon almost every year. Altogether 67 candidates are in the fray in four seats – Alouli (SC), Khagaria, Beldaur (formerly Chautham) and Parbatta – in the district. The RJD had won the Alouli (SC) seat, while Khagaria, Beldaur and Parbatta seats went in favour of JD(U) in 2015 assembly elections. As LJP led by Chirag Paswan is no longer an ally of NDA comprising JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP, it has fielded its candidates in all the four segments. The JD(U), Plurals Party and Jan Adhikar Party (JAP)-Loktantrik are contesting from all four segments, while RJD is contesting from Alouli (SC) and Parbatta and its ally Congress from Khagaria and Beldaur. Alouli (SC): All eyes are on Alouli (SC) constituency from where LJP founder late Ram Vilas Paswan started his political career as SSP candidate in 1969 assembly elections. Paswan’s native village, Shaharbanni, has the distinction of producing four MPs, including senior Paswan, his younger brothers Pashupati Kumar Paras, Ramchandra Paswan and cousin Prince Raj. There are 14 candidates in the fray but the main fight, it seems, is between LJP candidate Ramchandra Sada and JD(U)’s Sadhna Devi. Sitting RJD MLA Chandan Kumar, who has been denied party ticket, is contesting the election as rebel against the RJD’s official candidate Rambriksha Sada. Khagaria: Altogether 21 candidates are in the fray in the seat. The main contest, observers feel, is between the two women candidates – sitting JD(U) MLA Poonam Devi Yadav and former MP Renu Kumari Kushwaha, who is contesting as LJP candidate. Congress candidate Chhatrapati Yadav, son of Rajendra Yadav, a Congress stalwart, and Manohar Yadav of JAP-L are also in the fray. JD(U) candidate Poonam, in her speeches, praises CM Nitish Kumar for all-round development in the state, while LJP’s Renu Kumari keeps on highlighting various problems of the area. Beldaur: Beldaur assembly segment is all set to witness a multi-cornered contest. Altogether 17 candidates are trying their luck from the constituency. Sitting JD(U) MLA Pannalal Singh Patel is pitted against Congress’s Chandan Kumar, LJP’s Mithilesh Kumar Nishad and JAP-L’s Nagendra Singh Tyagi. JD(U) MLA Patel is facing a stiff challenge from LJP and Congress this time. Parbatta: The Parbatta seat with a dominant population of Bhumihar caste has 15 candidates in the fray. The JD(U) has fielded Sanjeev Kumar, son of two-time MLA R N Singh, who is pitted against RJD’s Digambar Chaurasia and LJP’s Aditya Kumar Shaurya alias Babulal Shaurya, a BJP activist who switched over to the LJP recently. Polarisation of Bhumihar votes, observers say, may benefit either LJP or JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-eyes-on-4-seats-in-khagaria-district/articleshow/78939785.cms||N P Thakur
October 30, 2020||Patna||Minister: Govt schemes to benefit farmers||PATNA: Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the Centre’s decision to produce ethanol from sugar cane and rice would go a long way in giving a boost to Bihar’s economy, besides ensuring direct benefits to the farmers who produce sugar cane and rice. Addressing media persons here, the minister said ethanol produced from sugar cane is mixed with petrol which can be used by the consumers. “It has been going on in several countries of the world and in India for quite some time,” he said, adding the permission to use rice for the production of ethanol is a new decision of the Centre. He added the Centre has decided to create a Rs 1 lakh crore fund to build right infrastructure in the agriculture sector. Union animal husbandry minister Giriraj Singh said PM Narendra Modi’s thrust on using new technology to promote livestock breeding and rearing in the animal husbandry sector to augment the production of milk and promote quality fish farming has also been benefitting the state’s farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-govt-schemes-to-benefit-farmers/articleshow/78939120.cms||Abhay Singh
October 30, 2020||Business||India’s gold demand improved QoQ: WGC||Chennai: Rising appetite for gold as an investment option, coupled with lifting lockdown restrictions pushed up demand for the yellow metal during the quarter ended September over the sequential quarter by 35%. Demand for gold in July-September quarter was 86.6 tonnes, up from 64 tonnes in April-June period. However, the demand for the metal dipped 30% YoY, compared to in July-September 2019 when it clocked 123.9 tonnes.The demand for jewellery continued to decline by 48% YoY at 52.8 tonnes while investment demand grew 52% at 33.8 tonnes, data from World Gold Council showed. On a quarterly basis, jewellery demand has improved by 20% at 52.8 tonne in quarter ended September 2020, from 44 tonne in quarter ended June, 2020.In value terms, gold demand shrunk by 4% at Rs 39,510 crore in September quarter, as against Rs 41,300 crore in the same quarter last year.Somasundaram PR, MD, World Gold Council, said, “One interesting development during these months of lockdown has been the rapid rise in digital engagement as most jewellers take to tech solutions to woo buyers. Digital platforms selling allocated gold through wallets also recorded a sharp rise in volumes, along with significant activity in gold ETFs following a prolonged period of quiescence.”With not much distress selling of gold, no significant movement was seen in recycling of gold. “Gold loans by banks are a pillar of support for Indian customers, who avoided the need to sell their gold during the crisis,” Somasundaram.Gold recycled was up 14% at 41.5 tonne in this quarter, as compared to 36.5 tonne in the same period last year.New trends in gold purchase includes higher demand for gold in the coming months, on account of Dussehra, Dhanteras and other festivals coupled with a busy wedding season post-harvest. “Expect higher demand for gold bars and coins with low labour cost. Gold smuggling will also be rapid at the back of higher duty on the yellow metal, growing rate of job loss. Substantial rise is expected to be seen in purchase of digital gold, with digital engagement seeing higher traction in the last few months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-gold-demand-improved-qoq-wgc/articleshow/78940351.cms||Mamtha Asokan
October 30, 2020||Goa||Over 50% Covid victims in Goa had diabetes, hypertension||PANAJI: Uncontrolled diabetes has been a major contributor in worsening the health of more than half the patients who died after contracting Covid-19 in the state. The most common comorbidity found among Covid victims was diabetes followed by hypertension, while many had both. Goa’s Covid-19 toll rose to 598 with five deaths on Thursday. Four of the victims had diabetes and three had hypertension too. “We have seen a lot of patients whose blood sugar levels were on the higher side after they were diagnosed with Covid-19. Some were unaware of their diabetes and the complications that can arise due to the delays in medication,” consultant nephrologist Dr Shital Lengade said. Lengade said some (Covid patients) had not checked their diabetes level for they had never experienced the typical symptoms of diabetes to require a check. “Some patients who were on diabetes medication, also had their sugar level elevated after the diagnosis and, on hospitalisation, they were initiated on insulin because that is the best way to control diabetes. The rise in blood sugar level was obviously due to the strain they were undergoing due to the infection,” he said. In some, the symptoms of diabetes may appear very subtly. All who are over 30 must get basic health check-up done annually and those with family history of diabetes mustn’t miss the routine health check-up, Lengade said. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean and Covid hospitals in-charge Dr S M Bandekar said the diet of people who suffering from hypertension and diabetes is customised. “There are a lot of restrictions on what they can eat. Their bodies are deprived of nutrition which in-turn lowers their immunity and consequently they are more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection,” Bandekar said. “It is true that more than half of the people who died after getting Covid-19 had diabetes and hypertension,” he said. Lengade said some medication used for treatment of Covid-19 could also increase blood sugar levels to a significant level in a patient who has diabetes. In that context, insulin is helpful. “It was seen that patients who had good control of their diabetes fared better, but those who didn’t, developed complications,” he said. Bandekar said that those patients who were reluctant to start on insulin or delayed it, raised the risk of complications because of their unregulated diabetes. In others, one of the comorbidities such as cancer, asthma, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and alcoholic liver cirrhosis — moved them closer to death after they tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-50-covid-victims-in-state-had-diabetes-hypertension/articleshow/78941883.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 30, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: 783 fresh positive cases, 7 more deaths in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 783 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,14,946. Officially seven deaths were reported, following which the toll reached 1,076. However, with 2,05,385 recoveries, there are now 8,483 active cases in Bihar. As per the information shared by the state health department, two deaths were reported from Patna district and the toll reached 263, followed by one death each from Darbhanga, Sheikhpura, Jehanabad, Siwan and Samastipur. AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths, of which three were from Patna and it includes a 28 year old male of Khagaul, a 45-year-old male of Danka Imli in Patna City and a 76-year-old male of Ara Garden Road. Another deceased was a 49-year-old male of East Champaran. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjev Kumar, 10 Covid-19 positive patients were admitted on Thursday and the list includes a five-year-old girl child of Supaul. On the other hand, 20 patients were discharged and as on Thursday, there were 179 patients in the hospital. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) reported one death and the deceased was an 85-year-old male of Gandhar village in Jehanabad district. Of total 783 new Covid-19 cases registered on Thursday, 265 were from Patna, after which the tally reached 35,357. However, with 32,803 recoveries and 263 deaths, there are 2,291 active cases in Patna. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts include Purnia (59), Araria (35), Nalanda (31) and Muzaffarpur (30). As per the tweet shared by state health minister Mangal Pandey, 1068 people had recovered in the past 24 hour time span and the state’s recovery rate stood at 95.55%. He further informed that 13,1,357 samples have been tested in the same time period, and so far over 1.06 crore samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/783-fresh-ve-cases-7-more-deaths-in-state/articleshow/78939021.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 30, 2020||Business||Pidilite buys Araldite maker for Rs 2,100 crore||MUMBAI: Fevicol maker Pidilite Industries has acquired a 100% stake in Huntsman Advanced Materials Solutions (HAMSPL), one of American group Huntsman’s subsidiaries in India, for a cash consideration of about Rs 2,100 crore. A do-it-yourself (DIY) business, the Rs 400-crore HAMSPL manufactures and sells adhesives, sealants and other products under brands such as Araldite, Araldite Karpenter and Araseal in India. Pidilite’s board met on Thursday to approve the deal. In addition to the Indian subcontinent business, the acquisition includes a trademark licence for the Middle East, Africa and Asean countries, Pidilite Industries said. The company added that the transaction is expected to close by next week. Pidilite Industries executive director Apurva Parekh said, “Araldite is an iconic brand and a market leader in epoxy adhesives in India. We are thankful for all the support extended by the Huntsman group and we are confident that our association will remain strong going forward as well.” Huntsman group is a leading producer of differentiated organic chemical products. Its chairman, president and CEO Peter Huntsman said, “We have taken this business and built it from almost nothing to be a market leader in India. To take it to the next level of size and value, we simply do not have the footprint to do so in India. Pidilite is a respected leader in consumer adhesives within India and is in a better position to invest in and more aggressively grow this consumer DIY business over the coming years. We anticipate within the coming months that we will be able to deploy the proceeds from this asset and replace the lost ebitda with other growth assets that fit even better within our core advanced materials specialty business.” HAMSPL has a country-wide distribution network and a strong presence in retail trade. Pidilite Industries MD Bharat Puri said, “With this acquisition, Araldite will add to the already very strong portfolio of Pidilite’s adhesive and sealant brands and will complement our retail portfolio. We are confident that this acquisition will create significant shareholder value through strong revenue and cost synergies.”Analysts said by acquiring a unit of Huntsman, Pidilite has further fortified its market share. The Huntsman acquisition is expected to add 5.4% to Pidilite’s revenues (Rs 6,333 crore in FY20). “Pidilite price/sales is at around 10x historical sales vs Huntsman acquisition at 5.25x. Huntsman has very strong brands and there will be lot of synergy benefit to scale it up given much superior distribution of Pidilite apart from getting Araldite, which is a leader in epoxy adhesives. It will further help it in increasing market share and ward off competition from paint players,” said Abneesh Roy, research analyst at Edelweiss Securities. Under the terms of the agreement, Huntsman will receive approximately 90% of the cash consideration at closing and balance approximately 10% under an earn-out within 18 months, if the business achieves sales revenue in-line with 2019. The deal amount excludes customary working capital and other adjustments, subject to certain preconditions being met prior to the closing of the transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pidilite-buys-araldite-maker-for-rs-2100cr/articleshow/78941650.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Business||Bank of Baroda net profit up 128% on lower defaults||MUMBAI: Bank of Baroda (BoB) reported a net profit of Rs 1,679 crore for the quarter ended September, an increase of 128% over Rs 737 crore in the year-ago period. The lender’s profit growth was driven by a 7% increase in net interest income to Rs 7,028 crore, coupled with a sharp drop in provisioning requirement for bad loans. The lender’s domestic deposits stood at Rs 8.6 lakh crore at the end of the quarter, up 7% from Rs 7.8 lakh crore a year earlier. Domestic advances rose 6% to Rs 6 lakh crore from Rs 8.9 lakh crore a year ago. Bank of Baroda MD & CEO Sanjiv Chadha said the improved performance in the second quarter rests on two main pillars — reduction in growth in deposits and robust growth of retail advances. Chadha said the bank decided to match deposit growth with credit, bearing in mind that every rupee that is not deployed is a pressure on its margin. The bank tempered deposit growth by reducing dependence on expensive bulk deposits and increasing the share of current and savings accounts. On the credit side, it made up for the lack of corporate credit growth by pushing retail loans. “To the extent the bank has been emphasising growth in a retail portfolio to balance corporate book, I see this growth continuing. This is reflected in home, auto and education loans, which have grown 13%, 35% and 13%, respectively,” said Chadha. “There has been a sharp recovery after the lockdown in Q1 and that revival has been reflected in fee income, which has improved compared to the first quarter and last year. Loan recoveries have seen a significant rebound,” he said. The ratio of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) stood at 9.14% as of September 2020 against 10.25% in the previous year. Net NPA ratio improved to 2.51% as against 3.91% as on September 30, 2019. However, some defaults were not classified as NPAs because of a Supreme Court stay. If the bank would have classified the said borrower accounts as NPA, the gross and net NPA ratios would have been 9.33% and 2.67%, respectively. The bank’s recovery during the quarter stood at Rs 2,500 crore. It expects Rs 5,000 crore of recoveries from NCLT accounts in the third and the fourth quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-of-baroda-net-profit-up-128-on-lower-defaults/articleshow/78941811.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||Goa CM visits Melauli village, but fails to convince villagers||VALPOI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday visited Shel-Melauli village in Sattari for the first time to try and convince the villagers to withdraw their opposition to the proposed IIT project. The villagers, however, remained firm on their stand. Sawant told the villagers that the IIT project is not against them or to take away their properties, but for the development of the village. “Development of the village means the development of the villagers. Around 500 to 1,000 people will get jobs and next two generations will benefit,” he said. He offered to take a few villagers to various IITs around the country and show them how the surrounding areas developed and how the locals benefited. The chief minister also assured the villagers that he will try and solve the land rights and ownership issues after inspecting the proposed IIT site. “I am aware that the villagers have several issues regarding the project, but this issue cannot be resolved by interacting with a huge crowd. This issue should be discussed with 10-15 village representatives,” Sawant said, adding that he had not come here to “to take a decision today itself”. Whenever a government brings a project to a village it thinks about the next 50 years development in the village, he said. In an attempt to reach out to villagers on an equal footing, the chief minister told those gathered that he too hailed from a small village called Kothambi and that he has “full knowledge of what a village is and the lives and problems of the villagers”. “I have only shifted to Sakhali since I became a MLA,” Sawant said. The villagers rejected all offers made by the chief minister. They raised slogans of “Go back IIT”. Melauli villager Sadayo Melekar, while speaking on behalf of the villagers, told Sawant that “from the day one, neither the government, panchayat nor our MLA (health minister Vishwajit Rane) has not supported us. Our final decision is that we don’t want an IIT in Melauli village”. North Goa collector R Maneka, Sattari deputy collector Rajesh Ajgaonkar, mamlatdar Dasharath Gawas, government surveyors and police officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-visits-melauli-village-but-fails-to-convince-villagers/articleshow/78941952.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders: One more case||AHMEDABAD: Legal trouble for Popular Builders increased as a paints manufacturer on Tuesday filed a complaint of cheating and criminal intimidation against Raman Patel and brother Dashrath Patel for illegally possessing an office in a commercial building on SG Road worth Rs 3 crore. Later, the duo took loan on the property for which the complainant was given a notice by the bank as they did not pay the sum. In his FIR with Vastrapur police, Govind Barot, 70, resident of Aishwarya Bungalows-1 on Science City Road in Sola states that the duo had taken possession of the office on June 24, 2010. Barot runs a paint manufacturing firm named Gunjan Paints, Barot said that he had bought an office measuring 2,490 square feet in New York Tower on SG Road in 1998 and furnished it for use as his company office. The office was not used till 2010 and at that time Raman and Dashrath Patel approached Barot seeking the office on rent for 11 months and 29 days.  Barot said the Patel brothers assured him that they would take ample care of the office and will increase monthly rent by 15% if he allowed them to continue to use the office after the contract period. The duo had taken possession of the office on June 24, 2010 and as they did not vacate the office even after the agreed period. Barot then sent them a notice through his advocate in August 2010 to leave the office. Barot claimed that they did not vacate the office giving one reason or another till August 2014. “At that time, they approached me and told me to allow them to keep the office in the name of Lord Swaminarayan and as I also had a faith in Lord Swaminarayan, I allowed them to stay there,” said Barot, adding that this time they got a rent agreement for around two years. When the rent agreement got over again, Barot approached them and told them to vacate the office but they abused and threatened him with dire consequences. In July 2017, Barot got a letter from a private bank stating that the property was mortgaged to get a loan. After the builder duo was arrested in an attempt to murder, molestation and illegal confinement case, Barot approached police and filed a case of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and criminal intimidation against Raman and Dashrath Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popular-builders-1-more-case/articleshow/78941558.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Pithoragarh-Tanakpur stretch of NH9 to remain shut from Oct 31, affecting movement till Nov 10||Pithoragarh: District authorities have decided to shut NH-9 between Pithoragarh and Tanakpur for repair works after an accident on October 26, in which heavy boulders fell on a vehicle, killing both people in it. The road closure is expected to disturb vehicular movement on the road between October 31 and November 10. Road repair was already in progress on the stretch. The contractor had requested the administration to block movement on the stretch as the road at Gurna, 15km from Pithoragarh, is very narrow. The district administration had complied by closing down the road for cutting the rock at Gurna from October 10 to October 21. Vehicular movement on the stretch restarted thereafter, but on October 26, a boulder fell on a dumpster killing its driver and helper on the spot. Following this, the dumpster’s owner lodged an FIR against the highways authority and the contactor for negligence at Pithoragarh police station. On Wednesday, district administration and NHAI officers inspected the work site at Gurna. Pithoragarh DM Vijay Kumar Jogdende later said NHAI had informed that there are cracks in the rocks, so there is a possibility of boulders falling on the road, because of which it will take 15 days for the work to be completed. Thereafter, the administration announced that all vehicular movement on the stretch will be stopped between October 31 and November 1, after which, between November 2 and November 10, vehicles will be allowed from 2PM, after the working agency clears the road. Jogdende added that in emergencies, people can also use Thal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pithoragarh-tanakpur-stretch-of-nh9-to-remain-shut-from-oct-31-affecting-movement-till-nov-10/articleshow/78938575.cms||Prem Punetha
October 30, 2020||Kanpur||Court grants one-day police custody remand of Vikas Dubey's aide||KANPUR: The chief metropolitan magistrate, Kanpur Nagar, on Thursday granted one-day police custody remand of Jaikant Bajpai, a close associate of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. The police will take Jaikant under their custody on Friday from Kanpur Central Jail at 8 a.m and will produce him in the jail at 5 p.m. The police have sought his custody remand to investigate in the matter of forged secretariat pass. He had pasted the forged secretariat pass on one of his cars. The district police had filed an application in a court to seek police custody remand (PCR) of Jaikant , alleged financier of slain gangster Dubey in order to interrogate him with regard to recovery of three luxury vehicles from Vijay Nagar area of Kakadeo and using fake secretariat pass on one such vehicle, a senior police officer said. The police thereafter had booked Jaikant alias Jai Bajpai and his accomplice Rahul Singh for using fake secretariat pass with MLA written on it. An FIR in this regard was lodged at Kakadeo police station under section 420/467/468/471 and 120 B against Jaikant Bajpai and his aide Rahul Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/court-grants-one-day-police-custody-remand-of-vikas-aide/articleshow/78939231.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||Multiplex chain in Goa offers private screenings for movie buffs||PANAJI: A multiplex chain opened three of its venues — Margao, Osia and Porvorim – after being shut for over six months. However, instead of allowing visitors to view movies all at once, the number of people permitted will be based on group bookings wherein families or friends can book an entire screening hall for private viewing. This exclusively curated experience can be availed by the guests at the date and time of their choice, at any of the operational multiplex across the country. Guests making the booking can choose the content of their choice, either from the current play list, or an old blockbuster. A minimum of two people and a maximum of up to 50% of the auditorium capacity will be permitted owing to the MHA guidelines. The price is starting at Rs 2,999 per group. “Cinemas have been providing a mental escape to millions since decades, and would continue to do so in the post-pandemic world,” Inox Leisure Limited chief marketing officer Saurabh Varma said. Highly personalised with choice of content, besides the date and time, the screenings will be carried out with safety protocols, he said. Safety standards like mandatory mask, temperature check, e-tickets, contactless payment and entry and enhanced air-filtration have been implemented as well. The city multiplex, run by Inox Leisure Ltd, which has been undergoing renovation will reopen later. All Goa Theatre Owners’ Association (AGTOA) president Pravin Zantye said that the other theatres in Goa will not open as of now owing to various reasons. “I am not aware of any movies being released. We are waiting for other theatres all over the country to reopen, only then will we consider it ourselves. Even big states like Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Telangana are yet to restart.” Zantye, who is also the Mayem MLA, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/multiplex-chain-offers-pvt-screenings-for-movie-buffs/articleshow/78941993.cms||Nida Sayed
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt wants to ruin us, say farmers in Haryana||JIND/KARNAL: Farmers in Jind expressed their anger against the introduction of an ordinance to monitor the air quality, which will attract a jail provision of up to five years or fine Rs 1 crore. Surajmal Nain, a native of Khairanti village in Julana town of Jind district, said, “The present government wants to ruin the farmers. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is taking anti farmers decisions consecutively.” According to him, even though farmers are not the only ones responsible for the air pollution, the government, which is afraid of take any action against the big giants of the market initiative, go after softer target like farmers. “There are other ways to control stubble burning cases, this move will destroy us,” he added. Dalbir Singh, a farmer and a native of Bibipur village in Jind, said “BJP government has decided to damage the farmers. The Britishers also used to enforce such laws aimed at destroying people. The centre should make alternative arrangements to deal with the stubble burning issue instead of imposing new law.”  In Karnal, a day after the Centre has introduced a new law through an ordinance to deal with the problem of air pollution in Delhi-NCR, farmers leader termed the law as another setback for farmers who were already on the roads against the three farm laws. They will oppose this ordinance. Rattan Mann, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (tikait) said,” The Modi-led NDA government is bringing the anti-farmers laws one after another, instead of doubling their income. The government should ensure to make the stubble profitable for the farmers instead of imposing the anti-farmer laws”. “This law would create resentment among the farming community. We will oppose this ordinance and submit a memorandum against it. We demanded the government that all old FIRs registered against farmers for stubble burning should also be canceled, Mann added. He said farmers acknowledged the adverse effects of burning stubble but had no alternative in the absence of any financial assistance. The government should make efforts to deal with the air pollution menace by reducing vehicular emission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-wants-to-ruin-us-say-farmers-in-haryana/articleshow/78941600.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, Congress shift focus to Muslim community in Dubbak||HYDERABAD: The ruling TRS and opposition Congress are going all out to bring the Muslim voters in Dubbak constituency in their fold. There are nearly 8,000 Muslim voters in Dubbak that is going to poll on November 3. With a majority of youngsters from the community rallying behind state finance minister T Harish Rao, the Congress is banking on the support of elders. Congress leaders, including former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir and TPCC minority cell chairman Shaik Abdulla Sohail, are trying to convince the community elders to vote in the grand old party’s favour. The party is bringing to fore support extended by TRS to the Modi government at Centre on various issues, including the Triple Talaq Bill. “All that we are trying to explain to the minority community is that there has been a secret alliance between TRS and BJP. The TRS voted in favour of BJP to elect Ramnath Kovind as the president of India and M Venkaiah Naidu as the vice-president. The TRS was first to support Modi government on demonetization, followed by GST and even arogation of Article 370,” said Shaik Abdulla. The TRS, on its part, is trying to convince the community that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has not only openly opposed the BJP government’s proposed National Register of Citizens, but the Telangana Assembly has also passed resolutions against the implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), the National Population Register (NPR) and NRC in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-cong-shift-focus-to-muslim-community/articleshow/78941607.cms||Roushan Ali
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Honest restrains franchisee in Bhadaj from using trademark||AHMEDABAD: The popular restaurant chain Honest has restrained its franchisee in Bhadaj from using the trademark and label due to dissatisfaction over the food quality at the branch and violation of licence agreements. A city sessions court ordered Shree Rang Hospitalities and its partners, who had secured rights from Honest Restaurant Pvt Ltd to use the trademark and label Honest in 2017 for nine years, from temporarily using the name “under the device mark with oval shape and red-yellow colour combination” at the eatery at Bhadaj Circle. District and sessions judge Shalini Jain passed the restraining orders till the pendency of the suit filed by the owners of Honest Reveira and Honest Restaurant. More than two years after Shree Rang Hospitalities purchased rights to run the eatery under the tradename of Honest in 2017 for nine years, the Honest Restaurant management issued notice in early 2019 and asked it to stop using the name because of a breach in licence terms including payment of licence fees as well as following complaints over food and service quality. Shree Rang replied to the notice and promised to abide by all licence terms and make payment regularly. A year later, Honest Restaurant moved the city civil court complaining infringement on its trademark because Shree Rang did not stop using the name even after the notice thereby causing damage to its reputation. Shree Rang stated that the licence conditions were duly complied with and Google reviews of customers reflect that this franchisee fared better than other branches so far as quality of food and services was concerned. This was rebutted by submitting that Google reviews alone could not be criterion for analyzing performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/honest-restrains-franchisee-in-bhadaj-from-using-trademark/articleshow/78941582.cms||Saeed Khan
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Days after replacing Harak Rawat as chairman, govt dissolves Uttarakhand labour board||Dehradun: The state government on Thursday dissolved the Uttarakhand Building and Construction Workers Welfare Board, days after Samsher Singh Satyal replaced forest minister Harak Singh Rawat as the chairman of the board. Sources said the new board may be announced soon. Following the dissolvement of the board, its secretary Damayanti Rawat has been removed from the post. Earlier in the day, Harak met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. After the meeting, he told the reporters, “The CM was busy so we could not discuss matters in length. I had gone to discuss some forest department related projects with him.” After he was removed from the post of chairman, Harak Rawat had announced that he would not contest the 2022 assembly polls. He, however, termed it a personal decision “which had no connection with the recent development”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/days-after-replacing-harak-rawat-as-chairman-govt-dissolves-uttarakhand-labour-board/articleshow/78938616.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||India||Former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel passes away at 92||GANDHINAGAR: Former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel passed away in Ahmedabad on Thursday after suffering a heart attack. He was 92. From joining the RSS as a pracharak while in his teens, Keshubhai was a key leader of the Jan Sangh. He became the first president of BJP’s Gujarat unit and played a major role in the party’s rise in Gujarat. Keshubhai, fondly known as ‘Bapa’ in Gujarat, was rushed to a private hospital in Ahmedabad, where he breathed his last. Later in the afternoon, his body was taken to his house in Gandhinagar and then to the BJP state headquarters, Kamalam, for party workers and the public to pay their last respects. Keshubhai’s mortal remains were cremated in the evening. The first BJP CM of Gujarat, Keshubhai Patel did not enjoy long stints as CM. In his first stint, Patel had to step down in the face of a rebellion led by senior party member Shankersinh Vaghela. He was replaced as CM in his second stint in the aftermath of three natural disasters – the 1998 Kandla cyclone, 1999 drought and the devastating earthquake of 2001. “Our beloved and respected Keshubhai has passed away. I am deeply pained and saddened. He was an outstanding leader who cared for every section of society,” PM Modi tweeted. The PM called and spoke to Bharat Patel, Keshubhai’s son, and offered his condolences. Modi to pay homage in Gandhinagar today: PM Modi will be on a day-long visit to Gandhinagar on Friday where he will pay homage to Keshubhai Patel. Modi will pay homage to Patel in the morning before taking part in other events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-gujarat-cm-keshubhai-patel-passes-away-at-92/articleshow/78942888.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Prepare smart parking plan for hill stations like Mussoorie, Nainital: CM||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday reviewed the ongoing projects in departments held by urban development minister Madan Kaushik. In the meeting, the CM laid thrust on setting priority in projects, ensuring quality work and completing projects within the stipulated time span. He directed authorities to speed up the construction of bus stations and parking areas in the hilly regions. CM Rawat also asked authorities to prepare a smart parking plan for tourist destinations like Mussoorie and Nainital. He advised them to take the help of private parties if required for preparing plans. The CM instructed the urban local bodies to prepare a master plan for their areas and funds have been made available for the process. He added that the master plan and detailed planning of local areas will help in development and improving infrastructure. He directed officials to make online mapping approving more effective and the draft of policy required should be presented in the next cabinet. In the meeting, the CM was told by officials that smart city projects in Dehradun were worth Rs 1,407 crore. Under the PM Awas Yojana, 13,180 EWS houses out of the total of 44,680 have been approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prepare-smart-parking-plan-for-hill-stations-like-mussoorie-nainital-cm/articleshow/78938634.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Former Gujarat CM Keshubhai Patel bids adieu at 92||GANDHINAGAR: Former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel passed away in Ahmedabad on Thursday morning after suffering a heart attack. He was 92. From joining the RSS as a pracharak while in his teens, Keshubhai Patel was a key leader of the Jan Sangh. He became the first president of the Gujarat unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party. He played a major role in the BJP’s rise in Gujarat. Keshubhai, fondly known as ‘Bapa’ in Gujarat, suffered a heart attack on Thursday morning at his Gandhinagar home. He was rushed to a private hospital in Ahmedabad, where he breathed his last. Later in the afternoon, his body was taken to his house in Gandhinagar and then to the BJP state headquarters, Kamalam, for party workers and the public to pay their last respects. Keshubhai’s mortal remains were cremated at the Sector 30 crematorium in the evening.  The first chief minister of the saffron party in Gujarat, Keshubhai Patel did not enjoy long stints as CM. In his first stint as CM, Patel had to step down in the face of a rebellion led by senior party leader Shankersinh Vaghela. He was replaced as CM in his second stint as CM in the aftermath of three natural disasters back to back, the 1998 Kandla cyclone, 1999 drought and the devastating earthquake of 2001. Although he quit the BJP and formed his own political outfit – the Gujarat Parivartan Party – in 2012, he commanded great respect within the BJP. Within a couple of years of forming the GPP, Patel returned to the BJP by merging his outfit with it. A number of leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled Patel’s death. The state government will conduct the final rites of the departed leader with full state honours. Our beloved and respected Keshubhai has passed away. I am deeply pained and saddened. He was an outstanding leader who cared for every section of society,” PM Modi said in a series of three tweets. The PM called and spoke to Bharat Patel, Keshubhai’s son, and offered his condolences to the family. Other leaders including chief minister Vijay Rupani, state Congress chief Amit Chavda, former CM Shankersinh Vaghela and others condoled the death of the nonagenarian leader. While chief minister Vijay Rupani in Dhari said Keshubhai’s demise is an irreparable loss to his party and the state, GPCC president Amit Chavda said Keshubhai set an example of how the public life of a leader ought to be by spending his entire life working for the welfare of the poor, farmers and other downtrodden sections of society. Born on July 24, 1928, Keshubhai Patel joined the RSS as a pracharak (apparatchik) in the 1940s. He later joined the Jan Sangh and was chief minister of Gujarat in 1995 and later from 1998 to 2001. He was also the deputy chief minister of Gujarat in 1990. Regret being the reason for Keshubhai having to step down as CM: Bapu Senior politician and former CM Shankersinh Vaghela, who had engineered a coup against Keshubhai Patel in 1995, on Thursday expressed remorse for being responsible for Patel having to step down as CM. “When he finally became CM and could not remain CM for long, I was most saddened. He spent his whole life in the opposition, and when he finally became CM, he had to step down. What is more saddening is that I was the reason for him to leave the chair, although there were others who were actually responsible,” Vaghela said in a video statement on Thursday. “When he was leaving for the US, I had told him, you will no longer be the CM when you return. There is a lot of resentment among MLAs. I got the brickbats for that episode. I do not feel bad about that but I feel bad that he had to bear it,” Vaghela said. Condoling Keshubhai’s death, Shankersinh said that Patel was the tallest BJP leader of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-cm-keshubhai-patel-bids-adieu-at-92/articleshow/78941683.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre’s move to stop Rural Development Fund unfortunate: Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Terming the decision to put Punjab’s Rural Development Fund (RDF) on hold as unfortunate, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Centre to review its decision, as the move will badly impact the rural development works in the state. Questioning the timing of the Centre’s move, Amarinder said there is no precedent of not releasing the RDF that is due to the state, in the name of scrutiny of the utilisation of previous funds. He said he has asked finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal to go to Delhi and the Union minister for consumer affairs to resolve the issue, which has hit the state hard amid the fiscal crisis it is facing. The state government, said Amarinder, would submit all the utilisation details as sought by the Centre, as it has done in the past too. While this is not the first time the government of India has gone for a scrutiny of the utilisation funds, this is, however, a first as far as non-release of the RDF is concerned, he said expressing serious concern over the development. He said doubts are being raised in various quarters about the timing of the Union Cabinet’s decision to not release the RDF to the tune of over Rs 1,000 crore amid the controversy and crisis over the Centre’s farm laws. The timing is suspect and points to dubious motivation behind the move, he said urging the Centre to immediately reconsider and give the state’s dues against RDF while the scrutiny continues. The funds, as the Centre is well aware, are used for developing critical agriculture marketing infrastructure like construction of roads in the rural areas of the state and marketing yards, said Amarinder, adding that failure to release the funds would obstruct the development of villages and could further aggravate the angst of the farmers, who are in a prolonged agitation against the central farm sector legislations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centres-move-to-stop-rdf-unfortunate-capt/articleshow/78941616.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi to address national webinar on devpt of Poorvanchal||GORAKHPUR: A two-day webinar on “Poorvanchal Development: Issues, Strategies and Way Forward” will be organized by the Poorvanchal Development Board. Eminent personalities have been invited to contribute papers and speak online or offline mode so as to prepare a blueprint for a “Developed Poorvanchal”. The webinar has been divided into five sections, and will begin with the inaugural address by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on November 27. It will be attended by the chief secretary as well as the additional chief secretaries. The principal secretaries of various departments will inform and present the various schemes and policies of the Uttar Pradesh government regarding development of Poorvanchal at the webinar. “The CM has directed to invite bankers and investors to the webinar,” said DDU Gorakhpur University vice-chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh on Thursday while giving the detailed information on Thursday. He also met the CM at Gorakhnath temple and discussed a wide range of issues regarding the development of the Poorvanchal region. Economic advisor to CM Dr K V Raju was also present in the meeting. Prof Singh and Dr Raju discussed in detail the preparations for the webinar. Yogi emphasized on highlighting local products of Poorvanchal region such as terracotta of Gorakhpur, carpets of Bhadohi, silk sarees of Varanasi, black pottery of Azamgarh, decorative products of Deoria and wood-craft of Basti among others. He also stressed on the need for linking small industries making local products with banking credit system. The CM said that bankers and investors should also be invited in the webinar, said Prof Singh. After the meeting, Prof Singh said that the office of the Poorvanchal Development Board has been established in DDU University premises with the aim of preparing a holistic road map for the development of resource-starved districts of Poorvanchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-to-address-national-webinar-on-devpt-of-poorvanchal/articleshow/78939406.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 30, 2020||Varanasi||14-yr-old boy opens LED devices manufacturing firm||Gorakhpur: A class VIII student has opened his own manufacturing company of electronic appliances with an aim to replace Chinese electronic products by the Indian ones. Amar Prajapati, 14, took the training in LED (light emitting diode) making, and soon after started an enterprise under the directorship of his mother. He has also employed four people in his firm, and dreams of launching an entire range of electronic appliances. While speaking to TOI, Amar said, “During the initial days of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, I was affected to see the growing number of unemployed people in the country. Later, I read in the newspaper about a training programme of LED making organized in GIDA by Vivek Singh who himself runs a big unit of electronic appliances. My father, Ramesh Prajapati, agreed to send me for the training programme.” “I started making lights at home, and also employed a few people for assistance. But it was difficult to work from home due to limited space. My father supported me financially, and after an investment of around Rs 2 lakh, my manufacturing company, Jeevan Prakash Industries, was finally established. My mother, Suman Prajapati, took over as the director of the firm,” he added. “When many other parents were scared of sending their children outdoors, my father helped me and gave me the chance to learn LED making. It is my dream to replace Chinese products with Indian products in the field of electronics. I want to launch an entire range of electronic appliances including mobile phones,” said Amar. As the director of the firm, Amar’s mother has been helping him with the progress of the work. After his online classes, Amar dedicated his time to his company. He has also created his company’s website, www.jeewanprakashledlight.com, and has started selling products. “I am already selling products and will soon launch many innovative appliances. I have created my company’s website, and am in the process of uploading all the required information on it. Once the website is ready for use, I’ll be able to sell products online,” he said. “I gave the training of manufacturing and marketing LEDs to the people I have employed in my firm, and they are all doing very well,” he added. Amar’s father Ramesh Prajapati, who is a government employee, said that he is proud of his genius son. Trainer Vivek Singh said that Amar is very intelligent, strong-willed and patriotic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/14-yr-old-boy-opens-led-devices-manufacturing-firm/articleshow/78939366.cms||Arjumand Bano
October 30, 2020||Kanpur||Man burns physically challenged uncle to death in Banda district||Kanpur:A man, allegedly irked with his physically challenged uncle on refusal to sell electric fodder cutter machine at a cheap price, burnt him to death in full public view in a village in Banda district on Wednesday evening. He doused the victim with petrol and burned him when he was returning home on his tri-cycle rickshaw from nearby fields around 7 pm on Wednesday. He was later rushed to district hospital where he succumbed to burns. The deceased has been identified as 55-year-old Binda Prasad. According to police officials, the incident was reported from Jabrapur village falling under the limits of Fatehganj police station area. Binda, who lived with his family including wife and two sons in Jabrapur village, used to earn livelihood by doing farming on six ‘bighas’ of land in the vicinity of village. His two sons had gone to pay obeisance to deity at Kamadgiri temple in Chitrakoot at the time of incident. “After supervising days work, around 7 pm, Binda, headed for his home on a tri-cycle rickshaw from his nearby farms. While on way, his nephew Ram Bharosey carrying a container filled with petrol waylaid him. After entering into a scuffle with him, he doused him with petrol and later set him on fire and fled the spot,” said Pankaj Singh, station house officer (SHO), Fatehganj. The fire soon engulfed Binda and he sustained serious burns. The locals informed the police about the incident after which a team of police and officials of the forensic science laboratory reached the spot for inspection. The police later arrested the accused Ram Bharosey and lodged an FIR against him under relevant sections of IPC, including 302. “As per Shiv Pujan, elder son of the victim, accused Ram Bharosey is a nephew of Binda and resides in the neighbourhood. Few days ago, the accused, had a fight with his father, who had refused to sell their electric fodder machine at cheap price of Rs 25,000 while it’s actual cost is Rs 50,000. Irked over the refusal, Ram Bharosey decided to teach Binda a lesson and set him on fire by dousing him with petrol causing him grievous burn wounds,” said the SHO. “He was rushed to a nearby community health centre from where he was referred to district hospital, where he died later during treatment. On the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim’s son, we have arrested the accused and booked him under relevant sections of IPC including 302. He has been sent to jail. Binda’s body has been shifted to mortuary for postmortem examination,” the Fatehganj SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-burns-physically-challenged-uncle-to-death-in-banda-district/articleshow/78939260.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||US Nagar police arrests 4 for betting on IPL matches||Rudrapur: The Udham Singh Nagar police have arrested four persons in Kashipur for allegedly betting on Indian Premier League matches, police officials said on Thursday.The accused were arrested on late Wednesday from the sugar mill gate in Tada Ujjain locality. Kashipur’s station house officer CM Singh said that acting on a rip-off, the police personnel raided the spot where the accused were found accepting bets on an IPL match in a car between the Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore."The four accused, identified as Ali Hassan alias Sethji, Armaan Ahmed, Arshi Hussain and Javed Ahmed, all natives of UP’s Rampur were arrested. We also recovered Rs 1.49 lakh cash and four mobile phones from their possession. The car has also been impounded,” SHO Singh said.Singh told that the accused, upon interrogation, revealed that Sethji is the kingpin of the gang. He is into betting for the past couple of years. The gang has two more accomplices in Bazpur and Kashipur, who channelised betting with customers. The police team is trying to man the other two as well.The accused have been booked under section 13 of the Public Gambling Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/us-nagar-police-arrests-4-for-betting-on-ipl-matches/articleshow/78938629.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 30, 2020||Meerut||Senior Cong functionary among 2 dead, hope fades for missing 2 as house collapses after LPG cylinder blast||Meerut: Congress’ city unit chief of Meerut’s Sardhana town was among two persons killed and seven others were injured when a fire at an illegal cracker making factory triggered an LPG cylinder blast on Thursday morning. Impact of the blast was so powerful that the house of the local leader, Aasim Khan -- where the illegal factory was allegedly being run-- came down. And several adjacent buildings were also damaged. Police and fire department teams were pressed into service for the rescue operations. Seven persons including two children were pulled out and taken to a hospital.Rescue operation was underway till late in the evening as two more persons were still stuck in the debris.Sardhana’s circle office RP Shahi said, “Prima facie, the blast occurred after the gas cylinder caught fire. Forensic teams are also investigating to find the reason behind the blast. The Congress city president of Sardhana and another person died. At least 10 more houses were damaged.”Meanwhile, the two others stuck in the debris are feared to have died. Despite long hours of rescue operation, they could not be found. “A probe has been set up in the matter and it is being checked what led to the accident,” said Shahi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/senior-cong-functionary-among-2-dead-hope-fades-for-missing-2-as-house-collapses-after-lpg-cylinder-blast/articleshow/78938635.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Woman hangs self over ill health||Rudrapur: A 28-year-old woman hanged herself to death at her house in US Nagar’s Dineshpur town allegedly over health issues, the police said. Shahina Parveen was a resident of Gularbhoj’s Daleep Nagar village under Dineshpur police station area. On Thursday afternoon, she was found hanging from the ceiling of a barn in the house, according to the police. She was taken to Gadarpur community health centre but was declared dead by the doctors. The police reached the health centre and shifted the body to Rudrapur district hospital for post-mortem. The family members of the woman told the police that Shahina was suffering from health-related issues for the past several years and was in depression, and might have ended her life due to her illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-hangs-self-over-ill-health/articleshow/78938628.cms||Aakash Ahuja
October 30, 2020||Meerut||Mother of 3 youths 'held hostage' at a kolhu in Maharashtra seeks police help||Muzaffarnagar: A woman on Thursday morning reached Muzaffarnagar’s SSP office seeking police help to secure the release of her three sons who she claimed have been held hostage by kolhu owners in Maharashtra. She showed a video to police officers in which her two sons were purportedly seen in chains, and were being tortured.The kolhu owners were demanding Rs 2lakh in lieu of their release, the woman said.According to police sources, the victims were promised jobs at a kolhu in Pune district of Maharashtra by a few contractors. “The contractors took Rs 2lakh from Roorkee based owners of the kolhu. After taking the money, the three contractors disappeared,” a source said.After that the owner held the three youths, two of them minors hostage demanding the money back, he said.“I am not able to eat and sleep. I want my sons back,” the woman said.Superintendent of police (rural) Nepal Singh said, “The incident happened in Maharashtra. I have asked the SHO of the Jansath police station to take action into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mother-of-3-youths-held-hostage-at-a-kolhu-in-maharashtra-seeks-police-help/articleshow/78938633.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Annual Milad meet goes virtual this year||HYDERABAD: Islamic preachers and scholars from across the globe will join the All India Majlis Taameer-e-Millat (AIMTM) virtually in an event organized by the Tameer-e-Millat on Friday and Saturday. Addressing a press conference on Thursday afternoon, Dr Fakhruddin Mohammed, chairman of the 71st reception committee, which overlooks the grand congregational annual conference, said: “Islam is a religion of peace and tolerance.” Renowned Islamic scholars, including Shaikul Islam Dr Tahirul Quadri, founder and patron of Minhajul Qur'an International, grand Mufti of Australia Imam Abdul Quddus Azhari and Shaik Fakeruddin Owaisi from South Africa, will participate in the conference. AIMTM president Mr Syed Jaleel Ahmed would preside over. Tameer-e-Millat, for the first time in its over seven decades of history, is organizing the Jalsa-e-Rahmatul lil Alameen virtually, in compliance with the Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/annual-milad-meet-goes-virtual-this-yr/articleshow/78941638.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Meerut||Meet the man who saved over ‘hundred’ from drowning in Ganga||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Shravan Kumar took the first plunge at 12, and pulled out a man from the mighty Ganga. 10 years on, he has lost count of the people he saved from drowning, some of them slipped accidently while others intentionally. But all of them thanked him later. Shravan is now 22 years old and sells flowers and ‘prasad’ (offerings) at Muzaffarnagar’s Shukrataal ghat, a famous pilgrimage site. Sitting at the shop by the gushing river, Kumar recalled the first plunge. “It was spontaneous. Otherwise the man would have died.” Shravan had to quit school when he was eight to support family. “Father was constantly ill,” he says. Prasada selling continues to be his main source of earning. But his eyes and ears are always fixed on the river. “Timing is of great essence here. Even a fraction of delay can cause irreparable damage. With experience, I can make out a difference between a suicide attempt and accidental fall,” says the youth. But Shravan has one grudge. He lost two mobile phones recently while jumping into the river to save lives. “In the rush, I couldn’t take them out of the pocket,” he said. And he adds, “It is not just mobile phones but my prasad also. It’s a monkey-infested area and they don’t leave any opportunity.” But, despite the losses, Shravan finds peace in saving human lives. “God has put me in this position, I am blessed,” he says. Some of those saved come back to thank Shravan. And two of them return regularly to meet him. “I have seen death from very close quarters. It was around seven years ago when a 15-year-old fell into the river. It took me some time to reach him. When I went deeper, I saw him. His eyes were open and he was trembling like fish out of water. Those would have been his last moments. I pulled him out somehow. It took half-an-hour to revive him, but he lived. He is now 18 years old and comes to meet me every year from Agra,” says Shravan, who never asks for money. “River is very unpredictable. It is often calm from above but heavy current flows underneath. Earlier, almost 10 people used to fall into the river daily. It was due to a structural flaw of the ghat. It was steep beyond a few meters and a non-swimmer wouldn’t get time to turn back. But that was fixed later. Falling continues nevertheless, and increases during monsoon.” Maha Mandaleshwar of Shukratal Peeth said, “I am here for the last seven years. I have personally witnessed how this youth saved hundreds of lives without worrying about his safety. There were times when drowning people would pull him inside water out of panic. But such incidents never deterred him from jumping into the river next time.” Local police feel he is certainly a blessing for the area. SSP Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said, “Shravan has been of great help to police also when vehicular accidents occur near Bhopa region from where the canal passes.” Local scribe Qazi Amzad Ali says, “Shravan has saved hundreds of lives. But it is an irony that only a few of them are in contact with him. An Agra-based businessman, whose grandson was rescued by him two years ago, comes every year to meet him. When TOI contacted the businessman, Kalyan Singh Bhadauria, he said, “We had visited Shukrataal in 2018, where my grandson Anuj Singh Bhadaurian drowned in the Ganga. Shravan saved him. We will never forget this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/the-humble-death-slayer-shravan-kumar-22-is-believed-to-have-saved-over-hundred-from-drowning-in-ganga/articleshow/78938641.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 30, 2020||Meerut||Lodge protest against French President, Darul Uloom tells Centre||MEERUT: Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, Deoband on Thursday appealed to the Central government to condemn France and press for an international law against blasphemy. The seminary’s statement comes against the backdrop of India’s unequivocal support to French president Emmanuel Macron whose comment that “France will not give up on cartoons” has now riled a section of Islamic world. New Delhi also slammed “personal attack” on Macron after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said he needed “mental treatment”. On October 16, French teacher Samuel Patty was allegedly beheaded by a youth for showing cartoons of Prophet Mohammad in the classroom. The Chechen teen was shot dead by the police later. The seminary’s stand reflected the mood in several Islamic countries. “It is the responsibility of all the heads of OIC (Organisation of Islamic Nations) and other Islamic countries to develop a coordinated strategy against French government on the international forum,” said Abul Qasim Nomani, vice chancellor (VC) of the seminary. The VC also appealed to Indian government to take a stand against the French president at the United Nations. “Indian government should come forward and respect the feelings of Muslims living here. It should lodge a strong representation to press for a strong law against those playing with the religious sentiments of Muslims.” Spokesperson of the seminary, Ashraf Usmani, said, “Insult to our Prophet in France is really painful. And this had not only hurt Muslims of India but that of the entire world. Indian government should follow the tradition of respecting the feelings of Muslims here. India has always taken this stand and it should continue to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lodge-protest-against-french-prez-press-for-international-law-against-blasphemy-says-darul/articleshow/78938631.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jewellery demand fell by 50% in July-September in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: High price of gold and widespread liquidity crisis post Covid-19 pandemic have dented the demand for gold and gold jewellery. Estimates by Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA) suggest that the jewellery sale during the second quarter of 2020-21 declined by 50%. This is in line with the pan-India trend, wherein 48% decline in jewellery sales was reported in the July to September quarter, according to the latest report ‘Gold Demand Trends’ issued by the World Gold Council (WGC) on Thursday. “Gold jewellery demand declined by an estimated 50% from July to September. As showrooms had just opened, a little demand was there, as compared to nil sales during the lockdown; however, high prices proved to be a huge deterrent for jewellery sales,” said Jigar Soni, president, JAA. “Despite discount offers rolled out by jewellers, sale was barely there,” Soni added. Gold price settled at Rs 52,700 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad on Thursday. “Not only did Indian consumers have to cope with recurring lockdowns and unprecedented gold prices, but also the inauspicious periods of Pitru-Paksha and Adhik Maas discouraged buying during September – both periods are considered by Hindus to be inauspicious for gold purchases,” mentions the report. “As the local gold price breached Rs 50,000/10g – a major milestone for India – casual/impulsive purchases were curtailed in favour of needs-based buying. The prohibitive price level also encouraged a shift to lighter-weight plain gold pieces,” the report further adds. Speaking of current scenario, jewellers suggested that sales improved slightly in the run up to the upcoming wedding season. “Buying has improved because prices of gold have stabilized. However, still 40% of purchases are being made by exchanging previously purchased jewellery for fresh ones,” said a city-based jeweller. “The weak picture for jewellery demand has not translated into a surge of selling by Indian consumers. Instead, there has been an increasing focus on the use of gold as collateral for loans,” according to the WGC report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jewellery-demand-fell-by-50-in-july-sept/articleshow/78941593.cms||Niyati Parikh
October 30, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi weavers’ stir enters 14th day, Cong goes vocal in their support||Varanasi: As the indefinite Murri-Band (closure of looms) stir of the weavers against delay in fulfilling their demand of restoring flat rate system for power tariff entered the 14th day on Thursday, they carried out a candle march in Pilikothi area in evening. Meanwhile, after the letter of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra addressed to chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking addressing of the weavers’ issue on priority, went viral on social media the party leaders have also become vocal in their support. To mark their protest the weavers carried out a candle march in Pilikothi area while other groups of weavers staged demonstration at Nageypur and held a series of meetings at different places. The Bunkar Biradarana Tanzeem Baisis Sardar Haji Abdul Kalam and Chaudahos Sardar Maqbool Hassan reiterated that they were bound to adopt warpath to save the weaving industry. They said that since the beginning of their Murri-Bandh agitation in August and September they have been raising three demands. “Our prime demand is to restore flat rate system for power tariff realization from weavers. And other two demands are to realise the power tariff from weavers for the months between January and July on the flat rate as it was till 2019 end and also to withdraw all FIRs and recovery challans and restore power supply at the weaving units where supply has been disconnected, they said. They said that despite assurance of fulfilment of their demands in 15 days, the government has adopted an apathetic attitude. They said that ending the process of billing on the basis of meter reading is not sufficient as harassment of weavers by electricity department continues while it is also not clear as to when the new structure of power tariff realization would be restored. The weavers are already struggling for the survival of this industry, they said mentioning that the strike will continue till the government gives time to weaver leaders to find out an amicable solution against all their problems. While the weavers were busy in their stir, the Congress leaders looked enthused with the letter addressed to the CM written by Priyanka seeking fulfilling of all three demands of weavers on priority. Senior Congress leader and former minister Ajay Rai said that demands of weavers are genuine and the state government should initiate measures like holding discussions with weaver leaders to find out a solution against their problem as livelihood of lakhs depended on it. Earlier also, the Congress had extended its support to the weavers’ stir and UP Congress Committtee chief Ajay Kumar Lallu had visited the city to hold a Jan-Samvad event on their issues in the first phase of their stir. Rai said that Priyanka Gandhi had also interacted virtually with the weavers to know their problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-weavers-stir-enters-14th-day-cong-goes-vocal-in-their-support/articleshow/78939307.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Woman accused in Sandalwood lyricist case ends life||HUBBALLI: Ganga Kulkarni, 45, accused of being responsible for bringing discord in Sandalwood lyricist K Kalyan’s marriage life, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poison in Kushtagi town on Thursday. Ganga was employed as a cook in Kalyan’s house in Bengaluru. She allegedly introduced astrologer Shivanand Wali to Kalyan’s wife and in-laws and soon after his entry, cracks appeared in Kalyan’s marriage life. Ganga was also an accused in a cheating case registered in 2017 by Santosh Kulkarni, a resident of Kyadguppa village in Kushtagi taluk in Koppal district. Ganga was appearing before a court in Kushtagi in connection with the case, said police. They added that Ganga, a resident of Bagalkot, had allegedly duped Kulkarni of Rs 3 lakh by offering him a government job. When Kulkarni realised he was cheated, he approached Kushtagi police. According to police, Ganga reached the court around 11am and collapsed in the premises. She was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital but she did not respond to treatment. Police suspect she consumed poison before coming to the court. Kushtagi police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/woman-accused-in-lyricist-case-ends-life-in-court/articleshow/78938654.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kanpur||Old Ganga Bridge to close for 15 days next month for repairs||Kanpur: The Old Ganga Bridge in Jajmau will be closed for a fortnight next month for the much needed repairs. The bridge which was built in 1970 with an estimated life of 100 years is in a precarious state and is full of potholes, its bearings have broken and joints are visibly damaged. The poor condition of the bridge can lead to any big accident and loss of life. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has decided to start the repairs soon for which the bridge will have to be closed for traffic for at least 15 days. NHAI project engineer Pankaj Mishra said on Thursday, “The condition of the bridge is deteriorating every day. It demands major repair work which cannot be carried out unless all traffic is stopped. The outline of the repair work is being prepared and is nearing completion.” NHAI would seek permission from the divisional commissioner and district magistrate before starting repairing since the administration will have to prepare a detailed traffic diversion plan since the traffic will have to be stopped completely. There is a strong possibility of the NHAI commencing work from the second week of November. Mishra said the continuous movement of overloaded vehicles, especially trucks carrying building material, causes most damage to the bridge. The overloaded trucks damage the road and cause potholes. At present, even some iron bars of the bridge are visible as the road surface has eroded. The bridge was last repaired in 2019 under the supervision of then project engineer Purshottam Lal Chaudhary. As per practice, NHAI officials provide a list of overloaded vehicles to the road transport authority which takes due action against them. The project engineer said that he would contact PWD and UP state bridge corporation officials to divert the heavy traffic from and towards Lucknow so that repairs start. The vehicles going towards Lucknow from Kanpur could be diverted through the New Ganga Bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/old-ganga-bridge-to-close-for15-days-next-month-for-repairs/articleshow/78939283.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: SG Road chemical trader cheated of Rs 3.5 crore, luxury car||AHMEDABAD: A 30-year-old chemicals businessman, Shaival Parikh, lodged a complaint with city crime branch on Wednesday against six persons, for allegedly cheating him of Rs 3.55 crore while pretending to sell him gold. They also allegedly took his Porche Cayenne SUV, worth Rs 1.5 crore, by forcing him to sign the TTO form and bills and challans for delivery of gold. Parikh, a resident of Pravinkunj Society in Mithakhali, has accused Rakesh Rajdev, Vijay Tanti and Abhishek Adhiya, all residents of Rajkot; Mitul Jethwa, a resident of Satellite; Farooq Dalwani of Jamnagar Road, and a man named Munna. Parikh runs a chemical business Comet Enterprises, from his office on SG Road. According to the FIR, about three years ago, Parikh met Rajesh Rajdev in Dubai where Rajdev he offered him an entry into the gold trading business, as he trades in gold and silver in Rajkot through an entity called Universal Metcom. “The complainant stated in the FIR that after that Rajdev would come to his office with his partner, Mitul Jethwa. In January 2020, Jethwa told Parikh to buy large quantities of gold as prices had fallen. Parikh agreed and in three instalments paid Rs 3.55 crore to Universal Metcom through real-time gross settlement (RTGS). In February, Parikh received a mail containing bills of purchase for gold and silver, although he said he had not got delivery of the bullion. According to the FIR, Parikh got worried and called Jethwa, who threatened him saying he would have to forget about the gold and the money or he would be beaten up and his family killed. In March, Rajdev came to Parikh’s office and promised to deliver the gold. Rajdev, saying he had a family function, also took his Porshe Cayenne SUV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sg-road-chemical-trader-cheated-of-rs-3-5-cr-luxury-car/articleshow/78941618.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan lauds Telangana, Andhra Pradesh for good work in passport process||HYDERABAD: Telangana along with Andhra Pradesh has done well in fast-track police verification for issuing passports, said Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy. Addressing a gathering during the virtual inauguration of refurbished regional passport office, he said the Centre had provided the police department technology and facilities for fast-track verification of passport applications. “I am happy that both the states have used it efficiently and effectively,” he said. The Union minister said that post offices have emerged as passport centres across 308 places in the country and Telangana has 14 post offices which serve as passport centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-lauds-t-ap-for-good-work-in-passport-process/articleshow/78941653.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||SC seeks govt response on Remdesivir use to treat Covid||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the Centre’s response to a PIL alleging unauthorised manufacture and use of Remdesivir and Favipiravir drugs for treatment of Covid-19 despite the World Health Organisation’s report suggesting that these medicines had “little or no effect” on alleviating the condition of Covid-19 patients. Though the PIL by advocate-petitioner M L Sharma sought registration of criminal cases by CBI against a number of pharma majors for illegally manufacturing or importing the unapproved drugs, a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the court would not issue notice to pharma companies. “We are only going to make the government aware of this. We are not going to judge which medicine should be prescribed for Covid patients,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-govt-response-on-remdesivir-use-to-treat-covid/articleshow/78942891.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Surat||Doctors to sway to garba, virtually||Surat: Under the aegis of the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter members of six doctors’ association in the city will groove to garba tunes at the first-of-its-kind virtual celebration of Navratri on October 31. The event is a tribute to honour the corona warrior doctors and health care workers for their continued fight against coronavirus. Pre-recorded garba videos of doctors and their families will be played on the virtual Zoom platform for the audience from Surat and across the state. President of IMA (Surat Chapter) Dr Hiral Shah told TOI, “Every year, Navratri event in the city is organized by the doctors’ associations for the members and their families. This time around, with the pandemic stalling all Navratri celebrations, we decided to pay tribute to the corona warriors by organizing a virtual Navratri on October 31 where pre-recorded videos will be played on the virtual platform for three hours. It will also include many other activities.” Till now, 75 doctors have sent their entries of one-and-a-half-minute garba. All these will be compiled in the event wherein about 500 doctors and their family members are expected to participate, Dr Shah added. President of IMA’s women wing, Dr Dipti Patel said, “This virtual Navratri of the doctors will be a tribute to our corona warriors who have worked diligently during the pandemic across the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doctors-to-sway-to-garba-virtually/articleshow/78940635.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 305 new Covid-19 cases||Dehradun: Thursday was a little relieving for the health officials as the state did not see any Covid-19-related death. The state recorded 305 new cases for the deadly infection, which has so far claimed 1,009 lives in Uttarakhand. The state’s overall Covid-19 tally has surged past 61,566 on Thursday while 17,974 sample results are still awaited. Notably, 456 patients recovered from the infection taking the recovered patients’ tally to 56,529 patients, a 91.82% recovery rate. Maximum number of positive cases surfaced from Dehradun (78) followed by Nainital and Pauri with 33 cases each while Haridwar, Tehri and Udham Singh Nagar witnessed 24 cases each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-305-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/78938658.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Vadodara||Lawyer stabs daughter for filming his ‘misdeeds’ in Vadodara||VADODARA: An advocate living on RV Desai Road stabbed his daughter on Wednesday after he caught her filming him while he was forcing his mother and the maid to give statements against his wife. Accused Pankaj Jain has been facing charges of domestic violence and was pressurizing his mother Premlata and their household help to record their statements against his wife Sangita which he was recording on his mobile phone. However, his daughter Jaisal noticed her father using pressure tactics to gather evidence against his wife and started to video record his illegal act on her phone. Jaisal wanted to keep evidence if her father employed his devious plans to use the recorded statements against her mother. But Jain saw Jaisal shooting his video and started hurling abuses at her. In a fit of rage he beat her up and threw her phone outside the house in the compound. Jaisal, a student of MS University’s arts faculty, ran outside to collect her phone, but Jain followed suit and prevented her from getting her phone. In the heat of the moment, Jain also hurled a knife he was carrying in his hand at Jaisal, injuring her in her right armpit. He soon realized the seriousness of his act and threw the knife before escaping from his house. Jain’s mother and her brother took her to SSG Hospital where she was discharged after treatment. Later, she went to Navapura police station where an offence of attempt to commit culpable homicide, assault and insulting was registered against the father. Jain is yet to be arrested. A police official said that in the past too, Sangita has lodged complaints against Jain for creating ruckus in the house after coming home in an inebriated condition. In her complaint, even Jaisal alleged that for the past several years her father had fought with her brother Rutang, mother Sangita and also with her over petty reasons and often resorted to violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/advocate-stabs-daughter-for-filming-his-forcible-statements/articleshow/78938600.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Rajkot||Two more members of Jayesh Patel gang arrested||Rajkot: Two more members of the extortionist and land mafia, Jayesh Ranpariya’s (Patel) gang were arrested on Wednesday after being booked under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Act (GujCTOC). Those arrested were Jaspal Jadeja (35) and his younger brother Yashpal (25), "While the custody of Jaspal was secured from Jamnagar Central Jail, where he was lodged in one of the extortion and land usurpation cases of the Ranpariya gang, Yashpal surrendered before the police," said S S Ninama, inspector with Jamnagar special operation group (SOG). The Jadeja brothers were remanded to 12 days police custody. Six of the eight members of the Ranpariya gang, whose remand period was getting over on Thursday, were also produced before the GujCTOC court which sent them to jail. Those eight arrested included Atul Bhanderi, a sitting BJP councillor of Jamnagar Municipal Corporation; Nilesh Toliya, a prominent builder; Vashram Miyatra, former head constable of local crime branch (LCB); Pravin Chovatiya, owner of a local newspaper, Mukesh Abangi, builder Jigar alias Jimmy Aalatiya and their associates Anil Parmar and Praful Popat. “Considering the fact that these persons were involved in organized crimes and keeping them together in one jail would mean allowing them to get together and hatch more conspiracies, we submitted an application before the court, requesting it to lodge all the accused separately in different jails of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat,” said Ninama. Ranpariya has been charged with several criminal cases, mostly land grabbing and extortion. He is believed to have fled to Dubai before his name figured in advocate Kirit Joshi murder case. Joshi, who was fighting several cases against Patel, was stabbed to death on April 28, 2018, allegedly on the orders of Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-more-members-of-jayesh-patel-gang-arrested/articleshow/78940940.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Meerut||Pvt car hits Amroha CO's vehicle; drunk driver, friend held||Bijnor: Two men were arrested by Amroha police on Thursday allegedly for drunken driving and hitting a circle officer’s official car near the collectorate. A complaint to the effect was lodged by the CO’s driver.According to police, a private car hit the police vehicle in which Amroha circle officer Shreshta Singh and three other policemen were travelling on Wednesday. The CO was injured and taken to hospital. She is now out of danger.Police registered a case against the private car driver, Rajveer Chauhan, of Naugawan and his friend, Pradeep Singh, from Ludhiana in Punjab on Wednesday. Both were arrested.According to police, the duo was drunk and two liquor bottles were seized from their car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pvt-car-hits-amroha-cos-vehicle-drunk-driver-friend-held/articleshow/78938678.cms||Harveer Dabas
October 30, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Fake visa scam busted, two from Delhi held||VADODARA/ANAND: An multi-state racket of issuing fake visas of different countries was busted by Anand police on Wednesday. A man from Delhi identified as Vijay Kumar was nabbed from his home along with 44 passports and fake visa stickers of different countries. Police said that a local accused Jayesh Patel was arrested in August. While interrogating Patel, police learnt about a larger network involving several people including Kumar. “We had also arrested another person named Lakhwinder from Punjab who is settled in Delhi,” said inspector J N Parmar of special operations group of Anand police. “We are yet to arrest one more person who was also involved in the same scam but we are hopeful of nabbing him soon,” said superintendent of Anand police Ajit Rajian. Cops said that the scamsters meet at public places in Delhi and exchange passports of victims and fake visa stickers of different countries. Visa stickers of Canada, United Kingdom and Malaysia were found from Kumar. “The 44 victims whose passports were found from Kumar are not just from Gujarat but from other states like Punjab and Haryana. We suspect that there will be several more victims,” Parmar said. Police are expecting more victims to approach them in coming days. “We are suspecting that more than 44 people could have been cheated. We are also verifying where these passports could have been used by the accused,” Rajian told TOI. Investigation revealed that the accused used to take any amount between Rs 25,000 and Rs 2.5 lakh for issuing visa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/multi-state-fake-visa-racket-busted/articleshow/78938625.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Meerut||Meerut gets 3 more TrueNat machines for Covid testing||MEERUT: The capacity for testing sanples of suspected Covid-19 cases in Meerut is set to increase due to the addition of three more TrueNat machines in the district on Thursday. Testing for tuberculosis is also set to increase due to these machines. “The TrueNat machines will be set up soon at three different spots,” said Dr MS Fauzdar, Meerut district. So far, two centres -- in Sabun Godam and Tarapuri -- have been finalised for setting up the additional machines. A decision on the third centre is yet to be taken. The first TrueNat machine was set up in Meerut district hospital. Later, two machines were installed at LLRM Medical College. The number of Covid-19 cases in Meerut has crossed the 12,000 mark, and 292 people have died so far. Nearly 5,000 samples are being tested for Covid in the district almost every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-gets-3-more-truenat-machines-for-covid-testing/articleshow/78938693.cms||Ishita Bhatia
October 30, 2020||Kanpur||Congress slams BJP MLA for accusing PGV sans evidence||Varanasi: Congress leader Ajay Rai targeted BJP MLA and Krishnanand Rai’s widow Alka Rai for writing a letter to party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and accusing her of shielding jailed mafia don and BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari saying she should produce evidence before blaming Congress leadership. Talking to reporters at his residence on Thursday, the Congress leader said, “How can Alka Rai allege that Priyanka is stopping the Punjab government from sending Mukhtar to UP. She should have given evidence before targeting Congress general secretary.” Letters should not be written just for doing politics, he added. Interestingly, Mukhtar is also the prime accused in the murder case of Ajay Rai’s brother Awadhesh Rai in 1991. “BJP is in power in the state. After completing all legal formalities it should initiate measures like sending a team of expert doctors to examine the health of Mukhtar if they are really serious on bringing him to UP,” he added. Rai further alleged that musclemen and criminals are enjoying patronage of the government. The BJP MLA had written an emotional letter to Priyanka on October 27, accusing the Congress government in Punjab of shielding Mukhtar, who is lodged in Ropar jail and was not handed over to a team of UP Police for being produced in a court citing health grounds on the basis of a medical board report. The Congress leader also accused the Union and state governments for curbing religious and cultural activities in Kashi. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath are holding election meetings with huge gatherings in Bihar and UP, but restrictions were imposed on Durga Puja and Ramlila in Kashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/congress-slams-bjp-mla-for-accusing-pgv-sans-evidence/articleshow/78939323.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rural kids grapple with access divide||HYDERABAD: The state may boast of a record number of T-SAT Network channel app downloads but many students in rural areas are yet to receive learning material, revealed the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) published by Pratham network, a non-government organisation working in the education sector. The ASER 2020 Wave 1 survey was released on Wednesday. It was conducted to understand provisions, access, engagement and challenges concerning remote learning during school closures amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As part of the survey, 1,050 children from class 1-12 were surveyed in rural areas in nine districts. The survey indicates that across states, the proportion of children with textbooks at home falls below 70% in only three states: Rajasthan (60.4%), Telangana (68.1%), and Andhra Pradesh (34.6%). Although the number of households possessing smartphones has increased from 45.8% in 2018 to 74% in 2020, lack of study material is making it difficult for many to cope up with the online classes. The study reveals that only 55% government and private enrolled students in the state received learning materials/activities in the reference week. Total 47.3% students received learning material/activities through WhatsApp, 33% received through phone call, 33% received through personal visits and remaining 5.8% received it through other mediums. “We found that many students did not receive government worksheets even until September. Lack of access to internet/TV and illiteracy among parents is affecting the engagement of students,” said Rambabu, head for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Pratham network. He said teachers need to be more proactive in terms of assessing the learning outcomes of students. Of the enrolled children, who did not receive any learning materials, 63.9% attributed it to schools not sending it, 6.8% lacked internet access, 18.2% had no smartphones, 3.6% had connectivity issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rural-kids-grapple-with-access-divide/articleshow/78941693.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||UP cabinet approves amended rules for establishment of distilleries||Pilibhit: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the 15th amendment to the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Establishment of Distilleries) Rules, 2020, liberalising the policy for issuing licenses to new distilleries in the state. The amended rules also decentralise certain powers of the excise commissioner. The policy is aimed at smoothening the functioning of distilleries in the state.UP additional chief secretary of excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy told TOI that under the framework of amended rules, the license for establishing new distilleries would now be granted for a period of two years, compared to the one-year period that was allowed under old rules.In case the distiller fails to set up the unit within the assigned period, the license will be renewed for another one-year period. In addition, new distilleries will now be allowed to manufacture potable liquor by purchasing ‘extra neutral alcohol’ (ENA) from other distilleries, till the time their own set-up is erected, he said.In order to ease the functioning of certain routine activities of the distilleries, the power to grant the requisite permission has been delegated from the excise commissioner to deputy excise commissioners of 10 excise regions in the state. These activities include repairing of molasses tanks and pipelines, categorisation of molasses and ethanol storage tanks inside distilleries as well as in sugar mills, for the distinctive use of C-heavy, B-heavy molasses and ethanol, and the repair of the distillery buildings, said Bhoosreddy.Referring to another crucial amendment, he said approvals for setting up new potable distilleries or expansion in capacity of existing units would now be granted by a committee constituted under his chairmanship. Earlier, these powers were vested in the hands of the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner.“The amended rules also extend relief to those distilleries from mandatory cancellation of their licenses, which fail to maintain their minimum production efficiency or recovery levels due to certain restraints. To deal with such cases sympathetically, the state excise commissioner has been given the discretionary powers to simply impose the financial penalty or to forfeit the security amount of the concerned distillery, depending on the gravity of the lapse,” Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-cabinet-approves-amended-rules-for-establishment-of-distilleries/articleshow/78935365.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Vadodara||Sanitizer, protective gear given as part of poll material||Vadodara: Polling officers’ baggage usually includes indelible ink, stationery, big bunch of forms and voting machines. But in this pandemi time, more items have been added to protect those involved with polling as well as voters for the byelection. On Thursday, a large stock of health supplies to be used by those on poll duties was handed over to the election officer for the Karjan bypoll. The material includes pairs of rubber gloves, face shields, temperature guns, pulse oximeters, hand sanitizer and PPE kits. As many as 1,795 persons involved with the election process have been trained in safety in wake of the pandemic. ile entering the polling station, the temperature and oxygen saturation (OS) of a voter will be measured. If the voter has fever or his OS is less than 95, he will not be allowed to enter the booth. The possibility of ensuring that such persons vote at the end of polling is being examined. A major departure from the regular polls will be the fact that the health department will be actively involved in the process. Health and ASHA workers will be deployed at each polling station. Apart from measuring temperature and OS levels, they will also ensure that every voter cleans his hands with hand sanitizer. Attempts are also being made to ensure that facilities for washing hands are provided wherever possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sanitizer-protective-gear-given-as-part-of-poll-material/articleshow/78938646.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Vadodara||GST dept cracks down on salon chain, snacks sellers||Vadodara: The central goods and service tax (GST) department has booked Vadodara-based popular chain of salons for evading GST and service tax.A One Hair and Beauty Studio which operates 17 branches across Vadodara, Nadiad, Anand, Bharuch and Surat had been charging and collecting GST and service tax from their customers. However, the amount was allegedly not credited to the government exchequer and had also suppressed their actual tax liability. Investigations revealed that the GST amount to the tune of Rs 3.2 crore and service tax of Rs 1 crore had been evaded.Besides registering a case, an amount of Rs 1.4 crore as tax was recovered.The department also acted against manufacturers and retailers of snacks items in Vadodara, Anand and Khambhat. According to the GST officials, the business entities were evading GST by misclassifying their products.Probe revealed that Vadodara-based Jagdish Foods Pvt Ltd and Jagdish Foods Plaza Pvt Ltd were clearing its goods under the brand name ‘Jagdish’. Similarly, Sukhadia Garbaddas Bapuji & Sons of Anand was clearing its goods under the brand of ‘SGB-Shri Mithash’, while Sukhadia Jamnadas Maganlal & Co and Sukhadia Jamnadas Maganlal were clearing their products under the brand ‘Khambhat’s Famous Sukhadia Jamnadas Maganlal’.The GST officials said that they were clearing their products at 5% GST instead of 12% and were thus evading the differential tax amount. The evasion of Rs 3.9 crore GST was found, of which Rs 1.4 crore was recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gst-dept-cracks-down-on-salon-chain-snacks-sellers/articleshow/78938655.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh’s mandi bill exposes Punjab govt: Sukhbir Singh Badal||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has said that the passage of a bill by the Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh for making the entire state a single mandi has exposed the alleged fraud played on farmers by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. While addressing a virtual press conference, Sukhbir said even as Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan governments had passed similar laws to protect their farmers, Capt Amarinder had left farmers at the Centre’s mercy. “The Congress government in Punjab has deliberately amended the central Acts under the trade subject in the concurrent list instead of bringing in legislation under the agricultural head on the state list as was done by the Chhattisgarh government,” said Sukhbir. He said SAD had mooted the proposal that a bill be passed to make the entire state a single mandi (principal marketing yard) to negate the implementation of the three agri laws in Punjab. Amarinder rejected the proposal saying it was not feasible but his Chhattisgarh counterpart did not feel so, said Sukhbir. He also congratulated the Kerala government for declaring a minimum support price (MSP) on fruits and vegetables saying this was much needed to give a boost to agriculture. “The state government should intercede in case the entirety of crops for which MSP had been declared were not purchased by central agencies,” said Sukhbir. But, he said, it seemed too much to ask this from the Congress government in Punjab which had “back-stabbed the farming community” by even refusing to annual the central agriculture laws. Reacting to BJP national president JP Nadda’s statement that the SAD had parted ways with them under pressure from the Congress, Sukhbir said such statements did not behove Nadda’s stature. The SAD president said that the SAD was a 100-year-old party which had constantly fought against the Congress’s excesses since decades. The SAD had parted ways with BJP when the latter refused to repeal the central farm bills, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-ruled-chhattisgarhs-mandi-bill-exposes-punjab-govt-sukhbir/articleshow/78941696.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Physical OPD service at AIIMS-Bibinagar to restart on November 5||HYDERABAD: Physical OPD at AIIMS Bibinagar, Telangana will restart from November 5. During the recent visit by the Union minister of home affairs for state G Kishan Reddy, a decision to restart physical OPD was taken. The OPD had remained closed since July 16 due to Covid-19. Maintaining social distancing, use of masks and hand sanitization to prevent spread of Covid-19 was suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/physical-opd-service-at-aiims-bibinagar-to-restart-on-nov-5/articleshow/78941700.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Cong jumped the gun with immature statements, we welcome SC’s stand: U’khand BJP||Dehradun: Welcoming the SC’s order to stay Uttararakhand high court’s CBI probe order against Trivendra Singh Rawat, the ruling BJP on Thursday launched a scathing attack on “overexcited” Congress leaders for making “immature statements” by demanding the chief minister’s resignation. The BJP also took umbrage to Congress leader Kapil Sibal representing journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma in the sting video case. “This is an extremely interesting point. When the journalist had carried out a sting against Harish Rawat, Sibal called Umesh Kumar Sharma as untrustworthy. But in this case, Sibal changes his stand and calls him a respected journalist who is being harassed. One is bound to get confused what to believe,” chief spokesperson of BJP Munna Singh Chauhan told TOI. Chauhan, who represents Vikasnagar constituency of Dehradun district, said it was surprising that the high court ordered probe against the CM as he was neither a party in the matter nor his version was heard. “I had already called the order wrong and bad in law, and it had many loopholes,” Chauhan added. The senior BJP leader asserted that people involved in corrupt practices were feeling suffocated in the Trivendra government. “The SIT has been constituted in around a dozen matters, and a number of people who have been involved in corrupt practices have been put behind the bars. There is not the slightest of scope for acts of corruption in the BJP government,” said Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-jumped-the-gun-with-immature-statements-we-welcome-scs-stand-ukhand-bjp/articleshow/78938726.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai goes under water, again||CHENNAI: This is one prediction that can seldom go wrong -- heavy rain inundating Chennai. Till about noon on Thursday, motorists on major bus route roads and arterial roads had to wade through up to two feet of water. However, by 4pm, Greater Chennai Corporation’s command and control centre recorded water stagnation of two feet or more at only nine spots, an official said. Residents complained that even stretches of Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road were left flooded, while places like Wall Tax Road near Chennai Central, Cenotaph Road, Gemini flyover, Conron Smith Road in Gopalapuram had water logging. According to a corporation analysis, there was 150mm-200mm of rain in four hours in a city’s whose storm water drain network can drain a maximum of 32mm per hour. “If we have to build for higher capacity, it would take up the road space,” said an official. Since the rain came during the high tide period, waterways like Buckingham Canal and Otteri Nullah — final exit points for these drains — were running full and in areas like GP Road and PS Sivaswamy Salai in Mylapore, there were waves of water when a bus passed. After noon, when the high tide receded, water drained off in many places. In some locations, chute pipes of drains were choked and officials were seen unclogging them. Many corporation playgrounds were under water. GP Road, off Anna Salai, had three feet of water as drain work is in progress on the arterial stretch, officials said. In areas like Manali, Perungudi and Ram Nagar in Velachery, drain work has just begun. Many residents found their electrical appliances damaged, while some said adaptors of internet modem and cordless phones stopped working. Experts suggested installing mini-circuit breakers, which automatically trip power, and lightning arresters. Rakesh Ohri, president of The Central Park South Owners Association at Sholinganallur, a complex of 172 apartments said every (apartment) unit in their complex is equipped with mini-circuit breaker. “But, many small apartments and individual houses do not understand the importance of the device that prevents damage to electrical and electronic equipment as it trips power immediately after voltage fluctuates. But, several prefer sub-standard devices and regret when expensive electrical devices gets damaged later,” he said. Installing lightning arresters is the need of the hour to prevent any damage to buildings, said experts. K V Pari, president of Sivagami Nagar Public Welfare Association at Medavakkam said that high rises have lightning arresters, but not all individual homes installed them. Pari, a civil engineer, said one could install the equipment that comes for Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh including installation charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-goes-under-water-again/articleshow/78940017.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||T’wood producer, family booked for unauthorised chopper landing||Vijayawada: A Tollywood producer and seven of his family members were booked for making an unauthorized landing of a helicopter at the zilla parishad school grounds at Revuru village in Nellore district on Wednesday. The incident came to light on Thursday after local revenue and education officials realised about the landing and lodged a complaint with the local police. The district collector called for a report after photos and videos of the landing went viral on social media. According to Ananthasagaram police, the film producer, Ramakoteswara Rao, who is also a former aviation ministry official, reached the village along with his family to attend the wedding of a close friend’s son. Rao had hired the chopper as one of his family members was unwell and confined to a wheelchair. Soon after landing on the government school grounds, the group took a family photograph, which later went viral on social media. After the wedding, the family returned to Hyderabad. Officials said the family also videographed themselves in front of the chopper. While local officials at Nellore said they had not given any permission, Rao informed the police during questioning that he received a no-objection certificate (NoC) to land from the school headmaster. However, according to procedure, the person landing in a helicopter should seek an NoC from both the district collector and district SP. He also needs to produce the aviation permit. While Rao had an aviation permit and took permission from authorities in Hyderabad for flying, he did not know that a school headmaster’s permission is insufficient to land on a government property. A case has been registered under Section 337 (endangering human life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and relevant sections of The Aircraft Act, 1934. Officials said that a notice would be issued to Rao and his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/twood-producer-family-booked-for-unauthorised-chopper-landing/articleshow/78941721.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farm fires, two sarpanchs suspended||KARNAL: Acting tough against the stubble burning menace, the Karnal district administration has suspended two sarpanchs for their failure to curb farm fires in their respective villages. Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said sarpanchs of Gonder and Ramba villages have been placed under suspension for their failure to put a check on the menace. As many as 30 farm fires in Gonder village and 23 in Ramba village have been reported since September 25, which are more than such incidents reported last year during this period. On Wednesday, 260 fresh incidents were detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre, raising the total number of stubble burning cases (active fire locations) in the state to 4,837 since September 25. According to the data compiled by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, Karnal district topped the chart with 872 active fire locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-fires-2-sarpanchs-suspended/articleshow/78941707.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Amaravati||Green clearance must for RLIP, NGT tells Andhra Pradesh||AMARAVATI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) southern bench has directed the Andhra Pradesh government not to go ahead with the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) work till it gets environmental clearance (EC). The tribunal disagreed with the experts’ committee of Union Environmental Ministry that there was no need to secure fresh EC for RLIP. Since the Union Jal Shakti ministry had already directed the AP government not to go ahead with the project work without submitting the DPR and the project will be governed by the KRMB, the NGT asked the state to follow the ministry’s directive. The NGT southern bench comprising Justice Ramakrishnan and expert member Sibal Das Gupta delivered the verdict on Thursday. The NGT verdict is likely to affect the plans of the state government to complete the RLIP to meet the drinking water and irrigation needs of the Rayalaseema region. The NGT took up the hearing of the petition filed by a resident of Telangana, Gavinolla Srinivas, in which the Telangana state government had impleaded. The state government argued that RLIP was not a new project as it was not intended to draw even a single tmc of additional water from its quota of the Krishna waters. The government contended that the project was designed to take from 3 to 8tmc of water at the level of 800ft in Srisailam as it could not draw the quota of water at the existing allowed level of 854ft at Srisailam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/green-clearance-must-for-rlip-ngt-tells-ap/articleshow/78941739.cms||Samdani MN
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||1st in Punjab: Abohar municipal corporation levies charges on plastic packing||ABOHAR: The Abohar municipal corporation has implemented its own bylaws under the Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016 to enable the civic body to collect user charges from sellers of plastic packaging goods. With this, the MC has become the first in Punjab to introduce such levies. Abohar municipal commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish, while disclosing this here on Thursday, said goods sold by big companies were mostly packed in plastic and it was the civic body which had to take care of the waste from it. The Abohar MC spends Rs 50 lakh per month to clean polythene waste in town, even as its adverse effects on environment are another concern, he said. “So, the MC has framed its own rules to slap user charges on sellers of products that create plastic waste,” the commissioner, adding that charges of Rs 5 per delivery would be levied on major courier companies and online retailers like Amazon, Flipkart and Snapdeal and home delivery companies like Zomato and Swiggy. Similarly, for sale of goods in multilayer plastic packaging such as cold drinks, chips, biscuits and so on, the corporation will levy Rs 1 on items with a sale price of more than Rs 5, Kaplish said. The commissioner said Rs 50 each on sale of electronic goods worth more than Rs 2,000, Rs 100 each on the sale of motor vehicles, and Rs 500 each on sale of four-wheelers would be levied as user charges for treating waste. “Also, sellers of wine/liquor/beer/whisky would have to pay a sum of Rs 2 per bottle for country-made liquor and Rs 10 per bottle for IMFL,” he said. The MC will also have the power to impose penalty at the rate of 10% for delay in payment of user charges and to stop the sale of related product within the limits of the Municipal Corporation for non-payment of user charges for more than two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1st-in-pb-abohar-mc-levies-charges-on-plastic-packing/articleshow/78941722.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Contaminated prasadam: Most patients recover in Mandya||MANDYA: The situation in Lingapatna village, where more than 70 persons took ill due to suspicious contaminated prasadam at Sri Aramma temple on Wednesday, returned to normalcy on Thursday as most patients were declared out of danger. According to officials, only seven patients whose health condition is still precarious due to old-age and co-morbidities are in hospital while the rest have recovered and sent back home. A temporary medical camp is still active in the village to keep a watch on the health of villagers. The medical officers are awaiting the laboratory report of the prasadam and they could not ascertain the cause behind the illness of villagers without the report. Meanwhile police enquired several persons including the priest to find if there was foul play. They also interrogated people who had prepared the prasadam and those distributed it. “Apparently there seems to be no reason to suspect intentional distribution of poisonous prasadam. The prasadam could have been contaminated and it was distributed by temple priests without knowing its consequences. Also, we have already ascertained that there were absolutely no disputes regarding temple management,” said police. Medical officers said they will continue their medical camp so long as every patient has recovered and the sense of fear goes away from the minds of villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/contaminated-prasadam-most-patients-recover/articleshow/78938762.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: More rain likely after November 3||CHENNAI: After the record breaking downpour early on Thursday, IMD has forecast more intermittent thunderstorms with heavy rainfall over some areas in the city on Friday. But weather enthusiasts said Chennai is likely to see a brief near-dry spell, with a few isolated showers, till November 3 after which the monsoon would pick up pace and bring widespread rainfall to the city, coastal belt and interior districts without long breaks. On Thursday morning, Nungambakkam received 13.34cm of rain, the highest 24-hour rainfall in October since the 16.19cm recorded on October 18, 2014. For the next 24 hours, IMD has forecast intermittent thunderstorms, with moderate rain and heavy rainfall in some areas. The cyclonic circulation over southwest the Bay of Bengal off the north Tamil Nadu coast, which brought the intense spells of rain on Thursday, lies over north Tamil Nadu¬ and south Andhra Pradesh coast and neighbourhood. After Thursday’s downpour, the Nungambakkam station has recorded 6.5cm excess rain in October. It has registered 31.1cm of rain since October 1 while Meenambakkam has a 96.2% deficit with only 15.5cm rainfall recorded this month. Weather enthusiasts said November could bring more rain records. Weather blogger Pradeep John said an easterly wave or an elongated area of low air pressure moving from east to west could bring regular early morning rain to the city. “The present cyclonic circulation could fizzle out. Around November 3 or 4, we could expect easterly waves or a circulation bringing us rain almost daily,” he said. Weather watchers said MJO or Madden Julian Oscillation, a climate phenomenon, likely entering phase 2-3 could act in favour of the monsoon and help bring stronger weather systems possibly in the second half of November. MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds and pressure that travels across the tropics and returns to its starting point in 30 to 60 days. “For the next four or five days, the intensity of rainfall is going to become light,” said Skymet Weather in its online post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-rain-likely-after-november-3/articleshow/78940038.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Surat||Properties of textile trader attached under PMLA||Surat: The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) on Thursday attached immovable and movable properties worth Rs 1.80 crore of a textile trader from the city under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) in connection with bogus import case involving Afroz Fatta and others. Official sources said that the movable and immovable properties of textile trader Bilal Haroon Galani were attached in connection with the bogus import case involving R.A Distributors Pvt Ltd.The properties amounting to Rs 1.74 crore are in the form of flat measuring 658 sq feet at Klassic Tower at Dr A Nair Road in Mumbai; shops measuring 1,288 sq feet at Annapurna Textile Market in Surat and 1,833 sq feet flat at Royal Heritage building in Surat. The movable property amounting to Rs 5.85 lakh in the form of balance in the HDFC bank has also been attached.The accused persons created shell companies using dummy persons as directors and partners to run the multi-crore hawala and money laundering racket, source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/properties-of-textile-trader-attached-under-pmla/articleshow/78940642.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Durgam Cheruvu bar knocks Telangana HC door, gets relief||HYDERABAD: At a time when the high court is monitoring the task of lakes' restoration, the case of a bar and restaurant that was set up in the precincts of Durgam cheruvu lake in Jubilee hills area of Hyderabad came to the high court. The reason for its arrival has got nothing to do with the protection of lakes. It was a tussle between two persons who were running it that drove the issue to the court. Sonu Sharma, manager of Olive Bar and Kitchen filed a petition in the high court urging it to restrain the state tourism development corporation from sealing the Bar. He had an agreement with K Vinod Kumar Reddy of Kona s Foodcourt On the Rocks company that has the license to run the Bar and restaurant. According to A Venkatesh, the counsel for Olive Bar, Vinod failed to pay the rent to the state tourism development corporation during the lockdown period from March to September 2020. The rent is nearly Rs 7 lakh per month. He alleged that Vinod was playing mischief. “I am ready to pay the arrears to the corporation”, he said. Justice P Naveen Rao who heard the matter asked the counsel as to why the corporation should suffer on account of a civil dispute between two individuals. The judge ordered statusquo to be maintained and directed Olive Bar management to deposit Rs 25 lakh with the state tourism development corporation within three days. The judge issued notice to the corporation and Vinod Kumar Reddy asking them to file their replies by Nov 9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/durgam-cheruvu-bar-knocks-hc-door-gets-relief/articleshow/78941761.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Juvenile held for raping 4-yr-old||BARNALA: A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a juvenile in Barnala district. The accused has been arrested and booked under various sections of the IPC, Pocso Act and SC/ST Act. The minor girl’s mother on Wednesday afternoon had approached the police with a complaint that a 16-year-old boy from their neighbourhood had sexually exploited her. The girl was taken to hospital for medical examination and the boy detained. The Barnala district administration on Thursday started proceedings to provide compensation to the family of the minor girl even as the district police assured to file the challan in the court at the earliest. Meanwhile, the Punjab state scheduled castes commission has taken a suo motu notice of the incident and sought a detailed report from the Barnala SSP by November 2. Former MLA Kewal Singh Dhillon, who accompanied Barnala deputy commissioner Tej Partap Singh Phoolka to the civil hospital to inquire about the condition of the girl, said, “I have been deputed by chief minister Amarinder Singh to ensure that justice is delivered to the victim’s family at the earliest and financial compensation, as admissible, provided to them. The state government will provide every possible support to the family at this hour of grief and no delay will be tolerated.” The state SC commission has also demanded a prompt and stern action against the culprits in the case. The district bar association president has urged its members not to fight the case of the accused. The compensation would be provided under the provisions of SC /ST Act. The girl child is admitted at Barnala civil hospital. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/juvenile-held-for-raping-4-yr-old/articleshow/78941740.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Coal shortage: Rajpura plant stops operations||PATIALA: Faced by a coal shortage amid farmers’ blockade on rail tracks, the NPL Rajpura power plant suspended operations on Thursday, a day after the plant in Talwani Sabo stopped operations for the same reason. PSPCL officials claimed that no power cuts were imposed in the state as GVK Goindwal Sahib power plant, which has two 270MW units, was made operational. GVK officials claimed that on the instructions of PSPCL, they started operations of one unit from Thursday morning. On Wednesday evening, they were operating the unit at 60% capacity. They said the unit would be able to generate power for three to four days. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Parsad said both NPL and TSPL had suspended operations, while state-run power plants were also shut down. ”On Thursday, power demand in Punjab reached a maximum of 5,572MW and it dipped to 4,300MW by 5.30pm. Sources said around 4,300MW power was met from outside sources on Thursday, whereas around 600MW came from hydro projects and renewable resources in Punjab. Also, one unit of GVK generated power, whereas two other private plants and two government-run plants remained shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coal-shortage-rajpura-plant-stops-ops/articleshow/78941745.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chennai||LB Road footpath smashed to drain water||CHENNAI: A part of a newly constructed storm water drain and footpath on LB Road in Thiruvanmiyur was broken open to drain stagnated rainwater on Thursday. After heavy downpour on Wednesday night and Thursday morning, water began stagnating on the road. The drain was constructed a year ago and covered with a footpath. “There was no issue until recently. The drain was working well but we found a blockage. We found sand and debris blocking the drain. We have cleared it. The footpath will be laid soon,” said a corporation official. Geeta Padmanabhan, a resident, said the civic body had claimed to have spent more than Rs 6cr for desilting drains in the city. “Constructing an infrastructure is not enough. Constant supervision is needed when the construction is underway. The space between manholes has to be checked for water flow before footpath is constructed over it,” she said. C Namachivayam, another resident of the area, said poor planning and execution were reasons for such shoddy work. “Every year, we keep complaining about water stagnation and every year crores are spent on construction of drains? Someone has to take accountability and rectify it,” he said. LB Road is a bus route road. Superintendent engineer, bus route road department of the corporation, K B Vijayakumar said, “TNEB had set up a modern transformer at the location recently and damaged the drain. The drain collapsed and caused a blockage. The footpath was also damaged. We had to use earthmovers and remove the blockage.” Experts said footpaths being broken to remove blockages in drains paint a poor picture of the city’s infrastructure. “The corporation should develop a model that works for the city. Constructing the same type of drain in every part will be of no use,” said S Srinivasan, retired metro water official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lb-road-footpath-smashed-to-drain-water/articleshow/78940051.cms||Komal Gautham
October 30, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar announces Rs 10 lakh entrepreneurship sop for all||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday promised to extend the existing Rs 10 lakh financial assistance for entrepreneurship development to all citizens above 18 years, if voted back to power. Ruling JD(U) in its manifesto has already announced to extend the scheme to women irrespective of their caste. The benefits of the ‘Mukhya Mantri Udyami Yojana’ scheme under which Rs 5 lakh is provided as grant/subsidy and Rs 5 lakh as an interest-free loan, was so far limited to the members of the SC, ST and the extremely backward classes (EBCs). Addressing a rally in West Champaran’s Valmiki Nagar constituency, the CM said, “The assistance of Rs 10 lakh that we used to provide to members of SC, ST and EBCs will now be given to people of all classes so that new and advanced technology can be used to generate more employment opportunities.” Political observers said the CM’s latest announcement is a move to counter RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s mega poll announcement to provide government jobs to 10 lakh youths if he (Tejashwi) is voted to power. Speaking at another election rally in West Champaran’s Sikta constituency, he not only mocked Tejashwi’s poll announcement of giving 10 lakh government jobs and dared him to announce providing jobs to one crore youths, instead of 10 lakh. “When you are talking about jobs, give the government jobs to all one crore intermediate -pass youths, why only 10 lakh? Give jobs to all youths,” Nitish said, referring to Tejashwi’s job promise without taking any names. “What was the state’s annual budget during the RJD’s rule, before we came to power in November 2005? Where would he bring money to give salaries to one crore new employees? Will he bring the money from the skies?” Nitish asked, mocking Tejashwi’s poll promise. Making a major shift in his stand on the creation of new districts and blocks, Nitish, while speaking at Valmiki Nagar, said he would “definitely” look into the demand of creation of new districts, new subdivisions and news blocks in different parts of the state. Earlier, Nitish used to say that a cabinet sub-committee would consider such demands purely on merit. At Valmiki Nagar, the CM also sought votes in favour of JD(U) candidate from Valmiki Nagar assembly seat Dhirendra Pratap Singh alias Rinku Singh and the party nominee for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha bypoll Sunil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-announces-rs-10-lakh-entrepreneurship-sop-for-all/articleshow/78939800.cms||Madan Kumar
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Congress lost moral right to govern Punjab: BJP||CHANDIGARH: The Congress government in Punjab, in collusion with the naxal forces, has been fanning farmers’ agitation and was deliberately trying to create an atmosphere of fear and insecurity, BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said on Thursday. This has proved to be seriously detrimental to the Punjab’s economy as hundreds of industrial units were facing closure, the said. Given the scathing observations made by the Punjab and Haryana high court, the Congress government had lost its moral right to govern the state, the two leaders said. That the Amarinder Singh-led government is incompetent and has been blackmailing the Centre in the name of farmers’ sentiments was reinforced by the observations of the high court, which had questioned the constitutional ability of the Congress government to govern a state, they added. “The way youth Congress workers were made to indulge in violence in the name of farmers was an indication of cheap politics that the Amarinder government had stooped to,” the BJP leaders said. They attacked the Punjab government for misleading the high court by not providing the real ground situation. The state government’s failure to maintain law and order was reflected in the fact that four railway tracks and 29 railway stations in the state continued to be blocked by farmers, said the BJP leaders. In a press statement, Chugh and Sharma said while the Centre was keen to resume services of goods and passenger trains, the state government was deliberately playing a subversive game and blackmailing the Centre by covertly supporting the farmers’ agitation. The BJP leaders said working in more than 1,500 industrial units in Ludhiana and other places has almost come to a halt. They said that more than 3,000 containers ready to deliver raw material to the industrial units in the state were held up due to the farmers’ agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-congs-lost-moral-right-to-govern-punjab/articleshow/78941737.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot police feted for Covid handling||RAJKOT: Rajkot police have received the prestigious Skoch Award for its efficient role in the prevention of coronavirus. The Skoch Award had received entries from 4,000 police stations from across the country, of which 300 were given merit awards. There were 60 contestants in the semi-finals, of which the Rajkot police was selected for the award. According to a release issued by the Rajkot police, it had taken several steps for the first time in Gujarat. “Contact tracing technology was deployed by the police for the first time in the state to trace Covid-19 positive patients and those who had come in contact with the positive persons,” said the release. The city police had also tracked down those offenders who had taken out their vehicles without any valid reasons through automatic number plate recognition system. The police also felicitated residential societies for the complete adherence to the lockdown. The police announced the Covid-19 guidelines using loudspeakers mounted on auto rickshaws which roam around different areas of Rajkot. The police also caught the lockdown violators with the help of drone cameras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-police-feted-for-covid-handling/articleshow/78940953.cms||---
October 30, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar announces Rs 10 lakh entrepreneurship sop for all||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday promised to extend the existing Rs 10 lakh financial assistance for entrepreneurship development to all citizens above 18 years, if voted back to power. Ruling JD(U) in its manifesto has already announced to extend the scheme to women irrespective of their caste. The benefits of the ‘Mukhya Mantri Udyami Yojana’ scheme under which Rs 5 lakh is provided as grant/subsidy and Rs 5 lakh as an interest-free loan, was so far limited to the members of the SC, ST and the extremely backward classes (EBCs). Addressing a rally in West Champaran’s Valmiki Nagar constituency, the CM said, “The assistance of Rs 10 lakh that we used to provide to members of SC, ST and EBCs will now be given to people of all classes so that new and advanced technology can be used to generate more employment opportunities.” Political observers said the CM’s latest announcement is a move to counter RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s mega poll announcement to provide government jobs to 10 lakh youths if he (Tejashwi) is voted to power. Speaking at another election rally in West Champaran’s Sikta constituency, he not only mocked Tejashwi’s poll announcement of giving 10 lakh government jobs and dared him to announce providing jobs to one crore youths, instead of 10 lakh. “When you are talking about jobs, give the government jobs to all one crore intermediate -pass youths, why only 10 lakh? Give jobs to all youths,” Nitish said, referring to Tejashwi’s job promise without taking any names. “What was the state’s annual budget during the RJD’s rule, before we came to power in November 2005? Where would he bring money to give salaries to one crore new employees? Will he bring the money from the skies?” Nitish asked, mocking Tejashwi’s poll promise. Making a major shift in his stand on the creation of new districts and blocks, Nitish, while speaking at Valmiki Nagar, said he would “definitely” look into the demand of creation of new districts, new subdivisions and news blocks in different parts of the state. Earlier, Nitish used to say that a cabinet sub-committee would consider such demands purely on merit. At Valmiki Nagar, the CM also sought votes in favour of JD(U) candidate from Valmiki Nagar assembly seat Dhirendra Pratap Singh alias Rinku Singh and the party nominee for the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha bypoll Sunil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-announces-rs-10-lakh-entrepreneurship-sop-for-all/articleshow/78943788.cms||Madan Kumar
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||SC/ST scholarship scam: Govt tells HC all aspects of scam will be investigated by SIT||Nainital: The state government on Wednesday informed the Uttarakhand high court that it has handed over the investigation covering the scholarship scam to the Special Investigation Team (SIT). This includes the aspect dealing with allegations that several people procured fake income certificates to avail the scholarship meant for the underprivileged students of the SC/ST community.The additional chief standing counsel appearing for the state government informed the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani that a government order was issued on October 20 that said the investigation is now being handed over to the SIT. “It is also submitted that as a consequence of the said government order, the entire investigation into all aspects covering the entire scholarship scam is presently under the investigation by the SIT. Therefore, the entire scam will hereinafter be investigated by the SIT alone without any exception,” read the court order which was made available on Thursday.The cases related to procurement of fake income certificates were until now being investigated by the vigilance department and nine FIRs were filed related to these cases.Meanwhile, the counsel appearing for the SIT informed the court that the entire investigation of the scam will be completed in the next six months. The court, however, said that it will consider the question of granting this period on the next date of hearing after which the court adjourned the hearing for three months and fixed January 6 as the next date of hearing. “Learned counsel for the SIT submits that they would require a period of at least six months to complete the entire investigation... The question of granting this period or not will be considered on the next date... In view of the government order being issued, we deem it just and necessary to adjourn this matter for a period of three months to enable the SIT to place on record the progress report of investigation made as on that date,” read the court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc/st-scholarship-scam-govt-tells-hc-all-aspects-of-scam-will-be-investigated-by-sit/articleshow/78938779.cms||Prashant Jha
October 30, 2020||Vadodara||Clayware from Gujarat’s tribal belt making way into urban kitchens||Vadodara: Around 5,000 years back, the Indus people cooked their staple diets – the wheat gruels and millet-porridges in baked clay utensils. The age-old earthen cookware was even handed down across generations as Grandma's favorite in families to produce the same taste as the original creation. History now seems to be coming a full circle in gastronomy. Terracotta utensils that are used in Gujarat’s tribal belt are becoming part of country’s urban kitchens. As the traditional kitchenware is nudging home chefs and cooks across the country to go back to their roots, the demand for indigenously made non-stick deep frying and shallow pans is on the rise. The Dhanak, Rathwa and Nayak tribes of Chhota Udepur who were making the utensils for their personal use had already started selling them in local ‘haats’. But now, the traditional terracotta utensils are finding newer markets through social media. In the last fortnight, the Aadivasi Academy of Bhasha Research and Publication Centre which has started promoting the art on social media has received over 300 orders for the age-old terracotta utensils from not just parts of India but from the USA and France too. “These are indigenously developed non-stick cookware with all-natural material and their price is also much lower than the teflon-based non-stick cookware which is found in urban kitchens and are harmful to health in the long run,” said Dr Madan Meena, director of Aadivasi Academy. For urban kitchens, the design of utensils is slightly modified. “In rural areas since the cooking is done on traditional stoves, the pans are deep. The depth has been decreased since the cooking is done on the gas stove in urban kitchens,” Meena added. While the utensils are available for sale at the academy in Tejgadh village of Chhota Udepur, they are now working on packaging and sending the utensils to the buyers. “Concern for health encouraged me to place an order for these utensils. The teflon-based utensils are not good for health and there are no alternatives for them,” said Meenakshi Saharan, a social worker from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/clayware-from-gujarats-tribal-belt-making-way-into-urban-kitchens/articleshow/78938801.cms||Jay Pachchigar
October 30, 2020||Trichy||Vedaranyam fishers agitate over outsiders stealing their livelihood||Nagapattinam: Registering their strong opposition to fishermen from neighbouring areas and also from other districts camping in their hamlets and indulging in fishing along Vedaranyam coast, fisherfolk from 15 hamlets carried out a protest and launched an indefinite strike demanding that such people be sent out so as to save their livelihood. Around 10,000 striking fishermen anchored their 1,500 fibre boats after skipping their catching activities in protest. Announcing the strike on Thursday, fishermen from Aarukattuthurai, Vellapallam, Chinthamanikkadu, Vanavanmadevi, Pushpavanam, Maniyan Theevu and Kodiakkadu as well as other hamlets demanded vacating around 2,000 fishermen from neighbouring taluks as well as districts like Cuddalore, Ramanathapuram and Tuticorin who are camping along the coast in Kodiyakkarai for fishing in the Bay of Bengal. Despite repeated representation, the authorities had not taken any steps. “Unlike other coastal areas, Vedaranyam coast remains calm during October to December. Hence, fishermen from other parts of the state arrive here with families and engage in fishing activities,” G Mayilvahanan, head of Aarukattuthurai village, told TOI.“But unlike yesteryears, the volume of catch is fast decreasing and number of boats increasing. Our fishermen have to struggle to earn for their catches daily. We cannot venture deep into the sea either as we risk running into Sri Lankan navy. Fisheries officials should take steps to vacate around 500 boats and 2,000 fishermen camping here”, he stressed. He also alleged that some traders from Kodiyakkarai have been hosting such outsiders and enjoying benefits without venturing into the sea.Officials from fisheries, police and revenue departments convened peace talks on Wednesday where the heads of 15 villages participated. However, the protesters remained firm on their demand. Joint director of fisheries Amal Xavier told TOI that fishermen from other districts have been coming and engaging in fishing after camping in Kodiyakkarai for decades. “The first round of peace talks was held on Wednesday. However, we are trying to find an amicable solution to the issue soon”, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vedaranyam-fishers-agitate-over-outsiders-stealing-their-livelihood/articleshow/78941758.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 30, 2020||Trichy||Preserve old steel bridge across Cauvery, say locals||Trichy: Locals and experts have appealed to the authorities to preserve the British-era steel bridge across the Cauvery river that connects Trichy mainland with Srirangam island, instead of the proposal to dismantle it. Residents said the bridge can be strengthened and utilised as an exclusive public space for walkers, as the city has very limited public space for leisure. Recently, the state highways department proposed to dismantle the bridge based on an expert study. Reacting to this, locals and experts said that the 91-year-old bridge must be preserved as a heritage structure alongside the old Kollidam bridge. “There is a scope for rehabilitation. Modern heritage is as much as important as ancient heritage. The bridge should not be dismantled,” S Vijayakumar, architect and member of Indian Institute of Architects (Trichy centre) said. The institute is willing to offer technical support for the rehabilitation drive as the piers, if strengthened, can be utilised for walking purpose, he added. “Information boards mentioning the technical details of the bridge will help students,” Dr M A Aleem, member, Trichy district welfare fund committee said. The rehabilitation of the bridge as a public space will also send a message to conserve the heritage, residents said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/preserve-old-steel-bridge-across-cauvery-say-locals/articleshow/78941775.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||38-year-old woman stabs son-in-law to death in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old woman, who was reportedly having an affair with her son-in-law, stabbed the 32-year-old man to death in his sleep at Ramanthapur.  Though the incident happened on Tuesday, it came to light on Thursday after the woman surrerend before police. The woman’s daughter committed suicide recently after she discovered that her mother was in a relationship with her husband. Police said the woman, who was working for a caterer, walked to the Uppal police station and surrendered on Thursday. She confessed that she stabbed her son-in-law to death on Tuesday night when he was fast asleep. While working, she started a relationship with the victim. Subsequently, she got her 19-year-old daughter married to the man. “On learning about their illicit relationship, the 19-year-old asked her mother to stay separately. However, her husband threatened to kill her if she asked her mother to stay separately. Vexed with life, the teenager committed suicide. The woman and her son-in-law went to jail and recently they came out on bail,’’ Uppal police said.  After tracking down her address, the man started harassing her and even alleged that she ruined his life. Due to harassment, the woman killed him, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/38-yr-old-woman-stabs-son-in-law-to-death/articleshow/78941783.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Three arrested for auto driver’s murder||HYDERABAD: Three persons have been arrested for their alleged role in the murder of 20-year-old auto driver Md Abdul Muqeem. They burnt the body at a timber depot in LB Nagar in August. On August 22, owner of Hollywood Enterprise Timber Depot near Sagar X Roads, lodged a complaint with LB Nagar police stating that a partially burnt body of a man was found on their premises. After preliminary investigation, police found out that the victim was stabbed to death. Police analysed CCTV footage near the timber depot and realised that the victim’s body was brought to the timber depot in an auto. Police arrested Md Isaq, 22, an auto driver, Md Irfan, 22, a car driver from Jhirra, and Riyaz Khan, 19, an auto driver from Habeebnagar at Mansoorabad, and seized two knives and an auto rickshaw from their possession.  On interrogation, Isaq confessed Muqeem, who was a friend, misbehaved with his wife. “Muqeem visited Isaq’s house when the latter was not present and held his wife’s hand. She informed Isaq about it. Isaq sought Irfan’s help to eliminate Muqeem,” LB Nagar inspector V Ashok Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-arrested-for-auto-drivers-murder/articleshow/78941773.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: In compliance with NGT orders, panel related to environment to be set up in each district||DEHRADUN: Chief Secretary Om Prakash on Thursday said that in accordance with the orders issued by the NGT, a committee related to the environment will be set up in each district. The NGT order said that the states from where the Ganga river flows, chief secretary of that state will head an environmental cell. Prakash said that the water from Gangotri to Rishikesh is potable and from Rishikesh to Haridwar as far as the state limits, the water is fit for bathing. He added that the required efforts are being made to maintain the purity of water till the Kumbh Mela. The chief secretary in an interaction with reporters said that 32 sewer treatment plants were to be built in the state, out of which 29 have been completed and are functional. Out of the three remaining STPs, two will be completed by December and the remaining one by March next year. Prakash added that for cities on the banks of Ganga, the Centre gives 35% of the funds for solid waste management projects. The state government bears 65% of the project money. A proposal of 17 solid waste management projects were sent to the Centre and the first installment of these works have been released. He also said that the work on these projects is expected to start within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-compliance-with-ngt-orders-panel-related-to-environment-to-be-set-up-in-each-district/articleshow/78938791.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Amid flu season, corpn holds fewer fever camps in city||CHENNAI: Despite the change in the weather and an order from the state health secretary to hold more fever camps in the city, Greater Chennai Corporation has been conducting 350 to 370 camps daily in comparison to 470 to 500 camps that were held earlier. This when the monsoon has set in and flu is widespread. In September, the corporation conducted around 520 camps which about 19,000 people attended every day and where about 800 to 1,200 symptomatic cases were detected daily. However, in October the number of fever camps and attendees have come down. Post Navratri, the number went down by 100 with just around 370 camps being held every day. While the number of attendees has remained between 15,000 and 19,000, symptomatic cases have dropped by 50% to 600-odd cases a day. Recently, the health secretary sent an order to all civic bodies and district collectors asking them to ensure fever surveillance is increased as post festivities the number of detections may be more. “Monsoon has also set in, so more symptomatic cases are bound to be detected. I have asked them to continue to collect samples and monitor influenza and other diseases common during rainy season. Until we get a full grip, there should not be any reduction in sample collection or testing,” J Radhakrishnan told TOI. Dr S Srinivasan, state nodal officer for child health registrar at Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children, Egmore, said the reason for reduction in camps could be the festive season and fall in cases. “In ICH, out of the 40 who were tested on October 29, only four were positive for Covid-19. Also, we are getting more admissions from people who are suffering from other fevers and virus infections. Non-Covid admissions have slowly begun so surveillance of other diseases is also the focus now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-flu-season-corpn-holds-fewer-fever-camps-in-city/articleshow/78940096.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Eamcet-2020: Telangana govt relaxes 45% norm, new schedule out||HYDERABAD: A day after the high court halted the second phase of Engineering, Agriculture, Medical Common Entrance Test (Eamcet)-2020 counselling, the government has relaxed the 45% eligibility criteria. The new schedule for candidates to apply online, pay processing fee and attend for certificate verification as per the new criteria will begin on October 31. As per Government Order 201 issued by the higher education department on Thursday, all students who have cleared Intermediate exams would be eligible for Eamcet-2020 counselling. As per the earlier Eamcet notification, candidates with 45% marks in the subjects specified in Intermediate except for B Pharmacy course were eligible for counselling. The move of doing away with the minimum qualifying marks is a one- time measure by the government in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “Authorities to permit such students to appear for counselling in respect of TS-Eamcet (Admissions)– 2020 without insisting on the eligibility criteria for qualifying examination marks. This order applies only for this year i.e., 2020-21 as a special case and shall not be precedent in future, and shall not be applied from 2021-2022 onwards,” the GO said. Subsequently, Telangana Eamcet (admissions)- 2020 convenor Navin Mittal revised the final phase of admission schedule. As per revised schedule, candidates would be able to apply online, pay processing fee and attend for certificate verification as per the relaxed qualifying criteria on October 31. Certificate verification for already slot-booked candidates in the final phase would be held on November 1. Candidates can exercise options from October 30 to November 2. Provisional allotment of seats will be declared on November 4. They have to pay tuition fee and self-report through the website from November 4 to 7||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eamcet-2020-govt-relaxes-45-norm-new-schedule-out/articleshow/78941800.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Blood donation camp today||HYDERABAD: A city-based social welfare organisation, Focuss and Tanzeem e Irshadul Muslimeen are going to organise its 11th annual blood donation drive on October 30. The organisation has been conducting blood camps every year on the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, marking the birthday of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The Blood camps will be held at Eid Gah Balamrai adjacent to Masjid E Sufi at Secunderabad and State Central Library Afzal Gunj from 7am to 5 pm. Last year, the organization sponsored legal fees for jail prisoners doing time for petty allegations incapacitated by their financial condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/blood-donation-camp-today/articleshow/78941793.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||RBI extends cash credit limit for Punjab till November end||CHANDIGARH: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the cash credit limit (CCL) for Punjab till November end, for the ongoing paddy procurement season. The extended CCL is of Rs 5,331.79 crore, till the end of November, 2020. With this, the sanctioned limit of Rs 30,220.82 crore for October end has been enhanced to Rs 35,552.61 crore up to end of November, according to a spokesperson. The extension for procurement of paddy, under new account during kharif marketing season (KMS) 2020-21, is subject to the state government ensuring that SBI would release funds. These funds get authorised only after Punjab submits the letter of consent under Article 293(3) of the Constitution, obtained from the Union ministry of finance and subject to outstanding under all the food credit accounts to be always backed by fully paid stock valued. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rbi-extends-ccl-for-pb-till-nov-end/articleshow/78941790.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Two-member panel to probe dumping of flour at Bathinda||BATHINDA: After political parties objected to dumping of wheat flour meant for distribution among the needy during the Covid-19 lockdown, Bathinda deputy commissioner B Srinivasan, on Thursday, set up a two-member committee to inquire why the ration was not distributed among the underprivileged and dumped in a pit at Jogger Park. The committee will submit its report in three days. Meanwhile, Bathinda Police has registered a case against three activists of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on charges of criminal trespass for jumping into the vacant Mayor House near Jogger Park after scaling the wall to check for more dumped wheat flour. A case has been registered against Chamkaur Singh Mann, Nirmal Singh Sandhu and Rajdeep Singh besides 15 to 20 persons under section 447 (criminal trespass). SAD termed registration of a case against party workers as unfortunate and said instead of the Akalis, officials responsible should have been booked. “The DC has asked additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Rajdeep Singh Brar and district food supplies controller Jaspreet Kahlon to investigate and report in three days,” said Bathinda MC commissioner Bikramjit Singh Shergill. He added that officials found responsible for allowing the flour to rot in the pit will be punished. Former minister Sikandar Singh Maluka and former MLA Sarup Chand Singla said if the case registered against Akali activists is not withdrawn and culprits are not booked, SAD will stage a protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-member-panel-to-probe-dumping-of-flour/articleshow/78941784.cms||Neel Kamal
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Nod for polygraph test of sacrilege accused sought||PATIALA: After interrogating the sacrilege accused for 15 days, the Fatehgarh Sahib police have now sought permission for conducting a polygraph test of the 20-year-old youth, who allegedly committed two acts of sacrilege on the fifth anniversary of Bargari sacrilege incidents on October 12 this year. On Wednesday, the accused was sent to judicial custody by a local court in Fatehgarh Sahib. The police said the accused has admitted to having committed the crime, but there is also a need to conduct the polygraph test. “We have sought the court’s permission for a polygraph test. We have already got the consent of the accused for the test, which is mandatory in such cases. For now, we can only say that he has admitted to the sacrileges, nothing more than that as the (polygraph) test is yet to be done,” said Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal. The accused, identified as Sehajvir Singh, 20, of a village in Nabha, was arrested for the sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib on October 12, after he was caught by the son of head granthi of Gurdwara Sahib in Tarkhan Majra village of Fatehgarh Sahib. The accused revealed that he committed another sacrilege the same morning at Gurdwara Sahib of Jallah village in the district. The police have registered two separate cases against the accused under sections 295-A (hurting religious sentiments) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under sections 18 (conspiracy to commit an act of terror) and 20 (for being a member of a terrorist gang) of the UAP Act. The members of various Sikh organisations are demanding that conspiracy behind the incident be thoroughly probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nod-for-polygraph-test-of-sacrilege-accused-sought/articleshow/78941799.cms||Bharat Khanna
October 30, 2020||India||Raids meant to cripple terror funding ahead of India’s FATF test||NEW DELHI: The series of raids on Kashmir-based non-governmental organisation (NGOs) and sympathisers of terror outfits by intelligence and enforcement agencies are part of a strategy of the government to dismantle the terror infrastructure in the Valley and cripple sources of terror financing, a pre-condition for India to clear the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) test coming up sometime early next year. The fourth round of the on-site visit of the FATF team for ‘mutual evaluations’ of India is to take place sometime in February/March next year. India was removed from the ‘regular follow up process’ after a 2013 plenary meeting of the FATF which found ‘satisfactory level of compliance’. India had carried out all the required legislative reforms associated with anti-money laundering and countering terror financing (AML & CFT) as recommended by the Paris-based intergovernmental body. Clearing the FATF test is not an easy task for enforcement agencies as they have to prove ‘decisive actions’ on the ground against money laundering and terror financing to avoid being part of the Grey list,which is where Pakistan has found itself in recent times. Being on the grey list of FATF impedes foreign investments and the country’s trade with others in view of stringent conditions imposed on the financial system and on the inter-governmental transactions. Since 2010, when it became a member of the Paris-based body, India has carried out several legislative reforms and enacted laws required as part of FATF’s guidelines on AML/CFT. As part of actions on the ground, the government has asked all agencies to file chargesheets in a time-bound manner and ensure completion of trials and convictions in cases registered by them. Indian agencies' record of obtaining convictions in cases investigated by them is very poor owing to many reasons, including witnesses turning hostile or delay in the trial process, all pointing at deficiencies in the present prosecution system. The searches on Wednesday and Thursday by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Kashmir-based NGOs and some overground workers of terror outfits are just among a series of actions being taken against those associated with Pakistan-based terror sponsors. The NIA actions have come just after the Enforcement Directorate attached assets of many hawala operators and Srinagar-based businessmen used by Pakistan's Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed to fund terror operations in the Valley. The RBI had recently cancelled the licences of 19 foreign exchange agents across the country after they were found issuing foreign currencies, particularly US dollars, to people without keeping track of who they were or what had been their source of funds. Thousands of crores worth of foreign currencies have been distributed by these agents without maintaining any record. A lot of this is suspected to be dirty money, proceeds of crime, and used for anti-national activities, including terror financing. The ED last month filed a chargesheet against hawala dealers, terror sympathisers and heads of terror outfits, including LeT chief Hafiz Saeed. Its probe revealed many in the Union Territory of J&K, including some NGOs, were founded by Saeed’s Pak-based NGO Falah-i-Insaniyat for terror operation and providing safe houses to Pak-based terrorists operating in the Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raids-meant-to-cripple-terror-funding-ahead-of-indias-fatf-test/articleshow/78942958.cms||Pradeep Thakur
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Sanehalli National Theatre Fest to be held in virtual mode||BELAGAVI: The state’s famed Sanehalli National Theatre Festival will happen online this year, a decision that brought joy to theatre buffs, who were earlier not sure whether the event would be held or not, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The annual event organised by Taralabalu Jagadguru Shakha Mutt, located in the remote Sanehalli village in Hosadurga taluk of Chitradurga district, sees over 70,000 people participating. This time around, the mutt is expecting virtual participation for the grand seven-day festival that will commence on Sunday. There are about seven plays that will be staged online from across the state and Mumbai, and lecture series on various topics related to theatre will also be streamed. Many popular troupes have already sent recorded videos of plays for the festival. These plays will be put up on the official website of the festival http://www.shivasanchara.org/, and its Facebook page. H S Dhyamesh, a member of the organising team, said that apart from plays, other events are also streamed live on the website. At 8 am a talk show Chintana is held every day, which is streamed live. This event is held with a minimum number of audience being in attendance in the mutt premises. The lecture series that scheduled at 6 pm will also be streamed live. This is a first of its kind effort in the state, where an entire festival is being held online, he said. Marula Siddaih, another member of the team, said that last year about 6,000 people from across the country gathered at the mutt every day, and on the concluding day, as many as 35,000 people descended upon the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sanehalli-natl-theatre-fest-to-be-held-in-virtual-mode/articleshow/78938825.cms||Shreyas HS
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||One dead, 6 injured after LPG cylinder explodes||BAREILLY: An LPG cylinder caught fire and exploded inside a house in Gurugawa village of Nigohi block in Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday night, leaving seven members of a family seriously injured. Five of the injured are in critical condition and have been referred to Lucknow, while a woman who had received 100% burn injuries, later succumbed. According to sources, Vimla Devi (38) was preparing dinner when gas started leaking from the cylinder and caught fire. Before she could alert other family members, the cylinder exploded. The victims were rescued by neighbours with the help of police. Emergency medical officer (EMO) Dr V K Gangwar said, “Seven people with burn injuries were brought for treatment. The condition of five of them was critical. One of the injured, Vimla Devi, had sustained 100% burns, while four others had nearly 80% burns. After initial treatment, they were all referred to Lucknow.” Additional SP (city) Sanjay Kumar said, “Police rushed to the spot soon after receiving information of the accident and rescued seven people of the same family. Prima facie, it appears to be an accident. We’ve recorded statements of the victims. We’re also keeping an eye on the condition of the survivors, four of whom are critical and admitted in Lucknow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/one-dead-6-injured-after-lpg-cylinder-explodes/articleshow/78936717.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Seven-year-old boy drowns in pit||HYDERABAD: A seven-year-old boy died after falling in a pit while he was playing near his residence in Ghatkesar on Thursday.  At 11 am, the boy, G Ganesh was playing with one of his friends, Ghatkesar police said. Suddenly Ganesh fell into a pit, which was filled with water. He drowned by the time his parents reached. The boy was brought out and he was immediately shifted to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead.  The family members did not raise any suspicion. A case has been registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of Code of Criminal Procedure. The seven-year-old’s father is a labourer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-yr-old-boy-drowns-in-pit/articleshow/78941807.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: One killed, another seriously injured in accident||MYSURU: A back seat traveller of a car died on the spot while another suffered serious injuries after the car in which they were travelling rammed into a roadside tree in the wee hours of Thursday. The deceased is Arun Kumar, 24. His friend Mani has been hospitalised with serious injuries, and his condition is critical. Driver Shivakumar and another front-seat passenger have escaped with minor injuries. According to KR traffic police, the incident happened around 1.30am due to over-speeding. Police are verifying whether the driver was under the influence of alcohol or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/one-killed-another-seriously-injured-in-accident/articleshow/78938826.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||5 lakh students to appear for JNTU-Hyderabad exams||HYDERABAD: Close to five lakh students will appear for the third spell of exams to be conducted by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) from November 12. According to a letter issued by the university to all the affiliated and autonomous colleges, the third spell will comprise regular and supplementary exams of all, including semesters of BTech and BPharmacy courses. “Like in the first and second spell, in this spell also, the colleges are requested to extend their services to the autonomous colleges under Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, for their students who desire to write the exam in your city/place,” reads the letter. The university has sanctioned Rs 1 per candidate per session for sanitization, thermal scanning and other precautionary measures as per Covid-19 guidelines. “The colleges have to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 norms. This is applicable to spell-1 and spell-2 exams also,” reads the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5l-students-to-appear-for-jntu-h-exams/articleshow/78941816.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Over 60% polling in first phase of municipal polls||JAIPUR: Amid Covid pandemic in the state, 60.42% voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors on Thursday. The highest voting was recorded in Kota North at 65.12%. In Jaipur Heritage, 57.82% voters exercised their franchise and in Jodhpur North, 62.64% voters came out to cast their votes. Meanwhile, in 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67% voting took place in 2014 and 60.53% voters exercised their franchise in 2009. State election commissioner P S Mehra thanked the voters for adhereing to Covid protocol while casting their votes. He said, “The first phase of elections in the three municipal corporations has been completed successfully with the support of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officers and all the officials involved in the election work.” Mehra informed that of the 16.54 lakh voters in the first phase of municipal polls, 9.99 lakh voters exercised their franchise. Till 10am, the voting in the three municipal corporations was 18.30%. At 1 pm, the voting percentage reached 38.75. By 3 pm, the percentage went up to 49.46 and by 5.30 pm, 58.96% of the voters had cast their votes. The second phase of municipal elections will be held on November 1 in Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South. The counting of votes will take place on November 3. CM expresses confidence that Cong will win all 6 corporations: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday expressed confidence that Congress party will win all the six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. He also expressed confidence that the voters will make Congress party victorious for the development of these three cities. Gehlot said, “Amid Corona pandemic, the manner in which the voters are carefully and enthusiastically voting in favour of Congress candidates, I am sure that not only these three, but Congress party will emerge victorious in other three municipal corporations (in these three cities) as well, where elections are scheduled to be held on November 1.” Gehlot said, whenever Congress governments were formed in the state in the past 22 years, it has worked towards changing the overall picture of these cities by through development work. He said in order to accelerate the pace of development with greater accountability of the public representatives, the state government has created six municipal corporations in place of three. “Through this, development can be done in a more planned manner in the three cities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-60-polling-in-firstphase-of-municipal-polls/articleshow/78943704.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||Two UPSRTC clerks run over in Moradabad||BAREILLY: Two Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation clerks, who were on way home on a two-wheeler, were run over by an unidentified vehicle on Wednesday night. The accident took place near their office in Katghar area. The duo, Sachin and Avinash, both in their 30s, were residing in Bank colony under Majhola police station. Police said both men were flung off their vehicle when hit and run over. They died on the spot, police said. Sachin, hailing from Shamli, is survived by his wife and three daughters. The family of Avinash, who is from Rudrapur, is being contacted. Ganjendra Singh, SHO, Katghar police station, Moradabad, told TOI, “An FIR has been registered against an unidentified driver under IPC sections 304a (death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving). Efforts are on to trace rhe driver."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-upsrtc-clerks-run-over-in-moradabad/articleshow/78936736.cms||Maria Khan
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC officer abuses minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, shunted||HYDERABAD: A deputy commissioner of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was transferred and directed to report to the head office, a day after an audio recording of his purported conversation with BJP MLA T Raja Singh went viral, in which he was using offensive words, while referring to a TRS minister and a corporator. In the audio clip, GHMC deputy commissioner, Goshamahal circle (Khairatabad), Vinay Kapoor Kapoor informed Raja Singh that he had a heated argument and a fight with TRS corporator from Gunfoundry M Mamatha,and that she had complained against him to animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav. While speaking to the Goshamahal MLA, the GHMC official also questioned why was the BJP leader silent when the minister was repeatedly visiting his constituency. “This Talasani is doing too much, why are you silent, he is coming (to Goshamahal) every two days. Is he minister only for Goshamahal,” the official is heard in the conversation. The conversation started after MLA Raja Singh called up the civic official to get details about the 10,000 relief amount being distributed to flood victims. When the MLA questioned the official why the list of beneficiaries was not shared with him, Kapoor allegedly started abusing TRS leaders. After the GHMC commissioner was informed about the incident on October 28, Lokesh Kumar directed him to report to the head office and appointed B Sreenivasu as deputy commissioner of Goshamahal. Kapoor refused to comment on the issue. “I don’t want to comment on the issue,” he said, when asked about the audio recording.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-officer-abuses-min-talasani-shunted/articleshow/78941824.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Congress surveys potential seats for 2021 assembly polls||CHENNAI: In a bid to strike a good deal in seat sharing for the upcoming assembly election in Tamil Nadu, the Congress on Thursday said “a detailed, thorough and scientific exercise” had been undertaken to identify potential seats where the party would have a competitive edge. In the 2016 assembly election, the party won only eight of 41 seats allocated to it by the DMK after a hard bargain. Data collection would include an assessment of the voting pattern, including whether voters in a constituency were influenced by politics, caste and community. The reasons for the resounding victory of the DMK alliance in 2019 general elections and the prospects for the forthcoming assembly election would be assessed too. The issues relating to unemployment and migrant population would also constitute key inputs. Experts have been enlisted for the exercise throughout the state. Sivaganga MP Karti P Chidambaram said data would be the basis for seat allocation. “The election is still five or six months away. It is very important to work in advance. Since the DMK got I-PAC, a very professional agency, we should have data when we sit down with the principal ally for talks,” Karti said. The state-wide exercise is also to gauge the mood of the people, he said. The party is hopeful of having adequate and appropriate data when alliance leaders hold discussions. The erosion of the Congress base over the decades has prompted the party to look at strategies to get winnable seats. The poor performance of the Congress in the 2016 assembly election impacted the DMK’s prospects. The DMK was short of a majority (117) by 28 seats. The DMK tally, after its bypoll victory in 13 constituencies last year, stands at 97. TNCC chief K S Alagiri said the survey had been completed in 22 constituencies in the state and the rest would be covered in the next three months. The strength of alliance and the booth committees are being assessed among cadres and functionaries, besides the mood of the people. “We have found the TN voters are politically aware and positive. They are neither caste-oriented nor communal when it comes to electing the government. We are confident,” Alagiri said. AICC secretary (Tamil Nadu incharge) Sanjay Dutt has been holding a series of meetings in the districts, discussing election preparatory work, given the scheduled demonstrations lined up in the coming days against the “anti-people policies” of the state and the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/congress-surveys-potential-seats-for-2021-assembly-polls/articleshow/78940150.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 60% polling in first phase of municipal polls||JAIPUR: Amid Covid pandemic in the state, 60.42% voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors on Thursday. The highest voting was recorded in Kota North at 65.12%. In Jaipur Heritage, 57.82% voters exercised their franchise and in Jodhpur North, 62.64% voters came out to cast their votes. Meanwhile, in 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67% voting took place in 2014 and 60.53% voters exercised their franchise in 2009. State election commissioner P S Mehra thanked the voters for adhereing to Covid protocol while casting their votes. He said, “The first phase of elections in the three municipal corporations has been completed successfully with the support of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officers and all the officials involved in the election work.” Mehra informed that of the 16.54 lakh voters in the first phase of municipal polls, 9.99 lakh voters exercised their franchise. Till 10am, the voting in the three municipal corporations was 18.30%. At 1 pm, the voting percentage reached 38.75. By 3 pm, the percentage went up to 49.46 and by 5.30 pm, 58.96% of the voters had cast their votes. The second phase of municipal elections will be held on November 1 in Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South. The counting of votes will take place on November 3. CM expresses confidence that Cong will win all 6 corporations: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday expressed confidence that Congress party will win all the six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. He also expressed confidence that the voters will make Congress party victorious for the development of these three cities. Gehlot said, “Amid Corona pandemic, the manner in which the voters are carefully and enthusiastically voting in favour of Congress candidates, I am sure that not only these three, but Congress party will emerge victorious in other three municipal corporations (in these three cities) as well, where elections are scheduled to be held on November 1.” Gehlot said, whenever Congress governments were formed in the state in the past 22 years, it has worked towards changing the overall picture of these cities by through development work. He said in order to accelerate the pace of development with greater accountability of the public representatives, the state government has created six municipal corporations in place of three. “Through this, development can be done in a more planned manner in the three cities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-60-polling-in-firstphase-of-municipal-polls/articleshow/78941826.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Over 60% polling in first phase of municipal polls||JAIPUR: Amid Covid pandemic in the state, 60.42% voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors on Thursday. The highest voting was recorded in Kota North at 65.12%. In Jaipur Heritage, 57.82% voters exercised their franchise and in Jodhpur North, 62.64% voters came out to cast their votes. Meanwhile, in 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67% voting took place in 2014 and 60.53% voters exercised their franchise in 2009. State election commissioner P S Mehra thanked the voters for adhereing to Covid protocol while casting their votes. He said, “The first phase of elections in the three municipal corporations has been completed successfully with the support of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officers and all the officials involved in the election work.” Mehra informed that of the 16.54 lakh voters in the first phase of municipal polls, 9.99 lakh voters exercised their franchise. Till 10am, the voting in the three municipal corporations was 18.30%. At 1 pm, the voting percentage reached 38.75. By 3 pm, the percentage went up to 49.46 and by 5.30 pm, 58.96% of the voters had cast their votes. The second phase of municipal elections will be held on November 1 in Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South. The counting of votes will take place on November 3. CM expresses confidence that Cong will win all 6 corporations: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday expressed confidence that Congress party will win all the six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. He also expressed confidence that the voters will make Congress party victorious for the development of these three cities. Gehlot said, “Amid Corona pandemic, the manner in which the voters are carefully and enthusiastically voting in favour of Congress candidates, I am sure that not only these three, but Congress party will emerge victorious in other three municipal corporations (in these three cities) as well, where elections are scheduled to be held on November 1.” Gehlot said, whenever Congress governments were formed in the state in the past 22 years, it has worked towards changing the overall picture of these cities by through development work. He said in order to accelerate the pace of development with greater accountability of the public representatives, the state government has created six municipal corporations in place of three. “Through this, development can be done in a more planned manner in the three cities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-60-polling-in-firstphase-of-municipal-polls/articleshow/78943703.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Over 60% polling in first phase of municipal polls||JAIPUR: Amid Covid pandemic in the state, 60.42% voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors on Thursday. The highest voting was recorded in Kota North at 65.12%. In Jaipur Heritage, 57.82% voters exercised their franchise and in Jodhpur North, 62.64% voters came out to cast their votes. Meanwhile, in 2014 municipal corporation elections in Jaipur, 60% polling took place and in 2009, the polling was 51.80%. Similarly, 63% polling took place in Jodhpur in 2014 and 58.53% in 2009. In Kota, 67% voting took place in 2014 and 60.53% voters exercised their franchise in 2009. State election commissioner P S Mehra thanked the voters for adhereing to Covid protocol while casting their votes. He said, “The first phase of elections in the three municipal corporations has been completed successfully with the support of voters and dedication of district election officers, police officers and all the officials involved in the election work.” Mehra informed that of the 16.54 lakh voters in the first phase of municipal polls, 9.99 lakh voters exercised their franchise. Till 10am, the voting in the three municipal corporations was 18.30%. At 1 pm, the voting percentage reached 38.75. By 3 pm, the percentage went up to 49.46 and by 5.30 pm, 58.96% of the voters had cast their votes. The second phase of municipal elections will be held on November 1 in Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South. The counting of votes will take place on November 3. CM expresses confidence that Cong will win all 6 corporations: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday expressed confidence that Congress party will win all the six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. He also expressed confidence that the voters will make Congress party victorious for the development of these three cities. Gehlot said, “Amid Corona pandemic, the manner in which the voters are carefully and enthusiastically voting in favour of Congress candidates, I am sure that not only these three, but Congress party will emerge victorious in other three municipal corporations (in these three cities) as well, where elections are scheduled to be held on November 1.” Gehlot said, whenever Congress governments were formed in the state in the past 22 years, it has worked towards changing the overall picture of these cities by through development work. He said in order to accelerate the pace of development with greater accountability of the public representatives, the state government has created six municipal corporations in place of three. “Through this, development can be done in a more planned manner in the three cities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-60-polling-in-firstphase-of-municipal-polls/articleshow/78943702.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||India||Kashmiri Pandit organisations welcome move to allow any citizen to purchase land in J&K||NEW DELHI: Prominent Kashmiri Pandit organisations have welcomed the government notification allowing Indians to purchase land in Jammu and Kashmir. In a joint statement, Roots in Kashmir (RIK), Jammu Kashmir Vichar Manch (JKVM) and Youth for Panun Kashmir (Y4PK) have welcomed the government decision. Dilip Mattoo, President JKVM said that the Kashmiri Pandit community has always kept the rights of Indians above any community or regional aspirations. “We have chosen exodus but no compromise on the unity and integrity of this nation,” he said. Rahul Mahanoori, spokesperson, RIK said that soldiers fighting the terror and jihad in Kashmir come from every part of India and thousands have sacrificed their lives fighting the enemy in Kashmir. It was unfair till now that protectors and martyrs had no right on the land, they were ready to sacrifice their lives for. Netri Bhat, a prominent woman community activist said that with ownership rights extended to entire India is a welcome step towards the One Nation, One Law and One rule. This will also bring in much needed investment and generate employment that will benefit the residents of the state. Vithal Chowdhary, organising secretary for Y4PK said that the best way to counter jihad in Kashmir is by giving every Indian a right to settle in Jammu & Kashmir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kashmiri-pandit-organisations-welcome-move-to-allow-any-citizen-to-purchase-land-in-jk/articleshow/78942961.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Fruits, veggies too hot to touch in Kolkata before Lakshmi Puja||KOLKATA: Prices of fruits nearly doubled across city markets on Thursday as people made a beeline to shops to make purchases for Lakshmi Puja on Friday. Scarce at most markets, coconuts, sugarcane and palm seeds—must-haves for the puja—were sold at a premium. The price surge was similar for vegetables as well, especially for those that are used for bhog, though there was no dearth of supply in the retail markets. In fact both fruits and vegetables went for an even higher rate in the evening than that in the morning. Buyers complained that the prices, which had already been high this pandemic year, increased manifold during the pujas. But on Thursday, they said, they found most fruits and vegetables beyond their reach. Those who have puja at home said as no guest had been invited this year, they could get away with buying small quantities. The most popular among fruits were apples, pears , pomelo (batabi lebu), bananas, dates, coconuts and cucumber. Though grapes and pomegranates were available, they were so expensive that people avoided them. Cauliflowers, drumsticks, aubergines, pumpkins, tomatoes and cabbages, along with potatoes, were in great demand. At Gariahat Market, apples sold for Rs 200/kg, up from Rs 120/kg even two days ago. By evening, the rate went up by Rs 20. Smaller varieties were available for Rs 120-Rs 150 a kg but given the lower rates, they flew off the shelves in no time. “The price increased sizably by evening,” said Dilip Mandal, a vegetable-seller at Gariahat. “I bought only two apples as there will be no invitee. Cucumbers were sold at Rs 100 a kg in the evening at Kasba market,” said Alo Paul, wife of a retired BSF officer. At Lake Market, coconuts sold at Rs 50-70 a piece. “Many bought halved coconuts as they are not offered whole but scraped out and made into narus,” said Suparna Chakraborty of Lake Temple Road. The asking price for tomatoes, which were selling at Rs 70-80 a kg for the past month, stretched beyond Rs 90/kg in most markets. “Cauliflowers have flooded the market and cost Rs 30 a piece for the past two weeks. But on Thursday, I bought them for double the rate, Rs 60 a piece,” said Probal Ghoshal, who shops at Maniktala Market. Chadramukhi potatoes that had stabilised at Rs 38 a kg for two weeks cost beyond Rs 40. Sellers said this was likely to come down again from Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fruits-veggies-too-hot-to-touch-before-lakshmi-puja/articleshow/78941855.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 30, 2020||Surat||FIR against mob for looting temple priest||Surat: Jhagadia police on Thursday registered an FIR against an unruly mob of about 100 people who had gheraoed the Gumandev temple and assaulted its priest, Mahant Manmohan Das on Wednesday morning. The incident took place after the villagers were incensed by a hit-and-run accident outside the temple where an unidentified truck driver mowed down four women who were waiting for a vehicle for transportation. Sources said that the villagers gheraoed the temple and demanded the Mahant to show CCTV footage of the accident. When he stated that the CCTV cameras were defunct, angry villagers assaulted and paraded him on the road. They allegedly looted a gold chain, cash and silver platform of Lord Hanuman idol from the temple all worth Rs 5.8 lakh. Angry villagers had also blocked the state highway from Gumandev temple to Statue of Unity (SOU) for about four hours to protest the death as well as demand construction of speed breakers at the accident-prone site. Jhagadia police stated that the Mahant had sustained injuries and is recuperating at a private hospital in Ankleshwar town lodged a complaint against the unruly mob. “The priest has claimed that his belongings including cash and valuables were looted by the unruly mob in the incident. A complaint has been registered and we have picked up a few villagers for questioning,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fir-against-mob-for-looting-temple-priest/articleshow/78940670.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chennai||EPS, Stalin take same flight, Covid protocol keeps it incident-free||Chennai/Madurai: When chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and leader of opposition M K Stalin were scheduled to take the same Indigo flight from Chennai to Madurai on Thursday, there was an air of expectation on how things would pan out during the journey. Though political rivals, Stalin had recently made it a point to personally call on Palaniswami at his residence to condole the passing away the latter’s mother. Hence, while no one expected any political turbulence during the flight, there was curiosity over at least exchanging pleasantries. But Covid protocol in place put to rest all expectations. “Thalaivar (Stalin) completed all formalities and got himself seated, much before the CM, who arrived just in time for the flight. Both were seated afar. With everyone forced to wear masks and face shield, one could hardly recognize anyone on the flight to even share a smile, let alone exchanging pleasantries,” said a source in the DMK who was also on the flight. On landing in Madurai, CM got off the aircraft first and Stalin a little later. “But we were the first to leave the airport and were taken out through a separate gate,” the DMK source said.  Palaniswami and Stalin will be visiting Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district to garland Muthuramalinga Thevar statue on his Jayanthi on Friday. Hundreds of AIADMK and DMK cadres were waiting outside the Madurai airport and physical distancing norms were thrown to the wind.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-stalin-take-same-flight-covid-protocol-keeps-it-incident-free/articleshow/78940222.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Rajkot||Seven-year-old girl was killed for resisting rape attempt: Cops||RAJKOT: The accused in a seven-year-old girl’s murder case was nabbed from Lakhapar village of Bhachau taluka in Kutch district on Thursday. Police said the accused, Vijay Koli (22), had strangled the girl after she resisted his rape attempt on October 26. “Koli was rounded up on the basis of a tip-off about his movements near the house of the deceased on the day of the crime. During his interrogation, Koli broke down and confessed to having killed the girl,” said A G Zala, Bhachau deputy superintendent of police, while addressing a press conference in Samakhiyari. “Koli said he had abducted the girl with the intention of raping her and had taken her to a closed house. When Koli attempted to rape her, the girl started crying. Koli first gagged her mouth with one hand and strangled her with the other hand,” said Zala. The girl’s body was found in an abandoned house at Lakhapar village on the morning of October 27. The girl’s parents who work as salt pan workers said that the girl had gone missing after she had gone to the neighbourhood asking for water. After the frantic search by her parents did not yield any results, her father lodged a complaint of abduction with Samakhiyari police station. After her body was found, it was sent for forensic postmortem which revealed that she had received head injuries and there were also injuries on her private parts. Apart from murder, Koli has also been booked under various sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and section 363 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) dealing with abduction of a minor girl and 376 (3) (AB) of the IPC dealing with attempt to rape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-year-old-girl-was-killed-for-resisting-rape-attempt-cops/articleshow/78940966.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Annual Rathotsava at Chamundeshwari temple held||MYSURU: Annual Rathotsava (car festival) of the famous Chamundeshwari temple atop the Chamundi Hills in the city was held on Thursday amid Covid-19 restrictions. Teppothsava, usually conducted in the evening, was cancelled. To avoid crowd at the temple, the district administration had restricted participation of devotees at the annual fair which comes after the Dasara celebrations. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of Mysuru royal family, MLAs GT Devegowda, L Nagendra, and SA Ramadas participated in the car festival. Yaduveer pulled the chariot with other devotees. Later, speaking to the reporters, Yaduveer said the annual fair was celebrated in a simple way keeping in mind the prevailing circumstances. “Although the car festival was celebrated in a simple way, all the traditional rituals were followed,” said chief priest of the temple Shashishekar Dixit. Every year, a large number of devotees from across the state participating in the car festival. However this year, entry of devotees were largely restricted. District administration had banned devotees to the Chamundeshwari temple between 6pm on Wednesday and 12 noon on Thursday. Even the steps were also closed for the devotees. Entry restricted to Srikanteshwara templeMeanwhile, the district administration banned the entry of devotees to the famous Srikanteshwara swamy temple in Nanjangud on October 31. On full moon days, devotees are likely to arrive in big numbers to offer special pujas at the temple. Keeping in mind Covid situation, only priests and temple staff will be allowed to enter the temple on the day, said temple authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/annual-rathotsava-at-chamundeshwari-temple-held/articleshow/78938707.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Blood banks in Aurangabad face acute shortage of stock||AURANGABAD: The government and private blood banks from the city have been facing acute shortage of blood with shortfall attributed to the reduced number of blood donation camps in view of Covid-19 pandemic. The authorities concerned have appealed to people to donate blood to reduce the gap between demand and supply. Hanumant Rule, in-charge of the blood bank at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), said that the stock of blood at the state-run facility has almost been exhausted by Thursday. “We have capacity of storage of around 2,000 units of blood, but the stock currently is nil by afternoon. The total number of blood donations camps have shrunk since the outbreak of Covid-19 and those which are getting held are receiving poor or moderate response from donors,” he said. Aurangabad has eight blood banks with all of them said to be coping with shortage, calling donors and social groups to step in and address the issue. Manju Kulkarni, in-charge of Dattaji Bhale blood bank, one of the largest private blood banks in the city, said that the education and the industrial sector account for major voluntary blood donation drives, but there was lull in supply from these two fields. “We have been contacting donors individually on a rigorous basis and are requesting them to donate blood during current crisis. Even if the supply of blood has gone down currently, the demand remains by and large the same for planned and unplanned surgeries. Besides, a section of Covid as well as non-Covid patients also require blood,” she said. NGO Jansahyog Foundation, which arranged two blood donation camps since outbreak of Covid-19, said that it could collect only 33 bottles in total during both the events. “We could collect around 100 units of blood during every donation camp organised in the past. The poor response during the outbreak of Covid-19 is attributed to fear and misconceptions among people. While social distancing and necessary hygiene is followed during every camp as per norms, it is total wrong assumption that donating blood reduces one’s immunity power,” NGO founder Prashant Gire said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/blood-banks-face-acute-shortage-of-stock/articleshow/78937826.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 30, 2020||Aurangabad||SRTMU results from Saturday||Aurangabad: The Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University (SRTMU), Nanded, is scheduled to declare the results of undergraduate and postgraduate students of final-year from Saturday. Addressing the media on Thursday, university vice-chancellor Udhav Bhosle said the results would be announced in phases on the official website and through respective colleges and university departments. “Despite all odds, we could conduct the examination for final year students in two phases during the first and second half of October in a smooth manner. Our next target is to declare the results as early as possible in a record time as the overall examination process has been already extended for a long due to outbreak of Covid 19,” he said. Bhosle said the distribution of mark sheets and degree certificates of passed out students would also commence immediately after the result for the benefit of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/srtmu-results-from-saturday/articleshow/78937842.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Number of Covid cases dip, state's Oct recovery rate touches 107%||JAIPUR: In a major milestone achieved by the health department, the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state touched 91% on Thursday. Not just that, the number of persons reported recovered in October till Thursday was also higher than the new infections. As many as 62,752 patients recovered in October as against 58,127 cases of Covid, taking the recovery rate for the state in this month to 107%. With the daily new infections also having reported a dip, active cases have shown a significant drop. Even though there have been signs of improvement in the Covid situation in the state, the health department has appealed to the people to continue taking precautions. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that wearing mask is more effective than administering vaccine. According to experts the threat of infection reduces up to 90% by wearing a mask. He said that the general public, by making it a habit to wear masks, can significantly reduce the spread of infection. Dr Sharma said that with no vaccine available in the market so far to prevent corona, mask is one’s best safety gear. He said that even if vaccine comes its effect will not be more than 60%, whereas if any person wears a mask regularly chances of getting infected by the virus go down by 90%. He said that the government is distributing approximately 1 crore masks throughout the state. While the situation has imporved, deaths are still being reported. Eleven persons died, while 1,790 tested positive for Covid in the state on Thursday bringing the overall tally to 1,93,419. With 11 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 1,888. Jodhpur reported two Covid deaths taking its tally to 182. Jaipur recorded its 369th virus death, Ajmer 139th, Udaipur 70th, Sikar 56th, Alwar 55th, Chittorgarh 30th, Sriganganagar 26th, Dungarpur 24th and Jaisalmer its 15th Covid death. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (335), Jodhpur (275), Bikaner (251), Alwar (91), Sikar (89), Sriganganagar (72), Ajmer (63), Nagaur (52), Kota (51), Bharatpur (51), Udaipur (49), Jhunjhunu (43), Jalore (42), Pali (41), Bhilwara (37), Barmer (32), Sirohi (29), Churu (28), Dausa (25), Jhalawar (20), Hanumangarh (18), Jaisalmer (17), Tonk (16), Rajsamand (16), Chittorgarh (13), Banswara (8), Dungarpur (7), Sawai Madhopur (6), Bundi (5), Baran (4) and Dholpur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-of-cases-dip-states-oct-recovery-rate-touches-107/articleshow/78941865.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao launches Dharani, says will clean up land deals in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The integrated land web portal Dharani was launched by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Muduchintalapally mandal in Medchal-Malkajgiri district on Thursday. The CM said that Dharani would be a trendsetter in the country as many states were keenly following it to replicate the process in their respective territories. The CM also said that the government was not increasing property registration rates. He said the state government was working towards giving a comprehensive title to land owners after completing land digital survey and recording land parcels with coordinates in near future. “Once land survey with coordinates is done, records cannot be tampered with,” he said. He said that though the state’s finances had dwindled due to the pandemic and the Centre did not pay GST arrears, the state government had released funds for Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima. “Rythu Bandhu scheme will continue as long as I am alive,” he said. Speaking at a public meeting after launching the land portal, KCR said property registrations through Dharani would put an end to illegal transactions. “From now on, property sellers, buyers and respective tahsildars will have to provide biometrics for completing the registration process. Tahsildars cannot claim that property was transferred illegally without his or her knowledge,” he said. Government, waqf, endowments and forest land would be in autolock mode and cannot be registered, he said. Agriculture property registrations in all tahsildar offices and non-agriculture property registrations in sub-registrar offices would begin in another 15 days. “All the open plot owners have to get their property registered on Dharani. If they do not want to make their properties visible, they can opt for ‘hide’ option. Dharani backup is completely protected. If anybody loses his or her land title through Dharani malpractices, the government will pay compensation to the land owner,” KCR announced. On Dharani transactions, the CM said the registration process through the portal would be hassle-free and transparent. “We have removed discretionary powers of officers,” he said. KCR said he had decided to put an end to land issues in the state five years ago and began working towards finding a permanent solution. The land records updation programme was one such initiatives. “Even CMO officials and others had doubts if we would be able to achieve the desired results. But I decided to go ahead. We held about 200 meetings on Dharani,” he claimed. Drawing parallel to Telangana statehood movement, he said he launched it, people thought it won’t be possible. “But now, we have proved it.” Telangana is now top in the country in GSDP, per capita power consumption and paddy production, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-launches-dharani-says-will-clean-up-land-deals-in-t/articleshow/78942434.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 30, 2020||Madurai||7.5% quota: HC hopes not to question delay in guv’s decision||Madurai: Madras high court has expressed a hope that an occasion would not arise wherein it would be required to question the governor and seek explanation for delay in taking decisions.When Tamil Nadu advocate-general Vijay Narayan told a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi that a governor is not answerable to any court for exercise of powers and duties, the judges said: “The protection under Article 361 has been given by the framers of the Constitution with hope and trust in the appointees that they would perform their constitutional functioning promptly, and there would not be any situation, wherein they would be called for to give explanation or they will be questioned by the court of law.”An exchange to this effect occurred when the bench took up for hearing the issue of the delay in governor’s assent to 7.5% quota in MBBS seats for government school students in Tamil Nadu. “When situation changes and a present kind of situation arises, a different approach has to be taken by the courts in the interest of the public. It is a well settled law that extraordinary situations require extraordinary remedies,” the judges said, adding: “When public interest requires, this court has to do its constitutional duties and to address the situation. However, this court is of the opinion that such a situation would not arise to pass any order in this matter.”The judges pointed out that the Bill was passed by Tamil Nadu assembly unanimously on September 15 and sent to governor the same day for assent, and that it was pending for almost two months without any decision being taken. Agreeing that Article 361 of the Constitution gives protection to the constitutional authority, they said, “However, in the given circumstances, a decision has to be taken as soon as possible as provided under Article 200 of the Constitution, by considering the future of the government school students, who are invariably from marginalized and poor sections.”When the advocate-general said the governor had said he would need three to four weeks to take a decision on the matter, the judges observed that NEET results were published on October 16. Though it is claimed that around 400 to 500 students from the government schools have ‘qualified’ in NEET, the reality is that only a single digit number of students will get admission to medical courses. Ever since NEET was introduced in 2017, only 14 students from government schools have got admission to medical courses, they pointed out. They then adjourned the hearing to November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-5-quota-hc-hopes-not-to-question-delay-in-guvs-decision/articleshow/78941859.cms||Kaushik Kannan
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Spectre of dengue looms large on Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhiites need to be extra cautious this season as early dip in temperatures may also lead to spurt in dengue cases, public health experts from municipal corporations have warned. Senior civic officials say that cold weather conditions force adult mosquitoes to move indoors in search for warmer environments, especially during the evening period. “The city witnesses its peak dengue-malaria caseload during this season change phase every year. Because of early withdrawal of monsoon and plummeting mercury levels, we will have to start taking precautions early this year,” said an official. The latest report on vector-borne disease shows that 110 dengue cases have been found in last week alone, which is the highest weekly count this year so far. “Out of these 110 cases, 94 were patients from various parts of Delhi, 14 acquired the infection from other states and in two cases, the addresses could not be traced,” the report states. So far, total 489 dengue cases, 206 malaria cases and 74 chikungunya cases have been reported this year. Maximum dengue cases have come from the south Delhi (176), followed by the north (143). The city on Wednesday witnessed its coldest October night in 26 years when the minimum temperature dropped to 12.5 degrees Celsius. “Mosquitoes prefer warmer environments (above 30 degrees). Once the temperature dips to about 20 degrees, they become less active and they become fully dormant below 10 degrees,” another official explained. “Besides keeping their doors and windows closed during the evening hours, people should also periodically inspect money plants, water coolers and other such potential mosquito breeding sites indoors,” the official added. A recent analysis of one-year data from the three civic bodies showed that peri-domestic containers, such as money plants, vases, flower pots and fountain water, accounted for the largest chunk of mosquito breeding sites (38%). Domestic water storage containers, including drums, bucket and jeri cans, came second with 33% of overall cases. Desert coolers and overhead tanks were the next two major breeding sites. So far, the vector-borne disease count has been comparatively low this year but there are apprehensions that all the cases are not being captured by the sentinel disease surveillance programme. The three municipal corporations have a panel of 36 sentinel surveillance hospitals in the city, which report dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases to them on a weekly basis, but many have been turned into Covid facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spectre-of-dengue-looms-large-on-city/articleshow/78940215.cms||Paras Singh
October 30, 2020||Bhopal||728 new cases in Madhya Pradesh, but recoveries still high||BHOPAL: 728 fresh COVID-19 infections were diagnosed in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 1,69,999. The death toll touched 2,929 with nine more deaths being reported, according to the health department’s daily COVID-19 bulletin. A total of 1,032 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, due to which the state’s overall recovery count improved to 1,56,264. Three patients died in Bhopal, two in Khargone and Rajgarh. Jabalpur, Sagar, Shahdol, Betul, Ratlam, Damoh, Raisen, Jhabua and Shajapur reported one death each. Of 728 new cases, Bhopal accounted for 205, Indore 126, Gwalior 38 and Jabalpur 29. The number of cases in Indore rose to 29,988, including 679 deaths, while Bhopal’s tally stood at 24,107 with 471 fatalities. Jabalpur and Gwalior have so far recorded 12,670 and 12,203 cases respectively. Indore now has 3,178 active cases, while this figure for Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior is 1,563, 700 and 304 respectively. *** Top FIVE: Bhopal 205 Indore 126 Gwalior 38 Jabalpur 29 Rajgarh 21||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/728-new-cases-in-state-but-recoveries-outnumber-positives/articleshow/78940233.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||PIL plan for curbs on Kali, Jagaddhatri, Chhath pujas||Kolkata: Howrah resident Ajay Dey, whose public interest litigation (PIL) led to the Calcutta High Court’s order on Durga Puja pandal restrictions, plans to knock on the HC doors again, seeking similar curbs for Kali Puja, Chhath and Jagaddhatri Puja. Dey is likely to appeal to HC that a directive, similar to that for Durga Puja, was needed to check post-festival Covid case spike. His lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee told TOI his client would move the application on November 2, the first day the Calcutta High Court vacation bench was set to convene. Chatterjee said the state and police administration took steps to implement the HC order for puja pandals but the situation remained grim and any further relaxation of norms could spell a disaster. A fresh order, he added, was required for public safety during the upcoming festivals. Chatterjee also said that during Kali Puja, people gathered in large numbers in Barasat and Naihati and Jagaddhatri Puja, at Chandernagore and Bhadreswar. He pointed out that the infection could spread rapidly if not checked. He said the NGT guidelines for Chhath Puja notwithstanding, thousands converged near water bodies for the rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pil-plan-for-curbs-on-kali-jagaddhatri-chhath-pujas/articleshow/78941869.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||House panel: Ensure compensation to all genuine Delhi's riot victims||NEW DELHI: Delhi Legislative Assembly’s minority welfare committee has directed Delhi government to ensure payment of compensation to all “genuine victims” of riots in northeast Delhi in February this year. The committee in its meeting chaired by Amantullah Khan on Wednesday also heard the versions of victims who claimed of being given no or less compensation despite suffering losses in the riots. Apart from Khan and other members of the committee, the meeting was also attended by Delhi government’s principal secretaries of home and revenue. In the meeting, Khan said that 86 complaints where the riot victims were not given compensation as per losses suffered by them have been forwarded to the officers for verification of the claims. In a statement, the committee said that a total of 657 applications rejected by the officials for compensation have been so far forwarded for reconsideration. In its previous meeting too, the committee had come across cases where victims were reportedly grievously injured in the riots but the medico-legal cases (MLC) reports allegedly mentions the injuries as ‘minor’, resulting in the victims getting less compensation than they are eligible for. Among the victims whose versions were heard by the committee was Master Salman, who said that he had been shot in the leg and claimed that the bullet is still lodged inside his leg but his case was declared as minor injury by a Delhi government hospital, due to which he received Rs 20,000 in compensation, though he is eligible for a much larger amount. On Wednesday, some videos recorded during the riots were also shown during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-panel-ensure-compensation-to-all-genuine-riot-victims/articleshow/78940241.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Sero surveys could indicate severity of second Covid wave||NAGPUR: While reducing number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths each day is a huge relief, doctors are warning of a second wave that is already being seen in many parts of the world. European countries are gearing-up for a fresh lockdown to deal with second spike. Experts told TOI the figures of sero surveillance under way in many districts of Maharashtra will play an important role in predicting the severity of possible second wave. Maharashtra figures will be important because highest number of Covid-19 cases are from the state so far. According to doctors, with cities reopening for business followed by festive season and winter, the second wave of Covid-19 seems inevitable. “There is no epidemiological reason to deny second wave,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist. “But whether its severity can be predicted only after seeing the findings of sero surveillance,” she said. Sero surveys are conducted to test the presence of antibodies against SARS CoV-2 in the general population. In Nagpur district, survey is in data collection phase. Officials leading the survey told TOI sample collection from rural Nagpur has been completed. Now, samples are being collected from city. Generally, second wave of any pandemic has always been harsh and it goes up with the onset of autumn and winter. “But things could be different when it comes to Covid-19. We have better documentation, coordination, preparedness, and real-time updates of data,” said epidemiologist Dr Anand Thatte from Akola, where the first sero survey has found nearly 17% prevalence of the infection in population. “In Akola, a large population is still unaffected by Covid-19. It means, if the second wave comes, many more people could fall ill. Situation in all other districts will clear with respective survey findings,” he said. Surveys are under way in Chandrapur, Amravati and Wardha. Soon, Yavatmal and Bhandara districts are also going to start their surveys. Their results are expected to come sometime in December while the doctors are expecting the second surge or second peak in cases in January next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sero-surveys-could-indicate-severity-of-second-covid-wave/articleshow/78940266.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 30, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH staffers felicitated for work during Covid||AURANGABAD: Workforce of around 300 from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Aurangabad were recently felicitated by a social group called ‘Minority Front’ for their untiring work during the Covid-19 outbreak. The event, which was held in presence of GMCH dean Dr. Kanan Yelikar, additional district collector Anant Gavhane and Minority Front founder Feroz Khan, saw felicitation of doctors, resident doctors, nursing and housekeeping staff, among others. In his formal address, Khan said that the society at large owes a lot towards GMCH team for its role in dealing with the pandemic situation. “The health team — right from doctors to sweepers — discharged their duties for the society by putting themselves at risk of getting exposed to Covid-19. The society forever remains indebted towards health workers,” he said. Speaking on the occasion, Gavhane said that social groups should join hands with the government authorities to combat coronavirus crisis. Meanwhile, in another separate event, technical staffers of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) was felicitated for ensuring uninterrupted power supply during Covid-19. Sayyed Jahiroddin, general secretary of the state-level association of technical staffers of the state power utility, said that workforce of around 500 from across Maharashtra have been felicitated in phases. “People were confined to their homes during the lockdown phase and our technical staff ensured uninterrupted power supply during such crucial period. Our technical staff was on the field braving all odds associated with the pandemic situation while ensuring that citizens get continuous power supply without any interruptions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-staffers-felicitated-for-work-during-covid/articleshow/78937864.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Ensure speedy completion of road works: Desai||Aurangabad: District guardian minister Subhash Desai on Thursday asked different government authorities concerned to ensure speedy completion of road works on Aurangabad-Vaijapur and Aurangabad-Sillod-Ajanta routes especially for the benefit of tourists visiting the Ajanta Caves. Desai, who chaired a review meeting with the senior officials from the Public Works Department (PWD), Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), asked for time-bound completion of other road projects, which are in progress in Aurangabad district. “The district collector is expected to take the necessary follow-up for obtaining no objection certificate and completion of other formalities for the road projects. A period review of works is a must to give the desired push for these works,” he said. Among other key road projects, two-laning of Paithan-Shirur-Kharda road is expected to be over by December 2021 while the road work on Palphata-Phulambri-Khuldabad is scheduled to be completed by February 2021. The target completion of both Shevur-Vaijapur-Yeola road work and the four-laning of Aurangabad-Sillod road will end by March 2021, as per an official release. Meanwhile, in another review meeting with the health authorities, Desai appealed to bring down the mortality rate among Covid-19 patients to zero.  “It is a good sign that the recovery rate among Covid patients has gradually increased to 93.72% in Aurangabad district. The health authorities should make further efforts to ensure the recovery rate reaches 100%,” he said. Desai said the increase in Covid testing and raising public awareness were crucial steps to keep a check on the spread of the infection. “As per a section of global experts, the second wave of Covid-19 may hit many parts of the world during the end of this year. A few European nations have reintroduced public restrictions out of fear of the spread of the infection.  Sharing the outcome of ‘My Family My Responsibility’ health campaign, Desai said a total of 87,980 people were referred for Covid treatment during the first phase and 63,592 people in the second phase across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ensure-speedy-completion-of-road-works-desai/articleshow/78937854.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Two killed, 18 injured in road accident||Tenkasi: Two people including a woman were killed and 18 others suffered injuries when a goods carrier autorickshaw on which they were travelling lost balance and fell on its side at Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Sundarammal, 65, and Manickam, 45. Police said that the occupants of the vehicle were from Vellanakottai village near Puliyangudi. They had gone to offer prayers at a temple at Kottamalai near Puliyangudi and were returning home when the accident took place near Naavalsaalai village. While the duo died on the spot, the condition of one of the injured is said to be critical. The injured were rushed to government hospital at Puliyangudi, district headquarters hospital at Tenkasi and Tirunelveli medical college hospital. Puliyangudi police registered a case and an investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-killed-18-injured-in-road-accident/articleshow/78941870.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Aurangabad||MSEDCL staffers manhandled for exposing power thefts||AURANGABAD: Two separate incidents of alleged manhandling of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) staffers while exposing power thefts has been reported in Aurangabad and Hingoli districts of Marathwada. In the first incident that took place in Aurangabad district on Wednesday, Waluj police have booked three people for alleged power theft and assault on MSEDCL staffers while carrying out inspection drive. The suspects Balu Vasant Valle, Bharat Vasant Valle and Vasant Damodar Valle, all residents of Gangapur, were caught by MSEDCL staff for alleged tampering of the electricity meter. The trio, who allegedly manhandled and threatened the state power utility staffers while carrying out inspection, have been booked under IPC 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) , IPC 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and IPC 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) among other legal provisions. In another incident that place in Hingoli on Thursday, Vasamat police have booked Menaji Kanore, a resident of Mauje Kinhola village, for indulging in power theft from live wire using metal hook and manhandling the ground-staff of MSEDCL for exposing the theft. Stating that drawing of power using illegal ways and attacking government employees is a grave offence, the MSEDCL have appealed citizens to refrain from unethical practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcl-staffers-manhandled-for-exposing-power-thefts/articleshow/78937870.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||ED arrests Kerala CPM secy’s son in Bengaluru drugs case||BENGALURU/KOCHI: The ED, Bengaluru, on Thursday arrested Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for his alleged financial links with a Bengaluru drug dealer apprehended by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in August. Bineesh was produced before a local court, which sent him to ED custody till Monday. Bineesh’s arrest, coming within hours of the arrest of Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar, put the CPM and LDF government in the dock. CPM, however, refused to accept any moral culpability in the activities of the party secretary’s son despite the CPM’s code of conduct that is supposed to be binding on party leaders and their families. “The party needs to take moral responsibility only if Kodiyeri Balakrishnan commits a mistake. Dragging the name of the father into cases connected with the son is part of petty politics practiced by the opposition”, LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said. The CM refused to take questions on Bineesh’s arrest. Bineesh (42), the younger son of the former Kerala home minister, had reached the ED office on Thursday. The agency had summoned him for questioning for the second time. He had earlier appeared before it on October 6, 2020. ED sources said Bineesh’s long-time aide Mohammed Anoop (38) of Kochi received over Rs 50 lakh in his bank account before his arrest by the NCB for drug peddling on August 24 this year from a service apartment in Kalyan Nagar in Bengaluru. Investigators unearthed frequent phone conversations between the duo. Earlier, during the questioning on October 6, Bineesh claimed that he had advised some of his acquaintances to transfer lakhs of rupees to Anoop’s bank account to support his eatery business in Bengaluru. The first questioning session had ended after Bineesh said he was unwell. ED sleuths had asked him to come with adequate records the next time to back his claims about the money transfer to Anoop. Sources said the version of Bineesh, presented on Thursday morning, lacked clarity and was unsatisfactory, following which he was arrested.Bineesh has had run-ins with law previously as well. He was an active SFI activist during his college days and had been arraigned as an accused in several criminal cases registered by the Thiruvananthapuram city police related to student protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-arrests-kerala-cpm-secys-son-in-bengaluru-drugs-case/articleshow/78942969.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||237 new Covid cases in south TN, 284 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 237 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Thursday. The deaths were recorded in Theni and Ramanathapuram districts. Both of them had comorbid conditions. Meanwhile, the total count of the central region has climbed to 65,011 on Thursday as the eight districts recorded 284 fresh cases. The region added more than 1,000 cases to the tally in four days. Tuticorin (57) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the southern region on Thursday, surpassing Madurai (51). Thursday’s figure is the highest in Tuticorin after 10 days. The eight other districts in the region recorded less than 50 fresh cases. Dindigul (5) recorded the lowest number of fresh cases, followed by Tenkasi (7), Ramanathapuram (10), Virudhunagar (13), Sivagangai (15), Tirunelveli (20), Theni (24) and Kanyakumari (35). Total number of active cases in the region has come below 2,500. Following Theni, two more districts have come below the 100-mark. Tenkasi (71) has the lowest number of active cases, followed by Theni (94) and Ramanathapuram (98). The number of active cases also dropped to 2,150. None of the district has more than 500 active cases. Trichy has 490 active cases, the highest in the region, while it is 334 in Thanjavur. However, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of 88 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Rest of the districts recorded cases below 50. Perambalur recorded two cases, the lowest, while Ariyalur registered nine cases. Unlike in the past few days, there was a mild increase in the death toll as it touched 853. Tiruvarur recorded four deaths. A 64-year-old man from Tiruvarur died at a private hospital in Thanjavur on October 27. The patient who tested positive for Covid-19 on October 18, had no comorbidities. The patient had fever and cough for seven days, loss of appetite and giddiness for two days. A 52-year-old man from Tiruvarur, who was a renal transplant recipient, is also a casualty. He died on October 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/237-new-covid-cases-in-south-tn-284-in-central-districts/articleshow/78941875.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Counting of primary students after Diwali||PUNE: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government seems to be considering closing down primary schools with less than 20 students. The decision was strongly opposed three years ago by the MVA’s constituents, both Congress and Nationalist Congress Party, three years ago when the Devendra Fadnavis-led government had announced the move. The additional chief secretary, in a video conference on October 18, had given instructions for the appropriation of students in schools with less than 20 pupils, in nearby institutions. The education department of the Nashik Zilla Parishad has issued a circular based on the discussion with the education department. The circular issued to extension officers by the Nashik ZP education officer on October 22 said as per the 2019-20 Unified District Information System for Education data, there are 302 schools with less than 20 students on roll. But the primary education director and education commissioner have denied knowledge of the move. Dattatray Jagtap, director of primary education, said, “We have not issued any such orders to shut down schools nor has any decision been taken. I don’t know about the notice issued by the Nashik Zilla Parishad, but there is no such drive in the state.” Rajeev Mhaskar, education officer in Nashik ZP, said there was no order to close the schools. “We are taking information from block education officers if it is possible to re-appropriate the students in one school with less strength if the distance is less and there are no physical barriers. Appropriation of teachers can be better managed. There was a discussion in the video conference to check its feasibility ,” he added. The latest data about students’ strength is not available as schools have been shut since the lockdown in March. There is no data on the number of new students who have taken admission, the number of students in each class and students who have dropped out. There is widespread migration both within the state and outside. Jagtap said, “Currently, since schools have not started and education is online, we cannot verify the number of students in each school. The collection of information will start post-Diwali.” Poor Numbers In Some 1,000 Schools In Pune A Pune Zilla Parishad official said there are about 800 to 1,000 schools under the Pune ZP’s jurisdiction with less than 20 students on roll He said no orders have been sent to the extension officers for a survey Based on an old circular, and during review meetings, there is a discussion on how these students can be given better access to facilities quote Instead of 10 schools with five students each, one school with 50 students will work better. We can provide good facilities and teachers can also be assigned for different subjects instead of one or two teachers per school with a small number of students A Pune ZP official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-skews-students-numbers-in-schools-headcount-likely-after-diwali/articleshow/78941873.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 30, 2020||Trichy||7 girls, boy rescued from child labour in Trichy||Trichy: A special drive against child labourers on Wednesday exposed the employment of eight adolescent labourers including seven girls in three wholesale textile showrooms at Puthanatham. The boy and the girls, aged between 16 years and 18 years, were assigned duty at the sales counter in the showroom. “Since they were above 14 years of age, we rescued them and advised the employers not to employ child labourers aged up to 18 years in future,” said Trichy project manager of Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (Cheers), S Gowtham, on Thursday. He said inquiry with the children and employers brought to light that they took up the job for financially supporting their family during Diwali. The raid also revealed that the children were made to work for up to 10 hours a day for a remuneration of Rs 100. The raid was held under the aegis of district task force committee (DTFC) comprising assistant inspectors of labour from Karur, project director of Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (Cheers), Trichy Pearline Sathyanathan, district child and maternal health officer Dr P Usha Ramani, representatives of district child protection unit (DCPU) and child line besides S Gowtham. Stating that the raid was part of a series of actions by the committee including Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) against children being subjected to work as child labourers in commercial establishments during the lockdown, Pearline said that the employers can be booked under Juvenile Justice (care and protection) Act. It may be pointed out that three child labourers were rescued from a two-wheeler mechanic shop, a bakery and a petrol bunk at Somarasampettai during a raid in the district in September. BBA state coordinator H Natharsha Malim had also lodged a complaint with Somarasampatti police then to file the case against the employers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/7-girls-boy-rescued-from-child-labour-in-trichy/articleshow/78941884.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for raping minor in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Shahuwadi police have arrested a 55-year-old man for allegedly raping a three-year-old girl. The suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother. The girl was initially taken to a primary health centre and later shifted to Chhatrapati Pramilaraje Hospital for treatment and medical check-up. Nalawade has been arrested under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), police said. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village which is experiencing tension among the residents. Senior police officers also visited the village. Police said the incident took place when the victim’s parents had gone to the farm for routine work. Nalawade allegedly called the girl to his house under the pretext of playing with her and committed the crime. A resident became suspicious because of Nalawade’s movement and alerted the girl’s parents. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-raping-minor/articleshow/78937877.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur adds 55 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district registered 55fresh Covid-19 cases, inlcuding 16 from the city, and two deaths on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 48,016. The district has reported 1,639 deaths so far. At present, there are only 1,025 active cases in the district while 45,352 patients have been discharged from various facilities after successful recovery. According to official communication, the deceased included a 64-year-old woman from Kagal and 58-year-old man from Karveer taluka. Both were admitted to Chhatrapati Pramilaraje (CPR) hospital. Talukas such as Ajara, Bhudargad, Gaganbawda and Kagal did not report even a single Covid case. Meanwhile, apart from Hatkanagale which reported 15 cases, Chandgad, Shirol and Gadhinglaj registered only one case each. Karveer and Shahuwadi talukas added six and five cases respectively while Panhala traced down four. Two people from Radhanagari taluka tested positive for the contagion. Sangli district reports 113 cases, 3 deaths As many as 113 Covid-19 cases were registered in Sangli district on Thursday. These included 21 cases from Sangli city. The district also reported two casualties — one from Tasgaon taluka and the other from Shirala. According to official communication, 212 patients are in critical condition. The total number of confirmed cases in Sangli district has reached 44,868.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-adds-55-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/78937882.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada police nab three for assault on photographer||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada police in a swift overnight operation nabbed three of the four accused, including a teenager, who assaulted a studio photographer at Farangipete on Wednesday evening. The hunt is on for the fourth accused and a special police team is following up on leads, SP BM Laxmi Prasad said on Thursday. Personal enmity is believed to have sparked the near fatal assault on the photographer. Laxmi Prasad, who rushed to Farangipete in Pudu village of Bantwal taluk under Bantwal rural police limits on receipt of information, said police have since nabbed accused – Arshad, 19, Abdul Rahman, 22, and Muhammad Saifuddin, 22, residents of Ammemaru. The trio along with Savad had assaulted Dinesh after going to Trisha Photo Studio at Farangipete on the pretext of getting a photograph of theirs taken, he said. “Dinesh had backed the family of a girl who was a victim of sexual assault at Kumapanamajalu recently. Enraged by this, the accused assaulted him with a sickle to kill him and caused injuries to his right hand and left lower abdomen. Shekhar Poojary, who was present at the studio at the time, tried to prevent the assault using a chair and caused injuries to two of the accused,” the SP said. When the assailants retreated, Shekar with help of others rushed Dinesh to a private hospital in the city and his condition is stable, he added. Dinesh and the accused also had a history of bad blood. “Dinesh needed to pass the house of the accused enroute his house and they had indulged in abusing each other in the past over trivial issues. His support to the victim of sexual assault only brought things to a boil,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/police-nab-three-for-assault-on-photographer/articleshow/78938898.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No-mask fines, distancing norms to continue||KOLKATA: The city police headquarters on Thursday instructed all its officers across nine divisions and traffic police to ensure social distancing is maintained while celebrating Lakshmi Puja in the next two days. The seenior officers have been asked to ensure that all points such as city markets, Kumartuli, Barowari pandals and the local water bodies — where there are high chances of crowding — are adequately manned. They also asked cops to make public announcements from time to time to remind citizens about wearing mask and social distancing. The last five days have seen Kolkata Police fining close to 3,000 persons for not wearing masks. “Similar exercises will continue,” said an officer. As a first step, at least seven officers led a large contingent of police, which was stationed at Kumartuli during the lifting of idols. “These idols are being loaded on vans, cycles, min-trucks and two wheelers, which will be taken straight to the homes or other markets. We had our last day’s arrangement for Durga idol immersion on Thursday. However, with no reports of any idol left to be immersed, the cops were diverted for Lakhsmi Puja duty,” said an officer from the north division. Sources said the arrangement around Kumartuli remained till around 11pm. The markets at Gariahat, Maniktala, Behala, Bhowanipore, Kalighat, Amherst Street and Hatibagan saw police deployment on Thursday evening. A similar arrangement is being made for Friday morning. All police stations have been asked to keep an eye on local water bodies, where immersions might take place. “With Lakhsmi Puja stretching to Saturday, there will hardly be any immersions on that day. We have set November 1 as the last day for Lakhsmi Puja immersions. Hence, there is a possibility of rush at local water bodies on Sunday. We have, therefore, made adequate arrangements for the same,” explained another officer at Lalbazar. Cops said they have also introduced certain road restrictions — especially in the north — in the light of Lakhsmi Puja. For example, no parking will be implemented (based on needs), in the weekend on a number of roads. The detective department has also redoubled its efforts to find out about the routes through which illegal firecrackers are entering the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-mask-fines-distancing-norms-to-continue/articleshow/78941916.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid-19 puts eggs on boil, going for 80/dozen, may hit 100||BHOPAL: If you can’t do without eggs on a daily basis, you may soon have to rejig your kitchen expenses. With egg prices already at Rs 80 per dozen in the retail market, it may soon cross Rs 100. According to poultry owners, the high price is due to the high demand and low supply due to the lockdown. After witnessing losses due to lockdown, the egg market has shot up in the past month. Poultry owners said that the demand has suddenly increased after unlocking began. “Poultry business may appear easy from outside, but the fact is that it is a time-consuming process. It takes several months to get eggs. Due to lockdown, the chain of chicken and eggs broke. After unlocking started, the demand shot up,” said poultry owner and consultant Dr Mahendra Singh. He added, “Now, there is a mismatch in demand and supply. This situation has resulted in increase in the price of eggs. This year, a dozen eggs may cross Rs 100.” Poultry owners said that it will take 2-3 months to normalize the situation of mismatch in demand and supply. “It takes 5-6 months to prepare a bird to start laying eggs. It will take time,” said Dr Singh. Egg vendors felt that the demand for eggs has increased in hospitals due to Covid-19. “Egg is one of the best sources of protein. There is huge demand in hospitals. This has also resulted in higher demand,” said an egg seller, Sachin. During lockdown, eggs witnessed a decline in consumption. Initially, many people had stopped eating eggs because of rumour that Covid-19 might spread through poultry. “The state govt had been regularly clarifying that there was no harm in having eggs or chicken. Later, people realized that it was all rumour. Due to this reason, several poultry owners were hit and they stopped production. It will take time for them to get the eggs in the same quantity as it used to be before lockdown,” said Dr Singh. Poultry owners say 8-10 lakh eggs are consumed per day in Bhopal alone. Due to lockdown, poultry owners were not able to feed the birds due to which they had to kill them. “Around 60% farmers did it during lockdown. It was done as chicks started hurting each other as they could not feed them. In such a situation, poultry owners found it better to kill them,” explained a poultry owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-eggsgerating-rs-80/dozen-price-all-set-to-cross-rs-100-soon/articleshow/78940276.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 30, 2020||Pune||SPPU to host agri-tech centre of excellence||PUNE: An incubation centre for startups in digital agriculture technologies will be set up in collaboration with the Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Enterprise, Savitribai Phule Pune University, and Idealabs FutureTech Ventures. The incubation centre will be exclusively for startups in digital agriculture with emerging technologies, and include a maker space and digital labs. A letter of intent was signed recently by vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar and Pankaj Diwan, founder of Idealabs. The centre of excellence will enable startups, students, researchers to collaborate and innovate and create solutions. Diwan said, “Traditional agriculture may get disrupted with blockchain, machine learning and data science by improving farm digitization, storage efficiency, supply chain, and value-added crops. This requires young entrepreneurs and innovators and support in terms of domain and technology expertise, investment and right market strategies.” Innovation events such as hackathons and accelerators will be conducted round the year culminating in a maker fair as part of the annual international conference. The CoE will also conduct skilling programmes and joint certification on emerging technologies. Apoorva Palkar, director of Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Enterprise (CIIE) at SPPU, said, “Students will get access to the latest tools, domain expertise and mentoring to take innovative products and solutions from the lab to the farm, and to the market. Idealabs has the expertise and track record to build and run the activities associated with this CoE.” Karmalkar said the university has identified agriculture as a focus domain for research and innovation as part of CIIE and expect the initiative to impact farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-to-host-agri-tech-centre-of-excellence/articleshow/78941885.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Rural area pupils struggle without textbooks, means to keep learning||PUNE: Close to 40% of the students in rural Maharashtra do not receive any learning material from their schools, with about 60% stating that the school does not send them any material. The state government has claimed that it has distributed textbooks to all students in government-run schools, but the ASER 2020 Wave 1 report indicates that about 20% of students are still waiting for textbooks. Matin Mujawar, an activist from Shikshan Hakka Manch, said learning material is mostly sent via WhatsApp, and it is not available to students without a cellphone or internet connection. “In most rural households, the lone cellphone is taken away by fathers when they go to work. Internet recharges are not done by many, which leaves a good number of students without any study material,” he added. Mukund Kirdat, another education activist, said studies at home and no contact with teachers is making many students neglect education. “Without a proper follow-up, students and parents are starting to lose interest in the work assigned. Their attitude towards education is changing. Hence, it is crucial for the teachers and the entire education department to reach out to students and their parents to keep the interest alive,” Kirdat added. Dinkar Temkar, joint director, primary education department, said migration has left out many students and only when schools reopen will there be any connect. “Families have moved from Mumbai and Pune to the villages. Since the schools have not reopened, parents have not been able to enrol their children in the village schools. Books are distributed as per the students on the rolls. Hence, their books may have gone to the schools in the cities, but not rerouted to the village schools. It is the same case with learning material. Till schools do not open, it will be hard to get students admitted to the nearest one,” Temkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-pupils-struggle-without-textbooks-learning-material/articleshow/78941879.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Uproar in AMC meeting||Ahmedabad: The AMC general board meeting was adjourned on Wednesday following an uproar spurred by the ruling BJP’s contention that it had not discriminated against the Walled City despite not drawing many votes there. During a discussion on contracts awarded in the Walled City, Congress councillor Hasan Pathan said a contractor has claimed a substantial amount without completing work. He alleged that some councillors and officials were involved in the irregularity. The leader of the BJP in the AMC, Amit Shah, requested the municipal commissioner to investigate the matter. Shah added, “We do not get even 20 votes in the Walled City but when it came to handling corona, we spent several hours there to ensure that the spread was curbed.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uproar-in-amc-meeting/articleshow/78920188.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||‘Congress confident of winning Tivim’||SALIGAO: Goa Pradesh Congress committee (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar said the party is confident of winning the Tivim constituency seat in the 2022 assembly elections. The party’s Tivim MLA, Nilkanth Halarnkar, had crossed over to BJP along with nine other Congress MLAs in July 2019. “We will strengthen our block and put up a new face in the constituency,” said Satish Condankar, president of Congress’ Tivim block. The party’s North Goa president Vijay Bhike expressed confidence that “the Congress will win all the seven constituencies in Bardez taluka”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-confident-of-winning-tivim/articleshow/78941876.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Crowds flouting Covid-19 norms at Teppakulam||Madurai: Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam is getting crowded in the evenings as hundreds of people gather without wearing masks, and flouting social distancing norms. As the entertainment options have come down due to the closure of cinemas and the fear of visiting restaurants, a section of people in the city increasingly gather at the sprawling tank to spend the evenings with friends and family. There is a demand from a section of people to make the place safe by ensuring Covid-19 precautionary measures. They say that people of all age groups gather there. If the crowd was not controlled, it might turn into a place for spreading infection at a time Covid-19 cases are declining in the city, they said. Teppakulam is a much sought-after place to enjoy the fresh air and to stretch muscles. However, most people gather there to eat the variety of food available from more than 50 shops. P Kallanai, a resident of Anupanadi, said that it is good to see people gathering at a place after a long time. But it is equally worrying when they see people gather without following social distancing norms or wearing a mask. “Wearing a mask can be the least thing one can do to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but many do not wear it. The officials concerned should check it and take appropriate measures so that people follow the rules,” he said. V Mercy Ranjitha, a resident of Munichalai, said that people’s behaviour is creating fear of Covid-19 spread. “We wanted to bring our children here, but on second thought we left them at home due to the reckless behavour people. The crowd is not a problem as such, but people not wearing mask is the problem. Officials should install public address system to remind people of the consequences,” she said. Visitors said that people are yet to understand the importance of wearing masks when they come out of their houses. Most of them bring it to their chin when they strike a conversion with people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crowds-flouting-covid-19-norms-at-teppakulam/articleshow/78941887.cms||V Devanathan
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||Dargah-E-Aala Hazrat devotees burn French flag in Bareilly||Bareilly: A group of people associated with the city's Dargah-E-Aala Hazrat on Thursday held a protest against French president Emmanuel Macron and burned his effigy. They were outraged against a statement of Macron in which he has supported the depiction of Prophet Mohammad in cartoons. The protesters were part of Jama’at Raza-e-Mustafa, an organization of Barelvi Muslims.The protest took place at Patel Chowk near Ayub Khan Police outpost in the city.The outfit’s vice president Salman Hasan Khan Qadri has asked all the devotees to boycott French products.“France has directly attacked the core of civilization and humanity by supporting blasphemous cartoons. Muslims of India are immensely hurt by it and the government of India should take strong steps,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dargah-e-aala-hazrat-devotees-burn-french-flag-in-bareilly/articleshow/78937891.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 30, 2020||Delhi||21-year-old shot at by snatchers in northeast Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 21-year-old man was shot at by three men for trying to resist a snatching in northeast Delhi’s Mustafabad on early Wednesday. The victim is stable. One Mois Khan complained that his cousin Aamir was sitting on the stairs of his rented godown in New Mustafabad around 12.52am and checking his cellphone when three men came on a scooter and snatched his phone. When Aamir tried to stop them, one of them took out a pistol and fired at him. One bullet hit Aamir. A case of robbery and Arms Act has been registered, but nobody has been arrested. In a similar incident reported on Monday from Karawal Nagar in northeast Delhi, a confectionery shop owner, Sachin, was targeted by two men on a scooter when he was closing the shutter of his shop after keeping a bag with Rs 15,000 on the top of a car. As the men fled with his bag, Sachin tried to chase them. The pillion rider opened fire in the air that minorly injured a milkman, Sonu Baisla. Nobody has been arrested in this case either. “Efforts are on to nab the accused in both cases,” said Ved Prakash Surya, DCP, North East.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/21-yr-old-shot-at-by-snatchers-in-ne-delhi/articleshow/78940273.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: 17 girls rescued from Malpe Port||UDUPI: In a joint operation, 17 girls aged between 13-18 were rescued from Malpe port at 5 am on Thursday. The children were working as labourers to carry fish from the auction area at the Malpe Port to the vehicles of buyers. The children hailed from Koppal and Ballari districts. Prabhakar Achar, legal-cum-probation officer, Udupi District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) said that based on a tip-off, a joint operation was conducted by the officials from the women and child development department, district child protection unit, education department, police department, Childline and Nagarika Seva Trust. The children have been produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) for further action. Their details are being verified and documented. “Malpe is a vast port and the parents of these children are mostly migrant labourers working in and around Udupi. The children are dropped at the port between 2.30 am and 3 am. These children are not appointed officially, and there is no employee-employer relationship in their case. Such raids are conducted often. Based on the CWC’s direction, action will be taken to rehabilitate them, ” Prabhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/17-girls-rescued-from-malpe-port/articleshow/78938936.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||NGO unpaid, cattle return to Calangute roads||CALANGUTE: The stray cattle problem has resurfaced in the Calangute-Candolim tourism hub after panchayats stopped a drive to impound bovines. Village panchayats in this beach belt had late last year signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Mayem-based NGO, Gomantak Goshala Mahasangh, to round up the stray cattle and shift them to the animal shelter in Mayem. After signing the MoU, around 300 cattle had been rounded up and taken to the shelter in November and December last year. The NGO was to be paid by the animal husbandry and veterinary services department to feed and care for the cattle. However, Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said the money has not been paid because of some “technical issue”, after which the NGO stopped rounding up the stray cattle some months ago. A representative of the goshala, Hanumant Hoble, said they’re continuing to feed the cattle through donations from well-wishers and also through sale of dairy products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngo-unpaid-cattle-return-to-calangute-roads/articleshow/78941886.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lens on parking mafia near hospitals||KOLKATA: Constables will be posted at the parking lots during peak hours outside Covid hospitals in south Kolkata after Lakshmi Puja. The decision was taken after several complaints of extortion during the Puja poured in from the family members of patients. The police action started following a a Twitter post by a senior advocate from Dhanbad who had come to a private hospital, adjacent to Dhakuria bridge at Panchanantala near Golpark, on Ashtami to attend to his father undergoing treatment there. Several Covid patients are admitted in the hospital. Cops said some locals had tried to extort money from him, having used Durga Puja as an excuse. “I came To Kolkata for my father’s operation on October 24 at the hospital in Dhakuria. I had parked my car beside emergency, for which a person (who introduced himself as Chotu) and his goons were demanding more money for my car parking,” he tweeted. The advocate also attached a video and screenshots as evidence, stating that he had even informed Kolkata Police that he was bringing in his 70-year-old father for treatment to Kolkata from Jharkhand so that he did not face any trouble on the way. The Kolkata Police tweeted back, saying legal action has been taken. “Thanks for the input. Necessary legal action has been taken based on your complaint,” the tweet read. Even after the police assurance, a couple of netizens demanded that cops take more concrete measures to prevent the menace. Thereafter, the decision was taken that the traffic guard would post a constable to ensure that none will face such problem further because of parking mafias. “During the festive season, a few unscrupulous persons try to earn extra money. Several corrective steps had been taken during the pre-puja marketing season. However, we will keep an eye to ensure that no parking mafia can take any advantage to extort money in this Covid season,” said an officer. Cops already started the clean-up exercises at government hospitals last year. Sources said a section of ambulance and auto operators are also trying to control the parking areas around hospitals. “We are collecting local inputs and these will be shared with KMC officials. Cops, though, refused to confirm whether some of the hospital administration officials have complained against such parking extortion. A similar complaint had come from the doctors of a Salt Lake hospital a couple of months ago. However, it was sorted out soon with the help of senior and administrative officials from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lens-on-parking-mafia-near-hosps/articleshow/78940294.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 30, 2020||Pune||Children get their Halloween frights online amid pandemic||PUNE: Tricks and treats have been set apart this Halloween thanks to the pandemic. The event celebrated on October 31 annually will be marked by online fancy dress, storytelling and drawing competitions organized by pre-schools, schools and other establishments. Growing Minds, an edutainment platform, has organized several contests and a party on Saturday. “We have announced three contests for different age groups. A virtual party has been organized on Saturday wherein we will have games, dance and science experiments. There will also be a spookiest dress contest during the party. We will announce the prizes for the contests during the party,” said Lakshmi Rajesh, who runs the platform along with Riya Hinduja. Several other establishments have planned special classes and sessions for Halloween-related activities over the weekend. Six-year-old Reet Jalan recently dressed up as a witch for the Halloween-themed school day. “It was a lot of fun to dress up. My mother painted on my face and I was wearing a black outfit. My friends had dressed up differently too. We had regular classes but in fancy dresses,” she shared. While schools have taken events online, restaurants and pubs in the city are trying to organize Halloween special events in adherence with the guidelines. “We have organized a party of sorts on the rooftop of our restaurant. We will have music and decorations in line with the Halloween theme. People can dance at their tables, which have been spaced out. People are also being invited to dress up for Halloween, like they would generally do for parties,” said Ashish Goyal, owner of The Mafia in Vimannagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/children-get-their-halloween-frights-online-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78941897.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 30, 2020||Pune||Indian film bags top honour at Cannes in student category||PUNE: Catdog, the only Indian film among this year’s selection at the virtual Cannes Film Festival, has won the top honour in the Cinefoundation category, the festival’s dedicated platform for students’ films. The winners receive a grant of 15,000 euros as a part of the first prize, titled Premier Prix. Catdog was the diploma film of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) alumnus Ashmita Guha Neogi, who graduated from the institute in 2018. The 22-minute film, a portrayal of relationships inside a family as well as outside of it, was shot and produced in Pune in 2018. In the film, the protagonists are two coming-of-age siblings, an elder sister and a younger brother, who live with their single mother. The siblings engage in a number of games at home unbeknownst to their mother, who is in a relationship with a colleague. The Cinefoundation was set up by the Cannes Film Festival organisers in the late 1990s to showcase student films from film schools around the world. This year’s jury for the category were filmmakers and actors Damien Bonnard, Rachid Bouchareb, Claire Burger, Charles Gillibert, Dea Kulumbegashvili and Céline Sallette. Though the festival was held largely virtually this year, the organisers held an in-person award ceremony at the Grand Theatre Lumiere in Cannes, where Neogi received the award along with members of her crew. The screenings of the Cinefoundation selection, including Catdog, would be held at Paris’ Cinema du Pantheon,on October 31. The film would also be screened at autumn festivals in France and across Europe. “We shot the film in August 2018, but it took some time for us to start the post-production process as we had shot the film on colour stock, and it took some time to scan the film. The film is largely about the fanciful world of siblings told through the eyes of the elder sister,” said Vinita Negi, the editor of the film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sole-indian-film-at-cannes-wins-top-honour-in-student-category/articleshow/78941891.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy cops rescue boy from kidnappers tracking CCTV||Trichy: Swift action by the Trichy police led to the rescue of a 12-year-old boy kidnapped by a gang in Trichy city late on Wednesday. The six-hour-long episode ended with the gang fleeing after leaving behind the boy in a car at Ramalinga Nagar in the city around 11.30pm as a police team came hot on their trail. The boy, whose family is into several businesses, was kidnapped by a gang which came in a car around 5.30pm, when he was playing in front of his house at Cantonment. Police sources said his family got a call thereafter from ‘anonymous’ people who introduced themselves as the abductors, and allegedly demanded a ransom of Rs 6 crore to release him alive. The family appealed to the gang to let off the boy but the gang members stood firm on their demand. As negotiations failed, the family informed the Trichy city police about the incident around 8.30pm. The police were quick to act and started by sifting through CCTV footages, and got the colour and the registration number of the car. All police stations across the city and the district were alerted immediately and search was on at all police check posts too. The drive went on till the late hours of Wednesday. Finally, the car was spotted at the police check post in Renga Nagar, but it did not stop ignoring the policemen who waved at it. As the cops pursued their trail, the car was found abandoned in Ramalinga Nagar with the boy in it. They rescued him and seized the car. The police said that the Cantonment police registered a case based on the complaint from the father of the boy on Thursday. The identity and motive of the accused were yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-cops-rescue-boy-from-kidnappers-tracking-cctv/articleshow/78941893.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s incubation forum helps develop agri business||Madurai: The Madurai Agribusiness Incubation Forum, (MABIF) an incubation facility supported by Nabard and housed in the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, has incubated over 168 start-ups including 90 farmer producer groups and provided start-ups in the agriculture sector with the best opportunities to grow big. It is open to incubating ventures from across the country.MABIF CEO R Sivakumar said that the centre, established in 2018, works on the principle that agricultural needs to be sustainable and eco-friendly. It has been conceived as a value chain incubator, focussing on nurturing innovative early stage enterprises that have potential to grow and bridging the gap between farmer producer organisations (FPO) and markets by developing partnerships.It has now started conceiving programmes which would mutually benefit FPOs, start-ups and agri business enterprises. It proposes to break the value chain in three categories - production, processing and marketing.“The forum has been proactively pursuing upcoming trends in agriculture and is piloting blockchain for organic traceability, supported by NABARD, the first of its kind initiative for FPOs in the country. Through the annual event - It has identified 32 feasible ideas from student entrepreneurs and is mentoring and supporting them,” he said.With the support of TNAU, it has developed about 50 products, which include newly developed products, fine tuned products and product validation. The CEO added that MABI has been awarded Rs 1 crore by the Ministry of MSME to set up an intellectual property facilitation centre and is in the process of facilitating registering of 14 trade marks, four patents and four GI tags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-incubation-forum-helps-develop-agri-business/articleshow/78941904.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: HC reduces convict’s term in assault case to 1 month||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has reduced the sentence of an accused from two years to one month in an assault case. The accused had assaulted his brother during an altercation over the issue of water course in 2013. During the hearing, counsel for the accused stated that the sentence was disproportionate and harsh, and submitted that it was a clear case of dispute on account of water course. The accused is a senior citizen, aged about 60, and has suffered a cardiac attack and fracture to his leg, he said. After the accused agreed to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh, the court reduced his jail term and directed that the fine amount, if deposited, should be paid to the widow of his brother. If the accused fails to deposit the amount, then he must undergo imprisonment for three months, the court held. The accused was convicted for assaulting his brother with a spade with the intention of killing him. However, the blow missed his head and hit the thigh, fracturing the bone. The court took into consideration the evidence which suggested that the victim’s leg was already injured in the past and the assault aggravated his earlier injury. The victim had submitted to the court that he met with an accident ten year prior and sustained an injury on his right leg below the knee and was operated thereafter. “If all such evidence is taken into account, then, it does appear, that the sentence of two years imposed upon the appellant is quite harsh and the same deserves to be considerably reduced,” the court held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-reduces-convicts-termin-assault-case-to-1-month/articleshow/78941892.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Surat||‘His land policy fuelled Surat growth’||SURAT: Thousands of people from Saurashtra region who have now settled in Surat city including the likes of Kanji Bhalala, president of Saurashtra Patel Seva Samaj (Surat), recall how Bapa or former chief minister Keshubhai Patel as he was fondly referred to, contributed immensely in the development of diamond industry and city's real estate. There are over 18 lakh people from Saurashtra region who have now settled in Surat city. Talking to TOI, Bhalala said, “Large number of people from Saurashtra had joined the diamond industry in early 1980s and started settling in Surat city. They started to flourish but were unable to purchase land in and around Surat as the agriculture land law restricted farmers from buying land beyond 8 km. Keshubhai removed this bottleneck and paved the way for real estate development in not only Surat but in other cities’ development as well.” Bhalala also credited Patel for connecting Saurashtrians to the water conservation movement by creating thousands of check-dams which pushed up the rural economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/his-land-policy-fuelled-surat-growth/articleshow/78940748.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||University of Mysore will translate NEP into Kannada||MYSURU: The University of Mysore (UoM) will translate National Education Policy (NEP-2020) into Kannada. A decision to this effect was taken in the syndicate meeting. “C Naganna, an academician and writer will head the team of experts to translate NEP-2020 to Kannada,” said registrar R Shivappa. Syndicate member EC Ningaraj had appealed to UoM authorities to translate NEP-2020 to help students and parents to understand the new policy. The meeting also decided to organise a lecture series in 2021 in connection with centenary convocation of the university held on October 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-will-translate-nep-into-kannada/articleshow/78938954.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||ST rules out fare hike during Diwali||Nagpur: Already staring at low passenger turnout, the state’s biggest public transporter, Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), will not increase ticket fare during the Diwali season. MSRTC has been allowed by the state government to operate with 100% capacity but there is a poor response from travellers due to coronavirus. On an average, the load factor in ST buses is less than 50%. “During Diwali, MSRTC has plans to run special long-distance buses to benefit passengers but like every year, this time there will be no seasonal fare hike,” said transport minister Anil Parab. Parab said the state transport authority (STA) has authorized MSRTC to hike fare during peak season up to 30%. Accordingly, ticket fares are hiked during Diwali to mop up revenue, but this year there will be no hike in fares due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/st-rules-out-fare-hike-during-diwali/articleshow/78940285.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Save lakes in Hyderabad's Tellapur, evict encroachers: NGT||HYDERABAD: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the government-appointed committee to evict encroachers from lakes in Tellapur and collect environmental compensation if damage to the lake is proven. It also asked the committee to restore the lakes from encroachments after conducting a survey and create buffer zones. NGT southern bench on Thursday delivered this verdict in connection with alleged encroachments in Vanam Cheruvu, Medla Cheruvu and Cheli Kunta in Medak’s Tellapur village and their inflow, outflow nalas and FTL/buffer zones by big-ticket builders. The NGT asked the committee to talk to encroachers and erring officials before taking action. “The government-appointed committee comprising revenue, irrigation and HMDA officials should start removing encroachments. It should restore the water bodies and take steps to protect against such encroachments in future. If any damage is caused to environment, the committee has to assess environmental compensation and take steps to realise the same from such persons in accordance with law,” NGT said in its order. Directing the chief secretary to ensure that the order is followed, the NGT said, “If any borewells have been dug up without obtaining permission, the committee should assess environmental compensation for unauthorised drawing of groundwater.” It also directed the committee to undertake a proper survey of the area and fix the FTL and buffer zone as per the plan. Asking the committee to hear the encroachers, the NGT said: “If any permission has been granted for conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purpose against the regulation and government orders, it should take steps to recall these orders and take action against the persons who were illegally granted such permission.” NGT further said if there were any inlets or outlets or canals which were acting as storm water drains to drain excess rainwater through private as well as public land, and were encroached upon and filled up without permission, the committee should take action to restore the same as a precautionary measure to avoid floods in future. The committee was also directed to prepare an action plan to protect water bodies in future against encroachments by providing necessary measures such as fencing, strengthening of bunds and establishing bio-diversity park or green belt around water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/save-lakes-in-tellapur-evict-encroachers-ngt/articleshow/78942455.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Tirunelveli district gets a lighthouse at Kuthenkuly coast||Tirunelveli: Union minister for shipping (independent charge) and minister of state for chemicals and fertilizers, Mansukh Laxman Mandaviya dedicated a 45m-tall lighthouse built at Kuthenkuly in Tirunelveli district through video conference on Thursday. The lighthouse, with a range of 20 nautical miles (37km) has been constructed at an outlay of Rs 5.5 crore and is the first in Tirunelveli district on its 49km-long coastline from Periyathalai that borders Tuticorin and Kootapuli that borders Kanyakumari district.It is the 25th on the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast, director of the department of lighthouses, Chennai, D Venkataraman told TOI. The lighthouse is aimed at benefitting fishermen and ships heading to the Tuticorin port. So far, lighthouses across India have been switching to LED lights due to better energy efficiency and longer range compared to traditional lights. But, they are imported. “The Kuthenkuly lighthouse has the distinction of being the first indigenously made LED lighthouse light in India under the Make in India scheme,” Venkataraman said. There are three lighthouses in Tuticorin district (Tuticorin, Manapad and Vembar) and two in Kanyakumari district (Kanyakumari and Muttom). Prior to the new lighthouse the nearest lighthouse to Kuthenkuly was 39km away at Kanyakumari in the south and 40km away at Manapad in the north.With the Kuthenkuly lighthouse completed there are five lighthouses on the 161km stretch from Muttom to Tuticorin. It will benefit nearly 15,000 fishermen families in the seven main coastal fishing villages of Tirunelveli district. Construction of the 26th lighthouse is under way at Dhanushkodi, Venkataraman added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tirunelveli-district-gets-a-lighthouse-at-kuthenkuly-coast/articleshow/78941949.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Residents against handing amenity spaces to builders||PUNE: Resident associations from across the city are readying to fight the civic body’s proposal to lease amenity space to private builders for development. At least eight resident associations submitted protest letters in this regard to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar this week. Citizens for Area Sabha, a citizen’s body, has also started an online petition addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray against the proposal to handover more than 116 amenity spaces for private development. The petition has already received over 3,500 signatures. Nitin Memane, president of Kharadi Residents Association, said objections from citizens’ forums of Kharadi, Baner, Pashan, Wanowrie, Sopanbaug and others, were handed to the Pune municipal commissioner on Monday. “Some of us later met the commissioner but he was only trying to counter our objections and asked why we were against the proposal. We have clarified that we do not want any sale or lease of the amenity land to private parties and want the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to develop the amenities,” Memane explained. Vaishali Patkar, from Citizens for Area Sabha, said, “Based on media reports and the response to an Right To Information application we filed, we found out that over 116 amenity spaces in different parts of the city have been shortlisted for the proposal. We want to know who initiated this proposal to sell such prime real estate, why were citizens not included in the decision making and why PMC has not developed reservations as per the Development Plan (DP). We are compiling all the information we have collected to make a document to prevent handing over of the land to builders.” Speaking on the issue, head of PMC’s estate department Rajendra Muthe stated that the proposal is at a nascent stage. “We have only mooted the idea now. We also want to make it clear that the said amenity spaces will be developed as per reservations for the land in the DP. If the DP states a garden or school must be developed at a particular space, it will be developed but with private partnership. The land will not be used to construct residential or commercial complexes,” Muthe clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-against-handing-amenity-spaces-to-builders/articleshow/78941950.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 30, 2020||Pune||Two hurt as parking dispute turns violent, three held||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police arrested three shopkeepers on the charge of assaulting two brothers, who own neighbouring shops, with wooden planks following a dispute over parking of a truck in front of the shops at Dhanori for unloading goods around 3.30pm on Wednesday. Police said two of the three arrested suspects are brothers, while the third is their nephew. Together, they run a glass products shop, while the injured duo run a neighbouring shop selling incense sticks and candles. Sub-inspector Santosh Waghmare from Vishrantwadi police said on Thursday that a truck had come to deliver goods at the glass products shop, but it blocked pedestrian’s way to the neighbouring shop. Later, another vehicle came to deliver goods at the neighbouring shop. A dispute broke out between the two groups over the issue of parking the truck at an alternative place. Waghmare said, “After the dispute between the two groups became heated, Sunil Verma (31), his brother Subhash (41) and nephew Ajit Verma (19) thrashed complainant Mohan Agarwal’s brother Dharampal with a wooden plank on his head, injuring him critically. One of the trio even attacked Mohan with a glass piece on his hand when he tried to intervene. Dharampal is recuperating in a private hospital.” “We have arrested the suspects on the basis of an FIR registered by Mohan. A court has remanded the three in police custody till October 30,” said Waghmare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-hurt-as-parking-dispute-turns-violent-three-held/articleshow/78941940.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||‘Cultural events to start gradually’||MARGAO: Former Fatorda MLA Damodar Naik on Thursday took charge as the chairman of Ravindra Bhavan, Margao. Director of art and culture Sagun Gaude had earlier this week issued an order appointing Naik as the chairman of the cultural institution.  Naik told reporters that attempts would be made by Ravindra Bhavanto hold cultural events in a gradual manner, either in a virtual manner or by putting in place strict social distancing measures. During his earlier stint as the chairman of Ravindra Bhavan, Margao, Naik was credited with introducing several initiatives and events that became popular with art and theatre lovers. Members of the executive board and the general body were also announced on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cultural-events-to-start-gradually/articleshow/78941932.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal airport sees 83% less traffic than last year||BHOPAL: Ever since flight operations resumed at Bhopal’s Raja Bhoj airport after the lockdown, the situation has seen gradual improvement in both flight and passenger movement. Despite such a surge, the situation will take time to reach the pre-lockdown scenario. Compared to 2019, the traffic situation is below 83% in the April-September 2020 period. Bhopal airport has continued making efforts in resuming the pre-lockdown situation. The airport has witnessed a surge in both number of flights and freight movement. Resuming services with only 30 flights in May, 294 total flights touched Bhopal airport in September. Notably, Bhopal airport had recently secured the overall 5th position in the country. As per the data provided by airport officials, the air services began in the last week of March after the government put a ban on flight movement. However, the situation is not that good if one compares the lockdown period of 2020 and 2019 April-September. In the April-September 2020 period, the passenger movement was 6,83,378 while it was only 80,000 in the same period in 2020. There is a dip of -88.3%. The situation is the same in the aircraft movement. In the period of April-September 2020, the aircraft movement was 7,509 while it was only 1,216 in the same period in 2020. There is a dip of -83.3 %. When contacted, a senior official on the condition of anonymity, said, “As the operations have started and there is a positive response, we are hoping to get the earlier situation in the near future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/airport-sees-83-less-traffic-than-last-year/articleshow/78940327.cms||Ramendra Singh
October 30, 2020||Goa||Reveal those behind Torda murder: Congress||SALIGAO: North Goa Pradesh Congress Committee demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant and the police reveal the mastermind behind the murder of RTI activist Vilas Methar at Umbra in Salvador do Mundo, two weeks ago.  Congress committee president Vijai Bhike said that after the arrest of five persons, police had not come out with any official statement as regards to the investigation in the crime. “The chief minister, who is also the home minister, has not yet revealed the mastermind even after 15 days of the murder incident,” said Bhike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-reveal-those-behind-torda-murder/articleshow/78941895.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Education department set to fill up 100 vacant posts of college principals by beginning of next year||KOLKATA: The state government has initiated the process of appointing principals at nearly 100 colleges, where the posts have been lying vacant for several months. The higher education department looked to fill the vacancies by the beginning of next year, said an official. The West Bengal College Service Commission has written to the institutes, seeking requisition for vacant principals’ posts. The teachers-in-charge at the colleges concerned—senior professors who have been acting as the heads of the institutes in absence of principals —will have to provide information on how long the posts has been lying vacant, subjects being taught there, the reason for the vacancies and the affiliating universities. The information has to be submitted by the end of November, after which candidates for the principal’s posts will be shortlisted and the process for counselling will begin. “A notification has been sent to all colleges, where the post of a principal has been lying vacant. Appointment of principals to all these colleges will benefit both the institutes and students,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of All Bengal Principals’ Council. The government will have to follow the new guidelines laid down by the University Grants Commission that state a college principal will have to be appointed for five years and the tenure can be extended by another five years, depending on the performance. The universities were directed to amend their statutes when the new guidelines were formulated in 2018. A majority of the colleges that have been operating without a principal are affiliated to Calcutta University, West Bengal State University and Kalyani University, and so, located in the city and suburbs. A source pointed out that the government was keen on filling the vacancies before the assembly elections slated for next year as well as the students’ body elections, which were also pending. In the absence of a principal, a senior member of the faculty discharges the role of the head of the institute but his/her administrative powers remain restricted, as a result of which the daily functioning of the colleges is sometimes impeded. “Teachers-in-charge cannot take much decision, especially those pertaining to the expansion of the college infrastructure, hiring contractual teachers or seeking permission from universities to teach new courses,” said a teacher-in-charge at a north Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/edu-dept-set-to-fill-up-100-vacant-posts-of-college-principals-by-beginning-of-next-yr/articleshow/78941961.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 30, 2020||Kolhapur||NIA searches in Atpadi, Khanapur||Kolhapur: A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday carried out searches in Sangli district’s Atpadi and Khanapur talukas, besides two other locations at Guwahati in Assam in connection with the seizure of 83.6kg of gold bars worth Rs42.9 crore from the Delhi railway station on August 28. The directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) had seized 504 gold bars following a tip-off and the case was handed over to the NIA. Eight individuals, who were found in possession of the gold bars, were then arrested. They had reached Delhi by the Dibrugarh-Delhi Rajdhani Express. The gold bars were found concealed in specially tailored vests worn by these passengers. The NIA, in an official release issued later in the day, said: “The four locations were premises related to the accused persons and their handlers from where they used to give effect to the commission of crime.” “During the searches, incriminating documents and electronic devices containing details of suspicious transactions as well as of the persons involved in the crime, who also have linkages abroad, including Myanmar and Nepal, were seized,” the release said. Sangli superintendent of police (SP) Dikshit Gedam told TOI, “A 10-member team of the NIA had approached us for assistance. We provided them all the necessary manpower and assistance as they did the searches in Atpadi and Khanapur, where the accused used to stay.” The gold bars were allegedly being smuggled from Myanmar through the international land border at Moreh in Manipur. The eight people were found travelling on fake identities and were arrested under the Customs Act, 1962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nia-searches-in-atpadi-khanapur/articleshow/78937924.cms||Satyajit Joshi
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Overflowing bins now common in Madurai||Madurai: While the Madurai Corporation aims to make the city ‘bin-free’, overflowing garbage bins are a common sight in many parts of Madurai. M P Sankarapandian, president of the water resource protection and people’s welfare trust, said that citizens need to be educated on the use of the dumper bins, including the garbage collectors, who also strew the waste around the bins. In Kulamangalam Main Road, which borders the Sellur Tank, the sanitary workers dump the garbage on the bund. “When the bins overflow, they dump it on the banks of the tank,” said M Ganeshan, a resident. Garbage removed from the Panthalkudi channel in Meenambalpuram was dumped on the sides of the channel and is yet to be cleared. Stray animals also forage through it, said Sankarapandian. Abu Backer of the Neervala Paathukaapu Iyakkam said that steps should be taken to prevent the dumping and burning of garbage on the banks of Sellur tank. “We do so much to protect this water body, but dumping of garbage makes our efforts go in vain,” he said. These residents said that the civic authorities, who warn the people against burning garbage, including on Bogi festival, should ensure that they do not burn the garbage. Corporation sources said that the garbage-free status would be possible only when the source segregation is done completely in houses. The bin-free status would be done by gradually removing the bins on the roads and streets, but the deadline was still not fixed, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/overflowing-bins-now-common-in-madurai/articleshow/78941955.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||I-T searches on edu group find 150cr of black stash||NEW DELHI: The income tax department carried out searches at 22 premises in Coimbatore, Erode, Chennai and Namakkal on Wednesday on an educational group and unearthed unaccounted income of more than Rs 150 crore. Rs 5 crore in cash was seized, besides digital evidence during the searches. It was found that fees collected from students were not fully accounted for in the regular books of accounts, according to the Central Board of Direct Taxes, the apex cadre-controlling body of I-T. The I-T searches, which continued till Thursday evening, revealed the unaccounted receipts were siphoned off to the personal accounts of the trustees of the educational institutions. The black money was then invested in real estate through a shell company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-t-searches-on-edu-group-find-150cr-of-black-stash/articleshow/78942980.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru Police crackdown on cricket betting||MANGALURU: Mangaluru City Police in four separate cases against cricket betting have arrested 16 persons and seized property including a car, cash and cell phones valued above Rs 11 lakh. While three of these cases were registered in Mangaluru South police station, the other case was registered in Mangaluru North PS. City crime branch personnel carried out the raids. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash stated on Wednesday that city police is keeping a close tab on cricket betting with IPL 2020 season in full swing. Action will be initiated against any illegal clubs functioning in the city or any instance of illegal cricket betting, he said. City police have not issued permission to any recreation clubs to function in the city nor have they received any application, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/police-crackdown-on-cricket-betting/articleshow/78938999.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Expose BJP, Kamal Nath tells party workers||BHOPAL: Less than a week before the November 3 bypolls in 28 assembly constituencies in Madhya Pradesh, former chief minister and PCC chief Kamal Nath appealed to party workers to “spread the message of how BJP came to power by toppling his elected government in March this year”. In a video message and through social media platforms, Nath on Thursday asked Congress party workers to forget their home, family and work and concentrate on telling people how ruling BJP formed the government in Bhopal and whether people of the state want such a regime to stay. “I thank the Congress family members who in the past weeks and days have taken the party’s message to the people across MP,” the senior Congress leader said in the video message. “You have taken the truth to the people. This election is a fight between righteousness and falsity,” he said. The former Union minister said, “My appeal to you is that in the last few days before elections, forget your home, family and work. After the hard work you have done so far, take the message to the people about how the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led BJP government was formed through bargaining.” Nath said that the upcoming bypolls is not about a single candidate but the future of the state and the region. “Do we want such a government to rule that was formed with the sheer help of money-power?” he asked. Nath also advised that Congress workers should toil till the polling day so that their hard work in the last few weeks yield results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/expose-bjp-nath-tells-party-workers/articleshow/78939004.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Poor response to PMPML’s airport bus service||PUNE: Faced with the poor response received by its airport bus service, ABHI, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is planning to incentivise drivers, conductors and other staffers to attract more passengers. “The incentive scheme will be for drivers, conductors and the PMPML staff at the airport. The idea is to encourage them to attract more flyers and other passengers. The drivers and conductors will stop along the routes if anyone signals the bus to stop. Apart from flyers, anybody can use the bus service if they are prepared to pay the fares,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman-cum-managing director of PMPML. “The number of people using the service is less and inconsistent. On some days, we have ferried 20 passengers, while on other days most buses have gone empty. However, we need to give the service some time to settle down,” said Jagtap. The service is running on five specially-created routes from October 23. At present, 35 e-buses are plying on the routes and their numbers will be increased to 48. The routes cover big hotels, hospitals, IT parks, among others. The fares have been fixed at Rs50, Rs100, Rs150 and Rs180. “Not many flyers are keen to use the service at present. However, we feel that in time, people will accept the service. The mobile application for the service will start by the end of the week and by December end, the buses will have more features like screens providing flight information etc. Such a service is popular in Bengaluru and Kolkata, so there is little reason why it will not pick up in Pune,” another official said. A frequent flyer and Pune resident said that the problem lies with the PMPML’s image. “An airport bus service has to operate on time, the buses need to be well maintained and shouldn’t break down. Only then will people trust and use them. The PMPML needs to prove that this service is worth the money and it will only happen with continuous service without any hassles,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/poor-response-to-pmpmls-airport-bus-service/articleshow/78941962.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 30, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: Jyotiradtiya Scindia flags off ‘Shiv-Jyoti Express’||INDORE: BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiradtiya Scindia on Thursday claimed that though Congress had made promises to waive agriculture loans up to Rs2 lakh in 2018, it was the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government that benefited the farmers by giving the sanctioned amount. “In 2018 assembly polls, they (Congress leaders) had come to Pipliamandi in Mandsaur district and promised to waive agriculture loans up to Rs2 lakh. But they did not distribute a single paisa from the treasury. Whatever amount was distributed, was given by Chouhan ji”, the BJP star campaigner said, while addressing a public meeting in bypoll bound Suwasra constituency in Mandsaur. Scindia said that after waiting for more than 10 months, Congress did not fulfill its promise and this forced him to hit the streets. “Congress party never kept its promise and acted traitorously with the farmers” he said. In Dhar, Scindia addressed a public gathering in tribal-dominated Bhaisola area of Badnawar constituency and slammed the erstwhile Kamal Nath government for alleged apathy towards the tribal community. “Nathji and Digvijaya Singh are the biggest traitors in Madhya Pradesh. They fooled the farmers, women and youths” Scindia said. He also asked the voters to choose ‘Shiv-Jyoti Express’ (referring to CM Chouhan and himself) over the pair of Nath and Digvijaya. The Rajya Sabha MP also visited bypoll bound Sanwer assembly constituency and addressed a public gathering in Dakachya village. He alleged that the 15-month old Congress government gave patronage to illegal mining, liquor mafia and corruption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/scindia-flags-off-shiv-jyoti-express/articleshow/78940369.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist reports 233 cases & 10 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 233 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 59 from Satara tehsil and 39 from Koregaon tehsil, taking the total number of positive cases to 46,023. A total of 10 patients succumbed to the infection. The death toll has now risen to 1528. As many as 40,772 patients have recovered from the contagion. Of the fresh cases, Karad reported 18 cases, Phaltan registered 12 cases, two cases were added in Mahabaleshwar tehsil, 10 people tested positive in Wai and Khatav tehsil added 23 cases among others. Of the deceased, which includes eight men and two women, eight were elderly. Jawli tehsil reported three deaths while Satara, Khatav and Koregaon registered two deaths each. One death was recorded in Wai tehsil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-reports-233-cases-10-deaths/articleshow/78937933.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||MSRTC to run additional vehicles during Diwali||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will run 1,000 additional buses, including 200 buses from the Pune division, between November 11 and 14 in anticipation of a rush of passengers during Diwali, state transport utility officials said. The state transport body also announced on Thursday that bus fares will not be increased. “Currently, the Pune division of the MSRTC operates around 2,000 buses to different parts of the state. The services across majority of routes are getting good response from passengers. Dussehra, however, saw less number of people travelling, but that has been the trend always. It is mainly during Diwali that people tend to travel. With our headquarters having announced 1,000 additional buses during the upcoming festival, the Pune division will run 200 of these additional buses. The numbers can increase to 350 based on the number of bookings and passenger traffic,” an MSRTC, Pune division officer told TOI. “Normally, during Diwali, the MSRTC increases the fares by around 30%. However, this time the fares will remain the same mainly because many people are facing financial problems due to job losses and salary cuts caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” another MSRTC official said. The MSRTC had announced in mid-September that all its buses will be running to full capacity unlike earlier when only 50% seats were allowed to be occupied, and one passenger was allowed per seat. “Our inter-state buses, going to places like Goa, Gujarat, Telangana etc, are also seeing decent number of passengers now. We hope that with the fares remaining the same, people will be encouraged to travel to their homes in the run up to the festival,” another official said. The number of additional buses for Diwali was, however, less than last year, officials said. “Every year during Diwali, the Pune division alone runs around 1,000 to 1,200 additional buses. So, this time the number will be quite less than previous years,” the official said. The private luxury bus operators have already announced that there will be no fare hike during the festive season. “Dussehra has been a disaster. We cannot predict anything for Diwali right now,” a representative of Pune-based Nishant Tours and Travels said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-to-run-additional-buses-for-diwali/articleshow/78941957.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 30, 2020||Goa||Government stalling works in Saligao, says local MLA||PANAJI: Saligao MLA and former minister Jayesh Salgaonkar on Thursday accused the state government of deliberately stalling all development projects in Saligao constituency. Salgaonkar also said that Calangute MLA and waste management minister Michael Lobo is spreading rumours about Goa Forward Party (GFP) MLAs joining the BJP in order to create confusion and create space for one of his relatives to contest from Saligao constituency in the 2022 state assembly elections. Salgaonkar said that instead of commenting about the condition of roads in Saligao, Lobo should focus on the dilapidated roads in Calangute. “All my works and tenders are being cancelled. Every time any work starts, calls come to stop the work. There is so much of pressure to stop work in Saligao,” said Salgaonkar. He also said that a tender to repair the entire Chogm road stretch along with some internal roads was cancelled in August 2019 once GFP was dropped from the government. Responding to Lobo’s claims that Salgaonkar is trying to join the BJP, the Saligao MLA said that Lobo was trying to create confusion. “If Michael Lobo wants to join the Congress, why is he making statements about me joining the BJP? If what I have said is wrong then let Michael Lobo make a public statement that he will never quit the BJP,” said Salgaonkar. The GFP legislator also expressed surprise with Lobo’s criticism about the state tourism policy. “Lobo is part of the council of ministers, who is in the government speaks against the government’s policies, especially the tourism policy, it raises questions about who is going to leave the party and who is going to remain with the BJP,” said Salgaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-stalling-works-in-saligao-says-local-mla/articleshow/78941954.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant, Cabral can’t be prosecuted without prior govt sanction: Goa court||PANAJI: The sessions court on Thursday held that chief minister (then speaker) Pramod Sawant, power minister (then Goa Tourism Development Corporation chairman) Nilesh Cabral and then chief secretary Dharmendra Sharma cannot be prosecuted in absence of sanction by the government in the defamation and criminal conspiracy case filed against them by social activist Kashinath Shetye. The sessions court has upheld the order of the JMFC court that dropped the proceedings against Sawant, Cabral and Sharma. The court also dropped the proceedings ordered by JMFC against police inspector Vishwesh Karpe in the case filed by Shetye. “In case any public servant is prosecuted, it is necessary to obtain prior sanction. There is no scope for deemed sanction. In the absence of sanction, there cannot be any prosecution,” sessions judge Irshad Agha held. “Such protection is given to a government servant in order to enable a public servant fearlessly but within the rules and regulations. The complaint would also fall because there is no sanction obtained by the applicant (Shetye) to prosecute respondent no 1, 2 and 3 (Cabral, Sawant and Sharma),” the order said. Shetye said that a false complaint was filed against him by Cabral by alleging that he committed theft by posting replies of a legislative assembly question on Facebook. Shetye pointed out before the sessions court that the JMFC court committed an error in discharging the MLA, chief secretary and the speaker who were the main accused persons in maligning the applicant’s image. He also pointed out that he wrote a letter on August 24, 2017 to the governor for sanction to prosecute all the four government officers/servants as per Section 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code. He claimed that there was deemed sanction to prosecute them. Public prosecutor P Bharne argued that this is a matter concerning the breach of Assembly Secrecy and Privilege and sought dismissal of the case filed by Shetye. “On December 24, 2017, after three months plus one month got over, no any order was passed issuing sanction,” the court held, adding that “For want of any express sanction in the form of writing, there cannot be any deemed sanction.” The court stated that it hadn’t come across any documents produced by Shetye to show why Cabral would lodge a false complaint against him and forward it to the Speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-cabral-cant-be-prosecuted-without-prior-govt-sanction-court/articleshow/78941948.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur: 212 new Covid cases, 172 recoveries||KOLHAPUR: As many as 212 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Solapur district on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 3320. According to health official, a total of 172 patients got discharged from various hospitals across the district on Thursday along with six deaths. “Solapur city recorded 24 new cases, while 11 patients were discharged. A 47-year-old woman, resident of Mehtab Nagar, succumbed to the infection,” he said. “The city has so far recorded 9,509 cases of Covid-19, including 5,608 men and 3,901 women. The death toll stands at 533 deaths and till date as many as 8,519 patients have been discharged from various healthcare facilities across the city,” he added. Meanwhile, Solapur rural added 188 new cases that included 116 men and 72 women. At 53, Pandharpur tehsil registered the maxium number of new patients followed by Malshiras 43. Madha and Mohol tehsils recorded 24 and 23 patients, respectively. The rural areas also recorded five deaths — four men and a woman — on Thursday with Pandharpur recording two deaths. Malshiras, Madha and Sangola tehsils reported one death each. “Pandharpur tehsil currently has 441 active cases while the number is 752 in Barshil tehsil. As many as 175 deaths have been reported in Pandharpur while in Barshil the death toll due to the contagion is 176,” the official said. Solapur rural has so far recorded 30,429 positive cases —18,795 men and 11,634 women. “The rural areas have recorded 906 deaths and the number of active patients is 2,863. As many as 26,660 patients have so far recovered from the contagion,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-212-new-cases-172-recoveries/articleshow/78937942.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||Declare list of nurses selected or face stir: MGP-Ponda||PONDA: Demanding the government publish the list of nurses recently selected, the Ponda wing of Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has threatened to protest at the Goa Dental College if the list is not out within three days. MGP has alleged that there is a scam in the selection of 37 nurses. MGP’s Ponda in-charge Ketan Bhatikar said the government has selected 17 nurses from Sattari taluka alone and the remaining 20 from Bicholim. Terming it an “injustice to the young women from Ponda taluka”, Bhatikar challenged the state government and BJP’s Ponda wing to clarify whether “Ponda has no nurses or if they are not competent”. “Due to the ongoing Covid pandemic, thousands of young qualified nurses had applied online for the 37 posts at the Goa dental college and also answered an exam required for the selection process. However, the government has welcomed nurses only from Sattari and Bicholim talukas. This is a scam and also an injustice to Ponda nurses,” Bhatikar said. He also said that instead of regularising nurses working on contract basis at the Goa dental college and Goa medical college and hospital, Bambolim (GMC) for several years, those from Sattari and Bicholim talukas were selected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/declare-list-of-nurses-selected-or-face-stir-mgp/articleshow/78941965.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Goa||‘Plan to tackle climate change is eyewash’||PANAJI: Questioning the seriousness of the state government in mitigating the impact of climate change, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said that a comprehensive discussion with all stakeholders should have been held before the state action plan was finalised. Speaking out a day after the state cabinet approved the state action plan for climate change, which has been prepared by the Goa State Biodiversity Board, Khaunte said that the move appeared to be an eyewash. “In matters involving long term interests of Goa, like the State Action Plan for Climate Change, it’s prudent to have involved all elected representatives and stakeholders in the policy and planning process,” Khaunte said. Goa State Biodiversity Board in its report said that close to 15% of Goa’s land, much of it along the coastal belt, is vulnerable to flooding from extreme rainfall or sea level rise. A flood vulnerability study conducted by the board for the state action plan revealed that 14.7% of Goa’s area is less than 15 metres above the sea level and thus severely vulnerable to flooding due to water level rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plan-to-tackle-climate-change-is-eyewash/articleshow/78941959.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||‘Distant’ IPL hits merchandise sales in Kolkata||KOLKATA: On the field, KKR has had its share of highs and lows. It is now in the lower half of the points table as the IPL’s league stage nears its end. However, some ardent fans of the team — like Lucky Ali and Shyamali Basak, who sell sports merchandise at Maidan market — have seen only lows as they got nothing to cheer about this year. Over a month into IPL, as the city team plays at an empty stadium some 3,500km away courtesy Covid-19 restrictions, the merchandise shop owners in Kolkata are ruing at the lull in sales of jerseys, flags and other accessories, which used to sell like hot cakes giving them more reasons to cheer for the home team. “For the last few years, there was guaranteed sale of jerseys, caps and bandanas worth anything between Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 on match days at Eden Gardens. Even on the non-match days, there used to be a steady sale of Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000, mostly by young fans, who used to come to get their tickets from the ground. But this year, I haven’t sold a single jersey in the last one week,” said Lucky Ali, who has been running his shop at Maidan market for the last 25 years. Even clubs and pubs that used to deck up their interiors with jerseys and flags of different franchises, too, have stayed away from the investment. “I had some fixed clients at prominent city clubs, who would buy merchandise and accessories from my store every year during the IPL season to decorate their interiors. But this year, I personally called them and even proposed to deliver the same at a discounted rate but they denied,” said Shyamali Basak, the proprietor of a store at Maidan market. Wholesellers said that after suspension of trains, very few people are coming to the city from villages, which has further affected their affected their sales. “A number of people coming from districts and villagers form a large base of our clientele. The situation is such that we have not even stocked up new jerseys,” said Manzar Khan, who runs a venyl printing shop in Esplanade. Hawkers and painters, who also used to depend upon the match days for a handsome income by painting faces and selling wares like bandanas, cheap jerseys, caps and bands outside the stadium, are also out of job this time. “I would look forward to the match days in earlier years. This year, although the IPL is finally happening, it’s no good for me. I am not even keeping track of the game schedule,” said Sohail Ali, who works at a Kidderpore store and used to paint faces on game days outside Eden Gardens. Hardcore KKR fans like techie Souvick Roy, who makes sure to buy a a new jersey before the tournament and wear it during every home match at Eden Gardens or some clubs or pubs, where he used to watch the game together with friends has also not bought it this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/distant-ipl-hits-merchandise-sales-in-city/articleshow/78941975.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 30, 2020||Pune||PCMC to link cycle routes with gardens||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said on Thursday that the civic body is working on a ‘Connecting Green’ project under which all 184 gardens and green zones in the civic limits will be connected through pedestrian and cycle routes by 2030. Addressing a news conference here, Hardikar said suggestions and feedback about the project has been invited till November 15 after which a draft plan will be prepared with the help of experts, planners, architects, and non-governmental organisations (NGO). Hardikar said the civic body wanted to start working on the project because at the current pace of development, the living condition will be far from ideal in the next 20 years in Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. So, it will be helpful to create a safe passage for commute and safeguard the environment. He said, “Under smart city projects, we already have some experience of building ideal footpaths. Through ‘Connecting Green’ project, we are also focusing on reducing accidents. Many times, we have observed that due to encroachment, people are forced to walk on road. The availability of safe roads in the gardens will eliminate such possibilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-wants-to-connect-its-184-gardens-with-pedestrian-and-cycle-routes-by-2030/articleshow/78941966.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||No state epidemiologist for years: PIL||AHMEDABAD: As the Covid-19 pandemic rages around us, a PIL has highlighted that the post of state epidemiologist has been vacant for years together and recommendations to strengthen the epidemic cell since the 1995 Surat plague have also not been acted on. The petition has been demanding immediate action from the state authorities to fill the large number of vacancies in the health department and to improve health infrastructure. As the application came up for hearing on Thursday, the state government told the Gujarat high court that it would submit a progress report on recruitment for various positions by December 4. The PIL further claimed, “The only post of state epidemiologist, Class I, which is a key post for epidemic control, is also kept vacant since years. After the plague epidemic of Surat in 1995, strengthening of epidemic cell was recommended for prevention and control of waterborne, vector-borne and industrial (occupational) health, some orders were passed with creation of a few posts, which are abolished or kept in abeyance afterwards and not filled.” Dr Madhavji Gajera had filed this PIL in 2019, demanding sanctioning of posts in the health departments and appointment of experts at all positions in government health facilities such as primary health centres, sub-centres, community health centres as well as district hospitals in tribal and non-tribal rural areas, and to make them fully functional according to the criteria prescribed by the Indian Public Health Standard (IPHS). The HC had sought details from the government in this regard last year. As the petitioner did not witness things moving, he moved the HC again through advocate K R Koshti, arguing that the government apathy in this area is hurting society in these pandemic times. “It is pertinent to note that nearly 60-70% of the posts of public health officers at district, regional and state level, especially key posts for decision making on public health issues have been vacant for long periods, in spite of the fact that qualified candidates are available, while in some cases candidates are being promoted only on the last few days of service, adversely affecting continuity and efficiency of the health system and its services,” the application reads. It said that the government filled certain posts after the HC intervened last year, but most of the incumbents retired as they were appointed on the verge of their retirement. The PIL also contended that the government has remained content with filling posts on ad hoc basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-state-epidemiologist-for-years-pil/articleshow/78940399.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Water closure in most areas on November 2||PUNE: Taps will run dry in most parts of the city on November 2 because of maintenance and repair works at various pumping stations. The water supply would resume on November 3, the PMC’s water supply department said. All Peth areas, Dattawadi, Swargate, Parvati, Satara Road, Katraj, Kothrud and Erandwane will not receive water from the Parvati water works on Monday. Areas like Pashan, Khadki, Bopodi, parts of Kothurd, Paud Road and Warje, among others, will not get water from Warje/Chatushrungi/SNDT water works. There would be no water supply in the areas dependent on Cantonment water works, including Pune station, Koregaon Park, Nagar Road up to Kharadi, Lohegaon and Dhanori, on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-closure-in-most-areas-on-nov-2/articleshow/78941970.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Agra||Allow lawyer to meet journo in Mathura jail: Kerala body moves SC||Agra: With no progress on getting legal aid to the journalist arrested when he was on his way to meet the Hathras victim’s family, the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Thursday approached the Supreme Court to intervene and allow his lawyer to meet him.Siddique Kappan, a Malayalam-language journalist, had been arrested on October 5 with three others — Masood Ahmad, Atikur Rahman and Mohammad Aalam — in Mathura. All four face sedition and terror charges after Mathura Police and, later, Hathras Police claimed they were "conspiring to instigate caste riots" in Hathras. While the three others have secured legal representation, Kappan’s lawyer has not been able to meet him in Mathura jail.So, the KUWJ has appealed to the Supreme Court to issue orders asking the jail authorities to allow Kappan to sign the vakalatnama authorising his legal representative, Wills Mathews, to act on his behalf. “The petitioner is left with no other alternative ... as neither applicants nor their lawyer are allowed to meet the accused for conference and for getting the vakalatnama signed,” the application said. The union sought permission for his family to meet him and for three union representatives and the lawyer to be able to talk to him over video-conferencing regularly.In an affidavit, Mathews wrote that the conditions of the temporary jail where Kappan has been held are “horrific.” He said, “Even basic precautions against Covid-19 are not being taken. It amounts to a serious denial of the fundamental rights of the inmates and is in violation of the directions of the apex court.” The union has, consequently, also appealed to the apex court to pass an order asking the district judge Mathura or a high court judge to visit the New Mathura Jail to assess possible human rights violations. In a separate application, the union has sought bail for Kappan, citing his diabetic condition and the “lack of Covid-19 precautions".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/allow-lawyer-to-meet-journo-in-mathura-jail-kerala-body-moves-sc/articleshow/78937959.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Builder fells 200 old trees near Bada Tajbagh||Nagpur: In a major environmental loss to the city, a large number of very old trees were chopped down by a builder near Bada Tajbagh area. In the last few years, this is the third case of large-scale illegal tree felling by a builder in the same locality, which is witnessing rapid construction activity. The incident took place some days back but came to the fore recently when environment activist Pranay Ade noticed massive tree felling at a vacant plot in Harpur Nagar near Bada Tajbagh area. On enquiring with the locals, the activist found out that a builder had purchased approximately 2.5 acres of the said plot and allegedly cut over 200 fully-grown trees without taking the mandatory permission from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) garden department. Following his repeated complaints, a team of officials from the garden department visited the spot on Wednesday and carried out a spot panchnama. “We found evidence of chopping off of 40-50 trees using JCB. It might be true that the builder has cut more trees but has cleared the evidence," said officials. The officials have already issued a notice to the builder. "We have given him seven days to respond. Meanwhile, we are in the process of taking statements and preparing a final panchnama. Post this, we will issue another notice to the builder if required," added officials. According to activists, this is the third such case of illegal tree felling in the same area. “Builders are coming up with new residential schemes for which they are destroying the few remaining green pockets in the area. We are not against development but builders should fell trees after taking permission and doing successful compensatory plantation,” said Ade. Activists further alleged NMC does not take any strict action in such cases. “The officials’ job is restricted to visiting the site and issuing notices. Apart from the paperwork, they do not take any stringent action due to which such cases of illegal tree felling are on the rise. To create fear in the minds of wrongdoers, NMC must set an example by strictly punishing the builder involved in illegal tree felling,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation. He added that the new standard operating procedure (SOP) should be implemented with immediate effect. “Then municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar had modified the SOP, according to which any person wanting to fell trees has to first carry out compensatory plantations, ensure its successful survival and then cut trees. The garden department should take this rule seriously as it is the only way to curb rampant loss of green cover in the city,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/builder-fells-200-old-trees-near-bada-tajbagh/articleshow/78940391.cms||Manka Behl
October 30, 2020||Goa||Kiran Kandolkar quit after wife denied ticket: BJP||SALIGAO: Former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar quit BJP for the sole reason that his wife did not get a ZP ticket, and this decision was not for the sake of society but for the sake of himself, BJP’s North Goa president Mahanand Asnodkar. He also said Kandolkar’s departure “will not affect BJP at all”. Asnodkar was addressing reporters at Mapusa after the former Tivim MLA resigned from BJP and joined Goa Forward Party (GFP). He further said that BJP is a disciplined party and he was “proud to be its loyal soldier”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-kiran-quit-after-wife-denied-ticket/articleshow/78941968.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Indore||Govt will help farmers on defaulted agriculture loans: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||INDORE: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday addressed back-to-back five public meetings in as many districts across the Malwa-Nimar region and slammed Congress leaders for allegedly calling him ‘kamina’, ‘nalayak’, ‘ghoshanaveer’ and ‘nanga-bhuka’ and said it has no other issues in the bypolls. In Nepanagar, Chouhan made announcements of allotting ‘minai patta’ (piece of revenue land), which are in possession of people from years/generations by making new laws . “The tribal people, who have possession of land before 2005, will also be provided the ‘minai patta’, he said, further adding that those, who are below the the poverty line, will be distributed rice and wheat at Rs1 per kilogram. “We used to provide farm loans on 0% interest rate but Nath promised to waive it off. Due to the false promise, many regular farmers stopped paying their instalments. They are now defaulters and their interest rate has gone as high as 18%. I have decided to pay this amount,” Chouhan said. “Congress leaders have gone mad. Now-a-days, they are giving speeches that Shivraj is ‘kamina’, including those who are coming from Delhi. They have forgotten the promises made to the people in ‘vachan patra’ and now, only abusing me and Jyotiraditya Scindia day and night” Chouhan said. “In democracy, the public is god and that is why I greet them by kneeling down,” Chouhan said, while addressing a public meeting at Suwasra in Mandsaur. Continuing his tirade against Congress party, Chouhan slammed senior leaders for allegedly calling him ‘nanga-bhuka. “Saith (moneyed man) Nath, I was born in Madhya Pradesh – at Budni tehsil in Sehore district…. Where were you born, Kanpur or Kolkata?” Chouhan asked. “Congress deceived all sections of the society and now they are calling me ‘kamina’ for implementing schemes meant for the poor, farmers and SC/ST people of the state” Chouhan said.  Chouhan also addressed a public meeting in Mandhata and Badnawar before reaching Sanwer constituency in Indore for a roadshow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cm-addresses-5-bypoll-rallies-in-malwa-nimar/articleshow/78939029.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Governor’s notification amending FRA challenged in HC||Nagpur: A recent notification issued by Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari modifying Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, enabling forest-dwelling Scheduled Tribes and other traditional forest-dwelling (OTFD) families to build houses in the neighbourhood forest areas has been challenged in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. The petition has been filed by wildlife, forest and environment lawyer from Akot Vijaysingh Chauhan. The petitioner has prayed to quash the notification issued by the governor under paragraph 5 (1) of Fifth Schedule of the Constitution which requires the assent of the President of India. The petitioner has also urged the high court to hold and declare the notifications related to FRA amendments issued respectively on February 23, 2017, May 18, 2020, June 2, 2020, September 23, 2020, by the governor as unconstitutional as no mandatory assent of the President has been obtained. During pendency of the petition, the court has been requested to direct the respondent not to issue any notification without obtaining the presidential clearance. The other respondents include chief secretary, principal secretaries of tribal development, and the forest department. The petitioner had earlier filed a criminal petition before the high court on the issue of illegal entry inside critical tiger habitat of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR). The petitioner has claimed that the new notification by the governor will result in ever-increasing encroachments on forest land and lingering of several false claims under FRA, 2006. This will further disturb the ecology and biodiversity of forest areas and will frustrate the objective behind declaring critical wildlife habitats (CWHs), said Chauhan. Earlier, on February 23, 2017, the then governor had amended FRA to allow forest land for godowns, warehouses, cold storages, markets, and cremation grounds. Now, provision has been made for housing to the forest-dwelling Scheduled Tribes & OTFD families belonging by extension of village sites. The petition states that governor may make regulations for good governance in scheduled area in a state. However, in making any such regulation as is referred to in the Constitution, the governor shall be submitted forthwith to the President and, until assented to by him, shall have no effect. Beside, no regulation shall be made unless the governor making the regulation has consulted Tribes Advisory Council for the state, wherever it is present. Maharashtra government has reconstituted the Tribes Advisory Council in 2016. The petition states that while issuing the impugned notification, Maharashtra Tribes Advisory Council has not been consulted which is also mandatory as per paragraph 5 (5) of Fifth Schedule of the Constitution of India. The petitioner has asked whether the governor, who is not even an elected representative of any body, while exercising powers under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution has unfettered rights to make such modifications in the Act passed by the Parliament. Chauhan submitted that when lawmaking assembly also requires assent of the President before a Bill gets the shape of a law, the modifications to an Act by the governor also require the assent of the President. Mah tops in FRA claims As per the monthly progress report of March, 2020, available on the website of the ministry of tribal affairs (Mota), the number of individual claims received up to March 31, 2020, in Maharashtra is 3,62,679 and community claims are 12,037, both totalling 3,74,716. Out of these claims 1,65,032 individual and 7,084 community titles have been distributed, totalling the number of titles distributed to 1,72,116. The total number of claims rejected is 45,525. The extent of forest land distributed for individual titles is 3,92,928 acres, and community titles are 27,36,660 acres. The extent of forest land distributed under FRA, 2006, in Maharashtra is highest in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/governors-notification-amending-fra-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/78940411.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 30, 2020||Surat||Despite pandemic, IT firms rush to recruit MCA students||SURAT: The students and faculty of Masters of Computer Application (MCA) at Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET) in Surat are all smiling from ear to ear. The students got increased stipends for their internship at various IT firms and placements. There has been no reduction in salary packages as compared to pre-Covid-19 recruitment packages. “The MCA department at the SCET has successfully placed 70% of final year students with stipends ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 and salary ranging from Rs 1.8 to 4 lakhs per annum. Out of the total 67 students, 45 have already been placed,” Kaushika Pal, head, MCA department at SCET, told TOI. Pal added: “More placement drives have been planned with a target to place all our students before their final semester is over. Some of the students have opted out from the placement due to various reasons. We thought that Covid-19 might play a spoilsport in students’ career with less then usual stipend and salary packages as compared with pre-Covid-19 scenario. However, the IT companies offered increased stipends and good salary packages to fresh students.” SCET principal Hiren Patel said, “The current situation is leading every individual to miss personal human contact which creates a big opportunity for the automated systems and mobile apps. The focus has shifted from the traditional use of computers to all new self controlled systems and artificial intelligence. It will change how we live and work. It has also provided new opportunities for the students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/despite-pandemic-it-firms-rush-to-recruit-mca-students/articleshow/78940752.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Rajkot||Race Course to get Rs 10 crore facelift||RAJKOT: Before its terms comes to an end in December, the standing committee of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Thursday allocated nearly Rs 10 crore for carrying out renovation work of some of the facilities in the racecourse, Rajkot residents’ most favorite recreational point. Besides the projects currently under renovation including the planetarium science building, art gallery, gardens and volleyball court, various others will be undertaken like wooden flooring in Indoor stadium, viewing gallery between hockey and football ground, beautification in the annual fair ground, the mayor office stated. The civic body is also planning to make a gutter line for disposal of rainwater. The election commission has, however, postponed the civic bodies’ elections for three months in the state owing to the Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/race-course-to-get-rs-10cr-facelift/articleshow/78941020.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nashik||Nashik traders set to resume onion auction at 15 APMCs on Friday||NASHIK: Traders have decided to start taking part in auctioning of onions at all the 15 APMCs in Nashik district from Friday, following an appeal by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The traders had stopped participating in the auctioning in protest against the Centre’s decision to impose limit on onion stocks held by wholesales as well as retailers, triggering a rise in prices that were already at their peak. “The CM appealed to the traders to resume auctioning when their delegation met him in Mumbai on Thursday. Thackeray assured that he would pursue the Union government immediately,” Nashik district onion traders’ association vice-president Nandkumar Daga told TOI. The NCP chief, too, had met onion traders and farmers in Nashik on Wednesday and discussed the problems faced by them in view of the restrictions imposed on stocks limit and appealed to them to resume trading. Meanwhile, trading did not take place in any of the APMCs across the district for the fourth consecutive day on Thursday, except at the small APMC at Vinchur in Niphad taluka, where 1,000 quintal was auctioned. Dilip Bankar, NCP MLA from Niphad, said, “Pawar held a telephonic discussion with Union minister Piyush Goyal, who is looking after the consumer ministry. Goyal assured the NCP chief that he would discuss the issue with his ministry officials and take an appropriate decision shortly.” Even BJP MP Bharti Pawar met Union state minister for consumer affairs Raosaheb Danve and informed him about the problems being faced by the onion traders and farmers due to stock limit imposed on wholesalers as well as retailers. “Danve has promised that the decision on stocks will be reviewed shortly,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-traders-set-to-resume-onion-auction-at-15-apmcs-today/articleshow/78938030.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Covid showed the value of HR in healthcare’||AHMEDABAD: It were the early days of pandemic for the city in April when a hospital reported two nurses fleeing from the Covid wards in their full PPE kits in a single day. They got shocked by the patients turning critical in a matter of minutes. “The pandemic presented a unique challenge – Covid-19 scenario taught importance of human resources in healthcare,” said Namisha Gandhi, vice-president of Sterling Hospitals. “We introduced concept of Ubuntu – in simple parlance the feeling that ‘I am, because you are.’ We have a nurse on Covid duty who has not left the hospital premises for the past six months. Such examples instilled confidence among other staffers, too.” Sandip Joshi, deputy general manager (Healthcare services), at Apollo Hospitals, said that his hospital among several others in the city offers free treatment to staff members if they test positive. Some of the city hospitals even extended it to the family of the staff. “At our hospital, we initiated a system of assigning floor duties based on the attributes of the staff such as their age and experience. We also initiated a system of psychologist on call which was extended to all the staffers,” said Joshi. “Money or incentives alone however can’t work – we made sure that the top management is visible and accessible to staff for any issues,” said Babu Thomas, CHRO at Shalby Hospitals. “New HR practices such as video interviews and virtual induction also gained currency, something which is likely to continue for some time.” Birsingh Chaudhari, COO of HCG Ltd, said that initially they put the most experienced persons on the direct duty. “In several places, the complaint was – the senior person was not seen in the wards. We did exactly the opposite and got good results. It not only built confidence but also helped better patient management. The entire period was truly an experiment ground for several good HR practices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-showed-the-value-of-hr-in-healthcare/articleshow/78940618.cms||Parth Shastri
October 30, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: A neck-and-neck contest on the cards||INDORE: A keen contest is on the cards in Badnawar constituency, with both BJP and Congress leaving no stone unturned to score over each other. There is a direct contest between state minister Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon of BJP and Congress’s Kamal Singh Patel. Bypoll is being held for the first time in Badnawar constituency since its inception. Both the candidates had to face rough weather just after their names were announced. Dattigaon, a Rajasthani Rajput, has so far contested five times and won thrice. In March, he quit Congress along with Jyotiraditya Scindia due to differences with party leaders and joined BJP. When BJP gave ticket to Dattigaon, former BJP MLA Bhanwarsingh Shekhawat began to protest. Shekhawat had lost to Dattigaon in 2018 as party rebel Rajesh Agrawal spoilt his chances by taking away a major chunk of BJP votes. Later BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya pacified Agrawal and managed to keep him in the party fold. Even Shekhawat has been persuaded to join in the party campaigning. “BJP is united and all leaders are working to ensure the party’s victory” said by-poll in-charge Krishnamurari Moghe. Moreover, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Scindia and Vijayvargiya are also paying special attention to this seat. As far as Congress is concerned, party candidate Kamal Singh Patel Patel, a Gujarati Rajput, got the ticket after Abhishek Singh’s name was dropped. Patel has worked as Badnawar block president and served as sarpanch of the constituency’s biggest Kanvan gram panchayat for 15 years. The party decided to give ticket to Patel because in its internal survey Patel was voters’ choice. Both Patel and Dattigaon enjoy good support in rural areas. Congress by-poll in charge Bala Bachchan said, “Voters of Badnawar will teach a lesson to Dattigaon and BJP for murdering democracy. All Congress leaders are working honestly for Patel as they want truth to triumph. Both the candidates are promising proper road connectivity with Dhar, Indore and Pithampur and agro-based industries in Badnawar. Around 85% population of Badnawar depend on agriculture and bad roads are a problem for them in transporting their produce to the main market. There is also demand for proper irrigation facilities in some parts of the constituency. Farm loan waiver, less electricity tariff for farming, right price of crops, employment along with revival and beautification of Balvanti river are some of the other issues. CANDIDATES’ QUOTES “I chose right over wrong as the Kamal Nath government had failed to fulfill promises made to farmers, youths, women and students. Voters are not going to be misled by false allegations and promises of Congress. Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon BJP “I am a loyal worker of Congress, I can never ditch the party. Being a local, I am familiar with the people of Badnawar, their issues and how to develop the constituency under the leadership of Kamal Nath. People know the truth and they will vote for Congress. Kamal Singh Patel Congress Caste equation Total voters: 2.05 lakh. Gujarati Rajput: 30,000 Rajasthani Rajput: 8,000 Patidar: 22,000 Tribals: 60,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/a-neck-and-neck-contest-on-the-cards/articleshow/78939056.cms||Sagar Choukse
October 30, 2020||Agra||UP: Etawah woman’s headless body chopped into 14 pieces found buried in Mainpuri field||AGRA: An Etawah woman’s headless body, which was chopped into 14 pieces and buried in a field in Mainpuri, was unearthed by the police on Wednesday. Local police arrested a 40-year-old man, Sarvesh Yadav, who, they claimed, is a psychopath and was involved in the murders of at least four other women. According to police, Sarvesh had burnt alive his own mother in May this year when she came to know of his dark side and confronted him. Sarvesh’s maternal uncle was also arrested and they have both been sent to judicial remand. According to police, his earliest victim was a young woman from Ahmedabad over two decades ago. His latest victim, Puti Devi, 38, whose husband died 6 years ago, was last spotted with him on September 20. Mainpuri superintendent of police Ajay Kumar said the accused told interrogators that he had tried to convince Puti Devi to marry his uncle and when she refused, he strangled her to death on September 20. Later, he chopped her body and buried the pieces in a field in a bid to hide evidence. She was reported missing and on October 10, Etawah police registered an FIR after the district police found evidence of Puti Devi’s alleged murder. A woman’s skull was dug out by a dog from Sarvesh’s field, which was noticed by a local resident, who informed the police as well Puti Devi’s brother-in-law who had visited the village to enquire about her. An FIR was registered in Mainpuri against Sarvesh and his uncle for murder and destruction of evidence on a complaint filed by the deceased’s relative. The suspects were arrested on October 26. Mainpuri police launched a search operation on Wednesday and dug out other parts of the woman’s body from Sarvesh’s field. During the search operation, Puti Devi’s hair, clothes and bones were found. “We have preserved the body parts and will send them to FSL Lucknow for identification,” said Mainpuri SP. He added that the deceased’s mobile phone, Aadhar card, Bank passbook and bangles were also recovered from Sarvesh’s field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/etawah-womans-headless-body-chopped-into-14-pieces-found-buried-in-mainpuri-field/articleshow/78937983.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||4,654 commuters hop on to Aapli Bus on Day 1||Nagpur: As many as 4,654 Nagpurians used Aapli Bus on Wednesday after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) resumed the city bus operations after 220 days of Covid-induced lockdown. On the first day of resumption of the service, the NMC rolled out 40 buses, including 32 standard and eight midi, on five routes making 572 trips from 6am to 10pm. Revenue generated through sale of tickets was Rs82,825. The highest number of passengers (1,706) travelled between Sitabuldi and Hingna Gramin Hospital route where the buses made 231 trips on Wednesday. The second route with highest demand was Sitabuldi-Butibori on which 672 passengers travelled in 112 trips. Similarly, on Pardi-Jaitala route, Aapli Buses made 112 trips and ferried 672 passengers. The other two routes Pipla Fata to Hazaripahad and Sitabuldi to Khaparkheda received lukewarm response. As many 345 and 322 passengers, respectively, availed the service which made 70 and 37 trips. As compared to Day 1, the response of Nagpurians marginally increased on Thursday, said a senior official from transport department. “More people will opt for the city bus service and subsequently the NMC will also increase the number of buses plying on city roads,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4654-commuters-hop-on-to-aapli-bus-on-day-1/articleshow/78940452.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 30, 2020||Ludhiana||School heads meet over PAS, say 5% improvement in participation this year||Ludhiana: Education department conducted a meeting with the 37 school heads — principals and head masters — who are nodal officers and district mentors regarding the result of revision test of Punjab Achievement Surveys (PAS) on Thursday at Malwa Khalsa Senior Secondary School in Model Gram. School heads discussed and analysed the block-wise results of PAS. District mentor for science, Jasvir Singh said, “There is improvement by 4% to 5% in participation as well as results in the recent revision test. In fact, there is improvement in individual subjects of most of the students.” According to sources, the department have now identified grey areas of learning outcomes and will accordingly distribute specific material in the district. They said many suggestions were given during meeting to improve the participation. DEO Secondary Swaranjeet Kaur said, “Every teacher should try for 100% participation by students. We are also preparing more material to develop comprehensibility of basic concepts of different subjects among students.” PAS will be conducted in all government schools from November 11 with an aim to strengthen the foundation and the understanding level as well as to enhance the reasoning ability of the students. The PAS will prepare students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS), to be conducted in November on the directions of the MHRD ministry. PAS will be based on parameters of the NAS and the learning outcome of students will be assessed on the basis of multiple-choice questions (MCQs) according to the prescribed syllabus of selective subjects, including English, science, math and social studies of different classes. Parents teachers meet on Nov 1 and 2 for the govt school students of classes 6-12 As an official feedback for the ongoing PAS in government schools, which is scheduled to be held on November 11, parents of the students in government schools of the district will be interacting with their teachers on November 2 and November 3. The exercise will be conducted online through video calls. Parents will also contacted over phone. An attempt is being made to include panchayat members, midday meals workers, anganwadi staff and school management committees. Official sources said parents with no access to internet or phone might be allowed to contact teachers directly, but following all government prescribed Covid-19 instructions. The exercise will involve approximately 10,311 teachers and parents of approximately 2,81,794 students in 1,526 government schools till Class XII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/school-heads-meet-over-pas-say-5-improvement-in-participation-this-year/articleshow/78935882.cms||Mehak Jain
October 30, 2020||Nashik||No hike in fare, MSRTC starts Diwali booking||Nashik: The state transport utility has started taking online reservations for seats on its buses to be operated from November 11 during the Diwali festival. In addition, the government has decided that there would not be any increase in the fare during the festive period. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) operates standard and air-conditioned buses connecting all parts of the state. According to a senior officer from Nashik, the MSRTC is currently running about 45% of its fleet. Since the number of passengers is picking up, the MSRTC plans to increase its operations from Monday. There are plans to take the operations to 60% of its pre Covid-19 levels. “Slowly, we are introducing the buses on intra-district, inter-district and interstate routes depending on the response from the passengers. We have opened the reservations for all the buses on all the routes that were functional in the month of March, before the lockdown was announced,” the senior MSRTC officer said.“Though reservations can be done online, the decision of running the buses would be taken depending upon the number of passengers. If a bus is cancelled, the passengers will be accommodated in the next bus,” the officer said.It may also be noted that the MSRTC has put off the festival hike in fairs this year due to covid-19 pandemic. State transport minister Anil Parab has declared that the MSRTC will not temporarily increase its fair during the festival this year – as has been done in the past — because of Covid-19 pandemic. “This might attract more passengers during the ongoing festival period,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-hike-in-fare-msrtc-starts-diwali-booking/articleshow/78938047.cms||Abhilash Botekar
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 cured, but many other complications follow||Nagpur: City neurosurgeons and psychiatrists have seen Parkinson’s like symptoms, weakening of eye nerve, chronic fatigue, haemorrhage, convulsions, myelitis (sensory loss in both legs), gullian barre syndrome and agitated behaviour in relatively younger people who were critical Covid patients in recent months. Doctors said the condition is called acute necrotizing encephalopathy involving several manifestations mainly because of lack of sufficient oxygen supply to brain when the patient turned Covid positive. The condition has been blamed on late reporting of Covid patients which had also caused many deaths in the city. Neurosurgeon Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram said such patients need prolonged post-recovery treatment and need to be careful. “Haemorrhage and stroke can be fatal for Covid patients. The death rate is high among those who are relatively in 50-55 age group, unlike 60 and above age bracket for such conditions. Also, the cause for stroke in patients without risk factors like BP, diabetes, obesity, is generally Covid,” said Dr Meshram. He said patients are also complaining myelitis (inflammation of the spinal cord), headache and prolonged fatigue. Neurologist Dr Nitin Chandak said headache, depression, facial palsy and gullian barre syndrome ((in which immune system attacks nerves) and fatigue are being seen quite commonly. “All types of people are reporting these problem. We give symptomatic treatment to them,” he said. GMCH pulmonologist Dr Sushant Meshram explains what neuro-physicians may be observing is micro-thromboembolism (obstruction of a blood vessel by a clot dislodged from another site). “If the vessels that supply blood to certain area of brain get thrombus (blood clot), the patient will have some complains. Depending on which vessel has been affected, organ related to that part will be affected. There could be various issues like fatigue, weakness, convulsions etc. It is not that it is only pulmonary, but since Covid primarily involves lungs, patients suffer from breathlessness, hypoxaemia etc too,” he said. He added that most of the patients suffer respiratory illness. “Many recovered patients develop fibrosis. We are seeing two types of patients. First is those who are negative after RT-PCR and maintaining normal blood oxygen level but still feel myligia (weakness). After two weeks to a month of discharge, they may not have fibrosis, but they do feel weakness. Another group of patients which comes to us has show hypoxia on walk test. This is because of stiffness in the lungs,” he said. Psychiatrist Dr Suleman Virani said he has been treating patients who suffered mild, moderate and severe phase of Covid infection. “Headache, body pain, exhaustion are common complains of Covid-recovered patients. They have persistent sense of weakness and loss of confidence. Anxiety and level of depression is intense among them. Many recovered patients say they are unable to regain their usual self like pre-Covid days. We have observed that Covid had an impact on brain and behaviour too,” he said. Dr Virani said usually anti-depressants are prescribed, but counselling is most important for them. “We review such patients every 10 to 12 days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-cured-but-many-other-complications-follow/articleshow/78940479.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
October 30, 2020||Trichy||Central univ students seek waiver of sem fee||Trichy: Students of Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruvarur, have demanded waiver of semester fee citing Covid-19 pandemic. While the university sticks to the regular fee structure like other central universities across the country, students have sought waiver of the fee collected towards laboratory, library and student’s welfare. The university issued a notification on October 11 asking students to pay semester fee. While November 10 was fixed as the last date, some of the students approached the vice-chancellor (officiating) R Karpaga Kumaravel through email seeking a fee waiver considering the pandemic. One of the students said that at present, all the students are at their homes and attending online classes conducted by teachers from their respective department. “While it is fair to collect tuition fee as we are attending classes online, we aren’t using laboratory or the library. But we have been asked to pay for it. Student welfare fee is also being charged as part of the semester fee,” said a student. Another student said that many of the families are economically affected by the pandemic. Since we have to spend money towards internet and gadgets for attending online classes, we urge the university to consider waiver of the additional service that we could not avail during the pandemic, said the student. Speaking to TOI, Karpaga Kumaravel said that the university has extended the last date for a month till November and allowed students to pay the semester fee in two installments. On the fee waiver, he said that he took up the grievances of students with the finance committee of the university and other statutory bodies. No university or government has announced a fee waiver, said the vice-chancellor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/central-univ-students-seek-waiver-of-sem-fee/articleshow/78942005.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Local physicians to be trained in Covid care||Kolkata: The state health department has roped in IMA doctors to train family physicians who will tend to Covid patients in home isolation so they can get hospital care without delay in case symptoms develop. The move is being made to prevent patients reaching hospital late, leading to mortality in many cases. The decision was taken after a meeting between health officials, including health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam, director of medical education Debasis Bhattacharyya and IMA representatives at Swasthya Bhawan. On Saturday, an event will be kicked off where IMA doctors will be trained how to teach the local doctors. “We expect to train around 1,000 local doctors in the first lot and expand it to 10,000 doctors across the state by November 9,” said Santanu Sen, secretary, IMA, West Bengal. “The idea is to reduce mortality and have a basic homogeneous protocol for treatment in home isolation,” said public health specialist Dwaipayan Mojumdar, joint secretary IMA Bengal. Another round of online meeting will be held on Thursday where IMA officials of Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly, civic bodies and health officials will decide the training modalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/local-physicians-to-be-trained-in-covid-care/articleshow/78940480.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists, ex-GHMC officer square off on Neknampur||HYDERABAD: Neknampur Lake has turned into a battlefield between activists and a former GHMC official after the latter allegedly attacked workers at the site. Both sides have said the other is encroaching the lake. The face-off began on Wednesday when a former GHMC officer objected to a plantation drive and a shed by the activists in the area. Activists allege she attacked and spat on workers and in fact she lived in a building which was encroaching the lake. The Golconda police was called and complaints were lodged by both parties. Golconda inspector Chandrasekhar Reddy confirmed that the incident took place. “An inquiry will be taken up into the complaints,” he said. But following the incident, a fight was taken online on Thursday. The former official did not respond yet to a request for comment. Madhulika Choudhary (@madhulikaS2), founder Dhruvansh, which has been working on the lake for years, tweeted: “GHMC officer (former) physically beating my workers at my lake. Is this behaviour of GHMC officers degrading @HarithaHaram & abusing. Expect officers to take action.” In response, GHMC zonal commissioner, Khairatabad, P Pravinya said, “Neknampur lake is public property... Action will be taken against Dhruvansh organisation for their unauthorized shed in buffer area of the lake and other unauthorised activities based on complaints received from local residents.” She further said the argument was between two persons in their private capacities and no GHMC official has been involved. On Thursday, officers from GHMC urban forestry wing descended on the site. “Today, we worked on cleaning the plantation area,” said deputy director Sreenivas, urban biodiversity wing. Madhulika, however said GHMC did not have jurisdiction because a small portion of the lake falls in GHMC limits and the rest under the Manikonda municipality. Several activists tweeted in response. Vasudeva Rao (@vasudevarao_v: “(You are ) seeing only a temporary shed meant fr maintenance of Lake as encroachment. Didn’t u find any permanent encroachments by real mafia in the FTL & garbage dumping.” Akshata (@Akshata94437599) said: “This is OUR Lake, OUR city and OUR country. Please don’t take away nature from us and our children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-ex-ghmc-officer-square-off-on-neknampur/articleshow/78940477.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD leaders to protest outside Ashu residence on November 4||LUDHIANA: Senior leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal conducted a meeting on Thursday, where they decided to stage a protest outside the residence of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on November 4 against illegal arrival of paddy crop from Bihar and UP. They alleged that a chat had gone viral between a commission agent and an officer regarding involvement of a Congress minister, following which a talk goes on how to distribute profit that would come after paddy crop from other states would be sold here. The Akali leaders condemned the recently passed Bill in the assembly by chief minister Amarinder Singh against three farm laws of the central government. They claimed that the state government just wanted to slow down the pace of protests by farmers, so they passed this Bill in the assembly. They claimed that BJP leaders were boasting about benefits of farm laws that farmers would get better rates for their crop and they could sell their crop anywhere, but on the contrary the private firms had started looting the farmers. The private companies purchased crop at Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,100 per quintal from UP and Bihar farmers and now this crop was being transported to Punjab for selling it at higher rates. Moreover, it is being done to mislead the central government about total paddy produce in Punjab. The Akali leaders claimed that they would raise voice against this ongoing scams and would hold a protest outside Ashu’s residence and people could participate in it. District president of SAD Ranjit Dhillon said, “The farm laws will finish the farming sector in the state and Congress had also done little to counter it. Moreover, in food supply department a lot of issues are going on which need to be tackled, so they will gather outside Ashu’s residence and protest there. On the other hand, Ashu said SAD was finding ways to prove that they were in favour of farmers, so they were levelling allegations against others, but by doing so they would not be able to prove anything.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-leaders-to-protest-outside-ashu-residence-on-nov-4/articleshow/78935902.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Women steal chain from devotee inside temple, nabbed||Madurai: Two women were arrested by the Thilagar Thidal police for stealing a gold chain from a woman devotee. The incident took place on the premises of the Sokkanathar temple in Simmakkal on Wednesday night. The accused were identified as D Savithiri, 65, and A Shanthi, 65, from Amaravathi Street near the district court in Nagapattinam. Police sources said the duo cut the chain weighing around four sovereigns from B Arumugam, 65, from North Masi Street using a cutter. As soon as the woman realised that her chain was stolen, she raised an alarm. Temple priests closed the gates and asked people there to search for the chain. Sensing danger, Savithiri and Shanthi handed over the chain to a girl and hand it over to the priests. When they saw that the chain was cut, they decided to alert the police. A team from the Thilagar Thidal station reached there and reviewed the CCTV footage which showed the two women stealing it. They were taken to station for further inquiry, Later, a case was registered against them and they were remanded in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/women-steal-chain-from-devotee-inside-temple-nabbed/articleshow/78942000.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana witnessed heaviest monsoon in a decade, says IMD||HYDERABAD: Authorities at the IMD on Thursday said with nearly 109 cm rainfall, 2020, has been the rainiest year for Telangana in the last decade, riding on nine low-pressure systems and a deep depression earlier this month. As per IMD, Hyderabad, the state received 46 percent excess rainfall this year from June 1 to September 30, 2020, the highest since 2011. Seasonal rainfall over Telangana during the period has been 1094 mm (109 cm) against a normal of 751.9 mm based on data from 1961-2000. After a timely onset of the monsoon on June 12, the monsoon activity picked up pace in August as heavy rainfall lashed the state. An important feature of the southwest monsoon season this year, was the month-to-month variation. Rainfall over Telangana during June, July, August and September were 30 per cent, 17 per cent, 79 per cent and 53 per cent of normal rainfall respectively. The heavy rainfall was triggered by a total nine low pressure systems formed over Bay of Bengal from June to September. “Out of these nine low pressure systems, five low pressure systems consecutively formed in the month of August which caused excess rainfall (79 percent of normal) over Telangana. Also, in two days i.e. August 15-16, a very high amount of rainfall with extremely heavy rain occurred over Telangana which caused flash floods in some parts,” stated a press release issued by the IMD, Hyderabad. The southwest monsoon withdrew completely from Telangana on October 28. Considering the rainfall from June 1 to October 28 , the state received a total 1262.7 mm rainfall against normal rainfall of 839.6 mm (150 percent of normal).“Rainfall over Telangana from October 1 to October 28 has been 168.4 mm against normal of 87.7 mm (92 per cent of normal),” read the press release. Considering the rainfall from June 1 to October 28, the state received a total 1262.7 mm rainfall against normal rainfall of 839 mm (150 per cent of normal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-witnessed-heaviest-monsoon-in-a-decade-says-imd/articleshow/78940487.cms||Preeti Biswas
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Traffic crawls for over an hour as 2,000 block DND||NEW DELHI: Chaos ensued at DND Flyway on Thursday afternoon after a group of around 2,000 people blocked both carriageways demanding justice for 22-year-old businessman Aman Baisla, who was found dead in his office last month. As a result, the speedway was closed to traffic for at least an hour. The call for the protest was reportedly widely circulated on social media and WhatsApp groups, urging people to reach DND and block the road. A group of people soon reached the flyway and the crowd swelled up within half an hour. Traffic police said that vehicles from Ashram Chowk were diverted on Ring Road towards Sarai Kale Khan and people travelling to east Delhi and Noida were asked to take Nizamuddin Bridge. Those going from Noida to Delhi were asked to take Mayur Vihar Pushta Road and cross the Yamuna via Nizamuddin Bridge. With the traffic stopped on DND Flyway, a heavy snarl was witnessed near Maharani Bagh and Ashram crossing. The traffic snarl stretched till at least 3km on Ring Road. Cops from other zones had to be roped in to maintain traffic movement as some people were seen turning their vehicles in the wrong direction and heading back to take other routes, which worsened the situation. To control the crowd, barricades were set up on the roads approaching DND. The crowd was pacified and dispersed by 4.10pm after which traffic movement became normal. Baisla’s family members, including his mother, were present at the protest site demanding justice for him. Almost everyone was seen sloganeering and carrying placards stating “Justice for Aman”. His body was found hanging inside his office in Rohini in September. Before killing himself, he had uploaded a video on social media claiming mental harassment by a Haryanvi singer and one of his female friends. Jitender Kasana, one of the protesters, said they were waiting for justice to be delivered. “We have been quiet all this while. Our community decided to get down on the roads to make our voices heard after police refused to take stringent action against the accused. Our boy landed in such a situation that he was forced to take his life. We demand justice at the earliest,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traffic-crawls-for-over-an-hour-as-2000-block-dnd/articleshow/78940482.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
October 30, 2020||Nashik||NMC to take action against traders||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has warned of action against those traders and manufacturers, who will make and utilise single-use plastic during the Diwali festival. The NMC administration is apprehensive that the use of single-use plastic is likely to increase during the festive season. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has also directed the officials to lodge police complaints against the offenders, apart from slapping fines on them. If one is caught for the first time, a fine of Rs 5,000 will be slapped and for the second time, Rs 10,000 will be fined. Police complaints will be lodged if one is found using banned plastics for the third time. During the last 12 months, NMC has slapped fines worth Rs 6.5 lakh to 127 traders for violation of plastic ban norms. The NMC will start a special drive to collect single-use plastic from households and six collection centres will soon be set up. NMC officials said , “We have been given instructions to collect plastics dumped on the roadside, in open spaces, rivers and nullahs in Nashik city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-take-action-against-traders/articleshow/78938070.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Minister says no to MC officials plea to stop probe for poor quality of road work||Ludhiana: With an inquiry against poor quality road work being initiated against MC officials, the SDO and JE of bridges and road department of the MC met cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and mentioned that the inquiry should be conducted when work was in progress. Claiming that the current inquiry had been initiated on the basis of a complaint by an RTI activist who ‘wanted to create’ pressure on the officials, they in the memorandum mentioned that the quality of roads could be checked only up to a certain time. And if three to four year old roads are to be checked the results might be inaccurate. They said if the ongoing works would be checked then the quality would show an improvement. Ashu, however, clarified that he would not ask MC commissioner to stop an inquiry and reiterated that there should be strictness, so that the quality of road works improve. He asked the SDO and JEs to explain if the works were done properly and if everything was in order then there was no need for them to be afraid of. Ashu said instead it should be the contractor who should be concerned about the inquiry and the quality of work, ‘but here surprisingly the staff was worried about the inquiry’. Ashu asked the commissioner to make zonal commissioners accountable for road works as well, so that there should be no compromise with quality. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said the last time he had asked the SDOs to remain present in field when patch work was to be carried out, but now when patch work started no one turned up. While stating that no compromise was to be made with regard to the quality, he mentioned that public’s hard earned money could not be wasted. Staff to remain in field for two hours a day MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said he was going to make it compulsory for the officials to remain in the field for two hours in a day for checking of ongoing works. There will be daily reporting of their field works. This is being done to ensure the quality of ongoing works. RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had complained against 13 roads in various areas for poor quality. Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh marked an inquiry and also demanded records from various officials about those roads, but despite reminders the officials did not send the record of these works, rather they approached the mayor and cabinet minister to save their skin. The civic body is spending large amount on the construction of roads but quality of road remains under scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/minister-says-no-to-mc-officials-plea-to-stop-probe-for-poor-quality-of-road-work/articleshow/78935896.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nashik||Rain hits crops in 3.8 lakh ha in Solapur & 2.3 lakh ha in Nashik||NASHIK: Heavy rainfall this monsoon has taken a toll on crops in several regions within the state. In Nashik district alone, crops sown in 2.3 lakh hectare have been damaged. Solapur district fared worse with damage to crops in 3.8 lakh hectare. In Kolhapur district, crops in about 6,300 hectare have been affected. According to Nashik district officials, crop damage was reported in July, August, September and October. However, September rainfall took the heaviest toll here. “Across the district, crops in 2.3 lakh hectare have been damaged and the compensation that may be required for the farmers has been worked out to Rs 273.6 crore,” a senior officer of the district administration said. The crops were damaged at various stages of growth — sowing, flowering and even after the crops had borne fruits. An officer from the agriculture department said the damage was least in July when crops were either in sowing or in nascent stages. The maximum damage was reported in September when heavy rain lashed the district several times. As many as 2,73,213 farmers were hit in 580 villages. The estimated loss stood at Rs 168.2 crore, the officer said. The damage to the crop in October was to the tune of Rs 35.7 crore and the area affected was 44,118 hectare. Again, 94,249 farmers in 739 villages were affected. The collective damage has been reported to the state government. The Nashik administration has taken into account above 33% damage to the crops as per the government’s decision. Worst hit were the farmers in the rainfed region and the crop most affected was paddy. “Crops in more than 1.6 lakh hectare were lost during the monsoon. Most of this region is in the tribal belt in the western part of Nashik district. The places include Igatpuri, Trimbakeshwar, Peth, Surgana, Dindori and Kalwan talukas. A joint report from the district administration along with the zilla parishad and agriculture department has been presented to the state government for its consideration on compensation. Solapur district also has completed the exercise to estimate the farmer compensation. District administration has sought Rs 4.8 crore from the state government for the purpose. Officials said the crops in around 3.8 lakh hectare were damaged. Horticulture crops on 67,000 hectare took a hit. Barshi was the worst-affected taluka, where crops on 68,000 hectare was damaged. In Akkalkot, crops on 43,000 hectare were lost. In Kolhapur district, crops in 6,300 hectare took a hit and 55,000 farmers were affected. Officials in the collector’s office said the agriculture department considered only the cases where more than 33% crop was affected. The possible compensation amount for farmers is still being worked out, however, it could be the tune of Rs 6 crore or more. Chandgad taluka was worst affected with crop on 2,382 hectare lost. Officials said 19,157 farmers are expected to get compensation from the state government. Panhala taluka was also badly affected where crops on 943 hectare was damaged. Around 23 hectare in Panhala suffered because of a cloudburst-like situation in the last stages of the monsoon. Around 7,513 farmers in Panhala qualify for the compensation. Bhudargad was relatively safe, with only 12 hectare being hit. Here too, 107 farmers may get compensation. In Kolhapur district, crops like sugar cane, soyabean, vegetables, paddy and groundnut felt the brunt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-hits-crops-in-3-8l-ha-in-solapur-2-3l-ha-in-nashik/articleshow/78938058.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: EPS, MK Stalin take same flight, Covid protocol keeps it incident-free||MADURAI/CHENNAI: When chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and leader of opposition M K Stalin were scheduled to take the same IndiGo flight from Chennai to Madurai on Thursday, there was an air of expectation on how things would pan out during the journey. Though political rivals, Stalin had recently made it a point to personally call on Palaniswami at his residence to condole the passing away the latter’s mother. Hence, while no one expected any political turbulence during the flight, there was curiosity over at least exchanging pleasantries. But the Covid protocol in place at the airport and inside the flight put to rest all expectations. “Thalaivar (Stalin) completed all formalities and got himself seated, much before the CM, who arrived just in time for the flight. Both were seated afar. With everyone forced to wear masks and face shield, one could hardly recognize anyone on the flight to even share a smile, let alone exchanging pleasantries,” said a source in the DMK who was also on the flight. On landing in Madurai, CM got off the aircraft first and Stalin a little later. “But we were the first to leave the airport and were taken out through a separate gate,” the DMK source said. CM Palaniswami and DMK president Stalin will be visiting Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district to garland Muthuramalinga Thevar statue on his Jayanthi on Friday. Hundreds of cadres from both the AIADMK and the DMK were waiting outside the Madurai airport and physical distancing norms were thrown to the wind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-stalin-arrive-in-madurai-on-same-flight-but-covid-norms-keep-them-apart/articleshow/78942004.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||All for fun, goons smash 16 cars, set one on fire in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Three goons, including one having criminal record, on a joyride after a birthday party, smashed the windscreens of at least 16 vehicles, and set one afire too, in East Nagpur in the early hours of Thursday. Two separate FIRs were filed at Ajni and Beltarodi police stations. Beltarodi police team under senior inspector Vijay Akot has managed to zero down up on the three, including one from Hinganghat in Wardha, where he had slipped away after sensing police were after him. Three goons on a joyride after a birthday party, smashed the windscreens of at least 16 vehicles, and set one afire… https://t.co/O1SAAaiyl8— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1604033953000Ritesh Dekate, Chirag Thulkar and Avish Taywade, all aged 18, had left a birthday party on a high and decided to have some fun while on their way back home. The three, travelling on a scooter, smashed windows of cars at Narendra Nagar, Borkute Layout, Ramkrushna Society, Rachnavatika Apartment, Manish Nagar and also Wardha Road. The three had also set a car belonging to Sameer Raut on fire. Raut, an employee of a private company, had left his car parked in front of his residence at Narendra Nagar. “I had no enmity or rivalry with anyone. The three set my car on fire at about 4.20am and fled within a couple of minutes as seen in a CCTV camera,” said Raut. The youngsters had also damaged a few cars at Lokhande Nagar and 85 Plot locality of Ajni. Senior inspector Akot said CCTV footage had clear faces of the three miscreants. “Based on human intelligence network, the identities of the three were established. Dekate had slipped away to Hinganghat, from where he has been nabbed,” said the inspector. Akot’s team comprising sub-inspector Vikas Manpiya, naik police constable Prashant Sonulkar, Nitin Bawane, Gopal Deshmukh, constables Avinash Thakre, Vijay Shribas and others worked hard to nab the three. Watch Nagpur: Goons smash several vehicles, set one on fire||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-for-fun-goons-smash-16-cars-set-one-afire/articleshow/78940493.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Fighting Covid-19 a challenge for those with chronic kidney disease||Madurai: Since March, as many as 50 Covid-19 patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have died in Madurai district alone. Even in healthy individuals who contract Covid, doctors say there is a risk of them developing acute kidney failure (AKF), and hence dealing with kidney ailments along with Covid-19 continues to be a challenge.Out of the total 417 Covid-19 deaths reported in Madurai district as on Wednesday, 50 (approximately 12%) had CKD. After diabetes (57%) and hypertension (42%), CKD is the most reported co-morbid condition in Covid-19 mortalities, along with coronary artery disease (11%). At Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) alone, as many as 302 Covid positive patients have so far undergone dialysis since the lockdown began and more than 900 sessions have been carried out.“In a Covid-19 patient who has been on dialysis for a long term, the kidney failure is already at the end stage and hence there is no possibility of further damage to the kidneys. Covid-19 causes maximum damage to the lungs. Post recovery too, they can develop respiratory issues which may be difficult to manage,” said Dr T Dhinakaran, chief nephrologist and director, Madurai Kidney Centre and Transplantation Research Institute. The doctor added that compared to the lockdown period, it is much safer now for patients to come for haemodialysis to hospitals. All patients will be screened on every visit and a Covid-19 test taken if there are symptoms.“However, a concern for dialysis patients who recovered from Covid-19 is that they have prolonged viral shedding. They can show RT-PCR positivity even after a month. In such case, we can check for antibodies. Mostly, these patients don’t have any symptoms and do not pose risk of spreading,” said Dr K Sampathkumar, senior consultant nephrologist and secretary, Nephrology Association of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry (NATPU). He said that Covid-19 patients with healthy kidney also risked developing AKF. “We are now finding a group of patients who develop vomiting and diarrhoea during Covid-19 developing AKF. Research shows this happens because kidney tubules do not get blood supply when having Covid-19. A short period of dialysis may be required for them until they show improvement,” he said. Doctors observed that not just those under haemodialysis, those undergoing Continuous Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) at home are also at high risk. “CAPD patients don’t make it to hospitals often, so while it may prevent infection due to travel, it also poses chance of neglecting early symptoms of Covid-19,” said Dr Dhinakaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fighting-covid-19-a-challenge-for-those-with-chronic-kidney-disease/articleshow/78942009.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
October 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Both MC and residents will benefit from payment of CLU charges’||Despite the storm around notices being served for recovery of change of land use (CLU) charges from commercial establishments, mayor Balkar Sandhu has termed this decision right and in favour of the civic body. He denied targeting any specific area and rather claimed that they had served the notices in old city areas as well. He said people were now coming forward to pay these charges. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation between him and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj over other issues concerning the MC. Q- Whether MC decision regarding CLU notices is serving any purpose? A- We have served CLU notices to those commercial establishments in the entire city which are being run without taking permission for change of land use. The MC will generate revenue but people will also get benefits as their commercial establishments will be regularised. Those who will pay the charges now will be benefited because every year there is a hike of 10%. People in most of the areas have understood and they are coming forward to clear their dues. Q- There are allegations that particular areas are being targeted by the MC after so many years whereas CLU charges should have been recovered at the time of construction? A- First of all, it is the duty of residents to pay all dues to the civic body when they are constructing any commercial or even residential building. In the past too, drives have been carried out to recover the outstanding dues because here people are habitual of making payments only when strict action is taken against them. As far as any particular area is concerned, there is no pick and choose policy as only two shops were sealed in Ghumar Mandi and other shopkeepers came on their own to pay. We are not pressuring anybody and now people are coming on their own to clear the dues. Q- The Shiromani Akali Dal and other party councillors are demanding a house meeting, so when you are going to hold the same? A- Earlier, there was a ban on meetings due to coronavirus cases and now there is little bit relaxation, but still we need to remain careful. I am planning to fix a meeting next month. Though meetings have nothing to do with development as already some projects are being inaugurated in various wards and work on some have already started, but for the satisfaction of councillors I will call a meeting shortly. There will be proper attention towards social distancing and other instructions of Covid-19 will also be taken care of. Q-- It is almost third year since you became the mayor of Ludhiana, have you planned anything for the city that can be considered as your achievement? A- Yes, I have now planned to select a few main roads of the city and get those reconstructed properly. I will keep separate funds totalling Rs 50 crore for these roads only. There will be a condition for the contractors to construct roads and also install the road infrastructure. The quality of material will matter the most and I will not let contractors make any compromise with the material to be used. The payment will be made only when conditions will be fulfilled. I have planned about main roads so that people should say that the mayor has done something for the city. Q- The festival season is around the corner, what are MC plans? A---- First of all, employees have been told to maintain cleanliness in the city during festival season and the garbage collecting company has been told to lift garbage from dumps at a fast pace so that the city should not look dirty. Apart from this, we are trying to complete a few projects under the smart city mission, which could be handed over to residents before Divali. Most importantly, Jagraon bridge has already been thrown open to traffic already. But I will appeal to residents to remain careful while celebrating the festivals as coronavirus has only been controlled in the city, it has not ended yet. People while visiting the markets or public places should take all precautions by wearing masks, sanitising their hands and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/both-mc-and-residents-will-benefit-from-payment-of-clu-charges/articleshow/78935920.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Shapoorji Group bags secretariat contract||HYDERABAD: Construction major Shapoorji Pallonji Group has won the bid to build Telangana’s new secretariat complex. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was keen to set the ball rolling for the new complex by demolishing the old secretariat. The state government asked the company to complete construction of the new secretariat within one year in an area of seven lakh square feet. Following perusal of technical and financial bids, Shapoorji Pallonji was chosen by the commissioner of tenders over L&T. Both companies were in the final bidders’ list. Shapoorji Pallonji quoted 4% excess of the tender cost of Rs 494 crore, while L&T quoted 4.8% excess. The roads and building department handed over the papers of the contract to Shapoorji Pallonji. Though several companies had shown interest in the bidding process being handled by the R&B department, bids were received from only L&T and Shapoorji Pallonji. The cost of the project is expected to be around Rs 600 crore . Government had to reschedule the tender process a couple of times because of the technicalities involved as well as floods in the GHMC area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shapoorji-group-bags-sectt-contract/articleshow/78940517.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi businessman’s kin seek ouster of DCP, investigating officer||NEW DELHI: The family of Aman Baisla, a 22-year-old businessman who allegedly killed himself in his office at Rohini in September, on Thursday demanded the resignation of the area DCP, ACP, SHO and investigating officer of the case. They alleged that police were in connivance with the accused and had even seen photos of some cops posing with them. Delhi Police, however, said that the case had been transferred to Crime Branch and all allegations would be looked into. Ram Niwas, Baisla’s father, told TOI, “He was my only son and wanted to do big in life. He started the business of providing amenities to hotels at the age of 19. In 2017, he met the woman who wanted to partner with him. He even bought her a car, which was registered in her mother’s name. After 5-6 months, she left and started working with one of the accused. When he asked for the car, he was threatened of being implicated in a false rape case. Despite his detailed statement on video, police have not arrested any of the accused.” The victim’s parents alleged that they were threatened by police, so they left their house in Rohini and moved to their village in Baghpat. “The accused are roaming freely. We will again stage a protest demanding justice. We need security for our family and the police commissioner needs to give us this assurance,” said Ram Niwas. In a statement, Delhi Police said the call for the protest at DND Flyway was given on social media with the hashtag #justiceforamanbaisla after which around 2,000 people gathered at the Delhi-UP border. Anil Mittal, additional PRO, Delhi Police, said, “The crowd later proceeded towards Delhi Police headquarters, but senior officers spoke to the family members and made them disperse peacefully. The case has been transferred to Crime Branch and is being investigated on priority. If there is any apprehension about a photo of some people with local police, it will be inquired into and necessary action taken on it. If there is an apprehension about security threat to any person, proper assessment will be done and security provided under the witness protection programme.” A preliminary probe showed that one of the accused and the woman’s father had invested Rs 5 lakh at 1% interest in Anam’s business in 2018. However, the woman opted out of the business in 2019 and started working with another friend. The problems started after that. Baisla’s family claimed that the woman had borrowed Rs 2.5 lakh from him 2-3 years ago, which was followed by another installment of Rs 5 lakh. She had allegedly asked him to pay Rs 10 lakh more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/businessmans-kin-seek-ouster-of-dcp-investigating-officer/articleshow/78940514.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||Vaginal construction done on 2 women in Madurai||Madurai: Vaginal construction surgeries were successfully performed by doctors at a private hospital in Madurai on two women who had underdeveloped vagina and hence were not able to attain puberty. After making full recovery, the two women can now experience menarche, the first menstrual period and would be able to lead a normal life and even have children. The two women had Mullerian agenesis or Mayer–Rokitansky–Kuster–Hauser syndrome (MRKH), a congenital abnormality resulting in a missing uterus and variable degrees of underdevelopment of vagina. “When a girl attains puberty, it is cause for big celebration in the family. However, one in 1,000 girls of reproductive age (beginning anywhere from 11 to 16 years) do not hit puberty on time. The reason could be a congenital defect known as vaginal agenesis, where girls may be born without a vagina or have the vaginal opening underdeveloped or blocked by layers of cells. This condition will have repercussions on fertility and sexual function. Only one in 5,000 girls are diagnosed with it,” said Dr S Padma, head of the department of gynaecology, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMRHC), Madurai. The vaginal construction surgery was performed on the girls by Dr Padma with the support of Dr Nancy Ann Cynthia Francis, senior consultant anaesthesiologist of the hospital recently. Dr Padma said the surgery was based on laparoscopic Davydov, a minimally invasive procedure. “It involved creating a new vagina (neovagina) - that is, a vaginal canal. The procedure uses existing genital tissues to line the new vaginal canal. The advantages of laparoscopic Davydov are short operation time and hospital stay. There will be no external scars,” she explained. The doctor further said that many girls suffering from MRKH syndrome often slip into depression, especially when it comes to marital life, and urged for more awareness of treatment being available. The procedure costs about Rs 60,000-70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vaginal-construction-done-on-2-women-in-madurai/articleshow/78942013.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Tunnel borer Urvi lifted out for overhaul||KOLKATA: Tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urvi has been disassembled 17m below the ground and is being lifted part by part for extensive overhauling ahead of its final assignment. Urvi, which had completed building East-West Metro’s eastbound tunnel on October 9, is perhaps the only tunnel borer that will be re-commissioned to finish the incomplete job of its sibling. The 2.5km between Esplanade and Sealdah station is the last leg of tunnelling for the East-West Metro project that will join Sector V with Howrah Maidan. A 7-km truncated Sector V-Phoolbagan section is currently operational. Urvi will start digging from East-West Metro’s Sealdah station around December-end after it is refurbished. Its twin, Chundi, digging the westward tunnel, hit an aquifer on August 31 last year. It now lay defunct on Durga Pithuri Lane off Bowbazar, where more than 20 houses had collapsed due to a subsidence. So, even after building the eastbound tunnel, Urvi must dig another 800m back to Durga Pituri Lane to complete the westbound tunnel. Even as the entire TBM is 75m long, the main operative part, comprising the cutter-head, the front body, middle body and the tailskin is only 9m. The rest backup gantry is inside the just-completed tunnel, to be joined later with the main TBM when digging starts all over again. Both the TBMs, by German manufacturers Herrenknecht, were commissioned by ITD ITD-Cementation that is building the twin underground tunnels between Esplanade and Sealdah. Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) is implementing the 16-km East-West Metro corridor. With the help of a crane, the cutterhead, which is equipped with disc cutters that gnaw into the soil during digging, has now been lifted out of the Sealdah Metro station box. On Thursday, ITD’s chief tunnel engineer Suvajit Besai and mechanical head Jyotirmoy Pramanik were inspecting the cutterhead at the Sealdah railway station site. The Metro station is coming up 17m below the railway station. Some tools of the cutter-head, which weighs around 60 tonnes, will be replaced in the next few weeks. Simultaneously, some of the TBM’s parts like the tailskin will also be brought out of the station box for refurbishment. Overhauling of the middle body may be done inside the station. But every machine part has to be lifted out and lowered again, assembled back, before the TBM is recommissioned. “There is no space inside the station to turn the machine around and get it repositioned to dig from the opposite direction,” said an engineer. The small station box has made the maneuvering difficult. “So it won’t be until December 20, before the TBM is assembled and can start digging,” said a KMRC engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tunnel-borer-urvi-lifted-out-for-overhaul/articleshow/78940495.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||HC orders probe against MSRDC chief engr||Nagpur: While quashing a road construction tender, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court ordered a probe into the conduct of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) chief engineer AB Gaikwad for ignoring favouritism in the process. “The enquiry shall be conducted by an officer not below secretary’s rank in the ministry of transport, national highway division. A report should be submitted in a month,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote ordered. The bench also passed several strictures on the conduct of Bajoriya Construction Company Private Limited (BCCPL) partner Sumit Bajoriya terming its “deplorable”. “It requires to be deprecated. It tends to criminality,” the bench stated. Bajoriya and his firm were in limelight in the alleged multi-crore irrigation scam in Jigaon and other projects. The stern directives came while delivering a verdict in a case filed by RK Chavan Infrastructure which challenged the rejection of its request letter for bagging the contract by PWD executive engineer in Yavatmal. The Pune-based firm also challenged rejection of its experience certificate by Gaikwad that was earlier accepted by MSRDC executive engineer in Pune. The petitioner through counsel MG Bhangde had further challenged rejection of its objection questioning eligibility of Bajoriya’s firm for bagging the tender. The government had invited tenders for improvement work of Chargaon-Shirpur-Kalmana to Chandrapur district border (Wanoja) road that was worth Rs47.56 crore on June 29, 2009. The petitioner along with a joint venture between BCCPL and Gughane Infrastructure also submitted their respective bids. Chavan’s firm submitted a work experience certificate issued by MSRDC’s executive engineer. After bids were open, the Bajoriya’s firm took objection over petitioner questioning its eligibility and raising doubts over its experience certificates. However, the tender evaluation committee (TEC) rejected BCCPL’s objections. When the bids were opened on August 1 last year, Bajoriya allegedly created ruckus and walked away with tender documents. On August 22, petitioner received a PWD letter informing it that its experience letter was cancelled on Gaikwad’s recommendations. Subsequently, the firm’s bid declared as ineligible and tender was awarded to Bajoriya’s firm, which it challenged in HC. “The entire conspectus of facts smacks not only of malafides, but also of favouritism, indulgence, interference, which compels us to hold that the entire tender process is vitiated. We quash the entire tender process and direct respondents to recommence it, with a word of caution, that no authority, whomsoever, should permit or tolerate any interference from anyone of any nature. The eligibility/qualifying criteria should be scrupulously adhered to, in all aspects,” the judges stated. Questioning Gaikwad’s conduct, they said he was aware of the petitioner's satisfactory completion of work, still he played into BCCPL’s hands for reasons unsaid. On Bajoriya’s conduct, the judges said one fails to understand why appropriate proceedings under the IPC weren’t initiated by him. “Failure to do so clearly amounts to a dereliction of duty on PWD’s part, as such activities can’t be permitted to be tolerated. It would not only undermine the entire process, but would also indicate that unscrupulous elements could get away with anything,” they tersely stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-orders-probe-against-msrdc-chief-engr/articleshow/78940511.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 30, 2020||Trichy||Excess use of urea harmful to crop, farmers told||Trichy: Agriculture officials have cautioned farmers against using urea excessively on crops as it causes adverse effect on soil, crop quality and overall eco-system besides leading to pest and insect attacks. The high activity of ureolytic bacteria increases the amount of ammonia in the soil via fast urea degradation. As a result, plants are damaged due to lack of necessary nutrients and the toxicity of ammonia and carbon dioxide released from urea degradation, they said. With samba paddy cultivation under way in delta districts, farmers had complained about urea shortage following increased demand. They also said they were asked to buy complex and other fertilizers unnecessarily and some shopkeepers fixed high prices also for urea. Subsequently, district collectors had warned private fertilizer agencies of stern action if found hoarding and fixing excessive price. Joint director of agriculture in Thanjavur A Justin said, “About 22 kg urea is enough for an acre, which should be applied once in 15 or 20 days. It should be used along with other Complex fertilizers. If farmers use it judiciously, the input cost will also come down besides getting healthy crop”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/excess-use-of-urea-harmful-to-crop-farmers-told/articleshow/78942012.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Madurai||‘Only 20% stroke patients come for early treatment’||Madurai: Doctors have urged for more awareness among the public about stroke and the importance of early identification since only 20% of patients come for treatment early within the crucial time of four-and-a-half hours.They said this at the World Stroke Day, observed at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Madurai on Thursday with an awareness and continuous medical education (CME) programme.GRH dean Dr J Sangumani addressed a gathering and spoke on mortality and morbidity of stroke.Dr P K Murugan, head of the department of neurology, said effects of stroke, when identified and treated within the first four-and-a-half hours, can be fully reversed.The symptoms of stroke include weakness in face, arm or leg, especially on one side, confusion or trouble understanding other people, difficulty in speaking, unable to maintain balance, dizziness and severe headache.“Thrombolysis can be given for patients when stroke is identified early to ensure complete recovery. Misconception that stroke cannot be treated must be avoided,” the neurologist added.“Covid-19 patients are more prone to developing stroke even after recovery. Diabetes and hypertension are all risk factors for stroke and hence maintaining blood sugar levels and blood pressure by taking medications is important,” said Murugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/only-20-stroke-patients-come-for-early-treatment/articleshow/78942017.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||6,000 families in Secunderabad live in fear as lake retaining walls crack||SECUNDERABAD: Life has not bounced back to normal after the rains for several residents in Secunderabad. The broken retaining wall of nalas through which water from Ramannakunta Lake in Bowenpally and Hasmathpet Lake in Secunderabad have been gushing out are yet to be repaired. The retaining walls were damaged after the recent floods. Around 6,000 families living near these lakes and their water channels fear inundation in case there is a downpour. Sail Colony, Progressive Colony, Royal Encvalve, Laxmi Nagar and SBI Colony in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SBC) will be the most affected in case of downpour as the retaining walls of nalas run along these residential colonies. Board members rued that due to fund crunch, the retaining walls are not being repaired. “GHMC officials said that they can’t repair the nalas as they don’t fall in their jurisdiction and SCB officials informed us that there is a fund crunch and nala works can’t commence. Where should the residents go in case of heavy rain?” said K Pandu Yadav SCB board member (ward number 6). A resident of Sail Colony said that the extent of damage will be more compared to the recent floods in case there is a dowmpour as the walls of the nalas are broken. “Recent floods wreaked havoc. Goods worth around 4 lakh have been damaged in my house. If the retaining walls collapse, the damage will be much more,” said David Skinner from Sail Colony. “I urge the authorities to repair the houses in our locality that have been damaged due to the floods,” he added. According to SCB officials measures to repair the damaged infrastructure will be taken up. “The damaged retaining walls will be built,” said SCB chief executive officer B Ajith Reddy. Uma Shanker, SCB ward engineer of ward number 6 said that proposals are being prepared to repair the damaged infrastructure. “We are aware about the damaged retaining walls of nalas as on date proposals are being drafted to take up repair works,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6k-families-live-in-fear-as-lake-retaining-walls-crack/articleshow/78940504.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 recovery up, but death rate also rises in Vid||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported yet another day on which the number of new Covid-19 cases was less than the number of patients recovering from the infection. Also, with 33 deaths reported on Thursday, and several more added into the tally after reconciliation in Yavatmal, the total fatalities in the region reached 5,190. This means, 2.73% of the total Covid-19 patients reported till date died in Vidarbha. The case fatality rate is more than national average of 1.49% and also than the state average of 2.62%. While death rate is reducing across the country, it’s increasing gradually in Vidarbha, which is a major cause for concern. Highest 13 deaths came from Nagpur followed by four in Bhandara, three in Buldhana, and two each in Gadchiroli, Akola, Washim, Yavatmal, and Wardha. Amravati reported one Covid death while Chandrapur was the only district where death due to Covid-19 was not reported on Thursday. Thursday also reported 1,168 new cases, and 1,484 recoveries. Now, out of 1.89 lakh cases reported till date, 1.71 lakh have recovered. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 90.31% which is nearly equal to the national average of 90.99%. Maharashtra state’s recovery rate is still below 90% mark. Thursday’s new cases came from Nagpur 324, Bhandara 83, Wardha 30, Gondia 95, Chandrapur 161, Gadchiroli 118, Akola 24, Amravati 70, Yavatmal 55, Buldhana 129, and Washim 29. Recoveries came from Nagpur 508, Bhandara 92, Wardha 68, Gondia 74, Chandrapur 148, Gadchiroli 237, Akola 93, Amravati 89, Yavatmal 71, Buldhana 78, and Washim 26. Now, 13,199 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha which is less than 7% of the total cases reported till date. However, administration is still not taking any chances by reducing Covid-19 beds or facilities in view of the possibility of a second wave of cases post-festive season. Nine out of 11 districts in Vidarbha have active cases (patients under treatment) in three figures (less than 1,000) now. Only Nagpur and Chandrapur have patients more than 1,000 under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 Covid casualties on Thursday of which a 70-year-old woman is from the city and 65-year-old man from Ner tehsil. Of the 380 test reports received on Thursday, 55 were Covid positive.Now, 364 patients, including 127 in home isolation, are under treatment. As on date, 10,088 patients have been found in the district of whom 8,993 have recovered. Amravati: The count of recoveries crossed 15,000-mark in the district with 89 getting discharge on Thursday. The recoveries reached 15,081 for a rate of 93.09% today. The district also posted 70 new Covid cases that took the caseload to 16,200. With one Covid death, the district’s toll reached 363, leaving 756 under treatment. Chandrapur: With no death and 148 recoveries in a day, Thursday turned out to be a breather for health department. Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar further strengthened the Covid facility by adding 38 new ambulances to the health department’s fleet. These new ambulances have been procured from mining royalty fund. Chandrapur now has second largest fleet of ambulances in the state after Pune. Meanwhile, 161 new Covid cases were detected during the day taking the caseload to 15,438. Total recoveries have grown over to 12,347, leaving 2,864 patients under treatment. The district’s Covid toll stands at 227. Buldhana: Three deaths, all senior citizen above 75 years of age, took total Covid-19 toll of Buldhana to 125. Record 1,200-plus samples were tested in the district on Thursday and 129 of them tested positive. This took total Covid-19 cases to 9,303. With 78 patients recovering in a day, total reached 8,547. Now, 631 patients are under treatment. Akola: Out of 250-plus tests conducted on Thursday, 24 tested positive taking total caseload of Akola to 8,344. Two deaths — both women of 68 and 73 years of age took the toll to 278. With 93 patients discharged in a day, 7,771 patients have recovered till date. Akola once again became a district having lowest number of Covid-19 patients under treatment. Here, 295 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district saw 29 new Covid patients, 26 recoveries and two deaths on Thursday. Now, with 5,676 total cases, 5,073 have recovered, and 139 deaths. Total 463 are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Cases are increasing daily in the district and deaths too. On Thursday, 118 new cases and two deaths were reported. This took the Covid caseload to 5,651 and toll to 57. Gadchiroli’s case fatality rate reached 1%, which is lowest in the state. But, it used to be under 1% for most of the time during the pandemic. Both deceased were senior citizens above 70 years of age. Now, Gadchiroli has 885 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 95 new Covid cases, 74 recoveries and two deaths on Thursday. Now, the district has 9,634 total cases, 8,664 recoveries and 125 deaths. As on Thursday, 845 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported four deaths due to Covid-19 in a day taking the toll to 213. The district also reported 83 new cases, 92 recoveries. Total 872 patients are under treatment here. Wardha: A 43 year-old woman from Deoli and a 72-year-old woman from Hinganghat died due during treatment on Thursday. 30 new cases were registered while 68 were discharged. The total number of coronavirus cases in district reached 6,230 and 400 are under treatment. 5,623 have recovered in district so far. District has recorded 207 deaths due to coronavirus till date. 827 test reports were received while 30 (15 men and 15 women) tested positive from Wardha (18), Deoli and Hinganghat (4 each), Arvi (2), Selu and Karanja (1 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-recovery-up-but-death-rate-also-rises-in-vid/articleshow/78940522.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra govt to invest over Rs 17,000 crore on health infrastructure across state||VIJAYAWADA: The state government would spend Rs 17,300 crore to revamp existing government hospitals and to establish 16 new medical colleges under the Nadu-Nedu initiative. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held the review meeting on Nadu-Nedu in hospitals on Thursday, directed officials to finalise the tenders for new medical colleges by January. The chief minister sought details on establishment of new medical colleges, development of village clinics, primary healthcare centres, community health centres, area hospitals and district-level hospitals under Nadu-Nedu initiative. Reiterating that all the hospitals in the state should have better medical facilities, the chief minister said that there will be no compromise on the quality of infrastructure or the services being provided in the hospitals. He said that there shouldn’t be any complaint on sanitation or other facilities from people. The CM instructed authorities to study the best practices in the construction of hospitals and implement them in the state. In addition to these, Jagan also stressed on following environment-friendly initiatives and setting up green buildings. He directed the authorities to immediately release Rs 5,472 crore for revamping the existing hospitals under the Nadu-Nedu programme. Discussing the Aarogyasri referral programme, the chief minister stated that village/ward secretariats will be acting as referral centres on a temporary basis, until the establishment of YSR Health Clinics. The list of empanelled hospitals has to be displayed at all secretariats and health assistant or ANM will be guiding patients in receiving treatment from the best hospital. As the Aarogyasri programme will be made available to the remaining six districts from November 13, the chief minister directed the authorities to add any treatment or procedures to the list if necessary. Health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, other officials were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-invest-over-rs-17k-crore-on-health-infra-across-state/articleshow/78938391.cms||Gopi Dara
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,500 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1504 new Covid-19 positive cases and five deaths as testing continued to remain over 40,000 mark for the last three days.  With the latest count, the Covid-19 caseload in the state stands at 2,35,656 and the death toll has risen to 1324.  Altogether, 2,16,353 patients have recovered from the coronavirus. There are 17,979 active cases in the state currently. The case fatality rate which is the measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus as compared to the number of patients getting infected has dropped to 0.56 percent now. The recovery rate has further improved to 92 percent. On Thursday, a total of 41,962 samples were tested for Covid-19, taking the total count of samples tested so far in the state to 42 lakh, also raising the number of samples tested per million population to 1,12,760, which is among the higher side in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-1500-new-infections/articleshow/78940523.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||HC: Conscious possession not only about having drugs on person||Bengaluru: The word ‘conscious’ is related to the mental state of a person and his knowledge about something and doesn’t take the attributes of physical possession alone, the high court has noted. The court made this observation while dismissing the contention of three accused in a case registered under NDPS Act that no contraband was recovered from their “conscious possession” as nothing was found on their person. “If a bag containing contraband is found in the house of the accused, it goes without saying that the first impression of an ordinary prudent man is that it belongs to the accused and he must be aware of its contents,” Justice Srinivas Harish Kumar observed, while rejecting the bail petitions of Tasleem NP alias Muhammed Thaslim NP and Haseeb KV from Kannur and Rasique Ali P from Kozhikode. The judge further pointed out that if the accused takes a stand that he was not aware of the contents, the burden to establish it is on him/her. The judge noted since the informant had only suspected possession of drugs, police can’t be expected to register a case without ascertaining the truth, and that the seizure panchnama discloses the petitioners and other accused possessed contraband for the purpose of selling it. Following a raid on June 11, 2020, drugs including ganja were seized from the residence of the accused in Vinayaka Layout, behind Maruti Dental College, Hulimavu. They were arrested and booked under sections 20(b), 8(c), 22(b), 22(c) of NDPS Act. Police claimed the accused possessed narcotic substances such as ganja, MDMA tablets and LSD strips and were about to sell them. However, the accused claimed the seizure itself was vitiated. They claimed the police officer did not register an FIR soon after receiving the credible information and proceeded to the spot to conduct search. In addition to claiming that police did not seize any contraband substance from their ‘conscious’ possession, the accused also maintained that the qualitative and quantitative report from FSL was yet to be obtained, as standing instructions issued in 1988 mandate such a report must be obtained within 15 days from the date of sending the drug to the laboratory. However, police claimed the contraband was found inside the house and therefore the burden is on the accused to prove that they were not aware of the bag’s contents. The court was told that the police officer followed every procedure and the seized substance was sent to FSL within time and the Covid-19 situation had delayed the results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-conscious-possession-not-only-about-having-drugs-on-person/articleshow/78938944.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Government school enrolment rises in rural Karnataka: Report||BENGALURU: Karnataka has seen a substantial increase in children joining government schools in the past two years, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (Rural) 2020 (Wave 1) released on Wednesday. The number of boys enrolling in rural Karnataka government schools in class 1 increased 15% to reach 74% this year. For girls, the number rose to 73% (7% increase). The overall spike across all classes was from 66.2% to 71.6%. The trend is visible nationally. According to the report, government schools have seen a 3% increase in girls and 4% in boys. It attributes financial distress in households and permanent shutdowns among private schools for the shift nationally. Experts say the increase could have happened after the government started the enrolment drive through teachers and also due to Vidyagama, the outreach programme. Conducted at a time when schools have not yet reopened and are reaching out to children virtually, the survey explores the provision of and access to remote education mechanisms and materials in rural parts of the country. Karnataka is among the top five states when it comes to teachers reaching out to children during the pandemic. Around 61% government school children and 56% of their counterparts in private institutions had their teachers calling or visiting them. Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Kerala are the other states with good teacher connect. Around 55% of the parents/students contacted the teachers. Around 28% students in Karnataka had three or more activities in the reference week; 33% had two and 20% had one. Around 18% students had no activity. Traditional modes of textbooks (69%) and worksheets (49%) are the main learning resources students in Karnataka used. Around 26% students used TV. Recorded classes reached 29%-40% private school students and 26% government school students. Online classes were used only by 10% government school children and 24% private school children. Interestingly, 94% of Karnataka’s government school children have textbooks as opposed to 76% of their counterparts in private schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-school-enrolment-rises-in-rural-ktaka-report/articleshow/78939939.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 30, 2020||Surat||Textile trader refreshes ayurvedic knowledge to counsel Covid patients||SURAT: He is one among the successful textile traders operating at the country’s largest man-made wholesale market at Ring Road. But, few of his qualities separates him from the rest. He is popular in his close circles as the ‘Corona counsellor’ and an ayurvedic practitioner who counsels and prescribes ayurvedic treatment to those under home isolation due to Covid-19 infection. Meet Lalit Sharma, 42, a textile trader operating from a small shop at Japan Textile Market on Ring Road. He is also an ayurvedic doctor, counsellor and astrologer as well. In the last one-and-half-month, Sharma has counselled and treated over 350 Covid-19 patients with his ayurvedic practices, and that too, free of cost. Taking out time from his busy schedule, Sharma was giving voluntary service as ayurvedic doctor and counsellor at the Maharaja Agrasen Isolation Care Centre set-up by the Maharaja Agrasen Bhavan in the City Light area. However, when the isolation centre closed in September, Sharma started getting calls from the family members of the patients testing positive, with a request for counselling and ayurvedic treatment. “It gives me immense joy and privilege to serve Covid-19 patients in home isolation. Since they (patients) hear about so many deaths and big personalities succumbing to the deadly infection, they become vulnerable mentally. I counsel them and help create positive energy among them with ayurvedic treatment,” said Sharma. “I have the knowledge of ayurveda gifted by my grandfather and I am using it for the benefit of other people,” added Sharma, a native of Tal Chhapar in Churu district of Rajasthan. Heer Wadhvani, a homemaker from Vesu said, “I was depressed after I tested positive of Covid-19. Thanks to Sharmaji, who took counselled me for six days. His treatment and counselling helped me recover faster.” Sharma visit the infected patient only once and spends about one hour for counselling and prescribing ayurvedic treatment. The rest of the follow-ups is done on phone. “Till now, I have treated 100 patients in home isolation. My patient recovers in a maximum of six to seven days, provided he or she follows my instructions,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-trader-refreshes-ayurvedic-knowledge-to-counsel-covid-patients/articleshow/78940717.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru City Corporation launches property tax collection drive||MYSURU: Kannegowdana Koppalu residents were caught unaware on Thursday when officials of Mysuru City Corporation landed on their doorsteps to check receipts for the property tax paid by them as part of a week-long special drive to verify records and collect dues from defaulters. KG Koppal is famous for its dairy farming, kusti pailwans and political activities. However, according to officials, the ward also has the highest number of property tax defaulters. In order to collect the huge pending tax from defaulters, the entire staff from the zonal office of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to stay put in the locality for an entire week. As part of the drive, in a first, officers from several departments of the zonal office will camp at a ward for an entire week to collect the long pending property tax from the defaulters. The authorities, during the programme, will also address the problems regarding Khata transfer, uploading property details online and others. MCC officials claimed that the property tax collection drive will be launched from November 4 and will be carried out for a week. The authorities have already held meetings with the leaders and residents to create awareness on tax payment. The area is dominated by the Vokkaliga community represented by BJP leader L Nagendra. KG Koppal (ward 42) corporator M Shivakumar told TOI that the ward has earned a bad reputation of having highest property tax defaulters in the city. “I am trying to get rid of the bad name. People failed to pay the tax here due to the negligence of officers. Officials delay transferring Khata or make people stand for hours in queue to pay the tax. Around 1,600 houses have pending tax amount of around Rs 12 crore in the ward,” he said. Shivakumar said the defaulters who have huge pending amounts will be given permission to complete the payment in three installments. The entire zone 3 office staff will stay put in Siddapajji Temple in the ward for tax collection, he added. “If the resident does not pay the pending tax amount, we will start disconnecting the services. The MCC has already collected Rs 80 crore till date from 65 wards, and is expected to reach the target,” said MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-corporation-launches-property-tax-collection-drive/articleshow/78938838.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: ‘BRTS corridor not for morning walks’||HUBBALLI: The Hubballi-Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit Systsm (HDBRTS) corridor is becoming a hotspot for morning walkers and joggers, posing a serious threat to safety. Since BRTS buses and emergency vehicles ply at high speed at the corridor in the morning hours, the new development may cause accidents, say authorities. “Since the morning hours are foggy, drivers may not notice people in the corridor due to poor visibility. Hence morning walkers and joggers should not use the dedicated lane meant for BRTS buses for morning walk,” said North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation, Hubballi city division controller, Vivekanand Vishwajnya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/brts-corridor-not-for-morning-walks/articleshow/78938158.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Korean delegation meets CM, shows interest to invest in AP||VIJAYAWADA: Representatives of leading South Korean steel manufacturer Posco called on chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at his Tadepalli camp office on Thursday and expressed their willingness to invest in the state. The chief minister said the industrial policy of the state is transparent and encourages investors for industrial development. The natural resources in the state will help industries and also help in industrial development in the state, he added. Jagan also explained to them the new industrial policy of the government where all permissions are routed through a single window. He also explained in detail the range of subsidies provided and assistance extended by the government to new industries coming to the state. He welcomed the South Korean steel major to invest in AP and offered round-the-clock support to the company by industries department. Posco India chairman and managing director Sung-Lae Chun, chief financing officer Goo Young An, senior general manager Jung Le Park and other officers were part of the delegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/korean-delegation-meets-cm-shows-interest-to-invest-in-ap/articleshow/78938419.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Rajkot||School principal held for molesting girl student in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A government primary school principal was arrested on Thursday for allegedly molesting a 10-year-old girl student in Pachdevada village of Kalavad taluka in Jamnagar district. Police said the accused, Babu Sanghani (56), had allegedly called the girl to the school under the pretext of teaching her how to take online lessons on October 26. “Sanghani allegedly touched the girl inappropriately, which she narrated to her parents after reaching home. The girl’s father complained to taluka education officer, who told him to lodge a police complaint. “Based on the complaint filed by the girl’s father we arrested Sanghani,” said H R Patel, sub-inspector with Kalavad taluka police station. The girl is daughter of a farmer and is student in Class V. Though the incident could have triggered a widespread protest among the parents, no such crimes were reported earlier from the school. The police said that Sanghani had no criminal record and that it was the first such complaint he was facing. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/school-principal-held-for-molesting-10-year-old-girl-student/articleshow/78941093.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Amaravati||AP govt against Centre’s Godavari-Kaveri linking proposal||AMARAVATI: The Andhra Pradesh government is gearing up to raise a strong objection to Godavari-Kaveri linking proposals being mooted by the Centre. The government said that diversion of Godavari water to other states will be a damaging blow to AP which is a tail-end state of the Godavari project. A draft proposal has been readied by the irrigation department for a presentation before the National Water Development Agency (NWDA) under the Union Jal Shakti ministry. While the NWDA had proposed a virtual conference for Thursday, it could not go ahead as Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawath was not available. The state government plant to present its objections at the next meeting as the NWDA is proposing diversion of at least 247 tmc of water from Godavari to Krishna to Pennar to Palaar and link it with Kaveri. After excluding 20 tmc from anticipated evaporation losses, the NWDA wants to give 90 tmc to Tamil Nadu and share the remaining 137 tmc between AP and Telangana. NWDA has also prepared a draft detailed project report (DPR) and circulated it among stakeholders, including the Telugu states. While around 2,500 tmc water is considered to be flowing into the sea from Dowleswaram (Godavari) barrage during flood season, AP officials said that surplus flows were not consistent every year. Citing recent studies carried out by Wapcos, officials said not more than 1,430 tmc was available at a dependability rate of 75%. Since the ongoing irrigation projects in AP would require 776 tmc, the remaining 650 tmc would be sufficient for Telangana. “In fact, upper catchment states such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha were tapping more water than the respective allocations and construction of new projects in those states would leave Godavari without surplus waters,” said a senior official from the irrigation depatment. He said the upper-states were also planning to construct new projects which could be a hindrance to the interests of tail-end states. The official pointed out that Godavari river had just around 1,000 tmc water during 2009-10 which is well below the actual requirement of AP and Telangana. AP expressed its fears that Maharashtra and Karnataka were planning to construct new projects in a big way due to Krishna river going dry in at least four of every six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-govt-against-centres-godavari-kaveri-linking-proposal/articleshow/78938346.cms||Samdani MN
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||IPC cases: When fast track courts in Karnataka were slower than others||BENGALURU: The adage ‘justice delayed is justice denied’ has often been used to reiterate the need for speedy courts. Yet, our courts, including fast track ones, continue to function at a slow pace, which adds to the growing concern of activists and legal practitioners. Latest data from the Karnataka government backs this. Analysis of the time taken for trial completion in IPC cases shows around 60% of the cases in which trial was over in 2019 were from other years. In fast track and special courts, the figure was around 80%. Of the 94,586 IPC cases in which trial was completed in 2019, 55,617 were from previous years. While most of them were 1-3 years old, nearly 1% were more than 10 years old. A quarter of them were at least three years old and nearly 6,000 between five and 10 years old. Of the 38,969 cases wherein trial was completed the same year, in 3,050 it was done in less than a month, while in 19,641, it took six to 12 months. These cases are spread across courts that include district sessions judge, additional sessions judge, fast track, sub-judge, judicial magistrate, SC/ST court, Pocso court, special judicial magistrate and other lower courts. Lawyer Uday Holla said: “One way to address the issue is by increasing the number of judges, which has not been happening. The person against whom the case is would like to delay it as much as possible. This needs to be taken cognizance of. Also, courts must take perjury seriously. (Bill) Clinton was not punished because of his relationship, he was because he lied under oath.” While 41% of the total trials completed in 2019 involved cases from the same year, in fast track courts it wasn’t so. Of the 265 trials completed, more than 80% cases were from previous years. Similarly, in SC/ST and Pocso courts, 80% and 78% cases, respectively, were from the previous years. Together, these three categories of courts completed trials in 2,128 cases, of which 21% or 447 were from the same year. And most of them took more than three months. Lawyer KV Dhananjay said: “Other than the nomenclature, there is nothing special or speedy about these courts as they follow the exact same procedure. If anything, giving such names to these courts makes it almost okay for other courts to go slow. There needs to be a certain attitude that our courts need for speedy trials. It’s not that some law is missing and that is why there’s a delay. One must also revisit existing laws to see what type of cases must go to courts in the first place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ipc-cases-when-fast-track-courts-in-state-were-slower-than-others/articleshow/78939950.cms||Chethan Kumar
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Coronavirus has increased stroke cases by 15%, say Hyderabad doctors||HYDERABAD: In the last last two months, city hospitals in Hyderabad have witnessed a 15 percent jump in stroke cases per month, as patients stayed away from hospitals fearing the Covid-19 pandemic. Many of the stroke cases have landed in government and private hospitals, in an emergency situation. “Apart from avoiding hospital care in the initial stages, there are many who are landing up at small nursing homes which are not fully equipped to handle such cases. As a result the medical attention required is not being received in a timely manner which is pushing up morbidity,” said Dr Rajesh Reddy, consultant neurologist, Medicover Hospitals. Experts also say that the novel coronavirus infection has led to an increase in strokes. “The cases of both heart attack and brain stroke has increased by 10-15 percent in general. Around 15 percent of the stroke patients, who are coming to us, are turning out to be Covid-19 positive. So we believe Covid-19 has increased stroke cases,” said Dr Rukmini Mridula, associate professor of Neurology, Nizams Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). ‘Stroke’ is a medical emergency caused when the blood supply to part of the brain is interrupted or reduced, preventing brain tissue from getting oxygen and nutrients. It occurs mostly among people aged over 65 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/coronavirus-has-increased-stroke-cases-by-15-say-docs/articleshow/78940520.cms||Amrita Didyala
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Domestic flyers count touches 25,000 at Hyderabad's RGIA||HYDERABAD: Five months after it resumed operations on May 25, post lockdown, the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) is on a steady path to recovery. From just about 3,000 daily passengers in the first few weeks, the domestic passenger footfall has increased to over 25,000 per day now. In fact, between May 25 and September 30, the RGIA handled over 1.2 million domestic passengers, show data released by the authorities. “Hyderabad has also seen uptick in the air traffic movement (ATM) from about 40 daily ATMs in the first few weeks of the restart, to over five times growth having handled more than 230 domestic flights daily in September 2020,” the official report stated. Further, apart from regaining 52 of its 55 domestic destinations that were operational during the pre-Covid period, RGIA also added a new destination - Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh – in September taking the total number to 53. However, the metro cities of Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Mumbai continue to be the top five destinations even now. In the international sector too, RGIA has handled multiple flights, March onwards, permitted under the Vande Bharat Mission and the Air Transport Bubble agreements. Under the latter, the city is now connected with the UK, UAE (Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah), Qatar and Bahrain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/domestic-flyers-count-touches-25k-at-rgia/articleshow/78940567.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Rise above politics, focus on fiscal management: Manish Sisodia to mayors||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has said that “the financial mess in the three municipal corporations is of their own making and a result of epidemic corruption”. In a letter written to the mayors of north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations on Thursday, Sisodia advised them to rise above politics and focus on financial mismanagement and demand Rs 12,000 from the central government. The three mayors had earlier protested in front of CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence claiming that a large amount of funds was yet to be released by Delhi government to the corporations. In the official letter, Sisodia stated that not only had Delhi government paid all the funds due to the municipal corporations, it had also paid over and above this amount resulting in a huge outstanding loan. As on April 1, 2020, a total of Rs 6,008 crore loan was outstanding over the three municipal corporations, according to records of the urban development department. It includes Rs 1,977 crore outstanding from EDMC, Rs 3,243 crore from North DMC and Rs 788 crore from SDMC, Sisodia stated in the letter adding that the recent CAG report on state finances of Delhi had noted that a large amount of unpaid loans to the extent of Rs 3,814.8 crore was due from the three municipal corporations to Delhi government as on March 31, 2018. The three corporations collectively owe Rs 2,596.3 crore in arrears to Delhi Jal Board. “As per the 5th Delhi Finance Commission calculations, a total of Rs 1,965.9 crore is due until October 26, 2020, of which Rs 1,752.6 crore has been already paid. So it is clear that no major amount is due from Delhi government, and any other figure that the mayors of the corporations are demanding from the Delhi government is fictional,” Sisodia said. He underlined courts had also upheld that no dues from Delhi government was outstanding to the corporations. “Since the north corporation was still unable to pay the salaries of doctors and health workers, Delhi government went out of its way to make an advance payment of Rs 8 crore towards the salaries of staff in six hospitals to be adjusted against future payments,” Sisodia stated in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rise-above-politics-focus-on-fiscal-mgmt-sisodia-to-mayors/articleshow/78940632.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Man threatens wife at gunpoint||Kolkata: Two cases of attempt to murder were reported from south Kolkata in the past 24 hours. In the first incident that took place in Topsia , a housewife ran to the police and alleged that her husband had threatened her at gunpoint, claiming she had an extra-marital relationship. Later cops seized two illegal improvised loaded guns from the residence of the accused, Wahid Ali (53), who, they suspect, might be part of an illegal gun running syndicate. The woman claimed that she had gone to her friend’s house on Wednesday night when the accused had called up her and warned her to return home. As she came back home, the accused took out a gun and placed it near her head and fired. The woman managed to flee from the spot and reached the police station. By the time cops reached her house, the accused fled. The second incident was reported from Parnasree in Behala where a local goon allegedly assaulted three residents at gunpoint after they had protested against his obscene gestures outside a puja pandal around 10pm on Dashami. The accused Smiritirendu Sarkar alias Utpal (54) has been arrested following the complaint by Indranil Roy, a residents of Gopal Mishra Road in Behala ans his two neighbours Kaushik Sarkar and Prabir Das. “It was an argument over a puja related dispute and very minor in nature,” said an IPS officer leading the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-threatens-wife-at-gunpoint/articleshow/78940599.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||High court to monitor cases pending against MPs, MLAs||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court filed a PIL suo motu to monitor criminal proceedings against current and former elected leaders, parliamentarians and legislators, after such cases were expedited by lower courts on HC orders last month. According to sources, the high court filed the PIL on its own to ensure that trials against MPs and MLAs take place smoothly and there are no impediments from any corner. The high court also wants to supervise proceedings so that concerned departments — the administration, prosecution and judiciary — function in a proper, coordinated manner. There are cases in which special courts are required. The PIL came up before Justice R M Chhaya and Justice Vaibhavi Nanavati, who adjourned it till November 4. On October 2, the high court had issued directions to all principal district judges to ask the subordinate courts concerned to speed up hearings in criminal cases that were pending before present and former MPs and MLAs. Before this, the high court ordered the government to find out such pending criminal cases. The HC listed 98 cases that were pending against politicians who were facing criminal charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-court-to-monitor-cases-pending-against-mps-mlas/articleshow/78940634.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal deputy speaker dies of cancer||MIDNAPORE: Bengal assembly deputy speaker and two times Trinamool Congress MLA from Jhargram, Sukumar Hansda, died of cancer at a private hospital in Kolkata on Thursday. He was 66. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled the death of the veteran Trinamool leader. The state government announced that the National Flag in all government offices across Bengal will fly at half-mast during the day to mourn his death. His body will be taken to his home in Dubrajpur village, Jhargram for last rites on Friday. A doctor by profession, Hansda is survived by his wife, son and two daughters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-deputy-speaker-dies-of-cancer/articleshow/78940624.cms||Sujay Khanra
October 30, 2020||India||TRP scam: Cops summon five Republic investors||MUMBAI: The special investigating team (SIT) of Mumbai police probing the TRP manipulation scam has summoned five investors of Republic TV to appear before them on Friday as part of its probe into channels accused of rigging viewership figures. The police, in the past, have recorded statements of Republic TV officials including chief financial officer Shiva Sundaram. One of the arrested suspects, Abhishek Kolwade who runs a marketing company named Max Media, had allegedly admitted to police about receiving payments directly from two channels including Republic TV to pay certain households through his associates. Police are also probing payments made by the channel to the Hansa group. Group firm Hansa Research was contracted by Broadcasting Audience Research Council to install bar-o-meters in select homes to gauge viewership patterns, which were then used by media-buying houses to determine placement of ads. Five other media firms, Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, News Nation, Maha Movie and Wow, are also under the SIT’s scanner for allegedly paying households to keep TV sets tuned into their channels. Police said the focus now is to identify specific individuals from channels who have paid middlemen to inflate TRP figures. Meanwhile, the sessions court on Thursday granted bail to the owners of Box Cinema and Fakht Marathi, who were arrested during the probe into the scam. Special sessions court judge PR Sitre granted bail to Narayan Sharma, owner of Box Cinema, and Shirish Shetty, proprietor of Fakht Marathi, on bonds of Rs 50,000 each with sureties. Advocates Nimish Mehta and Aniket Nikam appeared for Sharma and Shetty respectively. The police had objected to their bail applications saying if released they may tamper with evidence. Prosecution’s case is that Sharma and Shetty paid key accused, Bomepalli Rao and Vishal Bhandari, who in turn distributed cash among various households to keep certain channels on, in order to boost their TRPs. Last week, one of the suspects, Umesh Mishra, was also released on bail after he agreed to turn approver in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-cops-summon-five-republic-investors/articleshow/78943022.cms||Ahmed Ali
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Waqf tribunal stays mosque construction, prayers in it||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat State Waqf Tribunal has ordered a stay on further construction of a mosque and the offering of prayers at it, after a Muslim group objected to the masjid being built on a graveyard with old graves. The dispute concerns control over a Sunni Muslim graveyard at Badarpura village near Palanpur in north Gujarat. A shrine named Balapir and a few old graves existed on the graveyard land. As members of the Tabligh Jamaat wrested control of the trust, they got permission to build a mosque at the graveyard from the Gujarat State Waqf Board. The construction of the mosque on top of the old graves irked members of another group, which follows the Sufi tradition. They objected before the Masjid, Madresa, Kabrastan Balapir Waqf Trust, which manages the graveyard’s affairs, and the government authorities, but to no avail. They finally approached the Waqf Tribunal and argued that construction permission for a mosque by destroying the graves of their forefathers could not have been granted by the board, as they are revered in their faith. They also objected to the construction of a mosque on a graveyard. After a preliminary hearing on October 15, which involved the lawyer from the Waqf Trust, the tribunal said that the Tabligh Jamaat was not able to supply evidence regarding the handing over of the disputed land to it and that illegal construction of a religious structure would create an unnecessary dispute between people of two different faiths. While directing a stay on further construction and use of the religious structure, the tribunal also ordered the board and concerned government authorities in Banaskantha district to monitor the situation and if the tribunal’s order is violated, they should take immediate action. The status quo has been ordered to be maintained till the court pronounces a final verdict in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waqf-tribunal-stays-mosque-construction-prayers-in-it/articleshow/78940639.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Doctors paid, but other staffers of NDMC plan to go on strike||NEW DELHI: The resident doctors’ strike at Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals may have been called off after payment of salaries till September, but healthcare workers, teachers, pensioners and other employees of North Delhi Municipal Corporation who have not been paid for three-five months are complaining about its “biased” attitude. Alleging that funds meant for all — especially pensioners who haven’t been paid since May — were diverted to pay doctors, they have decided to go on a mass strike from November 9. TimesViewSalary is a matter of right. Everybody is equally entitled to it. But the municipal corporation seems to be creating a hierarchy of distribution among employees. If anything, healthcare workers and pensioners are needier. The municipal body should immediately clear their dues.“When all employees were on strike for 22 days in September, the mayor assured that salary would be released as per hierarchy of grades, from groups D to A. It was also said the salary of every employee will be paid at par, as per the high court order, by November end,” Confederation of MCD Employees’ Unions stated. But the administration “has done the opposite and released salaries on a pick-and-choose basis”, it alleged. “This discrimination is a breach of assurance and unacceptable to all. The corporation needs the services of all employees, and not just doctors, to run its administration and operation,” it added. The confederation will meet the nurses’ unions of all three hospitals — Hindu Rao, RBTB and Kasturba — and paramedical staff, said A P Khan, its convener. Nurses and paramedical staff of Hindu Rao and RBTB hospitals have already declared a strike from November 2. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said strikes won’t resolve the issue. “I met confederation members on Wednesday and have called another meeting on Monday. Last month, I asked for time till November 30 and we are trying our best,” he said. A month’s salaries for all categories, except pensioners, were released on Tuesday and another month’s will be credited before Diwali, he added. Groups of employees are carrying two-three hours’ pen-down strike at different places. “The irrational policy of the administration has forced us to prepone the strike from November 30. East and south corporation employees will join us,” said Deepak Sharma, executive member of the confederation. In east Delhi, salaries and pensions have not been paid for two-three months and, in SDMC, arrears and other dues are pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctors-paid-but-other-staffers-of-n-corpn-plan-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/78940645.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Reviving ancient footprints: 100 Ramayana spots to get facelift in UP||LUCKNOW: Spots that find mention in Valmiki’s Ramayana and are still present in UP might get a facelift in days to come. The state government has decided to beautify all such spots, bringing them closer to their Ramayana-era look by planting trees that these spots had at that point of time and by highlighting features that might still be bearing resemblance to that era. There are over 100 such spots in UP out of 280 in the country that are mentioned in Valmiki’s Ramayana. Most of them lie either on Ram Van Gaman Marg (spots Ram crossed while going to forest) or on Ram Janki Marg (route that Ram followed to Janakpur to marry Sita and back to Ayodhya). Celebrating Valmiki Jayanti on October 31 all over the state with a mission to spread values of ‘Ram ki Kahani’ (Ramayana), the government has decided to hold a series of events meant to retrace the state’s connection with Ram and Ramayana. District magistrates in all districts except the ones where election is due have been asked to appoint a nodal officer to oversee preparations and ensure grand celebrations on the day without bypassing Covid-19 protocol. Continuous recital of Valmiki’s Ramayana along with ‘deepdan’ and lighting of ‘diyas’ will be done at all the spots mentioned in Valmiki’s Ramayana in the state and the spots that have some connection with the sage. Similar celebrations will be held at all Ram temples, Hanuman temples and other temples in the districts. Ramayana ‘paath’ may be organised for 8 hours, 12 hours or 24 hours, but will be a must. Joint director, culture, YP Singh, who is the nodal officer for statewide celebrations on Valmiki Jayanti, said, “Our culture has its roots in Ram and Ramayana and Valmiki Yug is an important part of Ramayana era.” Local artists and group of performers will be selected for performance of various types of programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/reviving-ancient-footprints-100-ramayana-spots-to-get-facelift/articleshow/78942039.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||Leopardess trapped in conflict area near DTR where partially eaten bodies of two children found last month||Bareilly: A sub-adult leopardess was trapped late Wednesday night in a cage placed by the forest department in Banshibeli village under Isanagar block of Kheri district — a buffer zone of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) — where partially eaten bodies of two children were found last month. According to forest officials, the leopardess may not be behind the killings, as she is sub-adult; hence, there is a high possibility of an adult leopard prowling in the area. Officials said they would continue placing the cage in the conflict area to trap the killer leopard.Earlier, experts of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) and the forest department had installed 15 camera traps in the area, and monitored the area regularly. In all, two cages were placed at separate locations near Banshibeli and Chamaranpurva villages, where leopard attacks were reported. Pictures of an adult male leopard were also captured by the camera traps, but that leopard never attempted to attack the goat placed in the cage as bait.DFO Anil Patel told TOI, “Forest ranger Anil Shah and WTI experts will continue the operation as an adult leopard is still active in the conflict area, and could be behind the killings. There is also a possibility that the adult leopard had killed the children with the help the trapped leopardess. Since the leopardess is healthy and fit to survive in the wild, we have decided to release her into the DTR core forest area.”Earlier, a 13-year-old boy, Sikandar Lal, was injured by a leopard in Pathakpurva village near Bahraich range on October 10.On September 27, a 13-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in Banshibeli village near the Dudhwa forest range in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district.A 12-year-old boy was killed in Chamaranpurva village on September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopardess-trapped-in-conflict-area-near-dtr-where-partially-eaten-bodies-of-two-children-found-last-month/articleshow/78937126.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-Unnao MP Annu Tandon quits Congress||LUCKNOW: In a jolt to the Congress ahead of the byelection on Bangarmau seat in Unnao, its former Unnao MP Annu Tandon resigned from the party on Thursday. Rumours are abuzz that she may join the Samajwadi Party though both sides kept mum. In her letter to the Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Tandon cited ‘misalignment with the state level leadership’ as the reason for snapping ties with the party. “Unfortunately, there is a misalignment between the state level leadership and me. And I do not see their support in allowing me to work since the past several months,” she stated in the letter and urged for its immediate acceptance. Terming it as “painful and disgusting”, Tandon said she had raised the issue with UP incharge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. “She (Priyanka) had assured me that the Congress president was aware of the situation too. However, we have been unable to resolve a forward path that is amenable to all the parties concerned,” said Tandon, who was Unnao MP from 2009-14. She subsequently lost the election from the seat in 2014 and 2019. Targeting the party’s state leadership, Tandon said: “The loss I faced in 2019 Lok Sabha election was not as painful as seeing the party organization disintegrate and decimate itself since then. The state leadership has focused only on social media management and self-branding and is oblivious of the deep divisions in the party and the voters it has thus caused.” She also accused the state level leadership of spreading canards about her and her associates to score brownie points. Tandon added that no attempt was made by the party leadership to stem this. She said she would consult her supporters for future plans. UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, however, said Annu Tandon has been expelled from the party for six years for anti-party activities and her resignation came in response to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-unnao-mp-annu-tandon-quits-congress/articleshow/78942046.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 30, 2020||Surat||Farm labourer gets life in jail for rape, murder of 7-year-old||SURAT: A 21-year-old farm labourer was sentenced life imprisonment on Thursday for rape and murder of a 7-year-old girl in Govat village of Umarpada in Surat district. Accused Prakash Vasava was earlier convicted by the special POCSO court and the quantum of punishment was announced on Thursday. Vasava was convicted and sent to jail for life by the court of P S Kala, additional sessions judge. Vasava had raped and strangled the minor living in his neighbouring locality on September 24, 2015. In the ghastly incident that took place during Ganpati festival in the village, the victim, who lived with her 3-year-old sister at her uncle’s house in Govat after her parents got separated, was playing garba with other family members after the daily evening prayers at the Ganesha pandal got over. When the two sisters got tired, they sat on the side to watch others play garba on the common area, Vasava, who was also sitting there, spotted her. He kidnapped the girl, took her behind the bushes near his home and assaulted her sexually, the case details stated. When the family members found her missing and started to search along with other villagers, they found Vasava sleeping on the ground near the victim, who was lying lifeless in a pool of blood. Even as the girl was rushed to Umarpada health centre, doctors had declared her brought dead. Villagers caught accused Vasava from the spot and had handed him over to the police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/farm-labourer-gets-life-in-jail-for-rape-murder-of-7-year-old/articleshow/78940767.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: SIT to probe death of detained teenager||AHMEDABAD: A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate the death of a 17-year-old boy who died at Civil Hospital after being shifted from Isanpur police station to the Children’s Observation Home in Khanpur. The boy had been detained by Isanpur police in a case of assault. At the direction of the juvenile justice board, he had been sent to the remand home on October 23. On October 27, he was sent to Civil Hospital where he was declared dead at 8.24pm . Additional commissioner of police, Sector 2, Gautam Parmar, said a case of accidental death was registered at Shahpur police station and inquiry initiated under Section 174 of CrPC “On Thursday, the boy’s parents met city police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava and Parmar, seeking a just and thorough probe into the death of their son,” said a police source. Srivastava then formed an SIT to investigate the death. “The SIT will comprise of Inspector J L Chauhan of Meghaninagar police station, police sub-inspector P K Gohil of Kagdapith and others,” said Parmar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sit-to-probe-death-of-detained-teenager/articleshow/78940647.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||Leopardess trapped in conflict area near DTR where partially eaten bodies of two children found last month||Bareilly: A sub-adult leopardess was trapped late Wednesday night in a cage placed by the forest department in Banshibeli village under Isanagar block of Kheri district — a buffer zone of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) — where partially eaten bodies of two children were found last month. According to forest officials, the leopardess may not be behind the killings, as she is sub-adult; hence, there is a high possibility of an adult leopard prowling in the area. Officials said they would continue placing the cage in the conflict area to trap the killer leopard.Earlier, experts of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) and the forest department had installed 15 camera traps in the area, and monitored the area regularly. In all, two cages were placed at separate locations near Banshibeli and Chamaranpurva villages, where leopard attacks were reported. Pictures of an adult male leopard were also captured by the camera traps, but that leopard never attempted to attack the goat placed in the cage as bait.DFO Anil Patel told TOI, “Forest ranger Anil Shah and WTI experts will continue the operation as an adult leopard is still active in the conflict area, and could be behind the killings. There is also a possibility that the adult leopard had killed the children with the help the trapped leopardess. Since the leopardess is healthy and fit to survive in the wild, we have decided to release her into the DTR core forest area.”Earlier, a 13-year-old boy, Sikandar Lal, was injured by a leopard in Pathakpurva village near Bahraich range on October 10.On September 27, a 13-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in Banshibeli village near the Dudhwa forest range in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district.A 12-year-old boy was killed in Chamaranpurva village on September 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopardess-trapped-in-conflict-area-near-dtr-where-partially-eaten-bodies-of-two-children-found-last-month/articleshow/78937146.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Crisis managed: Famed ACP retires||NEW DELHI: It is rare for a policeman to be in the middle of almost every high-profile investigation for over two decades and yet have an unblemished record. Assistant commissioner of police Rajender Singh can claim such a record. So when Singh bid farewell on Thursday, every one present at his retirement ceremony had had a story to share. From the Dhaula Kuan gang rape, in which where Singh deduced the culprits were from Mewat from their act of handing over vertically folded currency notes at the toll plaza, to the Nirbhaya case, Singh left his mark. When Bunty Chor proved a challenge for Delhi Police, it was only Singh who nabbed him, not once but twice. This feat earned him a place in the movie Oye Lucky Lucky Oye. His investigative work in the Nirbhaya case was showcased in Netflix series Delhi Crime. Singh was someone every police chief relied on in a crisis. Once, even after his transfer order had been issued, a DCP created a special unit so he could continue his crackdown against criminals and gangsters. A sub-inspector recalled, “As an SHO, his message was clear to us: no crime in my area. If a criminal entered his territory, he would pursue him with all his might,” recalled a sub-inspector. Singh worked as an investigator in the units called ‘special staff’ and ‘special task force’ in south Delhi for a considerable part of his career. His rivals attempted often to get him transferred, but there were no takers. Singh continued to revel in his tag as the ‘cop of south Delhi’. “You have to be an exceptional performer to earn this sort of power. Mere talk or good relations with seniors don’t guarantee longevity. In Singh's case, his position was because he was result-oriented,” claimed a retired officer, who added, “Insecurities led his detractors to get an officer to order him to shave his preferred stubble and transfer him to east Delhi briefly. Singh could have resisted, but complied and things returned to normal soon.” Singh was also a favourite of the press. “He would never leak anything to even the reporters closest to him,” testified a DCP. “After a probe winded up, he would give the media leads to follow. He was sought after for his insights into a crime incident.” Integrity was a strong point, claimed another former south Delhi DCP. A former special commissioner of police added, “Singh’s integrity was so impeccable that criminals stopped thinking of ways to bribe him. Everyone knew that bribing would never yield results. Extraordinarily, not a single substantiated complaint was made against him.” Singh's last posting involved community policing in Dwarka, while his last days as a cop were spent catching a rogue member of his own department. He plans to focus on family now. “It was a journey well lived. I am leaving contented,” Singh told TOI on Thursday evening. “Nothing beats being honest to the uniform. I have nothing but gratitude for my seniors and colleagues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crisis-managed-famed-acp-retires/articleshow/78940735.cms||Raj Shekhar
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Kapil Mishra gives unconditional apology to Satyendar Jain for graft slur||NEW DELHI: BJP functionary Kapil Mishra, who was earlier in AAP, on Wednesday tendered an unconditional apology to health minister Satyendar Jain in a court for levelling “politically motivated and wrong” bribery allegations against him in May 2017. Terming the allegations “baseless”, Jain had filed a criminal defamation case against Mishra. The statement proves that Mishra had levelled the allegations with a political purpose, Jain said on Thursday. “In 2017, when Kapil Mishra was ousted from the Arvind Kejriwal government, he had levelled totally baseless allegations against me and the chief minister. He alleged that he had seen me giving Rs 2 crore as bribe in cash to the CM,” he said, calling the allegations “extremely offensive that left me completely distressed”. The minister added, “Upon interrogation, Mishra failed to provide facts supporting his claim since he was never present at the CM’s house (on that day). In light of this, I had filed a criminal case against him in court.” On Wednesday, Mishra submitted the written apology in the court saying “the statements made by me against the complainant were politically motivated and wrong. I tender my unconditional apology to the complainant and the same will never be repeated”. In the next paragraph, he promised to “publish the above statement on social media through my official handles”. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Vishal Pahuja noted, “It is submitted by the accused that he is ready to make the statement before court tendering an unconditional apology. The complainant also submitted that in case the accused gives his statement before the court, he (Jain) shall withdraw the present complaint,” The court disposed of Jain’s complaint. Making a statement on the basis of “hearsay” without any evidence supporting it was not only unbecoming of an MLA, but also a crime of defaming a person, Jain had contended in the complaint. AAP functionary Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed the incident proved that BJP was behind Mishra’s comments. “If Mishra does not apologise through his social media handles, he will be sent to jail,” he said. The MLA said the CM’s house was under 24x7 CCTV surveillance and every visitor was checked. “Whatever is being carried inside is examined and recorded on CCTV cameras. When we questioned Mishra about the timing of his visit, he couldn’t give any detail because he never visited the CM’s house on May 5, 2017,” Bharadwaj said. “Kapil Mishra used to then say he will never leave AAP and join BJP.” In response, Mishra took to Twitter to take a swipe at AAP over Kejriwal and some other functionaries having extended apologies for levelling unfounded allegations. “Thirty of AAP and one of mine. The elders have suggested we should learn something from the enemies too. If AAP abuses me for reaching a compromise in a defamation case, all abuses will be applicable on Kejriwal 30 times more. Be careful, AAPians!” Mishra was sacked from the Kejriwal cabinet reportedly due to lack of satisfactory performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mishra-gives-unconditional-apology-to-jain-for-graft-slur/articleshow/78940751.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||5% rise in enrolment of students in UP govt schools: ASER report||LUCKNOW: In an encouraging sign for UP government schools, they recorded 5.3% increase in enrolment of children in the 6-14 age group. The data has come to the fore in the 15th Annual Status of Education Report (ASER). As per the report, more children from the rural background took admission in the government schools over private schools between 2018 and 2020. The number of children enrolled in government schools rose from 44.3% in 2018 to 49.6% in 2020, despite schools upto class 8 till shut owing to the Covid pandemic. Significantly, the proportion of both boys and girls enrolled in government schools across all grades increased from 2018 to 2020. While the enrolment for boys upped from 41.8% in 2018 to 51.9% in 2020, the percentage of girls enrolled in government schools went up from 48.4% in 2018 to 57.2% in 2020. ASER, which surveyed 7,882 rural children (in the 5-16 age group) in 5,912 households, reported drop in private enrolment. In 2018, 49.7% children were enrolled in private schools. It dropped by over 10% this year to 39.4%. This was the first time ASER survey was done over the telephone. Conducted at a time when schools haven’t reopened fully, the report highlighted the percentage of children who have remained out of school. However, despite the increase in enrolment in government schools, UP accounted for a high proportion of children not enrolled in schools in 2020 as compared to 2018. In fact, the highest percentage of children — 11.1% in 6-10 age group across the country — are not enrolled in schools in UP. Since schools are still closed, many children have not yet been admitted to Class I, stated the report. “The increase in not enrolled children in the 6-10 age group is, therefore, likely to be more a reflection of children waiting to enrol in schools rather than of children who have indeed dropped out,” stated the report. The percentage of children in 6-14 age group not enrolled in schools rose from 4.9% in 2018 to 10.2% in 2020, while that of children in 15-16 age group dropped from 19.1% in 2018 to 13.6% in 2020. Sunil Kumar, ASER state coordinator for UP, said, “Given the disruptions caused by Covid-19, the main reason for kids in the 6-7 age group is that families are waiting for schools to reopen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-rise-in-enrolment-of-students-in-up-govt-schools-aser-report/articleshow/78942054.cms||Isha Jain
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Rajinikanth: Not my statement, but reference on health true||CHENNAI: Breaking his silence, actor Rajinikanth on Thursday said a “statement” claimed to have been issued by him and widely circulated on social media was not from him, but the reference to his health condition and advice from doctors were true. “A statement attributed to me and being widely circulated on the social media is not from me. Everyone knows it,” Rajinikanth tweeted. “But the reference to my health condition and advice from doctors are true. I will consult Rajini Makkal Mandram people at the right time and announce my political stand to the people,” Rajinikanth tweeted in Tamil. The purported statement reportedly prepared for private circulation among his friends and advisors was leaked on Tuesday. In the statement, he outlined his “original” plans for launching his political party, state of his health in the wake of a renal transplant he underwent in the US in 2016 and how Covid-19 had played havoc with his plans. Following advice from doctors, he left the decision on his political plunge to his fans and the public, the statement had said. Rajinikanth’s tweet on Thursday set off a fresh round of political debate in the state about what would be his eventual decision, as and when he makes it. “When it comes to his political entry, it is always a ‘comma’ and not a ‘full stop’. He has managed to keep the people guessing for years and it continues even now,” said an associate of the actor, who did not want to be named. “Whether he takes to take his political plunge or decides against it on health conditions, it has reached an inflection point. At the maximum, he has another five months to take the call. The pandemic has offered Rajinikanth a level playing field, since public activities of all political leaders and their parties are limited by Covid in the run up to the elections. It is still anybody’s guess,” a political strategist said, on the condition of anonymity. “He has said he will take a final decision, after consulting his Rajini Makkal Mandram members. Let us wait for his decision. How many leaders have been honest enough to accept their health issues in public and how many leaders have really come out in the open and engaged with the public during the pandemic,” asked Karate R Thiagarajan, a former Congressman, who is counted as one of the few to have access to the star. A section of Rajinikanth’s fans began appealing to the actor to abort his political move. “Your health is important to us. Abandon your political plans,” was the crux of the messages. But a substantial segment of his fans was pushing him with more vigour to take the political plunge. “There is no need for you to come out. Do it from the safety of your home. We will take your message to the people. If not now, political change cannot happen in Tamil Nadu for next few decades,” was their chorus. They also managed to trend the hashtag ‘Oattunnu Poatta Rajinikkudhaan’ (If we vote, it will be only for Rajinikanth) across India throughout Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-not-my-statement-but-reference-on-health-true/articleshow/78940696.cms||D Govardan
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cons bug ex-DSP’s Facebook friends for cash||CHANDIGARH: Online swindlers have bombarded the Facebook friends of a former UT deputy superintendent of police with cash requests from his fake ID. Ex-DSP Jagbir Singh had to alert the cybercrime cell. The messages for cash go with his pictures, and suggest that he is in dire need of money to come out of distress. As soon as the friends started calling, Jagbir Singh came to know about his fake Facebook profile and posted a message for his online community not to believe fraudsters. He told the friends he had neither sent any message not required any help. Earlier, these cons had duplicated the Facebook ID of current DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel and a former police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cons-bug-ex-dsps-fb-friends-for-cash/articleshow/78939398.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||India gears up to conserve 11 species of endangered small wild cats with help of US-based establishment||Pilibhit: A plan is afoot to conserve 11 species of small wild cats — at least seven of its species on the IUCN red list — in line with a few European countries with a US-based Global Environment Facility (GEF) — an international funding agency to tackle the earth’s most pressing environmental problems — and the central government chipping in together for the project. At present, there are no dedicated protective areas or reserves for the small cats in the country, and many of its species have fallen into the threatened category of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list due to habitat loss. These species — having the nature born distribution in India — primarily include fishing cat, Asian leopard cat, jungle cat and Asiatic wild cat. The project will be launched in two tiger reserves — Dudhwa in UP and Pakke in Arunachal — and two wildlife sanctuaries — Eaglenest in Arunachal and Ranthambore in Rajasthan. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), Global Tiger Forum (GTF) and National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) are integral part of the plan as partners.“The project — in the final stage of review and will be forwarded to GEF by the Government of India once finalised — is scheduled to launch the next year for five years, initially,” said Dr Rajesh Gopal, secretary-general, GTF, which is playing a pivotal role in the coordination and management of the project. “The project will incur an expenditure of $45 million to be borne jointly by GEF and its financial partners as well as the central government and the respective state governments.”According to Dr Gopal, the project comprises four components that encompass all crucial aspects of planning and its practical implementation at ground zero. The GTF secretary-general, meanwhile, stressed on the modifications in the Wildlife Protection Act and setting a new benchmark in certain programmes of the government such as the National Wildlife Action Plan for the conservation of small cats. Dr Gopal added that making estimations of small cat's population in different forest regions, identifying threats to their survival and habitats, exploring possibilities of coordination with local communities to flawlessly achieve the targets, sharing comprehensive information on small cat species with forest personnel, proper training of local stakeholders and seeking support from local industries, especially to raise funds for the future, would be another integral component of the plan.“At present, there is no official data available on the presence and population of small cat species in wild regions in the absence of a policy,” said Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director, Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR), which is also a part of the plan. “Whatever little knowledge is available is simply based on their pictures captured by camera traps installed for the estimation of tigers.” According to Pathak, the plan will also be launched in the DTR’s three integral parts —Dudhva National Park, Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary and Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary — which have the presence of leopard cat, fishing cat and jungle cat.Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP Sunil Pandey, meanwhile, said the conservation of small cats would become a regular official exercise of the forest department after the Wildlife Protection Act and forest policies were amended to pave the way to the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/india-gears-up-to-conserve-11-species-of-endangered-small-wild-cats-with-help-of-us-based-establishment/articleshow/78937166.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Mission Shakti: 34 lakh girls, 6L children steer awareness drives||Lucknow: The Mission Shakti women empowerment programme of the state government has been getting widespread response and support. A record number of 34 lakh girls participated in awareness drives and were told about women’s rights and duties under the first phase of ‘Mission Shakti’ organized from October 17 to 25. The girls were apprised about their fundamental rights, right to education, child rights as well as POCSO Act, Domestic Violence Act and Child Marriage Act. The girls were told about 112, 1098, 1090, 1070, 181 helplines and taught their use through live demonstration. Basic education minister Satish Dwivedi launched the ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign across the state through 5,50,000 teachers. Online training programmes on gender equality were conducted by 307 district convenors while 1,050 resource persons were trained on gender equality. Around five lakh parents attended awareness programmes in school and over 20 lakh parents were sensitized on gender equality so they don’t differentiate between sons and daughters. About 1.5 lakh WhatsApp groups were created in which 30 lakh parents were added and awareness messages are being circulated regularly. Similarly, more than six lakh children were summoned to schools and told to oppose anyone who misbehaves with them and to immediately inform their parents. Videos on good touch and bad touch, child marriages and gender inequality were shared on WhatsApp groups. Under the campaign, women were given cheques of loans sanctioned under self-employment scheme at an event held at district industries centre in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-shakti-34-lakh-girls-6l-children-steer-awareness-drives/articleshow/78942059.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Three held for prostitution racket by Rachakonda cops||HYDERABAD: Three persons who were organizing a prostitution racket were nabbed by Rachakonda police in Abdullapurmet on Thursday. Cops rescued four women, from Bengal, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. The racket was being organized through online and payments were accepted from customers through e-wallets. The racket was busted through a decoy operation conducted by the police. The accused were booked under Prevention of Immoral Trafficking Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-prostitution-racket/articleshow/78940744.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Trichy||2 get jail term for faking docus to acquire teaching posts||Thanjavur: The Thiruvaiyaru judicial magistrate court has sentenced two people to three years imprisonment for forging documents to get teachers’ appointment.According to the prosecution, P Ansari and M Aameena alias Rajathi were appointed as secondary grade teachers at the Crescent Higher Secondary School in Avaniyapuram in Thanjavur on June 8, 1998 and August 1, 1999 respectively.It came to light that both of them had joined by submitting fake diploma teacher’s education certificates and mark sheets, which they had procured from Kannaiyan through Stephen, who acted as the mediator. Based on a complaint lodged by the then district education officer Subathra, the Thiruneelakudi police had registered a case against the four on January 11, 2002.The case was transferred to the CBCID of Thanjavur in May 2002. The CBCID police submitted the chargesheet before the judicial magistrate court in Thiruvaiyaru on June 30, 2003.As Aameena and Kannaiyan died during the trial, the court on Wednesday sentenced Ansari and Stephen to three years prison term and also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 each on them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-get-jail-term-for-faking-docus-to-acquire-teaching-posts/articleshow/78942060.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: MBBS cut-off may go up by 70-100 marks||CHENNAI: The cut-off marks for MBBS admission in TN may go up by 70 to 100 for most categories due to a surge in top scorers in National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test 2020. The number of students with 500 and above NEET score is up almost four-fold compared to last year. While 5,240 students have scored more than 500 marks this year, 1,329 students had scored above 500 marks in 2019. The number of students who had scored 600 marks and above, too, has increased 10 times — from 135 last year to 1,029 this year. Students who have scored above 400 to 499 marks increased by more than 50% as 6,738 students had scored in this range, compared to 4,305 students last year. Last year, the cut-off at government medical colleges in OC category was 520 marks and for BC it was 470 marks. The cut-off for BCM and MBC was 458 marks and for SC category it was 360 marks. For SCA it was 301 and ST 267 marks. This year, government medical colleges will add 50 seats. However, due to 7.5% reservation to government school students, the number of seats available for other students could be less compared to last year as around 200 seats will be reserved for them in government medical colleges. There are 3,300 seats in 26 government medical colleges and 2100 seats available in 15 self-financing medical medical colleges. Also 1,800 seats available in nine deemed universities in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mbbs-cut-off-may-go-up-by-70-100-marks/articleshow/78940755.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Driver held for robbing woman||HYDERABAD: An auto rickshaw driver who robbed a woman passenger in Bhongir was arrested by Bhongir police on Thursday. Officials said the woman and her husband had hired an auto on October 25. But the driver took them to an isolated place, where he threatened to attack them with a rod and snatched her gold ornaments. Police analysed CCTV footage and tracked down the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-held-for-robbing-woman/articleshow/78940759.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Online swindlers raid pay account||CHANDIGARH: Online swindlers took away Rs 22,500 from a man’s salary account. The UT cybercrime cell has registered a case but made no arrest yet. Complainant Jabeej Singh of Sector 33 keeps a salary account in the Sector-35 branch of ICICI Bank. He says someone took out money from it in three fraudulent transactions of Rs 7,500 each between June 9 and 15. Filed though the public window of the senior superintendent of police, the complaint reached the cybercrime cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-swindlers-raid-pay-account/articleshow/78939420.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||55% textile MoUs inked two years ago on fast-track: Minister||LUCKNOW: Two days after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav questioned the status of MoUs signed during the 2018 Investors Summit, investment minister Sidharth Nath Singh hit back with data on the textile sector, saying there was activity in 55% MoUs inked two years back. “Of 66 MoUs signed, there is activity on 39, which is 55% of accords. We are fast-tracking installation of more textile hubs in the state. For instance, six textile parks will be set up in PPP model for which tenders have been floated and bids have been received,” said Singh. Around 27 MoUs have been declared inactive by the department and removed from its portal. Among others, land needs to be allocated for five units and these cases would be resolved at Invest UP meet next week. These five units will usher an investment of Rs 36.36 crore and generate employment for 670 persons. Three other projects have begun initial work. Noida Apparel Export Cluster has acquired 55 acre where 70 units are expected to come up. The promoter of the Koshikala unit in Mathura has received approval for Rs 300-crore loan while the investor in a textile park in Bareilly has managed to acquire land. “There are 11 units which have already begun production with an investment of Rs 641 crore while construction has started on nine. These will bring an investment of Rs 192.65 crore. Another 11 units have already acquired land and will kickstart construction soon. Their total investment is Rs 1,412.7 crore. Our government is focussed on doing work while Opposition is intent on playing politics,” said Singh. Units which have already begun production are located in Noida, Gorakhpur, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Kanpur Dehat, Badayun, Amroha and four in Kanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-55-textile-mous-inked-two-years-ago-on-fast-track/articleshow/78942065.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 30, 2020||Trichy||19th C Manora Fort gets Rs 2 crore makeover||Thanjavur: The 19th century Manora Fort, built by Maratha ruler Serfoji II near Pattukottai of Thanjavur district, has undergone a major facelift at a cost of Rs 2.32 crore in a bid to attract more visitors. Over the years, due to poor maintenance, few ventured to marvel at the fort, built in 1815 AD. Tourists also didn’t have access to basic amenities and the situation worsened after the 2006 tsunami, said A Thajudeen, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Fishermen Federation in Mallipattinam. Constructed in commemoration of Britain’s triumph over France in the Battle of Waterloo, the hexagonal structure stands at a height of 23.3m with eight storeys. The fort, located about 68km from Thanjavur, is replete with a moat, secret cellars, store rooms, a dock yard and more. Officials said the basement even had a military gym and a library with books on military exercises. In October 2019, the state archaeological department began renovation of the tower using lime mortar. Officials were careful not to harm the ancient structure while carrying out painting and renovation. The entire space was fenced to avert trespassers and CCTV cameras were installed at various vantage spots. The department also ensured the space was well lit, said M Dinesh, assistant engineer at the state archaeology department. The fort was recently re-opened by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, he added. Officials are hopeful of more visitors once lockdown restrictions are eased. Thajudeen hailed the refurbishment of the fort, but urged officials to soon set up amenities for tourists, such as a park for children, more light fixtures and drinking water taps. He also demanded police protection at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/19th-c-manora-fort-gets-rs-2-crore-makeover/articleshow/78942069.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 30, 2020||Business||Finance Commission to decide new fiscal plan||NEW DELHI: The 15th Finance Commission will finalise its recommendations on Friday, which will discuss a new roadmap for fiscal consolidation at the Centre and states. But it is unlikely to opt for a significant reduction in devolution to the states during “uncertain times”. The Commission’s 151st meeting is scheduled for Friday to work out the award for April 2021 to March 2026 after submitting its first report that covers the current financial year. The panel headed by bureaucrat-turned lawmaker NK Singh has had to tweak its plan due to the pandemic and will underline the need for public spending in healthcare, while deciding on a host of reforms-linked transfers, including a fresh set of measures for agriculture. Earlier this month, Singh had told TOI that the Commission has had to “recalibrate” its numbers for revenue deficit grants given to states due to “shrinkage in the fiscal space”. Besides, it is expected to recommend non-lapsable funds for modernisation of defence and internal security in addition to innovative financing needs. The Constitutionally -mandated body has one of the largest brief in recent years and has the tough task of managing expectations of the states — which are demanding a 50% share of central taxes — and the Centre, which wants more money at its disposal given the requirement of higher spending on education, health and employment, areas where it is playing a prominent role through central schemes. In addition, it has failed to shut down several of the centrally-sponsored schemes, piling further pressure on its already strained finances. Sources, however, indicated that there may not be a significant reduction in the devolution formula given that state finances have been hit hard by Coronavirus and their access to fund-raising avenues is comparatively limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fin-commission-to-decide-new-fiscal-plan-today/articleshow/78943032.cms||Sidhartha
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP has produced 1.7 crore litres of sanitizer since March||LUCKNOW: Setting a record of sorts, UP has produced over 1.7 crore litres of sanitizer since March when the lockdown was imposed following the Covid-19 pandemic. Additional chief secretary, cane development and excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that sanitizer production capacity of the state was around 6 lakh litres per day. “The demand was high in the beginning because of which sanitizer production escalated. The demand has now stabilized,” Bhoosreddy said, affirming that the total production of sanitizer in the state was unmatched when compared with other states. He said that cane mills and distilleries had been roped in by the state government in production of sanitizer. Official sources said that sanitizer was not only supplied to government departments and hospitals in the state but also exported to other states including Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.. A state government spokesperson said that around 1.6 crore packs of sanitizers have been wheeled into the market. “Many companies were also given licences to produce sanitizer in the state. The aim is to provide sanitizer to people at an affordable cost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-has-produced-1-7-cr-lt-of-sanitizer-since-march/articleshow/78942070.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh resident duped of over Rs 7.7 lakh in car deal||CHANDIGARH: A city resident has been duped of more than Rs 7.7 lakh in a deal to buy an SUV. The accused allegedly also took away his car after selling the same. When the UT police did not register an FIR in the case, the complainant approached a local court, which directed the cops to register a case of cheating against the accused. In his complaint, Santosh Kumar, a resident of Colony No. 4, has stated that he had seen an advertisement on OLX for sale of a Chevrolet Tavera car in 2017 and contacted vehicle owner Rakesh Kumar on the given phone number. The deal was finalised for Rs 4.8 lakh. Later, the complainant visited the residence of the accused in Shahbad, Kurukshetra and a sale agreement was signed between them. Santosh said he gave Rs 80,000 in cash to Rakesh and Rs 63,500 was to be paid later in installments. The complainant also promised to pay the remaining loan installments of the vehicle and handed over 50 blank cheques as security to Rakesh Kumar. After clearing all bank dues and making payments to the owner, when he asked for the NOC from the bank, the accused started making excuses. In the meantime, Rakesh had also allegedly withdrawn Rs 6.27 lakh from his account using the blank cheques. As the complainant requested him to return the excess amount he had fraudulently withdrawn from his account, the accused allegedly threatened him to implicate in false criminal cases and also threatened to take back his car. Santosh Kumar alleged that on July 27, 2020, when he was out of the city, Rakesh Kumar and two other persons stole the car using duplicate keys. The theft was captured in the CCTV cameras. As he approached the police and subsequently the court, a case was registered against the accused for cheating and under other relevant sections of the IPC at the Industrial Area Phase-1 police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-resident-duped-of-over-rs-7-7-lakh-in-car-deal/articleshow/78939432.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Red alert: Delhi’s first brush with severe air this winter||NEW DELHI: Air quality in the capital entered the ‘severe’ range for the first time this winter season, with an AQI of 401 in the early hours of Thursday before returning to the ‘very poor’ category in the evening. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi recorded an overall AQI of 395 (very poor), according to CPCB’s daily bulletin on Thursday evening, even as 16 out of 36 stations turned ‘severe’ on Thursday morning. This is the highest AQI recorded this year since January 2, when the AQI touched 417 (severe). Delhi’s air quality had touched ‘poor’ with an AQI of 297 on Wednesday, and rose close to 100 AQI points in 24 hours. A mix of factors, including a drop in wind speed, a drop in temperature and an increase in the share of stubble burning to a season-high (36%), has led to a sharp increase in AQI over the last 24 hours. However, agencies forecast improvement for Friday with wind speeds expected to pick up once again. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said wind speed was close to ‘nil’ for the first half of Thursday, increasing to around 5 km/hr by the evening. “A combination of low temperature — the lowest so far this season — and calm wind conditions trapped pollutants locally. But this is expected to change from Friday,” said Srivastava, who says wind speed could touch 12 km/hr on Friday and average around 15 km/hr on Saturday and Sunday. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Centre (SAFAR), another key factor in the spike in pollution in the region is stubble burning. It touched a season-high of 36% in terms of contribution to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration. Last year, the highest it had touched in a single day was 44%. CPCB data showed the stations which were in the ‘severe’ category on Thursday morning are Alipur, Shadipur, two stations in Dwarka, ITO, Punjabi Bagh, Patparganj, Sonia Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Narela, Wazirpur, Bawana, Mundka and Anand Vihar. At 10 am, the highest AQI was recorded at Bawana (437), followed by Wazirpur (436), Jahangirpuri (434) and Anand Vihar (433). An AQI between 201 and 300 is classified as ‘poor’ by the CPCB, between 301 and 400 as ‘very poor’ and beyond 400 is ‘severe’ on CPCB’s index. Data according to CPCB’s central control room showed that Delhi-NCR’s average PM2.5 and PM10 levels hovered around four times the set standards. The 24-hour average for PM10 was recorded at 405.9 micrograms per cubic metres at 6pm on Thursday, while the 24-hour average PM2.5 levels were recorded at 224.4 micrograms per cubic metres at 6pm. The standards for PM10 and PM2.5 are 100 and 60 micrograms per cubic metres, respectively. The capital has, so far, recorded two ‘severe’ days this year — January 1 and January 2. While the AQI on January 1 was 437, it was recorded at 417 on January 2. Since then, the AQI has remained below the 400 mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/red-alert-delhis-first-brush-with-severe-air-this-winter/articleshow/78942084.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Reducing capacity of nalas spells doom for Manikonda||HYDERABAD: About a fortnight after heavy rains left large parts of the city inundated, the upscale pocket of Manikonda continues to reel under its impact. Even now the area – located along Hyderabad’s rapidly growing IT corridor -- has many water channels overflowing and water stagnated at multiple locations. A quick scan of the area also revealed that regular roads at strategic locations, washed away in the rains, are now covered with steel sheets as a makeshift arrangement. Reason for this damage? Excessive load on a narrow water channel – Pandan Wagu. As per the original plan, excess water from Malkam Cheruvu, sitting close to Manikonda, should flow into the Balkapur Nala, which in turn must drain it into River Musi. But thanks to encroachments that’s not been the case. Instead of extending the Balkapur Nala to ultimately meet the Musi, its water has been diverted midway towards Manikonda through Pandan Wagu. Worse, properties have surfaced on Pandan Wagu too. While as per layout the width of the channel is 33 feet, it has reduced to 8 to 10 feet at multiple places. Apartments, houses and commercial establishments have come up on the water channel. Similar encroachments are visible on Balkapur Nala too. Result? After every spell of rain, excess water from Malkam Cheruvu now flows straight into the residential colonies of Manikonda. Among the worst affected are homes in Panchavati Colony Road Number 10, Trails Housing Society, Srinivasa Colony, Pleasant Valley, Chaitanya Colony and Tanasha Nagar Colony – many of them high-end communities where property values run into a few crores of rupees. During the recent rains, as the narrow channel failed to bear the burden, water gushed into the cellars of these houses, damaged/broke walls of apartments and drowned their lanes. Scores of vehicles were damaged and roads blocked because of the inundation. Officials of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation insist all measures are being taken to ensure excess water is not pumped into Manikonda’s water channels. “We are taking care to see water from Balkapur Nala is draining down the slope. We are also ensuring the sewage lines are not diverted into the nala to reduce the load. Civic works to divert water to Musi via Hussainsagar is also being taken up,” said B Vijay Kuamar, executive engineer of Jubilee Hills circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reducing-capacity-of-nalas-spells-doom-for-manikonda/articleshow/78940762.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Task force nabs man for betting||HYDERABAD: A person who was organizing cricket betting in Dhoolpet was nabbed by Task Force sleuths on Wednesday. He was using an app to accept bets. Police seized two pen drives, Rs 13,500 from the accused. The accused was later handed over to Mangalhat PS. He was booked under TS Gaming Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-nabs-man-for-betting/articleshow/78940770.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Parking brawl in Dhanas colony, guard attacked in Hallomajra||CHANDIGARH: Two neighbouring families came to blows over parking a motorcycle at the EWS flats in Dhanas on Wednesday night, while a group of 10 attacked a security guard at Hallomajra and allegedly stole some money from his house when he was in hospital. A CCTV camera installed near the house captured the first brawl, in which a man was arrested after his neighbour was injured and moved to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. Sunil and Sanjay, neighbours in the Dhanas colony for poor people, first had a heated argument over parking space in the tight lane. In the night, their families resumed the fight when one of them tried to park a motorcycle. The CCTV image shows that Sanjay pulled Sunil's motorcycle to the ground and it provoked the latter's family to thrash him. The man injured in the incident called the Sarangpur police. The cops moved him to the GMSH-16, recorded his statement, and arrested Sunil. In the other incident, Zirakpur hotel guard Pappu Kumar Singh of Hallomajra had an argument with neighbour Nandu. Later, Nandu barged into his room with 10 men around 11.30pm on Wednesday and they thrashed the guard. Pappu Kumar called the cops, who moved him to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Pappu says that when he reached home around 4am after being discharged from hospital, he found Rs 25,000 cash stolen and approached the Sector 31 police, who are verifying the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/parking-brawl-in-dhanas-colony-guard-attacked-in-hallomajra/articleshow/78939427.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: VC appointee relieved of responsibility||NEW DELHI: A day after the President, the visitor of Delhi University, ordered an inquiry against vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, the Executive Council approved the probe on Thursday. It also constituted a fact-finding committee to ascertain the facts of the recent tussle over top posts. The EC also resolved that P C Jha, appointed interim registrar and director of South Campus by Tyagi, would not hold any administrative position till the completion of inquiry. On Wednesday night, Jha reportedly responded to the memorandum issued to him on October 24 by the other contending registrar, Vikas Gupta. Jha said that he would abide by all the instructions and directions given by the appropriate authorities. Jha reply states, “I was under the impression that as per DU Act and statutes and ordinances, I have to obey instructions given to me verbally or written by the vice-chancellor. Therefore, I replied to all the letters communicated at the appropriate time and issued various notifications. I understand there were contradictory communications amongst the academic community which led to some scale of confusion.” This response was also placed before the EC. The Union education ministry had also directed Gupta to ascertain if Jha was a DU employee and to act against him for replying to the ministry’s letter as the registrar. Jha was first asked to refrain from issuing notifications and working in contravention of the university’s statutes on October 24. He was given three days’ time to reply. After Jha continued to issue notifications, another notice was sent to him on October 27 giving him 24 hours to respond. Rajesh Jha, elected EC member, said, “For the events since October 21, Dr Geeta Bhatt has also been issued a memo and the administration will decide on the action on the basis of her reply.” Bhatt was appointed pro-vice-chancellor by Tyagi in place of incumbent acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi, the pro-vice-chancellor. The proposal of J L Gupta to have one university representative in the visitorial inquiry panel under Section 7A, Clause 3 of the DU Act was accepted. Ashwini Shankar, chairman of teachers’ group INTEC, said, “Natural justice warrants the constitution of a fact-finding committee to enquire into the entire episode of October 21, 22, and 23 which has been a blot on the prestige of the university.” National Democratic Teachers Front described the probe against Tyagi as a “much-needed step to prevent the nearly century-old university slipping into an existential crisis”. Its president AK Bhagi said, “The government gave professor Tyagi many chances to streamline functioning and end adhocism. It is obvious the VC’s main aim was to cause turmoil and disaffection against the central government and UGC through his negative actions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vc-appointee-relieved-of-responsibility/articleshow/78940785.cms||Shradha Chettri
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Cov claims BDO, cop on city fringe||Kolkata: The South 24 Parganas district administration received a jolt on Thursday after a block development officer (BDO) and an inspector-in-charge (IC) of police died of Covid on the same day. Mandirbazaar BDO Syed Ahamed (56) breathed his last at 8.30am at Bangur Hospital. He was admitted there three days ago. In the early hours of Thursday, Nodakhali police station’s IC Anindya Basu (47) died of Covid at a private hospital off EM Bypass.While there has been much hullabaloo over the spread of Covid in the city’s northern fringe, the infection has also started spreading in Kolkata’s southern fringes of Diamond Harbour, Falta and Mograhat. Covid numbers in these three areas together stands at 17 at present. SDO Diamond Harbour Sukanta Saha described Ahamed as an efficient and dedicated official. “He worked without rest in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan to provide relief to the affected and helped make extensively damaged roads motorable once again. Besides, he undertook extensive drives to create awaerness among people about Covid -19. He also worked tirelessly to control prices of essentials in local markets,” the SDO added.He added, “He first had temperature on October 19. He tested positive for Covid-19 two days later. After his condition worsened, he was admitted to MR Bangur hospital three days ago.”The IC was admitted to a private hospital in Alipore on October 12. A 2000 batch officer, Basu had been posted at Nodakhali, where led the fight against Covid from the front after a constable from Nodakhali police lost his life three months ago due to Covid. Basu’s death is the 38th in Bengal Police. So far, there have been 15 deaths in Kolkata Police, which has taken up the cop death number in Bengal to 53. In Bengal, nearly 10,000 cops were affected by Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-claims-bdo-cop-on-city-fringe/articleshow/78942124.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Jeweller falls to death from 10th floor in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 64-year-old jeweller, who had recently lost his wife and whose business was badly hit since the beginning of lockdown, allegedly jumped off his brother’s 10th-floor flat in the Girish Park area on Thursday. The incident was reported around 12.45pm from Madan Chatterjee Street. Cops said the senior citizen, Mahesh Kumar Saraf, had been facing financial problems. “Saraf was a resident of Benarasi Ghosh Street. He reportedly told his brother, Chandra Kant, that he had come to the latter’s flat on some important business,” said an investigating officer. The cop added: “During inquiry, it transpired that the the 64-year-old had a gems and jewellery shop at Burrabazar and since the beginning of lockdown his business has been suffering. It never really took off even after unlock. Saraf is survived by his son and daughter. Also, he was yet to come to terms with his wife’s death. No suicide note was found. No complaint was also received from the family regarding his death,” said an investigating officer. “However, the exact reason behind his death needs to be probed. We had taken him to RG Kar Hospital, where he was declared dead. We have begun inquest proceedings and will be speaking to his family members soon to ascertain the exact reason behind this step,” said DC (Central) Sudheer Kumar Neelakantam. “According to studies, 90% of the suicide cases are related to depression. Depression is a silent killer. We need to talk about depression and other mental illness more often, so that the stigma attached with the ailment can be driven away. Those suffering from the illness can seek professional help before it is too late,” a senior doctor associated with the Institute of Psychiatry (IOP) at IPGMER, SSKM Hospital, told TOI. With the pandemic hitting the city, there have been more than 50 suicide cases in the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jeweller-falls-to-death-from-10th-floor/articleshow/78942088.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Inquiry ordered against Mysore Palace Board deputy director||MYSURU: Following allegations of corruption levelled against deputy director of the Mysore Palace Board TS Subramanya – members of the Dalit Sangharsha Samithi have been protesting in front of the Mysuru deputy commissioner’s office for the past week – DC Rohini Sindhuri ordered an inquiry to probe the charges.  DSS activists have charged Subramanya with indulging in corruption in the recruitment of Group D employees and procurement of closed-circuit television cameras. They have also alleged irregularities in the execution of decorating the Darbar Hall of the palace with gold leaves, a task Subramanya was entrusted with. Rohini, also the executive director of the palace board, instructed the assistant commissioner of the Mysuru sub-division NC Venkata Raju to helm the probe into the allegations. Raju has been asked to submit a report based on his findings. Led by Choranahalli Shivanna, DSS activists have been protesting in front of the DC’s office seeking the district administration’s intervention to ‘Save Mysore Palace’. The protest was withdrawn after the DC ordered a probe into the allegations. “We have already submitted all the documents pertaining to the allegations that we have levelled against Subramanya to the state government’s chief secretary, and met all the senior officials in the Vidhana Soudha. We will offer all support to the investigating officer by providing all the necessary details in the course of the inquiry,” Shivanna told TOI. DSS activists attributed Subramanya’s rise in the ranks of the government, from a senior computer operator at the Chamarajendra Government College of Visual Arts to his current position as the palace board deputy director – a non-transferrable post – to the use of his political power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/inquiry-ordered-against-palace-board-deputy-director/articleshow/78938742.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Umbrella body to organise, boost organ transplant in UP||LUCKNOW: In what may give the much needed push to organ transplantation activities in Uttar Pradesh, the state government has decided to set up the State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO), a state-level body that can revolutionize the sector in a big way. Additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said: “Slated to come up at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), the UP SOTTO aims to formalise the system of organ and tissue procurement and its distribution for transplantation.” He added that the body would also work to train the required manpower. It will also work towards the promotion of cadaveric (deceased) organ and tissue donation which will make it extremely easy for patients in need. The body will also monitor organ and tissue transplant services and bring about policy and programme corrections or changes whenever needed to protect the vulnerable poor from organ trafficking. From the patient’s point of view, the system will simplify a number of things. “SOTTO will keep all the information in one place and follow the rules which were made by the national body. We will be working as the organ banking nodal centre. The website of SOTTO will soon be created by the hospital administration so that the patient can get all the details related to organ transplant on a single click,” said Dr Rajesh Harshvardhan, head of hospital administration department at SGPGI. The institutes’s director Prof RK Dhiman said, “An umbrella body will address all the loose ends that impede the development of UP as an organ transplantation centre. Once in place, we will look forward to diversifying from renal transplants to liver, pancreas and even heart in the days to come. The institute will hold awareness and sensitisation campaigns too.” Besides connecting government institutions, the UP SOTTO will also bring private hospitals under its umbrella. In all, 26 institutions will join hands for the cause. On Saturday, SGPGI will conduct the first virtual dialogue on SOTTO which will have representation from over a dozen hospitals. A huge demand and supply gap for organ donation exists in Indian states as per data from Union health ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/umbrella-body-to-organise-boost-organ-transplant-in-up/articleshow/78942114.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Panel to look into GPS-watch issues||CHANDIGARH: The general house of the municipal corporation in its monthly meeting on Thursday decided to constitute a committee of councillors, officers and persons concerned to discuss all issues related to the GPS-enabled watches. Mayor Rajbala Malik will constitute the committee, whose recommendations or decisions will come up before the house for discussion. BJP’s councillor and former mayor Rajesh Kalia said there was no use of the watches as these showed locations of other cities and states due to a major technical fault. “These watches should be withdrawn. There is no need to spend Rs 18 lakh per month on these, especially at a time when the MC is passing through an acute financial crunch. We had brought the devices so that safai karamcharis could be tracked, but the technical glitch has rendered them useless,” he said. Seconding Kalia, BJP councillor and party’s president Arun Sood said, “There are escape routes in the system, as it has come to our notice that employees remove the watches and give them to persons working in the area. We have full-fledged staff to check the safai karamcharis on the spot. Rs 18 lakh is a big amount and the decision needs reconsideration.” Other BJP municipal councillors also supported their partymen and the Congress also gave the watches a thumbs down. Yadav supports watches MC commissioner KK Yadav told the house, “The watches were started on an experimental basis by taking the approval of the general house with a purpose to increase the efficiency of the workers. As per our information, these watches are working perfectly. To date, 323 complaints have been received from 4,000 watches, and 189 were that the employees did not charge them, in 58 cases, devices were found to be damaged. Any reform in a system takes time and my personal view is that we must continue with this GPS-enabled system and if required, take more technical help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-to-look-into-gps-watch-issues/articleshow/78939483.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Opposing arguments lack merit’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Thursday that the 10% reservation for the economically-weak sections (EWS) in general categories will not affect the reservation rights and quota of backward communities. The economic reservation need not be a worry for people who were already entitled to higher reservation rights. “When discussions come up on whether the reservation for SC/ST communities should be continued or not, we emphatically demanded for the continuation of the same. We had been supporting since long the call for 10% reservation for EWS in the general category. Most mainstream political parties also share the same view. Since Constitution amendment was mandatory, that also happened and the law has come into effect in the country,” said Vijayan. Unleashing a virulent attack on Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), for taking a rebellious stand on economic reservation for forward communities, Vijayan said. The League should not forget, ‘Indian Union’, in its name while taking such an unwelcome stand, he said. “Muslim League should take a look at the situation in other states where situation is different for Muslims. In most states, Muslims are not eligible for reservation,” he said. The stand that 10% reservation should not be given to EWS belonging to general category is unacceptable. The government successfully practised this economic reservation in devaswom board appointments recently, he added. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said the protests brewing against economic reservation was an attempt by IUML and other ultra-communal organizations to divide people. “It’s dubious that Muslim organizations and leaders who keep company with CM Pinarayi Vijayan and LDF too have quickly queued up behind IUML leader PK Kunhalikutty in the protest,” he said. Surendran said nobody was opposing a number of privileges enjoyed by the Muslim community. But the League was getting restive when majority communities and Christian denominations are offered some modest assistance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/opposing-arguments-lack-merit/articleshow/78939507.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Fear of public transport fuels surge in electric scooter sharing in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: App-based rental scooter firms such as Bounce, Yulu, Vogo and Evo are looking to deploy more electric vehicles in Bengaluru, following a surge in demand for e-bikes. Firms say e-scooters are environment-friendly and have less operational and maintenance costs and, with a pandemic around, users feel that it is safer than other public transport modes like buses, autorickshaws, cabs and Namma Metro for short-distance commuting. Yulu said it has more than 1,000 bike zones across the city. “Yulu Miracle [electric scooter] has established itself as the safest and the easiest mode of commute. We plan to have a high-speed version in the near future,” said Amit Gupta, co-founder and CEO. He revealed the surge in demand is being fuelled by the need for sanitised mobility solutions, especially from those who do not have the luxury of working from home. “We have seen a lot of new users on our platform who work as support staff in IT firms, in hospitals, banks, delivery businesses and courier services,” Gupta said. “A big portion of our users are taking rides to run errands like grocery shopping etc.” Gupta said vehicles are sanitised multiple times a day and users can see timestamps on their app. Vivekananda Hallekere, co-founder of Bounce, said the firm plans to add 3,000 e-scooters to its existing fleet of 1,500. “Discretionary travel has reduced, but people are moving about for essentials,” he said. “Multiple offices are operating sporadically and we’ve been helping employees travel safely.” Anand Ayyadurai, co-founder and CEO, Vogo, said: “We are strengthening our commitment towards the environment and reducing carbon footprint by bolstering our EV fleet. We have around 350 electric scooters on our platform and we aim to become a 100% electric mobility solution provider.” Evo rentals, which has a fleet size of 18 vehicles in south Bengaluru, is looking put another 100 vehicles on roads in 2021. “All the scooters we have right now are high speed (Ampere zeal) and we are looking forward to introducing low speed scooters as well,” said Saurabh Jain, founder, EVO Rentals Pvt Ltd.  A report by Unu, a German manufacturer of electric scooters, revealed Bengaluru was the global scooter-sharing capital of the world in 2019 with 15,000 shareable bikes including fuel-run vehicles. The Karnataka capital is followed by Madrid (6,350), Paris (6,300), Barcelona (4,600), Taipei (4,000), Milan (2,900), Berlin (2,300), Rome (2,000), Valencia (1,400) and Lisbon (1,000).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-sees-surge-in-demand-for-electric-scooter-sharing/articleshow/78938981.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 30, 2020||Pune||Seropositivity may be over 50% in PCMC areas: Experts||PUNE: A sero survey report released this week of 5,000 residents of Pimpri Chinchwad had found Covid-19 antibodies in 34% of them. But experts who carried out the survey have now said the findings suggest more than 50% of people in the twin towns may actually have antibodies in their blood. The researchers said the increased number takes into account the time antibodies take to form and deplete. It is very likely that a sizeable population that encountered the new coronavirus three months ago may not have detectable antibodies in their bloodstreams now. In fact, studies have found that many recovered patients lost antibodies after just 90 days. Also, some people in the early recovery phase may also not show the antibodies (IgG variant) in their blood. There is a window of two to three weeks before IgG antibodies appear. “So, if at any given point, 35% of a surveyed population shows antibodies, we can safely assume that more than 50% of the population actually has had infection in the past. I believe the PCMC area has almost reached the herd-immunity stage,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. Microbiologist Renu Bharadwaj said, “One study showed that IgG antibodies decline after 105 to 115 days after infection. But T cells (also vital for immunity) are not detected during serosurveys. So such studies underestimate the true immunity levels in a population.” Virologist Deepak Gadkari, a former director of the National Institute of Virology, said compared to residents of slums and tenements, antibody prevalence was low among those in high-income neighbourhoods. He said, “Residents living in the upmarket areas of Pimpri Chinchwad showed antibody prevalence as low as 4%. This suggests that a large number of people from this group remains susceptible to Covid infection. So I would say the herd immunity stage appears to be distant at this point.” Gadkari added that a Covid-19 vaccine is expected to boost antibodies. “But it may require two doses to build robust and long-lasting protective immunity. Additionally, we will need to first vaccinate a very large portion of the population to break the transmission chain and reach the herd immunity stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/seropositivity-may-be-over-50-in-pcmc-areas-experts/articleshow/78940790.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 30, 2020||Surat||Three jobless men among 4 held for chain snatching spree||SURAT: Crime branch sleuths nabbed four chain persons on Thursday for their alleged involvement in eight cases of chain snatching in the city. Police nabbed the accused when they had come to sell the stolen gold chains to a jeweller who regularly purchased these items from the accused. Police arrested the 54-year-old jeweller Amit Mehta, a resident of Kailash Nagar, who used to purchase chains from accused Mohit Patel, 21, Akshay alias Kalu Uttpure, 20, and Karan Tirmale, 20. They also recovered nine gold chains weighing 106.92 gram worth Rs 4.45 lakh and also seized a motorcycle and four mobile phones. Five cases were registered against the gang in Umra police station, two in Khatodara and one in Rander, said cops. The jobless youths met in jail and developed friendship, said cops, adding that they utilized the money to buy new mobile phones and clothes. Patel was caught for nine chain snatching and robbery offences in different areas of the city, while Uttpure was caught for six snatching and robbery cases. Tirmale was caught for bale theft and attack. "In 2020, total 32 cases of snatching have been reported of which, 28 have already been detected. Police will ensure that people can move on city roads fearlessly," said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. Meanwhile, cops also nabbed a resident of Ahmedabad on Thursday for his involvement in six cases of theft and chain snatching. Umesh alias Lalo Khatik, 25, a native of Chanod village in Pali of Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-jobless-men-among-4-held-for-chain-snatching-spree/articleshow/78940778.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu cocks a snook at governor, issues GO for 7.5% medical quota for govt students||CHENNAI: With Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit showing reluctance to give his assent for the bill to provide 7.5% quota for government school students in medical courses, the state government took the executive route on Thursday and issued a GO to reserve seats from this year. According to the government, more than 300 MBBS seats in government medical colleges and self-financing colleges will now be available for students from government schools. The order will benefit those who have studied from Class VI to XII in state government schools and have cleared NEET for admission to undergraduate medical, dental, ayurveda, siddha, unani and homeopathy courses in state-run medical colleges and state-quota seats in self-financing colleges. A bill to reserve 7.5% seats, passed by the state assembly on September 15, is pending with governor Banwarilal Purohit, who has sought legal opinion on the matter. In response to a representation from DMK president M K Stalin, the governor had said that he would need three to four weeks to take a decision on the matter. The horizontal 7.5% quota shall be provided in each category of vertical reservation followed in TN within 69% reservation from 2020, the order said. Poor kids can switch to govt schools, avail benefitThe GO issued by health secretary J Radhakrishnan read, “Since the NEET-UG results have now been declared and the admission process has started, there is an urgency to decide on this issue and since the power toissueexecutivedirections under Article 162 of the Constitution is coextensive with legislative powers, pending decision of the governor, the government has taken the decision.” The horizontal reservation of 7.5% shall be provided in each category of vertical reservation followed in Tamil Nadu within 69% reservation from 2020, the order said. Students from government schools, including schools run by panchayats, municipalities and corporations, welfare schools for adi dravidar, tribals, kallar reclamation, BC/MBC/ differently-abled welfare, forest, social defence (borstal) and residential, will be eligible for the quota. The GO said children belonging to weaker sections who have studied in private schools up to Class VIII under Right to Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2008 too will benefit, if they study in government schools from Class IX. Students in government schools would also be entitled to compete for seats, other than those set apart on a preferential basis, along with students of private schools, the order said. It directed the director of medical education, additional director of medical education and the directorate of Indian medicine and homeopathy to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-cocks-a-snook-at-guv-issues-go-for-7-5-med-quota-for-govt-students/articleshow/78940865.cms||Pushpa Narayan
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Tourism department chalks out plan to limit visitors at beaches||KOCHI: As visitors will be allowed at beaches from Sunday, district tourism department has chalked out a detailed plan to ensure the safety of tourists. The crowd levels will be restricted and visitors will be redirected to the nearest beach if their numbers exceed the gathering limit at a particular destination. As per the chart prepared by the tourism department, the maximum number of visitors allowed at Fort Kochi beach at a time is 500. In Cherai beach, it is 150 tourists in walkway and 500 tourists in beach. In Munambam beach, the number will be limited to 200 at a time. To manage the crowd, the department will try to set up a common entry point in each beach. Though it is difficult to ensure single-point entry at beaches, Kudumbashree workers will be deployed for the purpose. In order to restrict the number of visitors, the department has fixed a maximum time limit of one hour for vehicle parking. “Kudumbashree workers will keep a tab on this,” a tourism department official said. In Fort Kochi, where the number of tourists is normally high, more officials, Kudumbashree workers and tourism police will be deployed for crowd management. According to the tourism department guidelines, officials should be deployed at the entry points to ensure thermal check, sanitization and hand wash facilities. There should be markings in the areas like walkways, seating areas, shops, etc. so as to ensure social distancing. A register for entering the details of tourists should be maintained at each destination. Special cleaning drives should be conducted for ensuring cleanliness and hygiene of restrooms. “We have cleaned-up the beaches. Facilities for ensuring Covid protocol also have been arranged,” said an official with the district tourism promotion council (DTPC). “We are planning to redirect tourists if their numbers exceed the set limit in a particular destination. If more tourists arrive at Cherai, for example, we will redirect those who use their own vehicles to nearby Kuzhuppilly, Raktheswari and Munambam beaches. Officials stationed at all the beaches in Ernakulam will communicate with each other so as to keep a track of the tourist flow at fixed intervals,” the official said. Tourism department has already opened the destinations other than beaches like Ezhattumukham and Boothathankettu. “As of now, it is mostly tourists from within the district who visit these destinations. Still, we are getting good response,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tourism-department-chalks-out-plan-to-limit-visitors-at-beaches/articleshow/78939536.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farm fires hit season’s peak, share in PM2.5 rises to 36%||NEW DELHI: The contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s air increased from 18% on Wednesday to 36% on Thursday — the highest this season, stated System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences. Track the pollution level in your cityAt 2,912, the season’s highest single-day fire count in the neighbouring states was also recorded on Wednesday. It exceeded the number of farm fires reported in October last year, as SAFAR data showed that over 2,700 such incidents were recorded in a single day in the neighbouring states on October 26, 2019. However, farm fires were at its peak in November last year, when over 5,000 incidents were reported in a day. According to experts, the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 has suddenly gone up due to the increase in the number of farm fires and extremely calm wind impacting the dispersion of pollutants. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The calm wind speed has been prevailing over Delhi at night for the past few days. However, the average wind speed on Thursday was below 5kmph, which severely affected the dispersion of pollutants.” L S Kurinji, research analyst, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), told TOI that, “Surface winds in Punjab were relatively higher (8-12kmph) on Wednesday, favouring the downwind transport of smoke. In addition, Delhi saw calm surface wind with low nighttime mixing height resulting in low ventilation on Wednesday. This hindered the dispersion of locally generated pollution. These factors combined with the increased share of farm fires caused a spike in Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels on Thursday.” SAFAR’s bulletin on Thursday said that stagnant wind-related non-dispersion of local pollution combined with increased magnitude of external intrusion could be major factors for the increase in PM2.5 levels in the next 24 hours. According to CEEW, which analysed the data from satellite images, from September 1-October 28 this year, 21,670 and 2,895 farm fires were observed in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. “Earlier this season, fires were predominantly observed in districts such as Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Firozpur and Fazilka in Punjab. Over the past few days, fires have progressed over other Punjab districts, including Sangrur, Patiala, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot, and Bhatinda. In Haryana, fires were mostly seen over districts such as Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Fatehabad,” said Kurinji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-fires-hit-seasons-peak-share-in-pm2-5-rises-to-36/articleshow/78942153.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Surrender order: SC relief for undertrials||NEW DELHI: Over 2,500 undertrials out on bail due to Covid-19, many of whom are accused of heinous crimes, got relief from the Supreme Court on Thursday after it stayed a Delhi High Court order asking them to surrender in a phased-manner between November 2 and 13. A bench of justices L Nageshwar Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi also issued notice to Delhi government and jail administration on a petition by National Forum on Prison Reforms (NFPR). SC, in its order, stayed the high court’s directions to 2,300 undertrials and 356 prisoners granted bail to start surrendering from next month. NFPR challenged the high court’s full bench order, ending its blanket relief extending all interim stays and bails granted prior to and during the lockdown after October 31. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves and advocate Ajay Verma submitted that the direction was completely against the spirit of the SC’s March 23 order to decongest prisons in the country. The plea said the high court brushed aside eight recommendations/orders of its own high powered committee (HPC) and grossly misunderstood the data presented to it by wrongly concluding that only three coronavirus cases existed among the 16,000 inmates. Moreover, the observations on release of undertrial prisoners on the allegation that they had committed “heinous crimes” were dealt with by HPC carefully and reasons given, but these had not even been looked at, it said. The high court and district courts had started releasing inmates in March to decongest prisons and periodically extended all interim bails granted prior to and during the lockdown. It had last on August 24 extended all the interim orders till October 31. A full bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh had last week directed all undertrials to surrender in a phased-manner between November 2 and November 13, taking note of the claim of jail authorities that only three prisoners out of 16,000 currently behind bars, remained Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/surrender-order-sc-relief-for-undertrials/articleshow/78940903.cms||Abhinav Garg
October 30, 2020||India||Statement not mine, but info on health issues true, says Rajini||CHENNAI: Breaking his silence, actor Rajinikanth on Thursday said a “statement” purported to have been issued by him and widely circulated in social media was not from him. “But the reference to my health condition and advice from doctors are true. I will consult Rajini Makkal Mandram people at the right time and announce my political stand to the people,” Rajinikanth tweeted in Tamil. The purported statement reportedly prepared for private circulation among his friends and advisors was leaked in social media on Tuesday. In the statement, he outlined his “original” plans for launching his political party, state of his health in the wake of a renal transplant he underwent in the US in 2016 and how Covid-19 had played havoc with his plans. Following advice from doctors, he left the decision on his political plunge to his fans and the public, the statement had said. Rajinikanth’s tweet on Thursday set off a fresh round of political debate in the state about what would be his eventual decision. “When it comes to his political entry, it is always a ‘comma’ and not a ‘full stop’. He has managed to keep the people guessing for years,” said an associate of the actor. “It has reached an inflection point. At the maximum, he has another five months to take the call,” a political strategist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/statement-not-mine-but-info-on-health-issues-true-says-rajini/articleshow/78943036.cms||D Govardan
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||VNIT’s 43% posts, 128 seats vacant: RTI||Nagpur: While traditional universities are battling against vacancies of teaching and non-teaching staff, national institutions are not far behind. Like Nagpur University, the prestigious Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) too is facing similar issues. An RTI reply by VNIT faculty in-charge Rajendra Tirpude said about 43% posts are vacant in teaching and non-teaching categories out of the total sanctioned ones. Vacancy in teaching staff is 96, which is less by 14 in comparison to last year. The state’s only NIT has 335 sanctioned teaching posts of which only 239 have been filled. The reply to RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar’s queries further informed that the number of vacant seats in the premier institution is also increasing every year. In the last six years, 533 seats went vacant on account of various reasons like migration to other NITs or universities abroad. From 44 in 2014, the seat vacancy touched an all time high of 128 this year. Aspirants from entire country dream of getting admission in VNIT, which is ranked among top 10 NITs, yet seats are vacant. Nonetheless, staff vacancy didn’t affect VNIT’s performance in academics. It continued to climb higher in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). In 2017, VNIT was ranked 42nd, while in the next two years, it maintained its position at 31st. Last year, it jumped four places to be at 27th rank among all engineering colleges in the country. In comparison to the last academic session, the VNIT’s (erstwhile Visvesvaraya Regional College of Engineering) placement record also improved with graduates receiving better salary package. Last year, the highest salary offered was Rs23.86 lakh per annum while the average package was Rs7.5 lakh. This year, the highest package was Rs38.21 lakh while average salary was Rs8.55 lakh. (With inputs from Anchal Bhatia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vnits-43-posts-128-seats-vacant-rti/articleshow/78940918.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Woman loses Rs 12 Lakh in job fraud||PANCHKULA: A Kalka resident duped a woman of Panchkula of Rs 12.20 lakh on the pretext of providing her a government job. Shalu Aggarwal, a resident of Haripur village, Sector 4, said when she met Ajay Kashyap, a resident of Kalka, he claimed that he had links with political parties and could help her get a government job in Haryana. For the job, he sought Rs 20 lakh. She paid him Rs 12.20 lakh in four transactions between February 2019 and May 2019. Shalu gave him the photocopies of her educational certificates, Aadhaar card and passport size photos. Ajay also took her to the secretariat, Chandigarh, but always asked her to wait outside. He kept assuring her that her interview will be conducted soon. As time lapsed, she requested him to return her money. The accused then offered her a job at a hotel in Bangkok, but she refused. He then started ignoring her calls and threatened her of dire consequences if she tried to contact him again. She then filed a complaint with the cops. The police have registered a case under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Pinjore police station. ASI Anand Kumar said, “We have registered a case and are investigating the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-loses-rs-12l-in-job-fraud/articleshow/78939537.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: House vows to give vendors old sites||CHANDIGARH: The general house of the municipal corporation resolved on Thursday to give street vendors their original sites, except sectors 17, 19, and 22. The councillors recommended even sites in own wards where the local won't face any problem. But the municipal commissioner has told them that the allotments were based on the Vendors Act and can’t be changed at this stage. Moreover, he will take legal opinion. The house also resolved to reduce the monthly fee of all-category vendors to half till December to help them tide over Covid-19-induced crisis. The councillors asked why some vendors were packed off far even when the locals had not objected. It reduced their income. The UT urban planning department has marked vending zones already, while the MC has also spend crores of rupees on developing these spots for this role. The matter is in the Punjab and Haryana high court, which doesn't want to pass a hasty judgment. The Congress has demanded a CBI inquiry into the private company's vendor survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/house-vows-to-give-vendors-old-sites/articleshow/78939523.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||EPCA lauds creation of the new body that took its job||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority wrote to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday, welcoming the formation of a new commission to manage air quality in the National Capital Region. The proposed panel will replace the 22-year-old EPCA, which stood dissolved as on Thursday. Delhi government and environment experts also approved the setting up of the new body, but said the central government’s intent had to be backed by political will to deal with pollution. “It clearly shows the intent and determination of the Union government to mitigate toxic pollution in the region,” said EPCA chairman Bhure Lal and member Sunita Narain in the letter to Javadekar. “Over the past many years, we have worked to find solutions and to recommend action through our reports to the government and to the honourable Supreme Court. We are grateful for the consideration given to our work and to the fact that many of our recommendations have been implemented.” Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said the state government welcomed the Centre’s ordinance on the new commission. However, he added, “Political will is required to combat air pollution. We do not see how the new commission is different from existing bodies like EPCA or CPCB.” Rai added that what was actually needed was a body headed by the Union environment minister with all state chief ministers as members. “We need to fix targets and accountability, else we will keep passing the buck from one commission to the next,” said Rai. Enumerating the measures it took since its formation in 1998, the EPCA letter said its present key works needed to be expedited and implemented by the new commission. The outgoing pollution monitoring panel suggested “fourth-generation reforms” like “massive augmentation of intracity public transport” and weaning away of industries, power plants and other users from polluting fuels like coal to natural gas, electricity and renewable to ensure clean combustion. Experts told TOI that while the new body could play a key role in coordinating pollution alleviation steps, only enforcement on the ground would bring about significant change. “The new commission, through sustained attention to air quality, can help resolve inter-departmental coordination problems, but equally, without clear benchmarks of progress and without ways of devising creative solutions, it could reproduce old deadlocks,” opined Dr Navroz Dubash, Centre for Policy Research, and lead coordinating author, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, Council for Energy Environment and Water, pointed out, “Unlike EPCA, which had representatives from Delhi institutions and public agencies, the new body will have representatives from all NCR states and its jurisdiction also goes beyond NCR. Having said that, the ordinance only sets up a dedicated authority to curb air pollution in NCR and adjoining areas but doesn’t outline the sectoral mandates.” Dr Ajay Mathur, director-general, TERI, said, “An important issue is the precedence accorded to the decisions of the commission with respect to those of the central and state pollution control boards. Mutually inconsistent actions among states (for example, GRAP in NCR and paddy stubble burning in upwind states) impede short-term air quality improvements and long-term solutions.” The ordinance adapts key learnings from the American experience, observed professor S N Tripathi, head, civil engineering department, IIT-Kanpur, and steering committee member of the National Clean Air Programme. “While the Environment Protection Agency is an empowered body, California posed a singular challenge as a hotspot. So, the California Air Resource Board was set up to tackle that particular airshed,” he said. Some eco activists, however, wondered whether the new body would be different from EPCA. “You are replacing one authority with a new one and a dozen senior bureaucrats,” said activist Vimlendu Jha “There is no mention of engaging and empowering grassroot executives who actually run the show and as far as we know nothing about funds and powers for CPCB or SPCBs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epca-lauds-creation-of-the-new-body-that-took-its-job/articleshow/78942156.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Deferment plea in mining case dismissed||HYDERABAD: Ali Khan, an accused in an illegal mining of iron ore case on Thursday urged the Hyderabad CBI court to defer the hearing in the illegal mining case filed by CBI. BR Madhusudan Rao, the special judge for CBI courts, however, dismissed his plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deferment-plea-in-mining-case-dismissed/articleshow/78940893.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Now, Orthodox Church backs economically weaker section quota||KOTTAYAM: Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church welcomed the state government’s move to provide 10% reservation for economically weaker section (EWS) among forward communities. Malankara association secretary Biju Oommen on Thursday said economic reservation would help attain social parity at the earliest. If the principles of reservation have to be meaningful, the economically backward in forward communities should be given special consideration, he said, and also urged the government to implement the economical reservation with retrospective effect from January 3, 2020. The Syro-Malabar church had earlier slammed the UDF for its ambiguous position on the economic reservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-orthodox-church-backs-ews-quota/articleshow/78939550.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada district’s Covid fatality rate is highest in Karnataka||MANGALURU: Although its healthcare system is far more advanced that most other districts in the state, Dakshina Kannada’s case fatality rate (CFR) is highest in the state and is even higher than the state average, the national average and that of many other states and Union territories in the country. As on Monday, the district had recorded 668 Covid-19 fatalities from a total of 29,185 infections – case mortality rate of 2.2%, far higher than the national average (79.9 lakh cases and 1.2 lakh deaths) of 1.5%. Dakshina Kannada’s CFR is higher than neighbouring Goa (582 deaths), Andaman and Nicobar Islands (58), Arunachal Pradesh (35), Chandigarh (222), Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu (2), Himachal Pradesh (293), Ladakh (71), Manipur (144), Meghalaya (81), Mizoram (0), Nagaland (33), Puducherry (588), Sikkim (65) and Tripura (344). “The high CFR is surprising since DK has one of the best healthcare systems in the country, whereas Udupi with a total of 21,650 cases has recorded only about 180 deaths,” said a doctor. “Both districts share almost the same geography and culture, and yet the death rate is much higher in DK.” Ramachandra Bairy, DK district health officer, pointed out that the district is home to more than eight medical colleges and dozens of hospitals and therefore there is a huge inflow of patients from about 15 other districts. “By the time patients reach here, they are in a critical state and in the end stage of the disease. Their numbers are also added to the district tally.” He said even some deaths due to accidents or other incidents are added to the Covid-19 tally. “Many road and other accident victims test positive posthumously and they are also added to the tally,” said Bairy. Despite a high CFR, DK stands fourth highest in the number of cases in Karnataka. Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru and Ballari share the first three places. DK’s death rate was at its peak at the end of April (13.6%) and reduced to 1.6% in June. The mortality rate again increased to 2.4 % in July and currently stands at 2.2%. The concentration of cases was previously highest in Mangaluru city, its periphery and Bantwal taluk, but it has now shifted to Puttur and Belthangady taluk. Currently, the case fatality rate in Puttur and Belthangady is 2.8% and 2% respectively. Dakshina Kannada district administration data shows that until the end of July, Mangaluru and Bantwal accounted for 70% of cases. “For the past couple of months, Puttur and Belthangady taluks have been witnessing a surge in cases and fatalities,” said deputy commissioner Dr KV Rajendra. “There’s been an increase in the number of senior citizens with comorbidities dying.” Dr Ashok H, district Covid-19 nodal officer, revealed the positivity rate in Puttur and Belthangady is 12.9% and 11.7% respectively, far higher than the district average of 9.6%. “The numbers are alarming,” he admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-districts-case-fatality-rate-highest-in-state/articleshow/78938820.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 30, 2020||Bareilly||2 hurt as boiling mentha tank explodes in Sambhal||Bareilly: Two workers at a mentha factory sustained 40% burns when a boiling tank exploded on Thursday afternoon. The accident took place in a factory under Sambhal's Chandausi police station. Dr Sandeep Singh at the Chandausi community health centre said, “The two workers have received around 40% burn injuries. After giving them first aid we referred them to a higher centre in Moradabad." Devendra Sharma, SHO, Chandausi police station, said, “The injured, Deepak Mishra and Narattam Yadav, were provided first aid at Chandausi and shifted to a higher facility in Moradabad. We have so far not received any complaint regarding the matter."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-hurt-as-boiling-mentha-tank-explodes-in-sambhal/articleshow/78937279.cms||Maria Khan
October 30, 2020||Pune||Daily infection count drops below 50 in most wards in Pune municipal corporation limits||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 count has dropped below 50 in most PMC wards since the last one week, with areas under Bhavani Peth, Dhole Patil Road and Shivajinagar reporting single-digit cases over the past few days. The areas under Bhavani Peth have reported less than 10 cases for the last four days, least among all civic wards. On Wednesday, only two new cases were recorded from the ward limits, while on previous two days (October 27 and 26), it added just three new cases on each day, the data available with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) showed. Civic officials said daily cases have been ranging from 20 to 30 in most other wards. “Among all the wards, Hadapsar-Mundhwa is the sole area that recorded more than 50 cases on two days in the last one week,” an official said, while citing the PMC data. A civic official said, “Spread of the infection (Covid-19) has dropped significantly in most slum pockets. The ward offices have been told to continue awareness drives in the densely populated localities as a precautionary measure.” Mayor Muralidhar Mohol also confirmed the decline in cases in the city and said people needed to stay alert as the infection was still there. “People should continue the use of face masks and avoid unnecessary gatherings,” Mohol said. Since the outbreak in March, the PMC areas have recorded 1.60 lakh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-infection-count-drops-below-50-in-most-wards-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/78940895.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 30, 2020||India||Army asks CBI to probe ‘graft’ in construction work in Meerut||NEW DELHI: The Army has handed over to CBI a case of alleged corruption in the shoddy construction of a married accommodation project (MAP) in Meerut under the aegis of the Military Engineer Services (MES). Officials say the Meerut case is just another indicator of the way the much-touted MAP, with sanctioned costs of Rs 6,033 crore and Rs 13,682 crore for Phases I and II to provide housing for military personnel, is being run around the country. “There has to be some accountability in the MES, the civilian contractors and other agencies engaged in MAP,” said an officer. The Army is likely to hand over other such construction cases, including a major fake bill racket in Ladakh, to CBI. “Money is being swindled…One only has to see some residential quarters being provided to officers and jawans across the country. The Salaria Officers’ Enclave in Delhi, for instance,” said another officer. TOI had earlier reported the case of a four-and-a-half-year-old boy who had fallen to his death from his sixth-floor home in a naval officers’ colony at Dabolim in Goa due to faulty construction in 2017. A window grill in the newly-constructed eight-storey building had given way because it had been simply pasted with just an adhesive .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-asks-cbi-to-probe-graft-in-construction-work-in-meerut/articleshow/78943037.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||20 parents call out Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association's ‘double fault’||CHANDIGARH: Centre of bad news for a year, the city's lawn tennis association took more flak before its Wednesday annual general meeting when the parents of 20 trainees dropped a letter bomb on the club president. Reporting some irregularities, the parents ask the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) president for justice, besides the sacking of head coach Romen Singh and chief operating officer Megharaj. They ask him about the pending age-verification committee to screen players for Chandigarh Academy for Rural Tennis (CHART). A club source, requesting anonymity, tells TOI that: "The matter did pop up at the meeting but wasn't discussed at length." The CLTA is yet to suspend five trainees accused of sexual harassment. The source said: "Those boys aren't training anymore at the Sector-10 centre, hence no disciplinary action." Earlier this year, TOI reported how another parent accused three CHART trainees of fudging their age. One of these boys joined India's Junior Davis Cup team, while another came out four years older than declared. The Haryana health department trashed his false age certificate. These three boys were among the five CLTA trainees charged with outraging the modesty of three club minors in August last year, besides harassing them sexually and stalking them. This July, a dozen parents took the matter to UT adviser Manoj Parida. One of the complainants said: "The action he (Parida) promised hasn't come. For a stricter action, we'll now meet UT administrator V P Singh Badnore." TOI tried to reach CLTA president Viswajeet Khanna but he didn't answer the repeated calls. Association secretary Sudhir Rajpal, did pick up the call once but refrained from making a comment, saying: "I am in another meeting, please speak to (COO) Meghraj."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-parents-call-out-cltas-double-fault/articleshow/78939557.cms||Pratyush Raj
October 30, 2020||Delhi||New DU administration begins ‘purge’, axes Dyal Singh official||NEW DELHI: In what is being termed as the beginning of a “purge” in Delhi University, Rajiv Nayan, the governing body chairperson of Dyal Singh College, was removed from his post by the new administration of the varsity. Nayan, a senior research associate of Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defense Studies, told TOI he was not given a reason for his ouster. “I have received a letter from DU asking me not to continue as the GB chairperson. It could be because of my proactive role in exposing corruption in the investment of provident fund by the college and plagiarism by Pawan Kumar Sharma, the principal of Dyal Singh College (Evening),” he claimed. The plagiarism charge against Sharma was levelled by college teacher Naveen Gaur. “Others and I had lodged complaints against Sharma to DU and UGC for corruption, illegalities and irregularities in construction and plagiarism. I had also raised these issues in the DU academic council meetings in June and July 2019. Unfortunately, neither the DU administration nor UGC responded to the complaints,” claimed Gaur. A committee formed by the GB chairperson in July found Sharma guilty of over 84% plagiarism in one of his theses. “The GB unanimously sought the removal of Sharma from the post of principal. But the DU administration took no action because by then vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi had gone on sick leave,” Nayan stated. “We had also demanded from the DU administration not to give an extension to Sharma. But he was given an extension till 2023. This is shameful. I had also requested the university to give me permission to investigate Sharma for corruption in appointment of teachers. The principal indulged in intimidating tactics against me for days,” claimed Nayan. Responding to the allegations, Sharma said, “If there was corruption in investment of provident funds, then the GB chairperson should have initiated an inquiry. In fact, he did not let me invest the funds despite repeated requests since June.” Regarding the plagiarism investigation, he said the committee formed by the GB chairperson was “illegal.” “According to the Delhi University Act, the chairperson cannot constitute a committee to investigate plagiarism. Only when something wrong is found does the case go to the institutional academic integrity panel, which is the executive council of the university. The chairperson acted in a hurry just to remove me from the post of principal flouting all norms,” claimed Sharma. DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray said, “The reason for Nayan’s removal could be because of his investigation into the plagiarism charges and also for not accepting the principal’s authority when investigation was approved. While the situation is unprecedented, Nayan also delayed salaries of ad hoc teachers and investment of provident funds, which could also be the reason behind his removal.” Despite repeated attempts by TOI, South Campus director Suman Kundu did not respond to queries. Balram Pani, DU dean of colleges, said, “Nayan was removed after the administration received complaints against him regarding withholding of funds meant for ad hoc teachers and from the SC/ST commission for discrimination.” Earlier, TOI had reported that a complaint had been sent to National Commission for Backward Classes over alleged discrimination in the appointment of ad hoc teachers from the SC community at Dyal Singh College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-du-administration-begins-purge-axes-dyal-singh-official/articleshow/78940959.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to sell tomatoes at reduced price||HYDERABAD: After the supply of onions by marketing department for wholesale price, the state government is set to supply tomatoes also at a cheaper rate at Rythu Bazars. After onions, tomato prices are also rising in the city. Tomatoes will be supplied with a cap on the amount that can be brought per person, at a cost of around Rs 40. The state government has begun supplying onions at a rate of Rs 35 at Rythu Bazars, but sale is limited to two kg per person, who have to carry an identity card.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-sell-tomatoes-at-reduced-price/articleshow/78940931.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Subhash Park to be out-of-bounds for now||KOCHI: Though tourism activities have resumed in the district, Subhash Bose Park, which is the main recreation centre in the city, is yet to be opened. According to Kochi corporation authorities, Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) is carrying out certain maintenance work on the park and so it can be opened only after the completion of the work. The CSML had dug up a trench inside the park so as to lay a pipeline to ensure smooth flow of storm water into the backwaters. The CSML officials said that the work undertaken by the agency is over. As per the guidelines issued by the government, recreation centres like museums and parks can be reopened from October 12 by adopting Covid protocol. Parks owned by the agencies like DTPCs have already been opened, officials said. Meanwhile, Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) has agreed to sponsor the cost of maintenance of the park for one year. Kochi corporation has entrusted Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED) with the maintenance of the park. “C-HED doesn’t have its own fund. So, we had to rely on corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of firms for carrying out the maintenance. Earlier, a private financial firm had sponsored the cost for one year. They had expressed their willingness to continue the sponsorship. It was then that flood hit the state in 2018 and the private firm’s CSR fund had been given to the chief minister’s distress relief fund. Now, CSL has agreed to provide the cost of maintenance for one year,” said C-HED secretary Rajan Chedambath. Works on medicinal plant garden and butterfly park are under way. Officials associated with the park operations said that it will be opened without much delay. Measures have been taken for cleaning and sanitizing the park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/subhash-park-to-be-out-of-bounds-for-now/articleshow/78939560.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
October 30, 2020||Pune||No politics over Covid-19 vaccine, says Maharashtra minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said he did not want to politicise the issue of administering the Covid-19 vaccine in Maharashtra, as it was being done in Bihar and Tamil Nadu. “We shall follow the Union government’s guidelines. Let the vaccine come to the state first, then a decision will be taken,” Tope said, when asked if there were any discussions on free vaccination of the frontline Covid workers in the state. He hinted that there could be a provision for getting the vaccines at subsidised rates in the state. “The cost factor would be discussed once the vaccine comes, but it would definitely be subsidised. We have done the same for testing and we should be able to do it for the vaccine,” Tope said. Last week, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the vaccine, when ready, would be administered free to everyone in the state. The BJP’s poll manifesto in Bihar promised free vaccine to the state’s residents. Referring to the announcement about free vaccination in Bihar, Tope said it must have been done because of the elections there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-politics-over-covid-19-vaccine-says-health-minister/articleshow/78940947.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Bundelkhand Expressway to be ready ahead of schedule||LUCKNOW: Over 21% civil work in the 296-km Bundelkhand Expressway has already been finished. Talking to reporters on Thursday, UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi said that the construction work was much ahead of schedule. “I am happy to announce that we will complete the Bundelkhand expressway ahead of the schedule,” he said. Chairing a meeting of the UPEIDA’s board of directors here on Thursday, Awasthi said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has been apprised of the progress in the construction of the Bundelkhand expressway. The CM has expressed satisfaction over the pace with which the work is being done, he said adding that over 21 per cent of the civil work has been completed in the last six months. ‘Even Covid-19 couldn’t hit e-way construction’Even the novel coronavirus pandemic has failed to slow down construction of the expressway, the CEO added. The UPEIDA chairman said that the draft proposal for seeking expression of interests for the PPP model of the proposed Ganga Expressway has been approved by the board and now it would be forwarded to the state cabinet for its approval. He said that after receiving the cabinet’s nod the work on Ganga expressway would commence. On the defence industrial corridor in Kanpur and Aligarh, Awasthi said that the UPEIDA has decided to open its offices in both the cities for facilitating investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bundelkhand-e-way-much-ahead-of-schedule-awasthi/articleshow/78942159.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Just putting a stop to waste burning can improve Delhi’s air by 10%||NEW DELHI: Just controlling the burning of garbage in the open can reduce pollutants in Delhi’s air by up to 10%. A low hanging fruit, and yet nothing much is being done in this direction. Along with municipal waste being incinerated, the winter months also see burning of plastics and tyres for warmth on the streets, a fact indicated by the presence of chlorides in the air. In October alone, Delhi Fire Services received 751 calls related to garbage burning, a third of all fire calls made to the firemen. The three municipal corporations are aware of the problem. In a 10-day period between October 17 and 27, the civic bodies detected more than 280 cases of garbage burning and booked the accused, at the same time hauling up 1,035 people for illegal dumping of garbage and plastic waste. There are 102 teams — 48 of the north corporation, 26 of SDMC and 28 of EDMC — on day and night patrolling and inspection to check these civic misdemeanours. According to local data, these teams visited over 1,800 sites in the 10 days. TimesViewPollution is a hydra-headed menace. Some need long-term solutions. But others, like garbage burning, even though occurring on a large scale, can be controlled by focused and creative approaches. It is proven that garbage can also be a resource. Alternative waste management solutions need to look in that direction.Some research has established that Delhi burns 2-3% of the municipal solid waste (MSW) it generates every day. An IIT Kanpur study of the city’s air quality in 2016 also contended that MSW burning contributed nearly 10% to the PM10 and PM2.5 loads in Delhi’s ambient air during winters. The emissions from garbage burning were estimated by the researchers at 2,000 kg/day of PM10 and 1,800 kg/day of PM2.5. The IIT study said, “Any form of garbage burning should be strictly stopped and monitored for compliance. It will require development of infrastructure, including access to remote and congested areas, for effective collection of MSW and disposal at landfill sites.” It also noted that effective control on this front could bring the emissions from this source to zero, leading to an improvement of 5-10% in air quality. A municipal official involved with waste management said that the garbage collection mechanism has improved vastly in the last four years. “While mechanised interventions like compactors have been introduced, most municipal zones now also either have private concessionaries carrying out door-to-door garbage collection or are in process of deploying one for the job,” the official said. The unauthorised colonies and outer Delhi remain troublesome, however, as far daily garbage collection is concerned. Municipal councillors from outer Delhi areas such as Narela, Rohini and Najafgarh have repeatedly raised the issue of irregular waste collection in their wards during corporation meetings. The burden is now increasingly shared by Delhi Fire Services. Besides spraying water in the 13 pollution hotspots identified by the government, waste fires are also important assignments. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, told TOI, “Earlier, calls about garbage fire were low priority because they did not involve loss of life or property. But the situation is different now. All calls about waste burning are high priority and attended to immediately to prevent smoke and pollution.” The fire chief said vigilant citizens inform the department. “On average, we receive 50 calls about garbage burning, for which we usually deploy three fire tenders,” Garg said. Most such calls originate from areas such as Pitampura, Jwala Heri, GT Karnal Road, Rohini and Wazirpur. Fire officials revealed that more than a third of the personnel are involved in the water sprinkling duties and to douse garbage calls. A special team under S K Tomar, deputy chief fire officer, attends to calls about waste incineration round-the-clock. Garg added, “We also tell the firemen to inform local residents not to burn waste in the open as they add to pollution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-putting-a-stop-to-waste-burning-can-improve-city-air-by-10/articleshow/78942164.cms||Paras Singh
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Director arrested for Rs 7 crore fraud||HYDERABAD: Four weeks after the arrest of stock brokerage firm director Rajdeep Manoj Javeri and his employee Anil K Upadhyaya in the Rs 7.19 crore investment cheating case, Central Crime Station (CCS) police have arrested another accused, Prashanth Prabhu, from Bengaluru. According to police, Prabhu, 38, director of an investment agency in Bengaluru is an agent of the stock brokerage firm linked to Rajdeep. On August 5, Pradeep Yarlagadda from Film Nagar approached CCS police alleging that he and his family members had invested Rs 7.19 crore with the firm linked to Rajdeep Manoj Javeri through Prashanth Prabhu between 2017 and 2019. “The accused violated SEBI rules and without purchasing any stocks in the name of complainant and his family members, diverted the funds by providing fabricated stock holding certificates. When the complainant insisted for his money, the accused closed their offices and started to avoid him...,” CCS joint commissioner Avinash Mohanty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/director-arrested-for-rs-7cr-fraud/articleshow/78940948.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||MahaMetro sets 1L per day ridership target||Nagpur: MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit has set a mammoth target of increasing Nagpur Metro ridership to one lakh per day from the current 2,500 in three months. According to him, Metro will take various steps to achieve the target. Currently, Metro does not have feeder services. MahaMetro has submitted a proposal to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for providing city bus connectivity to 16 stations. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has to take the decision. Metro officials will meet the civic chief with the proposal for stopping city bus service on Hingna Road and Wardha Road. The Metro also needs other type of feeder vehicles like e-rickshaws, autorickshaws, e-scooters, e-cycles, etc. While e-cycles, low speed scooters and e-rickshaws are already available, Dixit said they expected to soon get nod from the state transport department for plying e-scooters. “From Monday e-rickshaws will ply between Airport Metro station and airport terminal. People can now go to airport by Metro. Initially, the e-rickshaw ride will be free of cost,” he told TOI. “Soon feeder vehicles will be available at Sitabuldi Interchange, Jai Prakash Nagar, Ajni Square, Rahate Colony and Lokmanya Nagar Metro stations,” said the Metro chief. Dixit said that Metro had tied up with city-based KHS Associates for low speed scooters, e-rickshaws and e-cycles. “The fare is Rs1 per minute for e-cycles, Rs1.5 per minute for e-scooters and Rs10 for a distance of 4 to 5 kilometre on e-rickshaws,” he said. Conventional modes of transport like autorickshaws have not been ignored. “We have tied up autorickshaw organizations and are asking them to download Bharatride mobile app so that Metro passengers can book them like Ola and Uber,” said the MD. MahaMetro had tied up with SBI for a common mobility card — Mahacard. This card is presently available only at Metro stations. Now, Metro will hire an agency to sell Mahacards at various places. Mahacard will enable cashless travel for passengers both in Metro and feeder vehicles. Metro will also launch a massive awareness campaign in local media. “We will appoint station representatives and station ambassadors. Representatives will be Metro officials, who live near a Metro station. They will talk to the residents and encourage them to use the Metro. If residents of any area want some particular facility they will convey it to us. Ambassadors will be prominent citizens, who will do the same job,” said Dixit. Metro Mitras and Auto Mitras will also be appointed to popularize the Metro. STEPS TO BE TAKEN Holding talks with NMC to provide feeder city buses for Metro stations Making available low speed scooters, e-rickshaws and e-cycles at Metro stations Hiring an agency to sell the common mobility card at various locations Encouraging autorickshaws to download Bharatride app for bookings Appointing station representatives, ambassadors and Metro and Auto Mitras Letting out commercial space at stations Beautifying the stations with help of local PSUs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahametro-sets-1l-per-day-ridership-target/articleshow/78941017.cms||Ashish Roy
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases dip in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Active Covid-19 cases in the Nilgiris dipped to 247 when 66 patients were discharged on Thursday. The district added 39 new cases, taking the tally to 6,556. As many as 6,271 patients recovered in the district and the recovery rate stood at 95.65%.While 10 patients are being treated at the ESI hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, three more are admitted in private hospitals in the city. Only 38 people are kept in home quarantine. The remaining cases are treated in government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, besides Covid care centres.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-dip-in-nilgiris/articleshow/78940955.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Kalvakuntla Kavitha begins new innings as MLC||HYDERABAD: The chief minister’s daughter, former Nizamabad MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha took oath as an MLC here on Thursday. Legislative council chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy administered the oath to Kavitha in the presence of ministers, MLAs and TRS members. After the swearing-in, Kavitha took to Twitter to thank the party and the local body representatives who believed in her and supported her through the elections. She tweeted, “Took oath as Kamareddy and Nizamabad districts local bodies MLC. I humbly thank my party for the opportunity and the local body representatives who have elected me for this position (sic).” Kavitha was elected as the MLC in the local bodies constituency after securing a record victory of 89% of the total votes polled. The elections that were to be held on April 7 following the disqualification of sitting MLC R Bhupathi Reddy were postponed indefinitely due to Covid-19. The election was finally held on October 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kavitha-begins-new-innings-as-mlc/articleshow/78940961.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerela: Kin of victims to get title deeds||IDUKKI: Minister for electricity M M Mani will distribute title deeds to relatives of Pettimudy landslide victims on Sunday. Construction work of houses for the victims will begin on the same day, said district collector H Dinesan. As per the recommendation from the collector, the cabinet had issued a special order to allot 50 cents at Kuttiyar Valley near Munnar to the next kin of the victims. According to officials, families of Sharanya,18, Annalakshmi,16, Saraswathi, 50, Seethalakshmi,33, Dipin Chakravarthi, 25, Palaniyamma, 50, Hemalatha, 18, Gopika, 17, Karupppayi, 54, Murukeshan, 45, Murukeshwari, 41, Ganesh, 22, Mayilammal, 52, Karthik, 32, Praveena, 27 and a six-month-old boy Jignesh would get five cents each for constructing houses. Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose, Devikulam MLA S Rajendran, collector H Dinesan and Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan will attend the function on Sunday. “The four people missing in the landslide are also considered as dead and a gazette notification was issued about this. Relatives of the missing people would get the compensation,” said the collector. The landslide devastated Pettimudy, a hilly hamlet in Munnar region, on August 6. The one-month search operation recovered 66 bodies .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kin-of-victims-to-get-title-deeds/articleshow/78939571.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Post-cure care hub at YCM hospital soon||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial (YCM) hospital will soon start a post-Covid management centre for patients, who have recovered from Covid-19 but are still facing some health issues. PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar has given approval to start the centre. Rajendra Wabale, dean of the YCM hospital, said the post-Covid management centre would focus on physical and mental restoration of the recovered patients. “In the physical restoration, we focus on the restoration of lung capacity to contract and expand. Lungs get a severe beating during the fight against Covid-19 and there remains the possibility of reduction of lung capacity,” he said. Increased anxiety could be experienced by the patients after recovery and the fear of the virus could be eliminated with right counselling, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/post-cure-care-hub-at-ycm-hospital-soon/articleshow/78940949.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||Fear of power woes as Punjab sees no goods train service||CHANDIGARH/BATHINDA: There was no movement of goods trains in Punjab for the sixth day following the Centre’s decision to suspend freight trains until all the tracks are cleared. The standoff continued despite a group of Punjab ministers meeting representatives of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) on Thursday. The farmers’ body told the team that the blockade was limited to tracks ferrying coal to two independent power plants (IPP) at Banawali in Mansa and Nalash in Patiala . With BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) declining to vacate the interior railway tracks, supplies could not be resumed to these plants and could result in power supply disruption in Punjab. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, minister in Punjab cabinet, said the BKU was asked to consider shifting their protests from these two rail tracks so that the economy of the state did not suffer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fear-of-power-woes-as-punjab-sees-no-goods-train-service/articleshow/78943039.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK cadres flay DMK bosses||Coimbatore: A day after DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin led a demonstration against AIADMK and minister S P Velumani, more than 2,500 AIADMK cadres staged protests at various places in the city on Thursday condemning DMK chief M K Stalin and his son.Clad in black saris and shirts, AIADMK functionaries and party cadres conducted demonstrations in more than 15 places, including near South Taluk Office, Singnallur, Peelamedu, Ganapathy, Selvapuram and Thudiyalur, condemning Udhayanidhi Stalin for making defamatory remarks against municipal administration minister SP Velumani.AIADMK MLA Amman K Arjunan led the protest near South Taluk office where more than a thousand cadres participated holding placards and party flag. The protesters raised slogans against Stalin, DMK MPs Kanimozhi and Raja, and Udhayanidhi. Arjunan said, “When DMK was in the power in the state, it involved in a series of corruption. The AIADMK will retain power in 2021. DMK leaders involved in corruption will face the music.” He also condemned Udhayanidhi for his derogatory remarks against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and Velumani.Earlier, the party cadres conducted a rally from Idhaya Theivam Maligai (AIADMK party office) on Huzur road to South Taluk office where a small stage was set up by the party to conduct the demonstration. Police closed the entire Huzur Road stretch and traffic was diverted to other routes.AIADMK cadres failed to maintain social distancing during the protest. Meanwhile, DMK MLA N Karthik condemned the city police for allowing the AIADMK to conduct the demonstrations. He said the city police attempted to prevent DMK functionaries and cadres from conducting the demonstration at the same place a few days ago. However, the DMK held the protest and police acted in favour of one side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-cadres-flay-dmk-bosses/articleshow/78940958.cms||A Subburaj
October 30, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Testing exceeds 14 lakh-mark, day’s cases stay under 1,000||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday recorded 1,002 Covid-19 recoveries as against 707 new cases, taking the discharge and tally counts in the region to 3.02 lakh and 3.22 lakh, respectively. Besides, 30 more patients succumbed to coronavirus-related complications in PMR in the last 24 hours, pushing the toll to 7,828. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 303, while the rural areas recorded 231 and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas added 173. As for the new fatalities, the PMC recorded 15, followed by the rural areas (12) and the PCMC limits (3). The region’s total sample testing surged over 14.03 lakh after 6,113 samples were tested on Thursday. The active caseload further dropped to 12,323 in PMR on Thursday night. Health officials said there had been constant drop in active cases in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits and the rural areas. The PMC’s active cases slipped to 5,659 while the caseload in the PCMC areas was reduced to 1,800 on Thursday. In PMC, the number of patients on oxygen support dropped to 1,552 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-exceeds-14l-mark-days-cases-stay-under-1k/articleshow/78940957.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||20% areas in Hubballi have no direct bus service to main terminals||HUBBALLI: The city division of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has launched bus service to Hosur Regional Bus Station from several areas in Hubballi. However, it is yet to start bus services from Raj Nagar, Santosh Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Vijaya Nagar and other areas that fall under Ashok Nagar police station, to any main bus stands of the city. They are connected only with CBT. Anjana B I, a resident of Raj Nagar said only one bus is being run in the morning to Anand nagar, Basaveshwar Nagar, New Bus Stand. “We have to change the bus at Corporation stop to go to Old, New or Hosur Bus Stands. I had written a letter to NWKRTC 3-4 years ago but no response,” she added. Vinayak, a student of Government First Grade College in Raj Nagar said several rural students have to change the bus at Old Bus Stand and then Corporation to reach the college. “The area has Kendriya Vidyalaya No.1, JK School, Pillay School and many more educational institutions and students have to change buses at different places. Due to the inadequate public transport, they cross railway line to reach Hubballi-Dharwad main road,” he rued. Kumar Sankannavar, a teacher at Government High School in Vishweshwar Nagar asserted that lack of city buses to main bus stands has forced residents to buy personal vehicles for their convenience. “However, school children, senior citizens, pregnant women and others are struggling to reach bus stands for their daily need,” he observed. He also noted that these areas, comprising 20% of the total population of Hubballi, are deprived of bus connection with KIMS, SDM Hospital and Dharwad. “Even Nrupatunga Hills, a prime tourist spot, is not connected to the Old Bus Stand or any other main bus stands,” he added. Vivekananda Vishwadnya, Hubballi City Divisional Controller, Hubballi said he will plan to introduce city buses from said areas to bus stands soon on trial basis. “Based on public response, we will decide next step,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/20-areas-in-hubballi-have-no-direct-bus-service-to-main-bus-terminals/articleshow/78938486.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation resumes Sagararani cruise service||KOCHI: Kerala State Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) restarted the service of cruise vessel Sagararani on Thursday evening. “KSINC is pleased to announce the restarting of Sagararani cruise service which has been entertaining native as well as foreign travellers for over 17 years. The vessel is equipped with an air-conditioned conference hall, upper deck, restaurant, etc,” KSINC said in a press statement. Tickets can be booked from the website Sagararani.in. “Though the capacity of the vessel is 100, only 50 passengers would be allowed in each trip, adhering to Covid protocol. On holidays, the ticket rate is Rs 400 and the ticket rate on working days is Rs 350. Journey would be free for children under the age of 10,” KSINC said. Those interested can contact 9846211143 for bookings and clarifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksinc-resumes-sagararani-cruise-service/articleshow/78939579.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Loot in the name of people of soil||On October 7, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi observed that though there were several schemes meant for farmers, the status of the farming community remains the same as the benefits of the schemes do not reach them. The judges then sought from the state government details of Union and state government schemes for farmers welfare, particularly Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, the number of ineligible beneficiaries enrolled, cases registered, people arrested for malpractices and monitoring mechanism put in place. Read the entire story on TOI+Loot in the name of people of soil||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/loot-in-the-name-of-people-of-soil/articleshow/78942167.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||After 2 years, cars allowed on Ukkadam-Karumbukadai Rd||Coimbatore: After a gap of two years, cars were allowed to take the Ukkadam–Karumbukadai road on Thursday.All this while only two wheelers were allowed on the road. Four wheelers, buses and trucks were made to take a circuitous route since the Ukkadam flyover work was underway. These vehicles had to go through Puttuvikki bridge which took an additional 6km compared to the Ukkadam-Karumbukadai road.Since a portion of the Ukkadam flyover was completed, the road underneath was re-laid, and officials decided to let cars alone take the road along with two-wheelers.Though it came as a relief to those driving the cars, the vehicles added to the congestion causing severe traffic jams all along the route. The problem was compounded when cars coming in the opposite direction – from Karumbukadai to Ukkadam - too took the same road instead of the one laid on the bunds of Periyakulam.Police officials said that they would regulate traffic and ensure that vehicles heading to Ukkadam use the road on the bund and only vehicles plying towards Karumbukadai use the road under the flyover. “Once the flyover work is over the traffic menace would end once and for all,’’ a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/after-2-years-cars-allowed-on-ukkadam-karumbukadai-rd/articleshow/78940962.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ICMR urges states to ramp up testing ahead of winter||PUNE: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued a directive asking all states to increaseCovid-19 testing. The advisory comes amid reports of low testing in certain states that have recorded a high number of active cases. The list includes Maharashtra, where testing has dipped more than 30%. Officials said the low testing numbers are worrying. “We recently allowed use of the Feluda rapid test kit. So states should now deploy efficient testing strategies before the festival season and the winter, which could bring a second Covid wave,” a senior ICMR official said. The agency’s chief epidemiologist Dr Samiran Panda said state governments cannot let their guard down, even if there has been a recent decline in cases. “In fact, the states should be preparing plans to store and distribute vaccines,” he said. Dr Panda added that a second wave of infections could form if communities completely ignore precautions such as masks and physical distancing. “It has been seen that during festivals, people thrown caution to the wind. They are putting up photos of themselves without masks. We need the community to be torch bearers of sustained behavioural changes,” he said. On Thursday, the Union health ministry said an average of 11 lakh daily tests were conducted over the last three to four weeks taking the total tests to 10.65 crore. States have now been asked to boost capacity to take that total to 15 lakh tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-urges-states-to-ramp-up-testing-ahead-of-winter/articleshow/78940981.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Theft at cashew factories in Udupi: Two held||UDUPI: District police arrested two persons in connection with a series of thefts at cashew processing factories in the district. The arrested are Sayyad Mohammed Basheer, 37, a resident of Kemminje village in Puttur and Umar Farooq, 36, a resident of Mittur, Bantwal taluk. According to police, the duo had broken into Vijaya Durga Cashew Factory in Brahmavar on October 27. They took away about 32 boxes of (about 320 kgs) of cashew nuts valued at Rs 1.4 lakh from the factory. A day prior to the incident, they had also tried to enter another cashew factory in Karje in Brahmavar. Police, who noticed a series of such incidents, formed a special team to investigate. Acting on credible information, the accused was arrested near Puttur on Thursday. The accused were involved in similar crimes in Hebri and Ajekar police limits, police said. Police have seized a car, 32 boxes of cashew nuts and three cell phones from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/theft-at-cashew-factories-in-udupi-two-held/articleshow/78938348.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||JD(S) leader announces support for BJP candidate in Karwar CMC poll||KARWAR: Former minister and senior JD(S) leader Anand Asnotikar’s announcement on Thursday, wherein he declared his support to the BJP’s candidates in the elections to the posts of president and vice-president of the Karwar City Municipal Council (CMC) came as much as a surprise to the saffron party as it did as a shock to his party and followers. Observers of local politics are of the opinion that it is in keeping with Asnotikar’s efforts to inch closer to the ruling BJP. Rumours have been floating around for months about Asnotikar’s desire to rejoin the BJP. His efforts are allegedly being thwarted by Uttara Kannada’s BJP MP Anantkumar Hegde. However, in announcing the backing of four JD(S) councillors in the Karwar CMC, in addition to the support of two Independents, Asnotikar is reportedly trying to garner the goodwill of the BJP top brass. Nitin Pikle is the BJP’s candidate for the post of the Karwar CMC president. In the 31-member CMC, 11 councillors belong to the BJP and Congress each. Although the BJP declared Nitin Pikle as its candidate for the president’s post of the CMC, dissenting voices with the party rose questioning the choice. Shilpa Naik and Nanada Sawant of the saffron party moved the Karnataka high court questioning the post being reserved for a member of the general category. They appealed to the court to direct the state government to reserve the post to a member of the backward community (A) category. On the other hand, many of the aspirants for the post of the CMC chief have raised the banner of revolt. The Congress, meanwhile, has decided to wait to see how the BJP succeeds in burying these differences before staking claim to the top posts in the urban local body. Asnotikar had, during BS Yediyurappa’s second stint as the chief minister starting in 2008, served in the state cabinet. But he was disqualified as an MLA after he revolted against Yediyurappa before the Supreme Court reinstated him as a legislator. Although he contested the assembly election as a BJP candidate again from Karwar assembly constituency, he lost to Satish Sail, an Independent, by a huge margin. Asnotikar subsequently sought the BJP’s ticket in the 2018 election but Hegde opposed his candidature and the saffron party fielded Roopali Naik. After he was snubbed by the BJP, Asnotikar contested the election as a JD(S) candidate but lost to Roopali. Asnotikar is allegedly trying to rejoin the BJP, and is reportedly seeking entry to the legislative council. The election to the top posts in the Karwar CMC is scheduled on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/jds-leader-announces-support-for-bjp-candidate-in-karwar-cmc-poll/articleshow/78938103.cms||Deepak Kumar Shenvi
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Speed up noise mapping study, NGT to UT||CHANDIGARH: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Chandigarh administration to speed up the process of carrying out the city’s first noise mapping study. In its reply submitted before the NGT, the UT had stated, “For the monitoring of noise pollution in UT, the Chandigarh Police has procured many instruments. CPCC has also published the expression of interest for noise mapping study in Chandigarh but no institutes have shown interest. The same has been re-published so that the noise mapping study can be done for better understanding of the noise pollution services and identification of the hotspots”. Earlier, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had invited expression of interest from reputed educational and research institutions recognized by central or state government for “Study on source identification and mitigation actions for noise pollution using noise mapping and prediction techniques” for compliance of Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. But the committee didn’t receive any response as no institute came forward for carrying out such a study in Chandigarh. In the city, it was not only during Diwali, but noise pollution was high even before the festival in 2019. Data collected by the CPCC from four different locations — residential (Sector 22), commercial (Sector 17), silence (Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12) and institutional (IMTECH, Sector 39) zones — shows noise pollution level crossing the permissible limit on October 21, 2019. The data was high against the permissible limit of 55 db (A) in the day and 45 db (A) in the night. Only in the institutional zone, noise pollution was low during the day. The CPCC does not collect noise pollution samples on a regular basis because it does not have a real-time monitoring device. Therefore, the CPCC team collects random samples from different locations with handheld devices. The team had collected samples on October 21, 2019, and the report was submitted to the CPCB. The level of noise pollution on October 21 the previous year was the highest at PEC, Sector 12, between 7pm and 8pm at 67.5 db(A). In Sector 22 residential zone, the level was the highest between 6pm and 7pm at 63.4 db(A). Sector 17 noise pollution between 6pm and 7pm was 59.6 db(A). The level in Sector 39 was the highest between 11pm and 12am at 62.4 db(A). Health problems Noise pollution can cause annoyance, aggression, hypertension, high stress levels, tinnitus, hearing loss, sleep disturbances, and other harmful effects. Stress and hypertension are the leading causes of health problems, whereas tinnitus can lead to forgetfulness, severe depression and at times panic attacks. Noise pollution on Diwali As per the data, the noise levels at all these locations witnessed a dip in different slots of the day during 2019 Diwali. The level of noise pollution was the highest in Sector 22 between 10pm and 11 pm at 80 DB (A), which was 81 DB (A) in 2018. In Sector 12 silence zone, the level of noise pollution was the highest between 8pm and 9pm at 68.2 DB (A), which was 74.4 DB (A) in 2018. Sector 17 had noise pollution at 66.7 DB (A), which was 69.7 DB (A) in 2018, between 9pm and 10pm. Note: Standard value: Day time 6am to 10pm — 55 db(A); night time 10pm to 6am — 45 db (A)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/speed-up-noise-mapping-study-ngt-to-ut/articleshow/78939576.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||2 cases booked under Pocso||Coimbatore: Police on Wednesday arrested two men for sexually assaulting minor girls in Coimbatore and Tirupur.The all-woman police (east) in Coimbatore city arrested Shiva, 25, of Machur near Kodaikanal in Dindigul district after parents of a 17-year-old girl lodged a missing complaint. “Her parents, natives of Usilampatti in Dindigul who were working as labourers in Coimbatore city, had married her off to her relative Kumar,30, of Usilampatti when she was just 15 years old. The girl had visited her parents in Coimbatore and went missing from here on October 8. Her parents lodged a missing complaint with the Saravanampatti police, who found her with Shiva at Machur near Kodaikanal,” a police officer said.Police brought the duo to Coimbatore on Wednesday. After realising that the girl was a minor, the case was handed over to the all-woman (east) police. “She had met Shiva a few months ago and married him at a temple a few days ago,” the officer added.Police have registered a case against Shiva and Kumar for sexual assault under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. They also booked the girl’s parents and Kumar’s mother for conducting child marriage. Shiva was remanded in judicial custody. Kumar is absconding.A 47-year-old man from a village near Udumalpet was arrested for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl. K Ammavasai attacked the girl when she was alone in her house four months ago, police sources said. Though her mother hesitated to lodge a police complaint, her relatives advised her to do so. Based on the complaint, the all women police in Udumalpet registered a case and arrested Ammavasai under the Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-cases-booked-under-pocso/articleshow/78940988.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Active Covid-19 cases drop to 3-month low||Coimbatore: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the district dipped to a three-month low of 2,739 on Thursday, when 633 patients were discharged from treatment centres.The recovery rate has also touched an all-time high of 92.3%. At least 39,484 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district so far.The tally, meanwhile, shot up to 42,776 with the district recording 251 new cases on the day, even as six deaths that occurred on Tuesday took the toll to 553.Five of the deceased had co-morbidities. They included a 69-year-old diabetic man who died five days after hospitalization, a 68-year-old man with hypothyroidism, cardiac problems and renal failure who died a day after admission, a 59-year-old diabetic man who died of respiratory failure after five days of hospitalization and two other diabetic patients - an 86-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman.The remaining one - a 57-year-old man who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on the night of October 21 - died of bilateral bronchopneumonia and respiratory failure. He had no comorbidities. While the collection of sero samples has been completed in the district and neighbouring Tirupur and Erode, they are being sent to other districts to be screened for presence of antibodies as the Chemiluminescence Immunoassay (CLIA) analyzer is yet to be installed in the district.Health department officials said they had already sent 2,000 sero samples from the region to Salem on October 22 and were planning to send another 1,500 samples to Chennai on Thursday night. They are planning to run 2,000 samples themselves on Monday, after the analyzer is installed.The CLIA analyzer is a completely automated equipment, weighing one tonne. It could screen 160 samples in a single batch in one hour. “We can also use this machine to screen any other disease or hormones, once we receive kits for the same,” said a health department official.While the civil works, including roofing, air conditioning and fixing of a UPS, for the machine installation is complete, error rectification for the machine would be done over the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-19-cases-drop-to-3-month-low/articleshow/78941008.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Four of family battle for life as car topples||Tirupur: Four of a family were critically injured after a speeding car hit their car, which then turned turtle, on Avinashi Road here on Wednesday night.Police said the incident occurred when Venkatachalam, 50, of MGR Street at Veerappanchathram in Erode district, his wife Gomathi, 45 and sons Gokul, 25 and Athithan, 23, were heading to Coimbatore from their hometown in their car.“Around 9pm when they neared Perumanallur near Avinashi, another speeding car hit their vehicle from behind. In the impact of the collision, Venkatachalam’s car lost control and toppled on the road,” a police officer said.Other motorists on the stretch rushed to their rescue and managed to bring them out of the mangled car. All the four were severely injured and were taken to a private hospital in Perumanallur. Police said the condition of Venkatachalam and Gomathi was critical.The accident, meanwhile, brought the traffic on the stretch to a grinding halt. The traffic was restored after removing the toppled car from the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-of-family-battle-for-life-as-car-topples/articleshow/78941014.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Lockdown effect: 66.7% IIT alumni learnt household chores||MANGALURU: In a study on how the pandemic has impacted IIT alumni, the cream of the engineering sector in the country, Dolan Champa Banerjee, HOD, postgraduate department of commerce, St Agnes College, found 66.7% of them had learnt to do household chores. In all, Banerjee has conducted research studies on seven subjects — all related to the pandemic — since the lockdown in March. Dolan told TOI, “Over the past three years, I have been an aggressive researcher, studying many topics especially those that impact our daily lives. The pandemic has changed lives and after studying teachers and homemakers, I was keen on knowing how it has impacted IIT alumni.” The respondents were all married men from IITs across India and 81% were in the 41-60 years age group. Of them, 95.2% are employed in the public and private sector. Of the respondents, 85.7% said the lockdown had affected their lives and had changed many of their habits. The study showed 66.7% learnt household chores, 9.5% said they engaged themselves in cleaning utensils, 38.1% attended online classes with their kids, 28.6% learnt to cook and 9.5% swept and mopped especially during the lockdown. Dolan said it is interesting to note that 81% were cautious about expenses and while 61.9% said their eating habits had not changed, 53.4% said they had become cautious about their calorie intake. Thanks to the pandemic, 66.7% preferred to shop online and even if they went to stores, the mode of payment for 76.2% was cashless. A total 52.4% preferred to shop for groceries once a week. On what they missed most, 33.3% said they missed meeting friends, 23.8% missed parties and 19% missed long drives. Reading and watching films were favourite pastime for 47.6% of the respondents. The pandemic taught 57.1% of respondents to control their temper, while another 19% said they were planning a job change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lockdown-effect-66-7-iit-alumni-learnt-household-chores/articleshow/78938881.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No more fee waiver for paid parking contractors||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation general house on Thursday denied fresh relaxations in the licence fee to paid parking contractors. House members decreed the contractors to install all smart features in the lots within three months of starting the parking, except the Covid-19 lockdown period, or by November 30. Discussing the agenda item, councillors were of the view that as all the commercial establishments, markets and offices were now open, there was no need to give any financial relaxation to the paid parking contractors. They said since festival season had also started, markets were witnessing a rush and in key commercial areas, there was no space to park. “Therefore, we must take full licence fee from the paid parking contractors,” they said. Raising the issue of management of these lots, the councillors said contractors’ men only take money at the entry point and after that do nothing. They must implement all smart features as soon as possible as per the terms of the contract. After giving complete licence fee exemption for the curfew and lockdown period of April and May, the MC had given waiver of 45% and 35% to both zones’ contractors. After the unlock started, the MC decided to reduce the parking fee exemption to 10% in September and further 5% each in October, November and December. But now the house has put an end to all further exemptions. MC had auctioned both the paid parking zones to eligible contractors for over Rs 10 crore annually. Paid parking is the most crucial revenue source for the civic body. There are 89 paid parking lots in the city divided into two zones. There are 32 lots in zone-I and 57 in zone-II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-more-fee-waiver-for-paid-parking-contractors/articleshow/78939640.cms||Deepak Yadav
October 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Wintry feel in October after mercury drops to 16.8C||PUNE: A whiff of winter wafted over the city on Thursday morning when the minimum temperature dropped overnight by two degrees to record 16.8C making it the coolest in the season so far. Shivajinagar on Thursday morning was cooler than Pashan which recorded 17C. Generally, Pashan is cooler of the two. Shivajinagar also recorded the same minimum temperature as the hill station of Mahabaleshwar where the mercury touched 16.8C on Thursday morning. Thursday’s minimum temperature in Shivajinagar was near normal after days of above normal night temperatures. Minimum temperatures have dropped across the country, including Maharashtra, with locations in the plains of North India recording temperatures between 11C and more than 14C. After days of cloudy skies and rains, Pune and the rest of the state have begun to experience clear sky conditions which has drastically changed the weather, causing a fall in the minimum temperatures. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune, told TOI that the chill is expected to increase from October 31 in Pune district, Pune city and north Maharashtra. “Cold, northerly winds from North India will start to blow towards the state in a couple of days due to a western disturbance over North Pakistan and the neighbourhood. This system is likely to approach Jammu & Kashmir by October 30. The western disturbance will pass in a day, but the chill will increase on the first day after its passage,” he said. The effect will result in cold, northerly winds influencing north Maharashtra and other parts of North India soon. The temperature in Pashan and Shivajinagar could fall to 16C on October 31, while that in Lohegaon to 17C. On Thursday, Lohegaon’s minimum was 18.2C. Night temperatures in Pune are still not like the previous years when the lowest minimums in October would drop to 12-15C. Meanwhile, the social media is already abuzz with people hoping for a cold winter, even before the season arrives. Winter in India starts in December. A Twitter user said, “#Pune has missed out on a typical cold winter for at least 2-3 yrs... hopefully winter arrives and stays in style till Feb 2021.” Another tweet on October 27 said, “A nip in the air with sunshine filtered through the trees. Typical winter morning in Pune today. Looks like the rains have finally begun to withdraw. Did we skip the October heat this year too?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wintry-feel-in-october-after-mercury-drops-to-16-8c/articleshow/78941023.cms||Neha Madaan
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold worth Rs 3.6 cr seized from fliers||Coimbatore: The directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI), Coimbatore unit, seized 6.9kg of gold worth Rs 3.6 crore from six passengers who landed at the city airport from Sharjah in a Vande Bharat Mission flight on October 24. Based on a tip, DRI officials intercepted six passengers - Sajif, Basha, Naazar, Sahul Hameed, Dharmaraj and Yuvaraj - who had arrived from Sharjah to Coimbatore international airport by Air Arabia flight. When inquired, officials found each of them carrying gold mixed in paste form and had concealed the same in their clothes and inner garments.“The gold in paste form was seized and extracted. After processing, 6.9kg of (24 carat) gold worth Rs 3.6 crore was recovered,” deputy director of DRI G Sathish said.While Sajif is from Kerala. Basha, Naazar and Dharmaraj are residents of Chennai. Sahul Hameed is from Ramanathapuram district while Yuvaraj is from Coimbatore. “All of them were booked for smuggling gold under the Customs Act. However, they were given conditional bail by the DRI department and advised to appear before the officials for inquiry whenever needed,” an official said.The six went to Gulf countries for work in February and due to Covid-19, they were not able to return to India. When inquired, the six passengers replied that they were carrying gold for a commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-worth-rs-3-6-cr-seized-from-fliers/articleshow/78941031.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Commission to work on war footing: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: The Union government informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that the newly-created commission for ‘Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas’ will begin its work on a war footing to curb stubble burning and other sources of pollution to arrest the deteriorating air quality in Delhi-NCR and surrounding areas. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta said though he had sought four days for the Centre to enact a law for creation of a permanent body to address the problem of pollution in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas, the government enacted the legislation in three days by resorting to an ordinance as Parliament is not in session. “Immediate steps will be taken,” he said. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian adjourned hearing to November 6 and said, “We will have a look at the ordinance. Let the petitioner and his counsel also study it. Before passing any order, we will hear the petitioner and the solicitor general on what steps are taken to curb pollution.” Mehta said the government would do everything on a war footing. The first task before the government is to fill posts created in the jumbo-sized commission. The bench said experts were of the view that stubble burning alone was not responsible for Delhi's foul air. “Many luxury cars used by top lawyers appearing before the SC could also be contributing to air pollution. Maybe they could switch to bicycles,” the CJI said. Appearing for petitioner Aditya Dubey, senior advocate Vikas Singh told the court that till the commission became functional, the SC appointed Justice Madan Lokur Commission could work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commission-to-work-on-war-footing-centre-to-sc/articleshow/78942176.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Apex court gives green signal for Technopark Phase III works||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The construction works of Downtown project as part of Technopark Phase III development is set to resume with the Supreme court disposing of appeal petition on alleged reclamation of wetland by stating that the petitioner can file appeal in accordance with the law. Thomas Lawrence, the petitioner, had approached the Supreme court citing that district collector had not acted in accordance with the order issued by National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2018. NGT had received a complaint from Lawrence regarding mass destruction of wetlands and a 10-acre pond inside the Technopark campus. In 2018, the tribunal directed the district collector, Thiruvananthapuram, to look into the matter and take appropriate action in accordance with law. The collector filed a report which said that no action could be taken at the level of district collector since the revenue department had accorded sanction for reclamation of 861.2 acres in Attipra village as per relevant provisions of Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017. The government granted exemption for the purpose of development of Technopark (Phase III) considering the project as falling under public purpose. The collector also stated that while granting exemption, the government also directed that necessary safeguards shall be maintained for water conservation. The counsel appearing for state government told the court that the lands were covered by land acquisition notifications showing that they were paddy land/converted paddy land and/or dry land and not wetland. He also said that huge constructions had already been undertaken after obtaining all permissions, including permissions under Section 10 of the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008 and that the land involved in the present case has not been identified as a wetland in the draft list prepared by state wetland authority. SC ruled that it is open to the petitioner to challenge the order of collector in accordance with the law and that if such challenge is made within a period of eight weeks from the day of judgment, the petitioner’s challenge will not be dismissed solely on the ground of delay. Taurus Investment Holdings (TIH) India, which has undertaken the Downtown project work, said in a statement that works will resume. “We are extremely happy with the order of disposal by the Supreme Court considering that this is a very important project for the IT sector of the state and expected to provide more than 20,000 jobs on completion. We will immediately remobilize works on a war footing following Covid protocols prescribed by the state government,” the statement read. Lawrence said the issue is still live and court has only asked to follow the procedure. Technopark signed the agreement with TIH to set up the Taurus Downtown in 2018. Taurus Downtown is being set up by a joint venture between TIH and Embassy Property Development Holdings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/apex-court-gives-green-signal-for-technopark-phase-iii-works/articleshow/78939645.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||HC questions govt move to acquire private hospitals||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday questioned the Maharashtra government on how it requisitioned private hospitals’ resources, services, premises and vehicles without exercising powers under the Disaster Management Act’s Section 56. “If its stand is that such power can also be exercised under Epidemic Diseases Act’s Section 2, then the same will be examined appropriately. We’ve not yet expressed our opinion on it,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said. Expressing shock over government’s stand of not paying compensation to private hospitals it had acquired for treating Covid-19 patients, the bench said if this was clear in its mind, then we fail to understand propriety and justification on its part to press into service the provision of Section 65 in earlier petition (for non-Covid patients) and suppress material fact that same power wasn’t invoked in other petition (for Covid patients),” said the judges. The government earlier clarified that powers under Section 65 weren’t invoked for Covid patients and, therefore, the question of payment of compensation under Section 66 doesn’t arise. While adjourning hearing till November 3, the judges pointed out that it was unfortunate to notice the different and inconsistent stand taken by the government in these two petitions through different counsels. “The advocate general’s stand in the earlier petition was that the issue of Covid & non-Covid patients is inherently connected to prevent the spread of an epidemic. In this suo motu PIL, senior counsel MG Bhangde’s argument is that both categories have to be looked into separately. We wanted to know the extent of government’s obligation. The question of defraying the expenses and payment of compensation under Section 2 can be considered subsequently,” said the judges. The observations came while hearing a suo motu PIL on beds shortage that was clubbed with Viveka Super Speciality Hospital’s petition pleaded through senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari and Kartik Shukul. Shreerang Bhandarkar is appointed as amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-questions-govt-move-to-acquire-private-hospitals/articleshow/78941054.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 30, 2020||Pune||12 externed for two years||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday externed 12 criminals from the limits of Pune district for two years. Deputy commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) Anand Bhoite issued the order in this regard. The externed criminals include two from the jurisdiction of the Hinjewadi police, four from Wakad, five from Dehu Road, among others. “The action was taken under the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash’s ‘zero tolerance’ initiative,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-externed-for-two-years/articleshow/78941062.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Sainik school to admit girls||Coimbatore: In a first, the Sainik School in Amaravathinagar at Udumalpet in Tirupur district will admit girls in Class VI from next year.The Sainik Schools Society will conduct All India Sainik Schools entrance examination on January 10 to admit boys and girls in Class VI and boys in Class XI for the academic year 2021-22, principal K Nirmal Raghu said.The residential school prepares students for entry into the National Defence Academy. As much as 67% of seats are reserved for candidates in Tamil Nadu. Girls wills stay in a hostel on the school premises.The entrance examination will be held at Amaravathinagar, Udumalpet, Coimbatore, Chennai, Thanjavur and Puducherry. For more details, visit www.sainikschoolamaravathinagar.edu.in. Students can apply and pay fee online at https://aissee.nta.nic.in. The last date to submit the online application form is November 19.For more information about the admission process, contact the Sainik School at 04252- 256246 and 63839-11204.Admission will be based on written exam, merit and medical fitness. school authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sainik-school-to-admit-girls/articleshow/78941053.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Christian preacher sends obscene messages to girls, held||COIMBATORE: A preacher with an evangelical Christian organization has been arrested for sending obscene messages to a city school girl from 2011 to 2016. The girl, who is now studying in a private college, lodged a complaint against J Samuel Jaisundar, 39, of Najundapuram Road in the city on Wednesday, after she came to know he was in the habit of sending obscene messages to minor girls. In her compliant, the girl said she used to attend bible classes conducted by Jaisundar, a preacher with Scripture Union, during her school days in 2011-2016. “He started sending her obscene messages on her Facebook messenger, but she ignored him completely,” said a police officer, quoting the girl’s compliant. A few days ago, another girl had approached the Vellore district police seeking action against Jaisundar for sending her obscene messages. “The city girl came to know about the complaint and on learning that he had targeted many other minor girls, she came forward to lodge the complaint against him,” the officer said. Preliminary investigation found that Jaisundar has been working with the Scripture Union since 2006 and he used to visit private schools, especially those run by the Christian managements, in the state to conduct summer camps for bible studies. He also conducts vacation bible school for school students. Amutha, inspector of police, all-woman police (east) station, said, “Jaisundar would collect Facebook details of girl students and send obscene messages to them on (FB) messenger. Some girls have replied to him also.” She also requested the girls, who have received obscene messages or threat from the preacher, to come forward and lodge complaint against him.  Jaisundar was booked under sections 11 (iv) (A person is said to commit sexual harassment upon a child when such person with sexual intent -repeatedly or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child either directly or through electronic digital or any other means) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and arrested on Wednesday itself. He was produced before the special court for Pocso cases and remanded in judicial custody. Jaisundar was suspended by Scripture Union on October 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/preacher-sends-obscene-messages-to-girls-held/articleshow/78941048.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Technical teams will rectify Dharani glitches, assures Telangana CM||HYDERABAD: Urging people not to be worried if any technical glitches arise during Dharani registration process, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said technical teams would rectify those problems. Indirectly referring to the opposition parties, he said they have this habit of picking holes in every issue and criticising the government. “Whenever a new programme is launched, we face small problems and glitches. Some negative forces try to create panic among the people and show it in a poor light. People should not get carried away by such forces,” the CM said. He said the government had come up with a land registration process with IT intervention for the first time in the country. The CM said the portal had been prepared with 99% error-free. Since many people started checking their property details on Dharani portal, during trials, they found huge traffic causing slowdown in the portal, but all the problems would be rectified soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/technical-teams-will-rectify-dharani-glitches-assures-cm/articleshow/78941094.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University BEd forms till November 6 now||CHANDIGARH: Panjab University has extended the deadline for filling the BEd admission forms for the general, yoga, and intellectual disability programmes in the city colleges. Aspirants can visit the university website to generate the login and password by November 6. They must deposit the fee by November 10 and upload their photographs, signatures, and other details by November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-bed-forms-till-nov-6-now/articleshow/78939651.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kozhikode||‘Prathishedha Jwala’ to rage across Kerala on Sunday||KOZHIKODE: Activists and writers, including Irom Sharmila, Daya Bhai, K Satchidanandan, Rima Kallingal, Kani Kusruti, K R Meera, Anand and M N Karasseri have expressed solidarity with the ‘Prathishedha Jwala’ (Flame of Protest) to be held on November 1 to protest the increasing violence against women, and different sections of the minorities. Thousands of people will light torches or candles on the premises of their houses, workplaces or waysides to register their concern, following Covid 19 protocol. In a joint statement issued here, the campaigners, including K Ajitha, G Gomathi, Sreeja Neyyattinkara and Seethal Shyam said the meeting of women’s organizations and social activists decided to stage a protest in the wake of mounting attacks against women. “The Hathras and Valayar incidents have proved that dalit women are forced to face multi-pronged attacks. The machineries of administration that are supposed to protect the victims are standing as mute witnesses,” the statement said. The mother of the victims of the Valayar sexual assault is still on the streets seeking justice. The police have taken a position that is helping the victims to go scot-free. Sexual insults on women in the cyber spaces is becoming a daily affair as well, the statement said. The activists also condemned the reported move to fabricate cases against the relatives of the dalit girl who was raped at Hathras. Equally disturbing is the move against human rights activists and journalists, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/prathishedha-jwala-to-rage-across-state-on-sunday/articleshow/78939670.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||7 Nepal-origin students of Doon monastic school complain of physical abuse, probe on||Dehradun: The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) inspected a Dehradun-based monastic school on Thursday after seven students hailing from Nepal alleged physical abuse by the school’s staff members. The matter came to light after the students escaped the boarding school in order to reach their homes in Nepal, but they were held by the police at the border check-post in Banbasa. During the police interrogation, the students complained that they had run away as the school authorities had denied them permission to go home for the Dussehra and Diwali festivals. The students further claimed that they were severely beaten by the staff members after they complained of poor-quality food being served to them. "These seven boys left for their homes on Monday and the school authorities didn’t even bother to file a missing complaint at the local police station. This raises some serious doubts. The Nepalese embassy had informed us about the matter, following which we conducted the inspection. We found that there are about 59 students in total who want to go back to their homes. Therefore, we have ordered the school authorities to make adequate arrangements for them with immediate effect. Also, we have taken all the details and records from the school," SCPCR officials alleged. However, the police, which also inspected the place, said the claims of students being abused can be authenticated only after a detailed probe. “While speaking to a few of students in the campus, we didn’t hear any complaints of major physical abuse. The boys who escaped will be brought back to the school from Banbasa. As of now, we have cross-checked after seeing some posts circulating on social media about this incident," said Rakesh Shah, in-charge of the Rajpur police station. Notably, the monastic school has more than 210 students, with majority of them coming from the interior villages and towns of Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-nepal-origin-students-of-doon-monastic-school-complain-of-physical-abuse-probe-on/articleshow/78938385.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||2 siblings get washed away in PAP canal as father looks on helplessly||Coimbatore: Two siblings, aged nine and 14, were washed away in the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) canal near Udumalpet in Tirupur district while bathing there on Wednesday. The dead bodies were retrieved the same night. Police identified the deceased as K Sanjay, a Class VII student, and his younger brother K Akash, a Class IV student, of Valliyammal Colony at Udumalpet. They were students of the government school at Nellukadai. Around 6.15pm on Wednesday, the duo, along with their father Krishnan, 38, had gone to the PAP canal at Jeeva Nagar to take bath. Krishnan was an autorickshaw driver.“While Krishnan was cleaning his vehicle, his sons ventured into the canal. They could not withstand the water current and were washed away,” a police officer said.Krishnan informed the Udumalpet police, who along with the fire and rescue services personnel, retrieved the dead bodies that had washed away for nearly one and half km in the canal around 8.30pm. The bodies were sent to the government hospital at Udumalpet for postmortem and handed over to the family members on Thursday.The Udumalpet police have registered a case.Similar incidents were reported in Tirupur city on October 12 and Avinashi on October 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-siblings-get-washed-away-in-pap-canal-as-father-looks-on-helplessly/articleshow/78941057.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Businessman found hanging in Pune, note with names found||PUNE: Former Congress corporator Neeta Pardeshi-Rajput’s husband, pharmacy businessman Jayant Rajput (54), was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his second floor office at the “Chaitanya” apartment building in Kanchan Galli, off Law College Road, on Wednesday night. “We have recovered a note, purportedly written by the victim, from the site. It names two private persons and a finance company for harassing him over repayment of loan dues. We shall take further action after verifying the details in the note and recording statements of all those concerned with the incident,” said senior inspector Ram Rajmane of the Deccan Gymkhana police. Citing preliminary information, police said the victim was going through some financial troubles after his business was badly affected during the Covid-induced lockdown period. Jayant Rajput is survived by his wife and two sons. The family stays in Sadashiv Peth. The victim’s two sons told the police that the family was worried when he did not return home till 9.30pm on Wednesday. They went to his office and found the two entrances on the front- and back-end of the flat bolted from inside. They broke one of the doors to move in and found their father hanging from the ceiling fan, the police said. Jayant Rajput’s sons immediately removed him from the fan and took him to a nearby private hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on examination. Later, the matter was reported to the Deccan Gymkhana police, and a team visited the hospital as well as Rajput’s office in Kanchan Galli. Around 11.30pm on Wednesday, the body was shifted to the Sassoon General Hospital for post-mortem. “We are waiting for a preliminary post-mortem report related to the prima facie cause of his death. For now, we have registered a case of accidental death and investigating the case,” another police officer said. On Thursday morning, the police handed over the body to the family members for the last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-found-hanging-note-with-names-found/articleshow/78941050.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sighting of taiga flycatcher recorded for first time in Kallayam||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first recorded sighting of bird taiga flycatcher in the district was reported at Kallayam. The bird was spotted by bird watcher and wildlife photographer Biju P B. “It was my wife Smitha who spotted a rare bird and told me about the visitor. The bird was seen taking a bath in the birdbath kept for birds behind my home at Pallimukku Junction around 1pm on Sunday,” said Biju who works as assistant director at ESIC Hospital, Ezhukone. Biju clicked several pictures of the bird, including its quick bath in the birdbath, before the guest flew away. The species taiga flycatcher is smaller than a house sparrow, with a sharply contrasting black-and-white tail. The bird is a winter visitor to Peninsular India. Website ebird.org has recorded over 10,000 sighting of the bird in the country over the years, however, there are not many sightings reported from Kerala. The bird spotted at Kallayam is the first sighting recorded in south Kerala, as per available records. The birdbath which Biju has set up using an old stone mortar is a favourite hangout space of many species of birds. According to Wikipedia, Taiga flycatcher breeds in northern Eurasia from eastern Russia to Siberia and Mongolia. During winter, the birds fly to south and south east Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Nepal, Malaysia, Thailand, China, Vietnam and Japan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sighting-of-taiga-flycatcher-recorded-for-1st-time-in-dist/articleshow/78939673.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Shooter’ in Zirakpur road rage murder held in Dhakoli||Mohali: The main accused shooter in the October-10 Zirakpur road rage murder is under arrest. Faridkot’s Harvinder Singh ‘Happy Brar’ walked into a police trap at Dhakoli.He is charged with killing a Himachal Pradesh man on the VIP Road. Superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said: “We seized a .32-bore pistol, a .315-bore rifle, and a .12-bore gun from Brar.” Victim Anil Kumar Thakur was from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and putting up at Daun village near Balongi in Mohali district. On October 10, he was on a drive out, with friend Vinay on his tail.Around 1.30am near the Singhpura crossing, a Punjab-registered SUV zigzagged past Vinay, who honked but the rash driver, said to be Brar, refused to give way. Brar, driving with a woman and two friends, didn’t like it when Vinay overtook him, say police. He chased Vinay to a pizza shop on the VIP Road. Vinay had called up Thakur, while Brar also called over some friends.In the middle of this group argument, Brar pulled out a pistol and pumped three bullets into Thakur’s chest and stomach. Brar’s group fled, leaving Thakur bleeding on the road. Brar was booked at the Zirakpur police station for murder and Arms Act violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shooter-in-zirakpur-road-rage-murder-held-in-dhakoli/articleshow/78939665.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 62-year-old woman raped, strangled near Hosur||KRISHNAGIRI: A 62-year-old woman was raped and murdered by an unidentified person, who took away her gold ornaments, near Mathigiri here on Wednesday night. Police said the woman’s husband had died several years ago and she was living with her only son. Pointing out that they were rearing three goats, the woman’s 42-year-old son said she had gone out to graze them and returned home in the evening. “After that, she ventured out once again to collect scrap steel from a nearby steel company. When she didn’t return home for hours, I went in search of her,” her son said. To his horror, he found the naked dead body of her mother in the backyard of the steel firm. He immediately alerted the Mathigiri police, who sent the body to the government hospital at Hosur for postmortem and initiated probe. An investigation officer said preliminary inquiry has revealed that the woman was raped and then strangulated. “The person who raped her, strangled her to death using her sari. He has also taken away her earrings and gold chain worth Rs 1 lakh.” The body was returned to the family members after the autopsy on Thursday. The Mathigiri police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code and further inquiry is on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/62-year-old-woman-raped-strangulated-near-hosur/articleshow/78941105.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Newborn baby girl rescued from trash in Pune||PUNE: Police on Wednesday rescued a newborn baby girl abandoned in garbage dumped along a road in Kalewadi and saved her life by immediately sending her to a hospital. “The infant is safe,” said senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police.  “We are checking footage of CCTV cameras in the area to trace the suspect(s), who abandoned the baby in the garbage,” Mugalikar said. A case has been registered under Section 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve 12 years, by parent or person having care of it) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/newborn-baby-girl-rescued-from-trash/articleshow/78941116.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to tag 17,000 doctors to 97,000 Covid patients in home isolation||KOLKATA: The state government is planning to tag nearly 17,000 doctors to 97,613 Covid-positive patients who are currently in home isolation. The state health department on Thursday held a video conference with civic administrators, including top officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), and seniors health officials of five districts. The online meeting, which went on for three hours, was also attended by doctors, Indian Medical Association (IMA) chapter heads of Kolkata, North and South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. A training module is being worked out. The training of trainers will start on Saturday. “A good number of doctors, especially from Kolkata, North 24 Parganas and Howrah, where large number of cases are being reported, showed interest for the project. Around 90% of the doctors who attended the meeting said they will provide this service to patients in home isolation free of cost even though they were allowed to charge a nominal fee,” said Santanu Sen, IMA secretary (West Bengal). Once the trainers are trained on Saturday, IMA expects to complete training of local doctors and family physicians in about 10 days. Their names will be enlisted with local civic bodies and health officials. Each doctor will be tagged with a patient/family in home isolation from the list of such patients provided by health department officials. “The doctors, in turn, will keep in touch with patients, monitor their parameters and watch for early warning signs. They will notify the local civic body and the health officials in case they feel a patient needs hospital care. Arrangements will be made for their shift without any delay,” said a health department official. According to healthcare experts, some patients’ silent hypoxia can make their condition deteriorate fast. Especially in patients with no other ailment, they will not even feel the breathlessness until the oxygen saturation level goes down below 95%. “Many patients start thinking of getting hospital care only when they begin to feel breathless or other symptoms have worsened. By this time, oxygen saturation dips and the lung gets affected. That is one of the reasons behind 50% deaths occurring within two days of hospital admission. If these patients were monitored while in home isolation, many deaths could have been avoided,” said public health specialist Anirban Dalui, the assistant finance secretary of IMA (West Bengal). With this new arrangement, the state wants to bring Covid patients advised home quarantine under direct supervision of doctors. “Earlier, we would monitor the health conditions of a Covid patient quarantined at home through our tele-callers. But now, we have decided to engage physicians who will personally visit patients kept in home isolation if complications arise. Based on the recommendation of a registered medical practitioner, a Covid patient may get admitted at hospital,” said a state health department source. The state health department will use the infrastructure of municipal corporations or municipalities for prompt admission of a critical patient. “We have asked IMA branch secretaries to keep contact with the chairpersons of municipalities and heads of municipal corporations for timely hospitalization of a Covid-positive patient who is placed in home isolation but whose condition may get critical,” a state health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-tag-17k-doctors-to-97k-cov-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78939667.cms||Saikat Ray
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Tables turned, BSP chief poses formidable challenge to Akhilesh||LUCKNOW: The reiteration of BSP chief Mayawati that her party would go to any extent to defeat the Samajwadi Party, even by supporting BJP, has thrown up a challenging scenario for SP chief Akhilesh Yadav. While BSP netas are branding him anti-Dalit as he tried to stall the passage of a scheduled caste candidate, Ramji Gautam, by pitching an upper caste businessman against him, BJP has somewhat redeemed its image after recent attempts to tag it anti-dalit in the wake of Hathras incident by not fielding its ninth candidate which will now eventually ensure Gautam’s entry into Upper House without elections. Coming together — even if not formally and directly — of BJP and BSP is an unenviable challenge for Akhilesh. “The way BSP supremo vowed to “finish the SP chief politically”, even with the support of the BJP, Akhilesh will now be forced to change his political course in the 2022 assembly elections, even if he is perceived as the sole benefactor of Muslims,” says a political analyst. “By allowing a passage to BSP candidate, BJP has already shown signs of going soft on Mayawati. Now, with her open proclamation that she won’t mind supporting ‘even BJP’ to achieve her goal of teaching Akhilesh a lesson, the coming together of the two parties — in whatever manner — can’t be an impossible scenario. They have run a government together thrice in the past,” says another analyst. The first test of the changing political equations, of course, would be the Vidhan Parishad elections in January next year. That will further bring clarity on the electoral contours for 2022 assembly elections. “Till then, Mayawati won’t mind losing a few MLAs. She knows that her name, which still draws support from a majority of 15% Jatavs, is their winning card,” the analyst says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tables-turned-bsp-chief-poses-formidable-challenge-to-akhilesh/articleshow/78942199.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers’ association seeks to stop malpractices in Uzhavar Sandhais||Coimbatore: Farmers from Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam petitioned district collector K Rajamani on Thursday alleging malpractices in Uzhavar Sandhais. A farm to consumer (F2C) organization started by the association members were refused a space in the farmers market earlier this week despite offering to sell vegetables at even lesser price fixed by the agri marketing department, the petition said. The Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam in the district says a few of their seniors started a “farmer to consumer” F2C programme during the lockdown, where farmers could drop off their produce at a fixed place and people could come to the chosen farm and buy their vegetables. The proceeds from the sale would go directly to the farmer whose produce was sold. “We had approached R S Puram Uzhavar Sandhai earlier this week to give a small space for F2C to sell our vegetables, because it is run by farmers fully. We even said we wanted to sell only our first- grade broad beans (avarakkai) for just Rs 30 per kg. Yet we were refused permission,” said state secretary of the farmers’ association and founder of this specific F2C, P Kandasamy.Once they refused, the F2C took their 65kg of broad beans and sold it to a wholesaler at MGR Market for just Rs 25 per kg and once all other expenses were deducted, the farmer hardly got Rs 20.7 per kg, said Kandasamy. “On Wednesday, after we sold our stock, we checked prices in Singanallur Uzhavar Sandhai which had quoted Rs 44 per kg of broad beans. And the sellers further hiked the price and sold the vegetables at Rs 50,” he said. “This is against Uzhavar Sandhai’s rules, where the price should be fixed only 20% higher than wholesale prices and 20% lesser than retail price. But this is almost double the wholesale price,” Kandasamy said.Comparatively, ridge gourd which was priced at Rs 25 on the Uzhavar Sandhai board was sold at Rs 30 to consumers. Farmers say that these malpractices don’t benefit farmers or consumers, but only traders and corrupt officials. “While consumers are paying more than what they need to pay to buy vegetables, the beneficiaries of the premium pricing are not farmers, because it is not farmers at the uzhavar sandhais,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-association-seeks-to-stop-malpractices-in-uzhavar-sandhais/articleshow/78941081.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
October 30, 2020||Pune||Alert farmer foils duo’s bid to bury 2-day-old infant in Maharashtra||PUNE: An alert farmer foiled two men’s attempt to bury a two-day-old infant in farmland at Ambodi village in Purandar taluka, about 45km from the city, on Wednesday afternoon. The duo ran away abandoning the baby at the site after the farmer spotted their suspicious activity and raised an alarm to draw the attention of other villagers, who rushed towards the spot. The baby was handed over to the authorities at the rural hospital in Jejuri. The Saswad police have registered an offence under sections 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) and 317 (abandonment of child) of the Indian Penal Code. The police are investigating the motive behind the incident. Inspector Dagdu Hake from the Saswad police, who inspected the site, said, “We have enough reasons to believe that the duo were out to bury the baby in the farmland. We found the baby in a dug up area.” He said, “The baby was shifted from Jejuri hospital to the Sassoon General Hospital. He is absolutely fine. His Covid-19 test was conducted and it came negative.” Hake said the farmers attempted to chase and apprehend the duo, but they managed to run away. “Prima facie, we suspect the duo came to the village from Saswad side. We are studying the footage CCTV cameras in the Saswad city to see if we can find some important clues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alert-farmer-foils-duos-bid-to-bury-2-day-old-infant/articleshow/78941091.cms||Gitesh Shelke
October 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Tulu actor’s murder: Three more arrested||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada police arrested three more people in connection with the murder of Coastalwood actor and rowdy sheeter Surendra Bantwal on Wednesday. The arrested are Venkappa aka Venkatesh, 45, a builder, Papu aka Pradeep, 38, and Sharief, who was present when the accused were conspiring to kill the actor. On Monday, police had arrested Sathish Kulal and Girish. All the five have been remanded to police custody, said investigating officer inspector TD Nagaraj. Surendra Bantwal, 39, was brutally murdered inside his apartment in Bantwal taluk last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tulu-actors-murder-three-more-arrested/articleshow/78938402.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Congress stages march towards Raj Bhawan, demands CM’s resignation||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Congress members led by the party’s senior leaders, including former chief minister Harish Rawat, state in-charge Devender Yadav and state chief Pritam Singh staged a march towards Raj Bhawan to demand CM Trivendra Singh Yadav’s resignation after the Uttarakhand HC ordered the CBI to file a complaint against him. The police team stopped the opposition party members at a barrier set up at Hathibarkala, which is barely a kilometre away from the governor house. A scuffle between the policemen and Congress members was also reported from the spot. Later, the police team took the Congress members in their vehicles and let them off at different locations. Hundreds of opposition party members gathered at the party office and raised anti-CM and anti-government slogans while marching towards the Raj Bhawan. Yadav, who is in Uttarakhand for the first time after assuming charge, said, “Even after several requests, the governor did not give us time. We wanted to meet her and request for the resignation or removal of CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, after the high court had asked the CBI to lodge an FIR and probe graft allegations against him.” Former CM Harish Rawat told TOI, “On one end, the CM is claiming that he has zero tolerance for corruption but at the same time, the yardstick changes when it comes to him. If you can order a probe against others to get the truth out, then what is the harm if an investigation has been ordered against you? If CM Rawat is innocent, he should not be scared of anything and tell everything to the CBI. It appears he wants to run from the truth.” The former CM added that earlier, people and opposition parties were alleging corruption in the BJP tenure, but now, “even their own party lawmakers are claiming the same”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-stages-march-towards-raj-bhawan-demands-cms-resignation/articleshow/78938396.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||Chandigarh||UT to have 5 real-time air quality monitoring stations by 2021||Chandigarh: The city will have five real-time air quality monitoring stations by 2021 and National Green Tribunal (NGT) checked the plan in the last hearing.The UT administration stated in its reply to the green court that: “The city’s population size requires three manual and five continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations (CAAQMS). On the NGT’s orders, Chandigarh installed five manual stations, besides a CAAQMS in Sector 25. Procurement for two more is on, while to follow the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) orders, the city will procure another two next year.”The city’s air quality, which had improved during the coronavirus lockdown, returned to the old levels once businesses and other activities resumed in the unlock stage. The city’s lone real-time monitoring station is at Sector 25, Panjab University (PU). UT administrator V P Singh Badnore inaugurated it on July 16 last year to collect air data and individual readings of eight parameters.The administration also collects this data manually every 24 hours for the CPCB. Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) measures air pollution with four devices, located at Punjab Engineering College, Sector 12, Imtech, Sector 39, Industrial Area, Kaimbwala village, and Sector 17, covering institutional, industrial, rural, and commercial zones, respectively. The environment department’s device at Government College of Commerce and Business, Sector 50, tracks only two pollutants.At present, there is no data to tell the proportion of various air pollutants such as construction and demolition waste, dust, field fires, pollen, factories, and vehicles. The UT will prepare a comprehensive action plan based on a source appointment study to quantify these proportions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-have-5-real-time-air-quality-monitoring-stations-by-2021/articleshow/78939660.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Marriage party bus falls on its side, 60 injured||Krishnagiri: At least 60 people of a marriage party were injured after the bus they were travelling in fell on its side near Anchetty here on Wednesday night. The condition of the victims is said to be stable.According to the Anchetty police, the bus with 70 people on board, was heading to Keratti village near Denkanikottai from Palacode in Dharmapuri district to attend a wedding. Tirupathi, 35, of Palacode, was at the wheel.A police officer said, “When the bus reached the ghat section near Anchetty, the driver lost control over the bus, which hit the parapet wall and fell on its side.”When alerted, the Anchetty police rescued the passengers and took the injured to the government hospitals in Krishnagiri and Hosur.“Four of them - K Tirupathi, 23, S Tirupathi, 25, M Chinnasamy, 40, and the bus driver - were admitted to the Krishnagiri government hospital. The remaining were treated as outpatients,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/marriage-party-bus-falls-on-its-side-60-injured/articleshow/78941095.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Delhi||Swipe for cleaner air: CM Arvind Kejriwal launches Green Delhi app||NEW DELHI: The “Green Delhi” mobile app, which was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday, saw 228 complaints against pollutants and violation of anti-pollution norms being registered within hours of going live. The app is part of a slew of anti-pollution measures announced earlier this month by Delhi government under the “Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh” campaign. “We want every citizen to participate in the campaign. No movement can succeed until people take part in it. The Green Delhi app can be downloaded from Google Play Store for Android phones. It will be available on other platforms soon,” Kejriwal said. People can take a photo or shoot a video of polluting activities, such as garbage burning, industrial pollution, construction dust, etc, and upload it on the app. The location of the source of pollution would be generated automatically. “After a complaint is received, the department concerned will resolve it in a time-bound manner based on the timeline set for different types of complaints. When the issue is resolved, the department will upload a picture as proof within the specified period. If the citizen is not satisfied with the resolution, the complaint will be reopened,” said Kejriwal. The monitoring of the number of complaints received and their resolution would be done 24x7 in a “Green War Room”. “Around 70 green marshals have been deployed for effective resolution of complaints registered on the app. If a complaint is found being registered repeatedly despite being resolved, the green marshals will visit the location and inspect it for false reporting,” said the CM. Delhi government aims to involve every agency and department in the campaign. “Please let us know about any difficulties that you may face in the app. We will work towards resolving them,” said Kejriwal. Environment minister Gopal Rai said around 21 departments, including the municipal corporations, Delhi Police and Delhi Development Authority, had been attached with the app and separate nodal officers and coordinators had been appointed for effective resolution of the complaints. Rai said 12 coordinators had been assigned to the green war room to check every complaint and oversee the resolution process. “If the complaints are not resolved within 48 hours, they will coordinate with senior officials of the departments concerned and work towards resolving the complaints,” he added. “Since the app was launched today, the complaints received over the next 2-3 days will be monitored department-wise. A meeting on the complaints and overall monitoring with nodal officers and coordinators of every department will be conducted on November 2. Apart from live monitoring of the war room, we have also prepared an internal dashboard,” Rai said. Asked about the formation of Commission for Air Quality Management by the central government, Rai said stringent steps were needed to curb pollution, but taking action was more important than forming teams. “Supreme Court had granted power to Central Pollution Control Board and EPCA too, but the power granted would be useless if no action was taken,” added the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/swipe-for-cleaner-air-cm-launches-green-delhi-app/articleshow/78942197.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Village hut to benefit rural entrepreneurs||Udhagamandalam: The Union government has sanctioned a Rs 47 lakh ‘village hut’ for the Nilgiris, which will serve as a market place for farmers and artisans here, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said.Preliminary work has begun on a five-acre plot in Naduhatti panchayat to set up the hut. “It will be a sandai, not only for farmers but also for artisans and other producers in the hill district to sell their products. It will gradually be developed as a mandi (market place) as the district has no such facility,” the collector said. “We also plan to set up millet processing and vegetable processing units in the proposed mandi.”People from Coonoor, Kotagiri and Ooty will be able to easily access the hut at Sungam. The administration will initially concentrate on Kilkotagiri area, where tribals used to grow millets, said Divya. “It is sad to learn that the tribals have lost the practice of cultivating traditional millets. By creating awareness, millet cultivation will be promoted in Kilkotagiri.”The mandi will have units to make potato chips and carrot powder, besides a cold storage. Divya conducted a meeting with buyers from other districts a few days ago. “It was to facilitate local farmers get a fair price for their produce,” she said.Efforts needed to set up the village hut and develop it into the mandi was discussed in the meeting. Farmers’ federations explained about the number of farmers and the varieties of produce. Advance price fixing for produces was also discussed in the meeting.Indcoserve CEO and Nilgiris district monitoring officer Supriya Sahu laid foundation stone for the project a few days ago. Commissioner of agricultural market S J Chiru inspected the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/village-hut-to-benefit-rural-entrepreneurs/articleshow/78941126.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Six constables suspended for neglecting duty||PUNE: The city police on Thursday issued an order, suspending six police constables for allegedly allowing a meeting of couple of suspects, arrested in the Deepak Maratkar murder case, with crime syndicate operator Bapu Nair in the Sassoon General Hospital. Additional commissioner of police (administration) Jalindar Supekar told TOI, “The six constables have been suspended for dereliction of duty during the ‘Dava Party bandobast’ (team of constables on medical bandobast duty) at the hospital.” So far, the Faraskhana police have arrested 11 people, including Swapnil alias Satish Chocolate Modve, in the murder case of Maratkar (36), an office-bearer of Shiv Sena’s youth wing in the city. According to the police, Modve is a member of the gang operated by Nair. During the questioning of the arrested people, the police realized that some of them had a meeting a few days before the murder of Maratkar with Nair, admitted to the hospital then amid tight police bandobast. Nair is currently lodged in the Yerawada central prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-constables-suspended-for-neglecting-duty/articleshow/78941135.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Helpline launched to woo voters||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), the party floated by pro-development organisations in the city to contest in the upcoming city corporation election, is going all out to woo the ‘non-resident Trivandrumites’ to increase their prospects in the election. They have established a call centre to guide their supporters to enrol in the voters’ list. This initiative comes when the deadline set by the State Election Commission for enrolling one’s name or making corrections in the voters’ list is about to end on Saturday. The service of the volunteers of the call centre can be availed at these numbers, 846168099, 7558808831 and 9645602666. Speaking to TOI, former CEO of Technopark G Vijayaraghavan, who has been actively advocating for development projects that could change the face of the city, said that their aim is to ensure maximum participation in the upcoming elections. “Those who work outside the city, especially in bigger cities, are the ones who wish to see the city developed the most. And this year we have an opportunity to make their opinion count as many of them are in the city due to work-from-home policy,” Vijayaraghavan said adding that TVM did not wish to miss out on the support of those who shared the same ‘development agenda’ for the city. People may have various doubts while enrolling in the voters list via online and the TVM volunteers are here to offer guidance to them by clearing their doubts. TVM was floated by a confederation of various city-based pro-development organisations, including Trivandrum Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Awake Trivandrum, FRAT, IMA and Janapaksham to contest in the upcoming city corporation election due to the “continuous apathy” of the various official political parties towards the development needs of the capital city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/helpline-launched-to-woo-voters/articleshow/78939682.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Cops bust criminal gang targeting parked cars for theft, recover 18 stolen laptops||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Thursday recovered 18 laptops, three Wi-Fi dongles, a camera lens stolen from Goa and two motorcycles — totally worth Rs13 lakh — after busting a gang of criminals on police records involved in stealing laptops and valuables from parked cars in the twin towns and Pune. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said on Thursday, “The trio had stolen seven of the 18 recovered laptops from parked cars in Hinjewadi IT hub over the last 10 months.” He said, “The arrested persons — Ganesh Pawar (39) of Navi Mumbai, Basu Chavan (45) of Hadapsar and Baban Kashinath Chavan (39) of Solapur — have a total of 80 criminal cases against them registered with the Mumbai police pertaining to thefts, body offences and drugs peddling. We are searching for two of their accomplices who are on the run. The gang was also operating in Goa last year.” On October 6, builder Milind Ralegaonkar (48) lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police stating that unidentified men broke his car’s windscreen which was parked along the service lane of Katraj-Dehu Road bypass and decamped with a bag containing a sum of Rs50,000. “Our team examined footage from around 100 CCTV cameras and identified the registration number of a suspicious motorcycle,” inspector Mohan Shinde of the crime branch told TOI. He said, “We traced the motorcycle owner via the registration number but he told the police that he had recently sold his bike to Ganesh Pawar. Our investigations revealed that Pawar was a criminal on Mumbai police record. The owner did not know Pawar’s cellphone number. With the help of the Mumbai traffic police our team verified whether any challan had been issued against the registration number, traced one and also got the cellphone number.” “Assistant inspector Ambarish Deshmukh and his team laid a trap at Rabale in Navi Mumbai and nabbed Pawar, who later revealed names of Basu Chavan and Baban Chavan. Our team from Pune picked up Basu immediately,” Shinde said. Deshmukh and his team then went to Solapur and nabbed Baban, who was hiding at a sugar cane farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-bust-criminal-gang-targeting-parked-cars-for-theft-recover-18-stolen-laptops/articleshow/78941158.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||US counties offer Telugu assistance ahead of presidential polls||HYDERABAD: A few counties in the US are offering Telugu language assistance, which includes facilities such as a helpline and sample ballot in the language, for voters ahead of the upcoming US presidential elections. Among the counties that have introduced the Telugu language provision are LA County, County of Santa Clara and Alameda County – all in California. In the east, the City of Boston homepage offers Google online translation facilities to help native speakers understand poll related information in several languages including Telugu. In 2006, a federal legislation was passed extending the minority language provisions of the Voting Rights Act (VRA) of 1965. This means that counties, where more than 10,000 residents of a single minority language indicated in the US census that they are not proficient in English, are required to provide election material in the native language. The language would also be covered under VRA of the community is more than 5% of the local populace. Adapa Prasad, who has been living in the US for the last 30 years, said, “In Loudon county, Virginia, sample ballots were provided in Telugu. This is the first time in US history that this is happening.” In Alameda county, California, election material and voting support has been made available in three Indian languages including Hindi, Telugu and Punjabi of the 13 languages on offer. Speaking about the importance of Indian languages in the area, Murali Reddy, a resident of the county, said Indian languages are offered as a second language option in schools here. “This time election material, including a helpline service is being offered to voters in Telugu,” he said, confirming that this was based on a survey of the area and population estimates of the community. Los Angeles County, also in California, is the most populous county in the US. It has also listed Telugu as a ‘mandated’ language for providing assistance. Of the 18 languages, in which assistance is provided, Telugu, Hindi, Bengali and Gujarati are included. In the County of Santa Clara, facsimile ballots are being provided to voters in Telugu, Gujarati, Nepali, Punjabi and Tamil. These translated ballots can be used as a reference by voters during voting. Ramesh Reddy, a resident of the area, said, “These (translated ballots) are especially helpful for an older generation who are not as well versed with English as they are with Telugu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-counties-offer-telugu-assistance-ahead-of-prez-polls/articleshow/78941136.cms||Uttara Varma
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||Neither me nor my wife is related to CM Rawat, says man into whose bank accounts alleged bribe money was deposited in cash-for-appointment deal||Dehradun: Harender Singh Rawat, a retired Doon-based professor, is in the eye of a storm after allegations by TV journalist Umesh Kumar Sharma that he was one of the main beneficiaries of the alleged bribe money that was transferred to his accounts by a Ranchi-based person at CM Trivendra Rawat’s behest. While Sharma in his allegation had mentioned Harender and his wife Savita as “brother-in-law and sister-in-law of the chief minister,” Sharma said that neither his wife nor he was related to Trivendra Singh Rawat. ”We only share a surname. Out of the total population of Garhwal, around 80 per cent of them are Thakurs and high number have Rawat as their surname. But this does not make them relative. Let me be very clear, that my wife is not the sister of CM’s wife and I have no link with the CM.” 65-year-old Harender, who underwent a heart surgery in August last year, said that the only association he had with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat was when he was given deputation duty as advisor in the agriculture department in 2011. “Trivendra Singh Rawat was the agriculture minister in 2011 and it appears that this give a false impression to Sharma that we were relatives and he framed false allegations on me and my family.” Later in 2011, he took VRS from Rishikesh Degree College. Harender runs a degree college in Mianwala area of Dehradun and resides in posh Defence Colony area of the state capital. Sharma, in a post on Facebook on June 24, had alleged that Rs 25 lakh was deposited into the bank account of the chief minister’s relative during demonetization in 2016. The allegation was that the amount was meant as a bribe for Rawat to appoint Amritesh Chauhan-- who allegedly paid the bribe – as chairman of Gau Seva Aayog, Jharkhand. Rawat was the BJP state in-charge of Jharkhand at the time. After Sharma made these allegations, Harender filed a complaint against Sharma at Nehru Colony police station of Dehradun on July 31, 2020 and an FIR under sections 420, 467, 468, 469, 471 and 120-B of the IPC was lodged. Later charges of sedition were also added in the case. The High Court later quashed the FIR filed against Sharma. On being asked that what prompted him to file a case, he said that before doing so he had written to the banks in which he had accounts and senior police officers about the issue. “Police formed an SIT and banks gave me the transaction details. The findings clearly showed that no money had been transferred from Ranchi and to be precise I do not know anyone in Ranchi,” he said, adding, “Therefore, I decided to take legal action against the person who has tried to tarnish my image through fake charges. It may be a politically driven agenda but till date I fail to understand that how did my name crop up in the matter. I do not enjoy a good health but if my health improves in future, I will definitely file a defamation suit against Sharma.” He further expressed annoyance over the fact that his bank details were made public by Sharma. “I am not aware who has leaked this information to him,” added Harender. Meanwhile, when contacted, Amritesh Chauhan, who had lodged an FIR against Umesh Kumar Sharma in Argora police station of Ranchi on November 4, 2018, refused to comment on the issue. “Already there have been a lot of controversies and I do not wish to comment anything on the matter without my lawyer’s advise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/neither-me-nor-my-wife-is-related-to-cm-rawat-says-man-into-whose-bank-accounts-alleged-bribe-money-was-deposited-in-cash-for-appointment-deal/articleshow/78938403.cms||Kautilya Singh
October 30, 2020||Kochi||‘Allow lawyer to meet Kappan in jail’||Agra: With no progress on getting legal aid to the journalist arrested when he was on his way to meet the Hathras victim’s family, the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) on Thursday approached the Supreme Court to intervene and allow his lawyer to meet him. Siddique Kappan, a Malayalam-language journalist, was arrested on October 5 with three others — Masood Ahmad, Atikur Rahman and Mohammad Aalam — in Mathura. All four face sedition and terror charges after Mathura Police and, later, Hathras Police claimed they were “conspiring to instigate caste riots” in Hathras. While the three others have secured legal representation, Kappan’s lawyer has not been able to meet him in Mathura jail. So, the KUWJ has appealed to the Supreme Court to issue orders asking the jail authorities to allow Kappan to sign the vakalatnama authorizing his legal representative, Wills Mathews, to act on his behalf. “The petitioner is left with no other alternative... as neither applicants nor their lawyer are allowed to meet the accused for conference and for getting the vakalatnama signed,” the application said. The union sought permission for his family to meet him and for three union representatives and the lawyer to be able to talk to him over video-conferencing regularly. In an affidavit, Mathews wrote that the conditions of the temporary jail where Kappan has been held are “horrific.” He said, “Even basic precautions against Covid-19 are not being taken. It amounts to a serious denial of the fundamental rights of the inmates and is in violation of the directions of the apex court.” In a separate application, the union has sought bail for Kappan, citing his diabetic condition and the “lack of Covid-19 precautions”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/allow-lawyer-to-meet-kappan-in-jail/articleshow/78939705.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Stock broker’s office goes up in flames||Salem: Fire engulfed the office of a stock broker in the city in the early hours of Thursday, destroying equipment and office furniture worth around Rs 5 lakh completely. No casualty is reported.The office was functioning out of the first floor of its 38-year-old owner K Ramachandran’s house at Kailash Nagar in Fairlands area.An investigation officer said, “He had locked the facility around 9pm and gone to his house downstairs. Around 12.30am, smoke started emanating from the office. Ramachandran woke up and alerted the fire and rescue services personnel at Shevapet”It took almost an hour for the fire and rescue services personnel to bring the flames under control. “Computers, laptops and air conditioners were completely gutted in the incident. The loss is roughly pegged at Rs 5 lakh. The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained,” the officer said.The Alagapuram police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stock-brokers-office-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/78941137.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata film fest postponed, to start on January 8 now||KOLKATA: Film buffs and doctors have welcomed chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s decision to reschedule the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF). Owing to the pandemic, the festival has been shifted from November 5-12 to January 8-15 next year. Incidentally, the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI), scheduled to be held in Goa from November 20 to 28, has already been postponed to January 16 to 24. Banerjee’s tweet on Thursday came exactly a week before KIFF was supposed to commence on November 5. “After receiving global film fraternity’s consent, I hereby inform all stakeholders of Kolkata International Film Festival & cine lovers that our festival has been rescheduled, given the current circumstances. It will now be held from Jan 8-15, 2021. Let the preparations begin!” her tweet read. The medical fraternity has lauded this stand. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital consultant Shyamasis Bandyopadhyay has called it a “very welcome move”. “Any gathering will cause more problems. Everything can wait now except for health. Nothing supersedes health concerns. This is a very welcome decision,” Bandyopadhyay said. Raj Chakrabarty, who was the chairman of the 25th KIFF, has also agreed. “We will not want to host a festival at a time when the number of infected cases of Covid-19 is high. Apart from health concerns, KIFF has been rescheduled in the interest of cinema. KIFF has created a brand for itself internationally. Delegates from the world over want to attend the festival. Cine-lovers want to come and watch the screenings. Hosting KIFF now would mean having a truncated festival that would not be able to let everyone participate. Rescheduling will ensure greater participation in the interest of cinema,” Chakrabarty said. Meanwhile, preparations for KIFF are already under way. The official website had announced the list of films in three competitive sections — Innovation in Moving Images, Asian Select (NETPAC award) and Indian Language’s Films. Lists of 16 films in the Cinema International section, 10 films in the Bengali Panorama section and three films in the Special Screenings section have already been uploaded. According to Chakrabarty, rescheduling won’t mean that the selected movies will be changed. “Efforts will be made to get more films to ensure that the festival becomes bigger,” he said. Only one Bengali film – ‘Avijatrik’ — has made it to the competitive section of KIFF. Its director Subhrajit Mitra feels the rescheduling is a “good decision”. “Whatever happens, happens for the good. However, I’ll miss the last day of KIFF. The shooting of my film ‘Mayamrigaya’ is already scheduled. It has a multiple cast and big sets. I can’t change that. I’ll miss IFFI too because of the same reason.” Director Satrajit Sen, who is a jury member of the Indian language entries to 26th KIFF, was expecting this change of schedule. “Considering the fact that Covid-19 shows no signs of remission yet and without a vaccine on offer, this is a very responsible decision on the part of our chief minister. Health is the priority. Everything else can wait. Kudos to her for taking such a step,” Sen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-film-fest-postponed-to-start-on-jan-8-now/articleshow/78939676.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 30, 2020||Delhi||NDMC won’t pick C&D waste from PWD roads||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided not to lift construction and demolition (C&D) waste from Public Works Department roads. The civic body officials argued that maintenance of roads in PWD’s jurisdiction is the department’s responsibility. Also, transportation of C&D waste to recycling plants in Burari is expensive for the municipal corporation. Considering the fact that it is unable to release funds to contractors for transportation due to a financial crunch, an official said that it is not possible for the corporation to take on additional responsibilities. A resolution in this regard was passed in the house meeting on Tuesday. “We have given an option to the PWD and local residents to dump their C&D waste at our 85 stored. From there, we can transport the waste to recycling plants directly. But lifting waste from each and every site or road is impractical and a herculean task,” said Yogesh Verma, deputy mayor of North DMC. “If not picked on time, the dumped debris leads to pollution. So ideally, the arrangement for lifting waste should be made immediately. Only the agency concerned can do this task efficiently.” Verma added that the PWD had earlier taken responsibility for major roads (over 80 in number) and now the north corporation expects them to take responsibility for all their roads. “It has been observed that after construction of bus stands, pavement etc. debris is left on roadsides. It cost us Rs 5,000-6,000 per truck to transport C&D waste till Burari along with the labour costs. In this time of crisis, it is impossible to bear the additional burden,” said Verma. He added that the resolution has been communicated to the PWD and hopefully, they will make immediate arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-corpn-wont-pick-cd-waste-from-pwd-roads/articleshow/78942205.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||Flood relief grouse: Vatal ‘auctions’ MPs in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Former MLA Vatal Nagaraj on Thursday staged a unique protest here to highlight the alleged failure of MPs from the state in drawing the attention of Centre towards the problems of rain- and floods-hit people of Karnataka. While staging the protest at Rani Chennamma Circle, he said “auctioning” the MPs is a unique protest to highlight the inability of the state MPs who have failed to bring special grants for flood-relief works from the Centre. “The northern parts of Karnataka is witnessing heavy rain and floods for the last three years. The Union government has failed to extend a helping hand to the state. But still, the MPs from the state have remained silent on the issue. They have not raised their voice seeking grants for relief works,” he said, adding: “Our MPs have failed to highlight the floods of Karnataka in the Parliament session. They have failed to put pressure on the Prime Minister to visit the state to witness the gravity of the floods here, and also failed to get special grants of Rs 50,000 crore to the state for flood-relief works.” During the protest, he “auctioned” many MPs by holding their photographs and announcing the initial bid price. “Many MPs remained unsold,” he said, adding that similar “auction” will be held in Belagavi in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/flood-relief-grouse-vatal-auctions-mps-in-hubballi/articleshow/78938572.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lecturer accuses man of outraging modesty, police detain him||PUNE: A 34-year-old Yerawada resident has been detained by the police for questioning on the charge of outraging the modesty of a lecturer at a city college after she turned down his marriage proposal. On March 20, the 33-year-old woman from Mahadev Nagar had lodged an FIR with the Kothrud police station accusing the man of stalking and intentionally insulting her. The police had arrested him on June 19 for the offence and he was later released on bail. However, the man was not deterred from pursuing the woman, the police said. “We will inform the court that he has been named in an earlier criminal case and we will write to the Kothrud police station to take action on cancelling his bail,” said senior inspector Ramesh Sathe from the Hadapsar police station. The man was acquainted with the complainant after her family placed a matchmaking ad for her. The proposal did not work out but the man started pursuing the woman for marriage, the police said. Assistant inspector Manoj Patil from the Hadapsar police station said, “On October 20, the man visited her residence and pursued her for marriage. He touched her inappropriately and roughed her up after she rejected his proposal. When her parents intervened, he thrashed them, even threatened to kill the woman’s father if she didn’t reconsider her decision. He threatened to throw acid on her and ransacked her house.” After the incident, the woman’s family lodged a complaint with the Hadapsar police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lecturer-accuses-man-of-outraging-modesty-police-detain-him/articleshow/78941177.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana second in per capita income growth rate in country||HYDERABAD: Telangana has shown consistent increase in Per Capita Income (PCI) growth rate when compared to national average of PCI growth rate and other states over the last four years. The statistical abstract 2020 released by the state planning department showed that the four-year growth rate of PCI of Telangana at current prices stands at 13.3%, achieving the second rank in the country. The state is preceded only by Sikkim, which recorded a growth rate of 13.7%. The state’s PCI at current prices stands at Rs 2,28,216 in 2019-20, as compared to national PCI of Rs 1,36,432. The PCI of the state was Rs 1,40,840 in 2016-17, Rs 1,80,494 in 2017- 18 and Rs 2,04,488 in 2018-19. The growth rate every year has not been less than 9%. The national growth rate at the same time was oscillating between 7% to 9%. The four-year growth rate of PCI of states also revealed that Telangana is closely followed by Mizoram, Tripura and Madhya Pradesh. Taking the growth rate of past four years at constant prices (taking prices of 2011-12 as base year), the state has a good record. The state has PCI (at constant prices) of Rs 1,53,972 and growth rate in last four years stands at 9.1%. The state stands at third place and is preceded by Goa with 13.3% growth rate and Karnataka with 10% growth rate. State planning board vice chairman B Vinod Kumar said that the state is improving its track record on all fronts. “The real estate and software sectors in Hyderabad have contributed in great detail to the economy. Good monsoon helped the state to have robust rural economy. For the same reason, consistency can be seen in growth rate of all parameters,” he said. However, economic experts say that though the parameter of PCI is improving, income of all sections needs to be improved. “The PCI of certain sections is improving, which is reflected as average growth rate and it is good, but there should be continued efforts to improve income of the marginalised and poorer sections,” said Dr Krishna Reddy Chittedi, assistant professor, school of economics, University of Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-second-in-per-capita-growth-rate-in-country/articleshow/78941176.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 30, 2020||Mysuru||Some groups involved in attack on BJP men: Karnataka BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel||CHIKKAMAGALURU/ HASSAN: BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel claimed that some groups were involved in the attack on BJP leaders in Bantwal. Speaking to the media here on Thursday he said, “I do not comment on anyone or any particular group. It is not an isolated incident as there was no personal enmity. The incident appears to be a planned one. It was an attempt to murder. I appeal to the state government to direct the police department to investigate the matter and bring all those involved in the attack into the books. Miscreants, irrespective of their affiliations, must be arrested.” Speaking on the assembly by-election, Kateel said, “BJP has a comfortable 117 seats to run the government. We’re not worried about the by-election. Moreover, we don’t have any understanding with any political parties in the election.” ‘DKS should verify his previous statements’ BJP national general secretary CT Ravi on Thursday slammed KPCC chief DK Shivakumar and asked him to check his earlier statements about RR Nagar BJP candidate Munirathna. Ravi said, “DK Shivakumar verbally attacked Munirathna while campaigning. The Congress leaders’ double-standard has been exposed by their statements.” “According to Congress leaders, Munirathana was a good Congressman during the 2018 election. Now he has joined BJP and has become a criminal in their eyes. Shivakumar had praised Munirathna in 2018. If he has doubts, he should check his earlier statements,” Ravi added. “Why did Shivakumar rush to Mumbai when Munirathana and others stayed in a private hotel after expressing displeasure over their leadership? Shivakumar performed drama on the streets in Mumbai. Former CM Siddaramaiah promised a cabinet berth to Munirathna but didn’t give it to him. Now he is blaming Munirathna for political mileage,” Ravi said. Meanwhile in Hassan, former minister H D Revanna has alleged that BJP and Congress have tied up to take on JD(S) in the Sira by-election. “Congress is indirectly helping BJP in the governance, and it is its leaders who are responsible for BJP to get power. The association continues in Sira by-election too,” he said, adding: “To get to the helm of affairs in Hassan CMC, BJP has indulged in corrupt practices. The member who is set to become CMC president had contested the elections by producing a false caste certificate. We will move the court in this regard .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/some-groups-involved-in-attack-on-bjp-men-kateel/articleshow/78938790.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||Man booked for sexual assault in Haveri||HAVERI: A 20-year-old woman has accused her distant cousin of sexually assaulting her while she was alone at home, police said. The incident occurred at Hamsi village of Haveri taluk in the victim’s house on October 16, but her parents filed a complaint with the Haveri Women’s police only on October 28. According to police, the woman met her cousin at her house and he sexually assaulted her in the evening. Manjappa T, CPI at the woman police station said, “We have received the complaint and filed an FIR against Melagiriyappa Goravar, who is also from Hamsi village. The victim said Melagiriyappa had visited her house around noon on October 16 while she was alone. He allegedly sexually assaulted her by force. He also threatened to kill her if she disclosed the incident to anybody,” he added. “We will arrest the accused soon,” said Manjappa. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-booked-for-sexual-assault/articleshow/78938619.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Festive season fails to spur demand for meat||HUBBALLI: For the first time in recent times, the price of meat did not increase during Dasara festival due to the drop in demand. Throughout Navaratri, the price of mutton for instance remained Rs 700 per kg compared to Rs 680 per kg earlier largely due to increase in the supply and poor demand compared to previous years. This is true with lamb, fish and chicken as well. As mutton was sold at Rs 1000 per kg during lockdown, and Rs 650 to 680 per kg post lockdown, a spurt in price was expected during Dasara festival. However, due to the pandemic-induced financial crunch, several people refrained from hosting elaborate feasts and ritualistic sacrifices as earlier. According to sources, the large supply of lambs in Kerur, Haveri, Raibag, Navalgund, Nargund and other places is believed to be the main reason behind no hike in mutton price. Speaking to TOI, member of Mutton Shop Owners Association Pavan Kalal said Dasara celebrations were low key for most families this year due to financial constraints. “Most families dropped the feast, some deferred the ritualistic sacrifice, while several others cancelled lunch and dinner events among friends and relatives,” he said. “Because of transportation problems, people from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu did not visit Karnataka to purchase lambs from the market. The drop in demand for lambs from the neighbouring states has also contributed to the development,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/festive-season-fails-to-spur-demand-for-meat/articleshow/78936498.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad saw fewer accidents, more deaths in 2019||AHMEDABAD: Driving on city roads seems less likely to involve an accident but when an accident does occur, it is more likely to involve a fatality. In 2019, the city registered its lowest number of accidents in a decade but also recorded the most road accident fatalities for the same period. Compared to 2018, in 2019 Ahmedabad registered a 13% in the number of accidents but a 38% increase in fatalities. According to data released by the ministry of road transport and highways (Morth), the city reported 1,585 accidents in 2018 in which 316 people lost their lives. In 2019, the number of accidents dropped to 1,375 while the number of people who died rose to 439. The Morth data shows that hitherto the most fatalities of the decade were recorded in 2015, when 328 people died in the city. However, in 2019 that number was surpassed, hitting 439 fatalities. An official said that of the 1,375 accidents and 439 fatalities in the city in 2019, more than 98% were because of speeding. Speeding caused 1,354 accidents and 433 fatalities in 2019. A senior police officer said speeding is perhaps the main cause of accidents, but in the state and city police, the police as a matter of routine state that the driver of the vehicle was speeding. The officer said the number of traffic cops compared to vehicles on the road is minimal and drivers thus have very less respect for police on the roads. Moreover, there is lack of surveillance vehicles which could deter drivers from speeding. “If there are vehicles intercepting speeding vehicles, the number of fatalities will definitely come down,” the officer said. A transport department officer who asked not to be identified said it seems even the government is not so committed to action on this front, as it was the first state to scale down fines under the new Motor Vehicles Act and also made helmets optional in city limits. Rutul Joshi, an associate professor at Cept University, said, “There is a mentality in the city that we want widest possible roads even at the cost of decent footpaths or speeding on main roads. Every time we try to have safe pedestrian infrastructure or crossings, then there is a hue and cry about ‘narrowing of the road width’. A well-designed road ensures smooth traffic flow rather then obstructing it and roads belong to all users including pedestrians and cyclists.” “We should also work to reducing the time taken by first responders to reach accident sites. Someone needs to monitor this in real time and make a plan for improvement. In the Netherland, if an ambulance leaves to attend to a victim another ambulance in the vicinity will also start moving so that in case of any exigency a person is attended to in five minutes time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-saw-fewer-accidents-more-deaths-in-19/articleshow/78941281.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Parents, schools confused over new fee formula by Rajasthan govt||JAIPUR: Parents and schools on Thursday objected to the new fee order issued by the state government. The Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner, on Wednesday reduced school fees on the basis of reduced syllabus. School authorities said the move was unreasonable. Ashok Vaid, the principal of MPS, Jawahar Nagar, said the order was filled with ambiguities. “At first, the order states that we can charge 60% or 70% fees, but pay full salary to the staff. How is this possible? There are many schools where there is no bifurcation of fees as the entire amount is considered to be tuition fees. Such schools will benefit. This order is not giving any relief to parents or teachers,” Vaid said. President of All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum Sunil Yadav said this was completely against the relief they were seeking for. “They have removed their staff, teacher salaries have been cut and they have to bear no expense for other facilities. There is so much confusion regarding the capacity building fees. Government needs to clarify about the need of capacity building fees,” said Yadav. Director of Secondary Education Sourabh Swami clarified that they had issued orders earlier that online classes are not for completion of syllabus but just to clear the concept and build the capacity of the student for which schools can charge. Archana Mankotia, principal of Maharani Gayatri Devi School, said this was a very vague term. “Concept clearing is just a part of the studies. It like a play-off with words as this happens any ways. Through online classes, schools are completing the syllabus as many parents will not send their wards after school reopens. Schools have invested a lot in online classes and many webinars are being conducted and teachers have been trained for it. The order is confusing,” said Mankotia. Sanyukt Abhibhavak Samiti spokesperson Abhishek Jain said they would take up the matter with the high court for clarification. “Many schools do not have fee committee or bifurcation of fee structure. Many schools have increased fees this year despite government’s order. This order is very confusing that will eventually generate tussle between parents and schools,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-schools-confused-over-new-fee-formula/articleshow/78941213.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Live organ donation not linked to Mrithasanjeevani||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Amidst the row over organ donation racket thriving in the state, Mrithasanjeevani, the organ sharing network of the health department, has made it clear that it has nothing to do with live organ sharing. Only cadaver organ transplant is carried out under Mritasanjeevani. All live organ donations are being carried out by the hospitals concerned and has no links with Mritasanjeevani. The government has appointed an authorization committee as per Transplantation of Human Organ Act. This committee clears the live organ donation permission between the donor and recipient. Mrithasanjeevani has no role in giving permission for the live organ donation, said officials from Kerala Network of Organ Sharing. No registration is required at Mrithasanjeevani for availing live organs. The authorization committee and the concerned hospitals where surgeries are being performed are part of this live organ donation. As per rules, the donor and the recipient have to appear before this authorization committee to get the clearance. The state police have initiated a probe into the organ transplant racket that supplies kidneys and liver from living donors to affluent patients for a huge sum. The probe has been initiated based on a preliminary inquiry report submitted by crime branch IG S Sreejith. It is in this backdrop that Mrithasanjeevani, the official organ donation programme of the state government, has made it clear that it has nothing to do with live organ donation. Live organ donations trump cadaver transplants As per statistics available, live organ donations are happening more than cadaver transplants in the state. In 2019, live organ donations were 823 and 55 cadaver transplants were performed in the state. In 2018, the live organ donation was 856 and cadaver transplants were 29, and in 2017, 852 live organ donations had taken place in the state where as only 60 cadaver transplant took place. The major live organ donations taking place in the state are kidney transplants. In 2019, 690 kidney and 133 liver transplants were performed. It was 686 and 170 in 2018, and 709 and 143 in 2017, respectively. In three years, 2,085 kidney transplants and 446 liver transplants have been performed in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/live-organ-donation-not-linked-to-mrithasanjeevani/articleshow/78939766.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM praises revenue staff, Saida Bainama deadline extended||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who was critical of the revenue department and done away with VRO posts through the Revenue Act amendment, praised the revenue department during the Dharani portal unveiling. The CM said the entire revenue department got a bad name due to a handful of corrupt employees and some VROs. “The revenue department officers, especially tahsildars, have been discharging 55 types of duties, including during natural calamities. When the government had decided to remove VROs system and revamp the department, revenue associations have assured to cooperate with the government,” he recalled. He said the deadline for Sada Bainama applications would be extended for one more week from October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-praises-revenue-staff-saida-bainama-deadline-extended/articleshow/78941206.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Thumbs down for fee cut order||Jaipur: Terming the fee order unreasonable, a city-based education said the logic behind slashing fees was unreasonable. School education expert KB Kothari said the logic behind reducing the fee on the basis of syllabus was not justified. “Parents were demanding fee cut because of the losses they suffered and total stop to normal classroom classes. School education department is claiming to have included the term capacity building for online classes. But online classes are not the only medium on which capacity of the student can be developed as it will require a comprehensive approach from parents, school and government,” said Kothari. Parents have rejected this order and termed it to be confusing that will create more problems than solving it. The state was ordered by the high court only to issue directions for interim fee which can be collected by schools. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani said the government had removed half the sessions in order to collect the fees. “When the high court lambasted the government for delay in coming with a fee structure, the order passed by it (HC) was also incomplete and unclear. The order has confused parents and school management. It is impractical to fix tuition fee on the basis of syllabus instead of reading days. The order is overly complicated and has left parents trapped in the pool of data.” President of Society of Unaided Private School Damodar Goyal said if fee could be linked with the quantum of syllabus, teachers salary could also be fixed in the same proportion. “When the field of fee fixation is occupied by an act, it cannot be fixed by an order of the executive. This may result in closure of many schools and deterioration of education. CBSE schools have completed about 75 per cent syllabus through online teaching and have conducted even half yearly examination. CBSE has accepted attendance of online classes for board examinations. Government order has been issued ignoring many ground realities,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thumbs-down-for-fee-cut-order/articleshow/78941236.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid patients skip civic polls in three corporations||JAIPUR: Though arrangements were made by the district administration for Covid patients to cast their votes in the municipal polls in three corporations on Thursday, they refused to come out to exercise their franchise. At Sophia School polling station near Ghat Gate, two health department officials were sitting idle waiting for a call from at least one Covid person who was willing to vote. One of them took out a list of 12 Covid persons who belong to the area under the dispensary at Ghat Gate. “The medical officer in-charge of the dispensary called each one of them, but they showed no interest in voting. We’ve told them that they can inform us any time they are willing to vote. They can vote till 5.30 pm. They will be provided PPE kits if they don’t have one. We also told them they can call 108 Emergency for medical services. But, we haven’t received a single call since morning. Either they are unwell or they are scared to come out,” health official Kishore said. Similar was the case at Rajakiya Madhyamik Vidyalaya and Imitation Walon Ki Dharmashala polling stations outside the Walled City. Poll officials in Manak Chowk, Hindi Bhawan and Rajakiya Prathamik Vidyalaya (Ghat Gate) didn’t receive any list of Covid persons. At Agrawal PG College, a woman health official received the list of Covid persons at 4:30 pm. “Why did they (the administration) give it to me so late? They should have given it to me earlier,” she said and immediately started dialling the contact numbers one after the other. But, none of them gave a positive response. Many in Jalupura area didn’t come out as they didn’t have PPE kits. On requesting police officials to provide PPE kits, they were told that no such arrangements had been made. While proper arrangements for social distancing and sanitisation were made in all polling stations, the intensity to sanitise voters slowed down as the day progressed. Volunteers and police personnel assigned for the job missed out on sanitizing some voters as they either got busy chatting with each other or almost lost the interest in doing so. “I was not sanitised when I entered the polling booth. The police personnel were busy chatting,” said a Abdul Latif, who voted at a polling booth in Hindi Bhavan. Very few turned up without wearing masks. A voter who managed to slip in Agrawal PG College polling station unnoticed was intercepted just outside the booth by a police official. “Where is your mask?” the official asked. Unable to give any explanation, the voter was allowed to enter the booth covering his face with the cloth around his neck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-patients-skip-civic-polls/articleshow/78941269.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Frontline Covid warriors high on West Bengal’s vaccination priority list||KOLKATA: Frontline Covid-19 warriors, such as health and civic staff, will be among the first in the state to receive the vaccine against the disease. Though the vaccine isn’t ready yet, the state health department is gearing up for the vaccination programme. Apart from doctors, nurses and civic staff, ASHA and Anganwadi workers will also be on the list as will be paramedical personnel like technicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists and radiographers. The department is preparing a priority list for vaccination and has asked hospitals — both state-run and private — to submit details of frontline healthcare workers (HCWs) and other staffers, who would be administered the vaccine on a priority basis, an official said on Thursday. Hospitals have been asked to include contractual workers — such as housekeeping staff — as well. The department has also asked heads of seven municipal corporations and 280 municipalities to prepare a list of their health and conservancy staffers actively engaged in Covid-19 duty. Names of doms, who help in the disposal of bodies, will also be included in the list. These names have to be submitted to the state health department by mid-November. The department’s urgency to prepare the list follows a directive from the Union health ministry that is collecting the data of frontline Covid-warriors from various states. A meeting was held between a state health department official and his counterpart in the Centre on the deadline for submitting the names. The Indian Medical Association, too, has written to the state health department seeking its intervention in registering names of its members for the vaccination programme. All medical colleges will have to send their lists to the department by Friday. “We have prepared a list of about 7,000 healthcare workers comprising doctors, nurses, students, technicians and group D workers,” said Raghunath Misra, medical superintendent and vice-principal, Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research (SSKM). Other medical colleges, too, have either finished compiling their lists or are on the verge of completing. Once Swasthya Bhawan gets the data, it will prioritize the names. The mission director of National Health Mission will be the nodal officer for the immunization exercise. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had recently said the Centre was planning to vaccinate about 25 crore people by next July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/frontline-covid-warriors-high-on-states-vaccination-priority-list/articleshow/78939767.cms||Saikat Ray
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Coronavirus fear prompts families in Kolkata to perform Lakshmi Puja minus priests and invitees||KOLKATA: Kojagori Lakshmi Puja, one of the most-loved events in a large number of Bengali homes in the city will be quite different this year. Owing to the pandemic, most families have decided to conduct the Puja on their own, without a purohit or priest. However, many are consulting their family priests to guide them into the various aspects of the Puja. In the absence of a priest, many were confused if the rituals can be performed properly. However, by Thursday most were convinced that they can perform the Puja with the rituals and it would not be difficult to please the goddess of wealth and prosperity. TimesViewSafety concerns should override everything this Lakshmi Puja. This is one festival where much of the activity happens inside homes; it calls for an extra dose of caution.Small modifications have been brought in. Most households have not bought the clay idol and the all-important ghot or pot this time . Instead they will be offering the Puja to either a picture or paat. Some have bought brass ghots with brass embellishments of a daab or coconut and pancha pallab (five mango leaves) as these can be washed and sanitized before use. Some will offer sealed packets of sweets and dry fruits as prasaad or whole fruits sanitised with fruit/vegetable sanitizers. Invitations to extended family, friends and neighbours, which has been a tradition in many households, were also not sent this year. Indrani Chakraborty, a resident of Salt Lake and a retired school principal, has been conducting the Puja for 41 years. This time she bought the idol, but will do the rituals herself, following traditions handed down in the family since it shifted from Dhaka. “I will do the ghot sthapan and read the Kojagori panchali myself and will keep the offerings minimalistic. Friends and relatives have not been invited this year,” she said. To keep infection at bay, Dhakuria resident Keya Dutta, will not only conduct the Puja herself, but will also prepare the sweets for offering at home. “It felt so good making and distributing bhog and hosting guests during the Puja in the previous years. Sadly, these will be missing this time,” she rued. The absence of a priest will not deter Shipra Dhar either who, despite her age, will conduct the Puja by herself. “I worship Goddess Lakshmi as mother and I am sure I shall be able to serve her from the heart. I shall, however, miss the pushpanjali with extended family and friends as there will be no invitee this time,” said the 67-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virus-fear-prompts-families-to-perform-lakshmi-puja-minus-priests-and-invitees/articleshow/78939763.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Every third fatality was a pedestrian||AHMEDABAD: Every third person who died in road accidents in the city in 2019 was a pedestrian. Of the 439 deaths due to road accidents in 2019, 135 were pedestrians. The danger is not limited to walking, riding a two-wheeler is equally unsafe in Ahmedabad, as they accounted for 126 deaths in the city in the same period. According the data on road accidents in India released by the ministry of road transport and highways (Morth), in Ahmedabad city two-wheelers were the vehicle type involved in the highest number of accidents. Of the 1,375 accidents in the city in 2019, 591 involved two-wheelers being hit by a car, truck, bus or two-wheeler slipped resulting in injury or death of the rider. Pedestrians were involved in 418 accidents. A senior officer of the transport department said the high number of accidents involving pedestrian reflects that the city does not have proper footpaths for pedestrians or they have been encroached upon. The officer also pointed out that the BRT bus stands are in the middle of roads and also cause several accidents. He said that city footpaths are not only encroached on but are also used as parking space for two-wheelers, forcing people to walk on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/every-third-fatality-was-a-pedestrian/articleshow/78941261.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Tigress goes missing, 2 frail cubs rescued, 1 dies||NAGPUR: One of three tiger cubs died while two are critical after the mother tigress went missing from the tourism zone in Khadsangi range of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) buffer. One of the starving cubs was rescued on Wednesday from compartment number 56 after it was found in a weak condition, but it died before it could be taken to Chandrapur transit treatment centre (TTC). The cub was cremated as per NTCA guidelines. Maharashtra: Tigress goes missing, 2 frail cubs rescued, 1 dieshttps://t.co/yLVNQ1MCJA https://t.co/mkyev0zHwB— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1604033167000Two more frail cubs were rescued on Thursday and are undergoing treatment. They are being fed chicken pieces and milk. Saline is being administered to the dehydrated cubs. Both the cubs are anaemic and sluggish. As tiger numbers grow in Tadoba, they are becoming more vulnerable to threats. The four-month-old cubs were the first litter of famous tourist-friendly tigress Mayuri from Navegaon-Ramdegi and Alizanja area adjoining Tadoba. Maharashtra: Tigress goes missing, 2 frail cubs rescued, 1 dies; one of the starving cubs was rescued on Wed from c… https://t.co/Ao1v5043xX— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1604033490000“We sighted the three cubs playing on the roadside during the evening safari on October 19. We waited for around 1.5 hours for the mother to arrive but she didn’t. Today, we learnt the cubs have been captured and one died. This means the tigress must have gone missing before October 19,” said tourists Perseed Jall and Indraneel Mukherjee. “A tigress is overly cautious about young cubs and leaves them for only a short period of time to drink and hunt. The tigress must have been poached or electrocuted or something bad must have happened to her,” said wildlife experts. TATR deputy director (buffer) G Guruprasad said, “We are looking into all possibilities. We found tigress pugmarks near the spot where cubs were picked up. We are hopeful and an intensive hunt for the mother has been launched. At least 50 camera traps have also been installed to track the animal.” “We will first try to trace the tigress and attempt to reunite the cubs. If the tigress is not traced in the next two days, we will also look into the poaching angle. There is a possibility that this being the first litter, the tigress may not know how to rear the cubs, or getting prey to feed them must be an issue. She may also have been lured by a male for mating,” Guruprasad added. Tigress Mayuri is around four-year-old and was popular among tourists. “We are heartbroken as the tiger family was a source of livelihood for us. After a 7-month tourism lull due to Covid-19, we were expecting to build fortunes from good tiger sightings. Our hopes have been dashed now,” said guides and Gypsy drivers. Wildlife lovers have questioned the lack of protection in the tiger habitat. “On one hand, we are opposing development projects around Tadoba to save tigers, and on the other, we are losing tigers due to the lackadaisical approach of protection staff. There is a full-fledged battalion of Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF). Still tigers are not safe in one of the country’s premium parks,” said Chetan Jasani, a wildlife lover from Gondia. In June this year, a gang of local villagers near Sitarampeth-Kondegaon Road in Mohurli buffer zone was arrested for poaching a tigress and her two cubs. Electrocution is also a big menace in Tadoba buffer zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-goes-missing-2-frail-cubs-rescued-1-dies/articleshow/78941320.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Infection among kids rising in Karnataka, doctors blame parental laxity||BENGALURU: The number of children under the age of 10 years contracting Covid-19 is on the rise in Karnataka, data from the state Covid-19 War Room shows. In the one-month period ending 27 October, 8,528 children were infected, up from 7,410 in the preceding month. Doctors say the trend is worrying especially when the total number of infections is falling. While 2.7 lakh fresh infections were reported in the state between August 27 and September 27, the number fell to 2.3 lakh in the ensuing month. Parents heading out to work could be catching the infection and passing it on to their children at home, doctors say, adding that the bigger concern is of kids infecting grandparents and elders at home, who, given their age, are likely to have comorbidities and could pay a heavy price. So far 28 infected children below 10 years have died, eight in the past month alone. Some suffered comorbidities like cardiac ailments. Dr Natesh BH, secretary, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Karnataka chapter, ruled out transmission from children to children since kids are not going to schools. “The transmission to children is largely through their parents,” Dr Natesh said. “Parents take their kids to social occasions like family functions and end up exposing them to the virus. Parents have to exercise caution and ensure their children are safe.” As some children face multisystem inflammatory syndrome-Covid (MISC) when infected, Dr Natesh said they need to be admitted to hospitals once they show symptoms. While the state Covid technical advisory committee and the BBMP say children below five years need not wear masks, paediatricians say, preferably, everyone above two years of age should wear a mask. “Children above two years should wear a mask especially when going out or if they are out in a crowd,” Dr Natesh said. Dr KS Sanjay, director, Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH), said paediatric patients from outside Bengaluru seeking non-Covid treatment are testing positive. “We are not a dedicated Covid hospital, but all patients are tested for Covid before admission,” Dr Sanjay said. “Infected children are housed in a Covid ward. We have six such cases now. These children may have picked up the virus while travelling in buses from their hometowns and villages.” The increase in children being infected shows parents and caretakers are not following prevention protocols, says Dr SM Prasad, a Bengaluru-based paediatrician. He says when parents return home, they must have a head bath before interacting with their children. “They must ensure children do not come in contact with used clothes and masks,” Dr Prasad said. “If parents maintain hygiene standards, children will be safe, but many parents use hand sanitisers only, while the virus could be present in their clothes or bags which children may touch.” Indian Medical Association members say several paediatricians have been infected with Covid-19 and their possible source of infection could be screening of children with mild symptoms. Dr Prasad said that the state’s daily bulletin on the pandemic must have a section where paediatric cases from the districts are listed to spread awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/infection-among-kids-rising-in-ktaka-doctors-blame-parental-laxity/articleshow/78939010.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 30, 2020||Kolkata||Campaign for a smoke-free Diwali in pandemic times||Kolkata: Fearing a rise in pollution levels that could aggravate the pandemic situation, a section of citizens has started an aggresive social media campaign, urging everyone not to burst firecrackers this Kali Puja and Diwali. Doctors, teachers, green activists, students and members of the Marwari Sanskritik Manch have started the drive to keep Kali Puja and Diwali as smoke-free as possible. Among those who are involved in Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter campaigns are doctors Kaushik Lahiri of Apollo; Kaushik Chaki, secretary of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF) and Aditya Mundhra, secretary of the Marwari Sanskritik Manch (MSM), the umbrella organization of the city’s Marwari community. The Manch has called off its cracker show at Salt Lake’s Central Park this year. “We are appealing to people across communities through social media. Our kids are forwarding WhastApp messages among their friends because it will be of great help if schoolchildren understand the gravity of the situation and dissuade each other from buying crackers,” Mundhra said. Janet Gasper Choudhury, president of St Augustine Education Society, has been forwarding the “no-cracker this year” message over the last two days. “This Diwali, self-discipline is the mantra. We are asking our students to make this Diwali sound- and smoke-free,” he said. Crackers generate suspended particulate matter, which can carry the Covid virus, warned doctors. A study published by Harvard University found that even a minor increase in suspended particulate matter or PM2.5 can lead to an increase in Covid-19 deaths. “Post Diwali, the city reports significant spike in suspended particulate matter and hospitals must accommodate more patients with respiratory illness,” said Chaki. WBDF has written letters to the government and various political parties to take adequate steps against bursting crackers this year and follow pandemic norms during the upcoming festivities. Green activists like SM Ghosh, too, are doing their bit, writing to Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the West Bengal Pollution Control Board to ensure a smoke-free Kali Puja and Diwali. “Small particles emanated from the crackers block respiratory tract and thus make us more susceptible to Covid infection,” said Ghosh. Doctors are worried about the impact of crackers on Covid treatment during Diwali. “This year, both Kali Puja and Diwali will be celebrated on November 14 when more people are likely to be undergoing treatment at home and in hospitals. The air, laden with pollutants from crackers, will give them a raw deal,” said Lahiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/campaign-for-a-smoke-free-diwali-in-pandemic-times/articleshow/78939764.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: M Sivasankar to face serious charges in department inquiry||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: IAS officer M Sivasankar’s arrest by Enforcement Directorate (ED) will have an impact on the departmental inquiry initiated against him by the state government. As Sivasankar has been arrested on serious criminal charges of being a suspected partner in gold smuggling, the charges framed against him for departmental inquiry are likely to be rephrased with more serious ones that can even lead to his removal from service. The articles of charges served to the officer on August 14 were based on three charges: Misuse of official position for making reference to appoint Swapna Suresh earn a job as operations manager of Space Park project under IT department, frequent association with a foreign consulate official without the government’s knowledge and sending a wrong message to public by associating with a person arrested later in connection with criminal activities. Once the state government receives the report about the charges against him making him an accomplice in the gold smuggling case, it is likely to serve him a fresh article of charges. If the officer’s explanation is not satisfactory, the government can frame charges against him and hold an inquiry by appointing an inquiry officer of its choice and a presenting officer to present the case. As per the all India services (discipline and appeal) rules, depending on the inquiry findings, any penalty could be awarded to him by the government, ranging from censuring (which is a minor penalty), cutting down increments, reducing the officer’s rank to lower time scale and pay, compulsory retirement or removal from the service. There are also clauses in the Constitution that gives powers to the Centre to remove an officer even without conducting an inquiry. According to article 311 of the Constitution, no person who is a member of civil service under the Union or the state shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank except after an inquiry. However, the same article also makes it clear that this clause shall not apply where the president or the governor, as the case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the state it is not expedient to hold such an inquiry. This would mean that if the Centre has reasons to believe that Sivasankar is involved in the gold smuggling case, he can be dismissed from the service even without an inquiry, as the gold smuggling case and money laundering are considered as threat to the country’s economic stability. Though the state government had served the article of charges to Sivasankar and he has returned his reply, not much progress has been made, since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-to-face-serious-charges-in-dept-inquiry/articleshow/78938443.cms||KP Saikiran
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Technical institutes to open on December 1||Jaipur: Minister of state for technical education Subhash Garg on Thursday said that according to the guidelines of AICTE, the first-year classes in technical institutes will start from December 1. This is the first such decision announced by the state government regarding re-opening of educational institutes. Garg further said that courses in Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) Kota and Bikaner Technical University (BTU), Bikaner will be reduced by 30%. “Universities should decide that classes should be taken online three days a week and offline for three days. All the work, including the document verification of the students and recognition of institutes, should be done online. There is no need for physical verification,” said Garg. Secretary of technical education Shuchi Sharma said that both technical universities under the department of technical education will organise campaign against Covid. A report has been submitted to the state government regarding the re-opening of the colleges and changes in the timetable of the academic year. According to the sources in higher education department, suggestions have been made to open the colleges and universities by November 17, 2020. As the session has already been delayed due to the ongoing pandemic, suggestion have been made to reduce the number of holidays. “We have suggested to reduce the summer vacation by 15 days during which final examinations can be conducted. Usually summer vacation starts in May, but according to the report submitted, session will end by April 30, and from May 1, final examination will be conducted,” said a source in the department. At first, UG third year and PG final year examination will be conducted and then other classes will be taken. College authorities will have to follow all the government guidelines while maintaining social distancing. This however seems to be difficult in state like Rajasthan where more than 50% colleges still do not have permanent building. President of Rajasthan Universities and Colleges Teachers’ Association Narayan Lal Gupta said that on ground reality is different. “Around 100 colleges in the state do not have hand-wash facility. Many do not have toilets or permanent building. Government has recently opened more than 30 new colleges but infrastructure is bad. Releasing SOP is easier but implementation is bad,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/technical-institutes-to-open-on-december-1/articleshow/78941246.cms||---
October 30, 2020||---||​EC axes Munger DM, SP amid mob fury over police firing||PATNA: The Election Commission on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of Munger DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh after rampaging mobs torched two police stations and as many outposts in the Bihar town over Monday’s police firing on a Durga Puja immersion procession. The offices of at least three top officials, including the SP, were ransacked and their vehicles set ablaze. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerAs the Kotwali and Mufassil police stations burned, the attackers stood by to prevent fire tenders from dousing the flames, officials said. The Purab Sarai and Basudeopur outposts were gutted, too. The Election Commission has directed Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao to conduct an inquiry into the mob violence and submit a report within a week. The outgoing DM and the district police chief have been asked to report to the chief secretary and await their new assignments. Rachana Patil, a 2010 batch IAS officer, has joined as the district election officer of Munger while Manavjeet Singh Dhillon has taken over as SP. “DIG (Munger range) Manu Maharaaj is camping in the town to prevent untoward incidents. Additional security forces have also been rushed to Munger,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said. A civilian identified as Aniruddh Poddar (22) was killed in Monday's police firing, which followed a clash between two groups during the immersion procession of Munger's famed "Badi Durga" idol. At least 20 others, including 13 police personnel, were injured. RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP's Chirag Paswan took potshots at CM Nitish Kumar over the police firing, which they likened to General Dyer ordering the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Munger, among the 16 districts where Phase 1 of the assembly elections were held on Wednesday, reported the lowest voter turnout of 47.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ec-axes-munger-dm-sp-amid-mob-fury-over-police-firing/articleshow/78943047.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 30, 2020||India||​EC axes Munger DM, SP amid mob fury over police firing||PATNA: The Election Commission on Thursday ordered the immediate removal of Munger DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh after rampaging mobs torched two police stations and as many outposts in the Bihar town over Monday’s police firing on a Durga Puja immersion procession. The offices of at least three top officials, including the SP, were ransacked and their vehicles set ablaze. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerAs the Kotwali and Mufassil police stations burned, the attackers stood by to prevent fire tenders from dousing the flames, officials said. The Purab Sarai and Basudeopur outposts were gutted, too. The Election Commission has directed Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao to conduct an inquiry into the mob violence and submit a report within a week. The outgoing DM and the district police chief have been asked to report to the chief secretary and await their new assignments. Rachana Patil, a 2010 batch IAS officer, has joined as the district election officer of Munger while Manavjeet Singh Dhillon has taken over as SP. “DIG (Munger range) Manu Maharaaj is camping in the town to prevent untoward incidents. Additional security forces have also been rushed to Munger,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said. A civilian identified as Aniruddh Poddar (22) was killed in Monday's police firing, which followed a clash between two groups during the immersion procession of Munger's famed "Badi Durga" idol. At least 20 others, including 13 police personnel, were injured. RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and LJP's Chirag Paswan took potshots at CM Nitish Kumar over the police firing, which they likened to General Dyer ordering the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Munger, among the 16 districts where Phase 1 of the assembly elections were held on Wednesday, reported the lowest voter turnout of 47.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-axes-munger-dm-sp-amid-mob-fury-over-police-firing/articleshow/78943051.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 30, 2020||Salem||DVAC seizes Rs 1.05 lakh from RTO office||Salem: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) led by ADSP Chandramouli seized Rs 1.05 lakh unaccounted money from the staff of the Salem-west RTO office on Wednesday evening. The sleuths had raided the office on the Kandampatty bypass around 6.30pm after receiving a tip-off. “We seized Rs 1.05 lakh from brake inspector Rajesh Kanna’s office,” said a DVAC officer. “We have booked Kanna, office assistant Saravanan, touts Jayachandran and Dhanasekar, who collected money from public.” The raid concluded on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dvac-seizes-rs-1-05-lakh-from-rto-office/articleshow/78941322.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 30, 2020||Kochi||ED wants me to agree to its theory: M Sivasankar to court||KOCHI: Hours after his arrest, IAS officer M Sivasankar appeared calm and poised as he was brought before the principal sessions court Ernakulam on Thursday. In the courtroom, soon after the opening remarks were made by the defence and prosecution lawyers, the former principal secretary made a submission that he be allowed to speak for himself. Initially, he began speaking from the dock and later, with the court’s permission, came closer to the bench so that the judge could hear him better. Sivasankar said the prosecution’s allegations that he was not cooperating with the investigation and has been giving evasive responses are absolutely false. He said he has all along been cooperating with the investigation. “They (Enforcement Directorate) have a theory and they want me to agree to it. If I don’t do it, then that can’t be considered as an evasive response,” Sivasankar told the court. Special prosecutor TA Unnikrishnan submitted that though he has cooperated with the investigation, he was reluctant to answer vital questions clearly. Sivasankar also said he was interrogated continuously for hours without any break, that too even during night hours on Wednesday, as well as on earlier occasions, while he was interrogated by ED. He said some of the questions were about WhatsApp chats and he couldn’t answer them properly as his phone was already seized and he couldn’t cross check with what he had sent months ago. The officers who asked the questions used to go out to make phone calls during the questioning, prolonging the sessions, he added. Sivasankar, who was wearing a back support belt over his t-shirt, submitted that due to his ill health, he was unable to withstand the prolonged interrogation. Sivasankar also told the court that he was taken into custody by ED while he was undergoing treatment at an ayurveda hospital. He said he was suffering from acute disc prolapse and he was on a course of treatment for 14 days and he could undergo only nine days of treatment when he was taken into custody. He requested that continued treatment has to be ensured during custody. The court allowed him to sit down as the session progressed and even asked if he wanted to make any further submissions, at the end of the proceedings. Sivasankar left the courtroom after having a brief discussion with his lawyer, his brother and nephew.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-wants-me-to-agree-to-its-theory-sivasankar-to-court/articleshow/78938451.cms||Disney Tom
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Lukewarm response in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Polling for Jodhpur Municipal Corporation North here on Thursday witnessed a very lukewarm response as total …..% voters cast their votes. Started at 7.30am, polling progressed at a very steady pace and completed peacefully with no report of clash or EVM glitch. Last one hour was kept for polling by corona positive voters. Though, the number of such voters was quite low, but some of them reached the booth with PPE kit. Administration had set up 625 polling booths for 80 wards of the North zone where 296 candidates have tried their luck to become municipal councillor. Besides 625 booths, 272 additional booths have been provisioned to cap the voters to 850 per booth. This step had been taken keeping in view the possibilities of infection at bay. Polling began at a moderate pace with queues spotted at some booths half an hours in advance from the time of polling. There was huge enthusiasm among youth as many of them were quite content with the number of youths, given tickets this time. One voter Manisha Solanki said that the past experience showed that elderly representatives were not as much active for public grievances as they were supposed to be. “We are happy that youth have been contesting elections in large numbers and we hope that they would be quite energetic and forthcoming in resolution of problems of ward,” she said. Another voter Vinay Purohit said that an educated youth was the only hope and wished that voters should choose a candidate which appeared capable instead of seeing political affiliation. “A young councillor with education and knowledge about the process of work and various projects as well as schemes could work wonders for his or her ward”, he said. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s son Vaibhav Gehlot and his wife also cast their votes at a booth of their ward. He reached the polling booth early and met the party workers after casting his vote. He has been in the city for the past three days campaigning for the candidates of Congress. Compliance of Covid guidelines was strictly being done at all the polling booths. Voters were not being allowed without masks. Though adequate arrangements had been made to ensure social distancing but it was largely compromised at many booths. But absence of ramp for differently abled voters at some polling booths caused difficulty to such voters. They had to be lifted to the booth to facilitate them to cast their votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lukewarm-response-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78941282.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Kota North polling peaceful||Kota: The first phase of polling for Kota North Municipal Corporation ended peacefully in all the 555 booths spread across 70 wards. Till 5pm, 62.59% of the voters exercised their franchise. Though no untoward incident was reported from any ward, the situation was tense at a booth in Ward No. 24 after workers of both Congress and BJP exchanged a heated debate but police presence prevented any frare off. At least six Covid patients including three women cast their votes wearing PPE kits at ward numbers 8, 16, 23, 50 and 31. The booths were set up in accordance with Covid guidelines. “Polling at all the polling booths in 70 wards concluded peacefully and no untoward incident was reported. However, a handful of party workers exchanged a heated debate at a booth in Ward No. 24. Police were on the spot and controlled the situation,” Kota city SP Gourav Yadav said. Meanwhile, around 80 independent candidates seemed to be posing threat to both the BJP and the Congress candidates. Though the Congress faced rebellion from workers for denial of tickets in most of the wards, it did not take any action like BJP that expelled at least 26 of its workers for 6 years. Dissidents in the Congress, who preferred to contest independently, are most likely to spoil the game for the party, said a Congress dissident who had sought a party ticket from Ward 46||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-north-polling-peaceful/articleshow/78941285.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sale of PINs for dental, medical courses from Nov 2||AHMEDABAD: The sale of kits containing personal identification numbers (PINs) to register online for admission to medical, dental, ayurveda and homoeopathy undergraduate courses will begin on November 2 and end on November 9, the Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate Medical Courses announced on Thursday. There are approximately 12,000 seats available in all these courses. Students of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB), CBSE, Council of Indian School Certificate Examination, Cambridge University and National Institute of Open Schooling who have cleared Class XII Science (Group B) and qualified in the All-India Rankings of NEET 2020 can apply for government, grant-in-aid and self-financed colleges, sources in the committee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sale-of-pins-for-dental-med-courses-from-nov-2/articleshow/78941315.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai University Results: Record 95% pass BCom, 96% clear LLB||MUMBAI: In what seems to be unprecedented, over 95% of the 64,000 third year BCom students of Mumbai University cleared the exams held this month amid the pandemic. In the final year LLB exams, too, 96% have passed, with 50% bagging first class. In a course where top scores in a subject are usually in the 65-70 range, at least four students have scored 400/400 in theory papers. Close to 600 students scored 100 in one, two or three out of four papers. The passing percentage in TY BCom usually hovers in the 70% range, and in LLB it’s lower, but many expected inflated scores this time as the questions were in MCQ (multiple choice questions) format and students took the exams online from home. Around 4,400 students took the final year LLB (semester VI) exam. The exam for the 2019-20 batch was held early this month, after a lot of vacillation and litigation over its conduct during the Covid-19 pandemic. “These results cannot be compared with previous years as exams were never taken in this format. Also, in MCQ format, if the difficulty level is not very high, there is scope for scoring full marks. You get a zero or full marks for the question you attempt. If you attempt all questions correctly, you are bound to get the perfect score,” said an official. A law student, who scored 100/100 in one subject, said the government’s stance may have been right in the beginning. “Since they were not equipped to hold exams in a pandemic, the average scores of students’ previous performances could have been more realistic. With unprecedented scores, UGC’s argument over not compromising the standard of education does not hold ground. These marks would anyway put a question mark on validity of work we have done in previous semesters too,” said the student. The university started announcing results of final year exams for 2019-20 batch early this week. Results for TYBCom are the most awaited every year, as they have most students taking the exam. While the university announced results for TYBCom, LLB and BMM students on Thursday, results for other exams such as TYBA are expected in a day or two. A principal said getting full marks in an objective-based exam was not difficult. “Colleges were told to keep simplified questions and not tricky ones. In the pandemic, everyone had to keep the exams student-friendly. In the given circumstances, MCQ format was probably the best option before the state. Also students were taking the exam from home, and online proctoring in many cases was not foolproof,” said the principal, adding that students had an hour to attempt 25 questions. For students’ convenience, the university allowed them to get a copy of their statement of marks in PDF format on the university’s website. Vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar said the university gave top priority to results of regular and backlog exams. Results of important exams are being made available in a short span on the university portal and efforts are being made to release other results on time too, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/record-95-pass-tybcom-96-clear-llb/articleshow/78944410.cms||Yogita Rao
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Killer daughter-in-law wails in regret inside Sola lock-up||AHMEDABAD: After allegedly killing her 52-year-old mother-in-law, 29-year-old Nikita Agrawal, held in the Sola police station lock-up, kept repeating that she is remorseful for what she did in the heat of the moment. A Sola police official said Nikita, a resident of Royal Homes Flats in Gota, who is originally from Beawar in Rajasthan, kept wailing and saying that she had done wrong. “The accused has been repeatedly saying that she did wrong and should not have killed her. She said that she should have fled from the house when her mother-in-law began fighting with her,” the official said. Nikita had later also tried to burn the body. The fight was reportedly triggered by Rekha suspecting that Nikita was having an affair with her father-in-law, Ramniwas Agrawal. The official said Nikita, who is pregnant, was initially unable to even swallow water or energy drinks. “She was counselled by women cops, after which she ate something,” said a police officer. Nikita married Rekha’s son Dipak in January 2020 and the two had fights ever since. Nikita’s parents attended victim’s funeral Nikita’s parents, who rushed to Gota after getting news of Rekha’s killing by their daughter, first went to Royal Homes and later attended Rekha’s funeral. They expressed apologies to Dipak and his family, said a police officer. Only after that did they go and meet Nikita for some time. They then returned to their native place in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/killer-daughter-in-law-wails-in-regret-inside-sola-lock-up/articleshow/78941345.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hubballi||Auto drivers in Hubballi-Dharwad say pandemic has hit them hard||HUBBALLI: With people reluctant to use public transport due to the fear of contracting Covid-19, many auto drivers in the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad say they are finding it extremely difficult to make ends meet. Many are also defaulting on auto loans. Shekhrayya Mathapati, president Hubballi Auto Chalakar (Drivers) Hagu Malikar (Owners) Sangh, said besides fear, guidelines set by authorities are also deterring fares and even earning Rs 200 a day has become difficult. “Passenger trains, buses and other public modes of transport are still not running at full steam because crowds from neighbouring districts, especially middle-class and labourers, are not travelling to the city,” he said. “This had hit us hard.” There are more than 20,000 auto divers in the twin cities and about 5,000 had applied for the Rs 5,000 aid announced by the government, but only about 300 have benefited. The others are still waiting for help. Prabhu Kamble said, “I stopped driving my auto because there were few takers. To build confidence among passengers, I kept sanitizer and restricted passengers to two. But people were still too fearful. I’ve parked the auto at home and work as a mason, earning Rs 400 a day.” Many like Kamble have given up plying autos and work as masons, painters and security guards. They say the money they earn from these jobs, while far more than what they would’ve have earned driving autos with the pandemic on, is just about enough for a hand-to-mouth existence. Mathapati said the government should ensure every licenced auto driver gets the Rs 5,000 and should also declare that it will not charge passing fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/auto-drivers-in-hubballi-dharwad-say-pandemic-has-hit-them-hard/articleshow/78938845.cms||J Abbas Mulla
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Sharp shooter in Chotiya murder case arrested from Delhi||Ajmer: Police on Thursday arrested sharp shooter Ramu (22), a resident of Agra district in Uttar Pradesh, from New Delhi in the sensational murder case of Bhagchand Chotiya of Kishangarh. Police already have arrested four accused in this case. On October 18, three men on a motorcycle shot dead Bhagchand Chotiya in Kishangarh and fled. Chotiya was the main witness in the Sinodiya murder case and deposed against hardcore criminal Balwaram who at currently languishing in Dholpur jail. Police already have Heera Lal (37), a resident of Bandrasindri, Ram Dayal (23) of Bandrasindri, Devaram (24) of Roopangarh and Hanuman Singh (28) of Kishangarh in custody. During investigation, police came to know that Ramu was the shooter and started tracking his mobile phone. With the help of Delhi Police, Ramu was traced in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sharp-shooter-in-chotiya-murder-case-arrested-from-delhi/articleshow/78941339.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Next Raj CS could be a woman||Jaipur: If the Centre turns down the request of the state for extension of tenure of chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, a woman officer could become the next top bureaucrat. Going by seniority, Swarup’s batchmates (1985 batch) Ravi Shanker Srivastava and Giriraj Singh are the senior-most bureaucrats in the state. But they are said to be out of reckoning as both are posted out of the secretariat now. The chances of a woman becoming the next chief secretary are bright as the next three in line are women. Union sports and youth affairs secretary Usha Sharma of 1985 batch could be the top contender. Next in line is Neel Kamal Darbari who is on deputation with the Centre. Veenu Gupta, currently ACS PWD, is third on the list. Both Darbari and Gupta are 1987 batch officers. Usha Sharma is the sister-in-law of assembly speaker CP Joshi while Gupta is wife of former chief secretary D B Gupta. Darbari was additional chief secretary (agriculture) in the previous BJP government before she shifted to Delhi. All of them have a tenure of over two years as their retirement is due in 2023. Sharma is two years senior to Gupta and Darbari and her present posting in New Delhi is technically equivalent to the post of chief secretary. One factor that might go against her is that she has been away from the state for over eight years now and there’s no word yet if she was interested in returning to the state. Similar is the case with Darbari. Gupta has been holding very important posts in both the BJP and Congress governments. She has been principal secretary (industry) under the BJP before becoming ACS (medical and health) before being shifted to PWD under the present regime. If Gupta gets the top job, it will be the first such case in the state where husband and wife would occupy the top job in the state. If any of the three women IAS officers make it to the top slot, it will be the second instance in the state where a woman will hold the post. The first woman chief secretary was Kushal Singh, who was appointed by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in 2009, during his second stint as chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/next-raj-cs-could-be-a-woman/articleshow/78941308.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||12,067 diploma holders allotted degree seats||AHMEDABAD: The first round of admissions for diploma holders to get seats in engineering degree courses was completed on Thursday, based on choices made by the candidates. At the end the first round, 12,067 candidates have been allocated colleges. Thus, of the total of 51,095 seats available, 39,028 are still vacant. The provisional merit list for these admissions was announced on October 17. A total of 14,774 diploma holders from 13 different education boards in Gujarat were included on the merit list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12067-diploma-holders-allotted-degree-seats/articleshow/78941325.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer residents stage stir over water supply||Ajmer: Hari Nagar and Ganesh Garh residents gathered outside PHED office in Shastro Nagar on Thursday and staged a protest over erratic water supply. Residents claimed that they were getting water once in five days. “We made complaints many times, but no one listens to us,” said Munni Devi Goswami. The crowd also broke mud pots which they brought with them as a mark of protest. Hari Nagar resident Kavita said they were getting water supply once in five days and do not have enough stock to even wash their clothes. Other women said that they had to purchase water from tanks. Sources said in many regions, water was supplied once in two days while norms stipulate daily supply. “Because of the irregular distribution system, many regions are not getting supply on time,” a woman said. Senior officials said Ajmer was getting sufficient supply from Bisalpur and there was storage facility at Nasirabad. He added that because of pressure of water or local issues with the pipelines, the scarcity was being felt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-residents-stage-stir-over-water-supply/articleshow/78941323.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Kochi||Pathiramanal gets local biodiversity heritage site tag||ALAPPUZHA: Pathiramanal, the picturesque isle in Vembanad lake, which is a part of Muhamma grama panchayat, has been declared as Alappuzha’s first local biodiversity heritage site. A part of the famous island will also be converted into a bird sanctuary soon. The declaration was made by Haritha Kerala Mission chairperson T N Seema online after Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) approved the island’s biodiversity report prepared by the board’s district wing. Areas rich in biodiversity and cultural importance are identified as biodiversity heritage sites by the government in consultation with panchayat biodiversity management committees through state biodiversity boards. Pathiramanal, a treasure trove of nature, has an abundance of four species of mangroves that grow in freshwater. As per the report, the island, which is 13km away from Alappuzha town, is home to 160 species of flowering plants and nine species of ferns (flowerless plants). There are 52 species of trees, 21 species of shrubs, 72 species of herbs and 13 species of climbers. Five mammal species live in the island which also boasts of 18 species of amphibians, 12 reptile species, 89 bird species, 106 butterfly species and 18 species of dragonflies. In the waters near the island, there are as many as 120 species of aquatic organisms, including fishes. The isle’s biodiversity report was prepared by KSSB’s team led by its district technical wing members Jose Mathew and Sandeep Unnikrishnan. Muhamma grama panchayat president J Jayalal said as the island has been declared as a local biodiversity heritage site steps will be taken to convert it into a biodiversity ‘study centre’. The grama panchayat, with the support of Kudmbashree’s Haritha Karma Sena has also started running a small eatery on the island for visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pathiramanal-gets-local-biodiversity-heritage-site-tag/articleshow/78939795.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak: Cops threatening our cadre, BJP complains to poll official||HYDERABAD: Days before the Dubbak poll, the opposition parties led by BJP have stepped up heat on the ruling TRS by raising a complaint to the election officials. The BJP, in a representation to the election observer, on Thursday demanded that action be taken against police officials for threatening and terrorising party activists and not allowing them to campaign in Dubbak. In a three-page letter, the BJP alleged that police were asking its activists to bind over under CrPC section (security for keeping peace) and not giving any receipt or paper to enable them to challenge before any court of law. “Further, cops are threatening the parents of BJP Yuva Morcha activists that they will not get the old age pensions and other benefits from the government if they do not vote for the ruling party candidate,” it said. BJP leaders also alleged that house of party candidate M Raghunandan Rao’s relatives was searched in Siddipet, which is not part of Dubbak constituency. The representation also highlighted how state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay was prevented from going to Dubbak on Monday. Meanwhile, a delegation of Congress led by senior leader Marri Shashidhar Reddy represented to chief electoral officer Sashank Goel that TRS leaders got the list of postal ballot voters under the category of disabled and senior citizens of above 80, but Congress was denied the same list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-threatening-our-cadre-bjp-complains-to-poll-official/articleshow/78941333.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Cops recover Rs 1.05 crore in Hanumangarh bank robbery case||JAIPUR: Hanumangarh police have recovered Rs 1.05 crore out of the Rs 1.13 crore which were looted from a bank in Sangariya. Cops had arrested four people in the case, including the bank’s operation manager, nearly a month after the loot. Cops also recovered weapons used by the accused during the heist including a knife and country made pistol along with the bike on which the accused reached the bank. Three of the accused had decamped with Rs 1.13 crore on September 17 while the operation manager informed the cops about the robbery. Susheel Kumar, 28, who was the operation manager, hatched the plan with his 24-year-old cousin Nitish Kumar, who along with Satpal, 31, and Sukhvindra Kumar, 35, executed the robbery. Sangariya SHO Indra Kumar said, “The accused are extremely smart players and initially did not divulge the location of the money. They kept giving half-baked answers and we had to use various methods to finally get the location of the money.” Officials claimed the accused spent some amount in staying in hotels in Himachal Pradesh and holidaying. On the day of the incident, the accused entered the bank and threatened the security guard and Susheel with weapons following which they took cash from the vault and locked the two individuals inside. The accused made their escape in a vehicle used by the bank. Susheel and the guard were inside the vault for around 30 minutes and managed to escape after breaking a pipe and accessing the keys which the accused had thrown at some distance. Following the robbery, teams were constituted and sent to neighbouring Haryana, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh to find the accused. Cops finally nabbed the robbers using cyber and human intelligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-recover-rs-1-05-crore-in-hanumangarh-bank-robbery-case/articleshow/78941359.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Power bill can be paid on Oct 30, 31||Jaipur: The collection centres of Jaipur Vidut Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JVVNL) will be opened on October 30 and 31 to facilitate the consumers to pay their electricity bills. The state government had deferred the bill payment of agriculture, BPL and small domestic consumers till October 31 due to Covid-19. They would be exempted from late fee by paying the bills by the end of this month. JVVNL managing director A K Gupta said the power bills of agriculture, BPL and small domestic consumers for October has been issued with discount penalty and those who pay up the bills within the month will get this benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-bill-can-be-paid-on-oct-30-31/articleshow/78941374.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Lucknow||Saffron party faces challenge of retaining seat it won after 40 years||GHATAMPUR: A Samajwadi Party stronghold since 1993, barring aberrations in 2007 and 2017 when it fell into the kitties of BSP and BJP respectively, Ghatampur (reserved) assembly seat in Kanpur has thrown up an interesting contest this time around. According to analysts, Ghatampur will have a direct contest between the BJP and the SP. While BJP faces the challenge of retaining the seat which it won for the first time in 2017, the SP is trying to wrest the seat back as it did not field its own candidate in the last assembly election due to its poll agreement with Congress. The Bahujan Samaj Party has also hopped on to the poll bandwagon given the fact that the byelections are being considered as a semi-final in the run up to the state assembly elections in 2022. Ghatampur seat fell vacant after the death of sitting BJP MLA and state minister Kamal Rani Varun (62) who died due to Covid-19 on August 2. As Varun had won the seat for the BJP for the first time in 40 years, she was rewarded with a ministerial berth in the Yogi Adityanath government. However, unlike Malhani, Bulandshahr Sadar and Naugawan Sadat seats where BJP is fielding a family member of the sitting legislators, the party has named a grass roots worker, Upendra Paswan, from Ghatampur, leaving Varun’s family and supporters disappointed. SP is banking on its old warhorse, Indrajeet Kori, while BSP is trying its luck with Kuldeep Sankhwar. Congress has fielded a first-timer, Kripashankar Sankhwar. Created in 1977, Ghatampur assembly seat has 3,07,967 lakh voters – 1,68,367 males and 1,39,595 females and five of third gender. According to caste arithmetic, the seat is dominated by Dalit voters. Brahmin and Muslim voters can also be a deciding factor in the election. Talking to TOI, SP candidate Indrajeet Kori said: “I am confident that the SP will win the seat and that too by a huge margin. No doubt, senior BJP leaders and ministers, including CM Yogi Adityanath, are holding rallies in the constituency, SP is challenging BJP on unemployment, handling of Covid-19 pandemic and migrant crisis, farmers’ issues and law and order situation.” BJP’s district (rural) president Krishna Murari Shukla said, “We will win the election again as people are supporting us. Our candidate is young and energetic and enjoys popularity.” No senior leader of the SP has held public meetings but local party functionaries are actively campaigning in the constituency. According to analysts, though BSP has fielded a candidate as the bypoll is being considered as a semi-final ahead of the 2022 UP elections, senior leaders are not actively campaigning here. “As the Congress has not fielded a strong candidate, the direct fight will be between BJP and SP,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-sp-to-cross-swords-in-edgy-battle-of-ballots/articleshow/78942245.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
October 30, 2020||Kochi||‘Chakravarthini’ song gets Kathakali makeover||Thrissur: A group of artists led by Kalamandalam Ganeshan have teamed up to choreograph a Kathakali show, based on the well-known Malayalam film song ‘Chakravarthini Ninakku Njanente’ authored by poet Vayalar Ramavarma. According to reports, it is for the first time that a Kathakali show is being choreographed on a film song. Ganeshan said the idea to develop a Kathakali, based on this song, sprung up during an informal conversation with a friend and media person B R Prasad, about a year ago. “This song, which is from the film Chembarathi released in 1972, had taken birth from the collective effort of Vayalar Ramavarma-Devarajan-Yesudas combine. The song had several poetic features which could be elaborated in a dance-drama form like Kathakali,” he added. The show has been conceived as a dream of an eminent sculptor, who is about to make the figurine of the most-beautiful woman.  As he knows that he is unrivalled in his field, he wants this woman’s sculpture to be the best.  The occasion described in the song will be shown on stage: like his invitation to the woman to enter his room barefoot after leaving her footwear made of flowers outside, Ganeshan said. The show culminates with the woman of the sculptor’s dream appearing at his door, which is also the end of his dream. While Varanad Sanalkumar played the role of the sculptor, in Kathi style, Malavika Namboothiri did the woman’s part (Minukke). Kalamandalam Sajeevkumar and Kalamandalam Krishnakumar are the singers. The song has been rendered in the same meters as that of the original song, set to Kathakali music, Ganeshan said. The edited version of the show lasts over 17 minutes. The recorded version of the show was streamed during Vayalar Ramavarma remembrance programme organized by a WhatsApp group of Higher Secondary Malayalam Teachers. Describing the presentation of the Kathakali, based on the song Chakravarthini, as a historic occasion in the aesthetic lineage of Kerala, lyricist Vayalar Sarath Chandra Varma, who is the son of Vayalar Ramavarma, said it deepens the roots and ancestry of the genre of Malayalam film songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chakravarthini-song-gets-kathakali-makeover/articleshow/78938498.cms||T Ramavarman
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Ground clear for TRS victory, says CM||Hyderabad: CM KCR has said that the ground is clear for a TRS victory in Dubbak. He said the party would win with a huge majority. “Some parties resort to silly politics and people will not give any importance to them,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ground-clear-for-trs-victory-says-cm/articleshow/78941403.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctors caught on bribery charges in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Sleuths of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Thursday afternoon caught two doctors of the Sola Civil Hospital accepting a bribe of Rs 8 lakh, which they demanded to sanction a canteen bill and to extend the catering contracts of the complainant. An ACB statement said the accused are Dr Upendra Patel, the in-charge RMO of Sola Civil Hospital and Dr Shailesh Patel, who is in charge of the hospital administration. “The complainant won a catering contract for the Sola Civil Hospital, to serve staff and relatives of Covid-19 patients for four months,” the statement says. The complainant provided the catering services and put in a bill for Rs 1.18 crore to the hospital authorities. The accused persons had earlier demanded a 30% commission on the total bill but after rounds of negotiation over the bribe between the accused and complainant, it was decided that the two doctors would be given Rs 16 lakh or about 16% of the bill amount, the statement reads. The accused took Rs 10 lakh from the complainant last month. They later told the complainant that they would also need Rs 2 lakh more to extend the catering contact apart from the Rs 6 lakh remainder amount which they sought to sanction the bill. It was decided that the money would be given to them in the waiting room of the RMO’s office at Sola Civil Hospital on Thursday afternoon. The complainant approached the ACB and sought help in the case. ACB sleuths set a trap and when the complainant gave the accused the money, they were caught red-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sola-civil-doctors-caught-taking-rs-8-lakh-bribe/articleshow/78941380.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Red-light area resident files FIR as man makes explicit video viral||Nagpur: A 40-year-old woman, resident of city’s red-light locality Ganga Jamuna, has lodged an FIR on October 27 at Lakadganj police station against an unidentified client, who posted her semi-naked video on social media.Even as police remained engaged in formalities even two days after the FIR, especially with cyber cell failing to act, the emboldened accused uploaded a second video of the woman on Thursday, leaving her shattered.Several objectionable videos, allegedly of residents of the city’s red-light locality have been posted on a social media forum under the name of ‘Ganga Jamuna channel’, which has more than 4,700 subscribers. After the first video of the woman complainant was posted, there was a flurry of raunchy comments. One of the commenters also alerted the one who posted the video, about the action being initiated at Lakadganj police station against him. Unfazed by the alert, he posted the second video, seemingly challenging the cops as there was no action.After filing the FIR on October 27, the woman had also visited the cyber cell of crime branch the following day. She requested cops to take appropriate action and delete the video, but she was turned away citing technical reasons.The cyber cell wanted a letter from Lakadganj police station before taking any concrete action. In the past, cyber cell had acted even without FIR, but they refrained from taking action this time. The unidentified accused, who visited the woman’s brothel on October 25 in Kashmiri lane of Ganga Jamuna, is learnt to have recorded a video of his entering the room and subsequent activities. He had posted a part of the clip later in the day. The victim was stunned when she learnt this from some neighbours three days after the video was posted. She rushed to Lakadganj police station to lodge a complaint.Activist Hemlata Lohave of Indian Red Cross Society said the victim is suicidal now after the second video was uploaded. Sub-inspector Rakhi Gedam of Lakadganj police station said the woman sounded shattered as she had two grown-up sons, and did not want their future to get jeopardized because of the videos. “Initially, we tested the woman by asking some tricky questions. But we supported her after she sounded genuinely concerned about her self-respect. As a woman myself, I could feel her pain and performed my legal duty,” said Gedam.Senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Lakadganj police station said they will ensure both videos are deleted. “We will try to zero down on the accused too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/red-light-area-resident-files-fir-as-man-makes-explicit-video-viral/articleshow/78941407.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Decentralised paddy procurement helps farmers, finds survey||HYDERABAD: Decentralisation of paddy procurement, which was introduced during the pandemic, has helped farmers in many ways as their transport charges have come down, while their produce started getting a better price, a survey has revealed. Farmers have also started receiving payments in five days, thanks to the online procurement system. A survey by the Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS) said that 39% of the farmers feel that self-help groups (SHGs) involved in the procurement need better training in assessing the quality of grains. “Our suvrey has revealed that linking MGNREGS to loading and unloading work at paddy procurement centres (PPCs) and periodic training to SHG members to take a proactive role in marketing will further improve the long-term objective of decentralised procurement system,” E Revati, director of CESS, said. More than 80% of farmers are, however, satisfied with the way procurement is being done at PPCs, mostly organised by women SHGs, the survey said. Over 29% of the total surveyed farmers complained about the lack of accuracy in measurement of moisture content in paddy. Farmers said the Indira Kranthi Patham (IKP) PPCs lack facilities in transporting the paddy to the millers. Over 81% of the farmers said they have to wait due to inadequate availability of lorries. Most of the PPCs are located away from the village and nearly 60% of IKP centres do not have a proper approach road, much to the chagrin of the farmers. Around 39% of the farmers also complained about lack of facilities like water, shelter and sufficient space for their produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/decentralised-paddy-procurement-helps-farmers-finds-survey/articleshow/78941439.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 30, 2020||Kozhikode||Drought mitigation project brings windfall for Wayanad farmer||KOZHIKODE: An eco-restoration and drought mitigation project implemented by the state soil conservation department in Wayanad has opened up a potential road to riches for farmers. Pulpally-based farmer Madapparambu Bhaskaran, who had planted 2,000 wild reed bamboo saplings belonging to the Ochlandra family in his three-and-half-acre fallow marshy land two years ago under the project, is set to earn an annual income of Rs 26 lakh from 2022 when the reed poles will be ready for harvest. The wild reed saplings were supplied free of cost by the soil conservation department. State agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar will inaugurate on November 2 via videoconferencing the signing of memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the farmer and the procurement agency in which minimum guarantee price has been fixed at Rs 130 per pole. According to soil conservation department, the 2,000 reed clusters grown by Bhaskaran will yield a minimum of 20,000 poles each year from 2022. District soil conservation officer P U Das said that around 25,000 reed saplings were planted in three panchayats of Mullankolly, Pulpally and Poothadi, mainly along the banks of streams and marshy areas as part of the drought mitigation project with the help of farmers, Kudumbashree and others. While the floods have destroyed many saplings, the ones planted by Bhaskaran in his fallow marshy land have emerged as a model farm with proficient growth. Each reed cluster in his land has, over the last one-and-half years, developed 40-50 poles and have grown to a height of over 10 feet. Experts say that each cluster will have 60-70 poles and will grow to a height of 20 feet after four years. The harvest can be continued for upto 40 years. Reed poles are used for manufacturing agarbathi sticks and also used for manufacturing biomass pellets used in thermal power plants. Officials said that sticks used for agarbathi were imported by factories in Karnataka from China and also from the northeast states but the supply is now facing disruptions. Department officials said that the procurement agency Western Ghat Bamboo Seedlings LLP has informed that they are ready to procure as much quantity of reeds produced by farmers, and are ready to enter into MoUs for 15 years with farmers and farmer groups for procurement. “Our experience has shown that cultivation of reeds have immense potential of providing high returns to farmers owing to its low input costs and as the crop does not necessitate use of pesticide and fertilizers. Also, reeds provide numerous ecosystem services including revival of water sources and also help in drought mitigation and improving the fertility of soil,” Das said. The reed saplings were planted as part of an integrated Rs 80-crore project being implemented by the government to combat aridification in the Pulpally, Mullankolly and Poothadi panchayats in Wayanad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/drought-mitigation-project-brings-windfall-for-wayanad-farmer/articleshow/78939852.cms||K R Rajeev
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rise in rape cases in Rajasthan means more FIRs are being filed’||DGP (crime) ML Lather, who currently holds the additional charge of DGP Rajasthan, tells TOI’s Yeshika Budhwar about the measures being taken to curb crimes against women and the reality behind the statistics. Excerpts… The previous DGP often said Rajasthan registered more cases than other states. Can you throw some light on crime statistics?Rajasthan has always been among the top 5 states with maximum crime cases simply because people have the liberty to lodge complaints at police stations without any hindrance. Lawlessness in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar is not reflected in statistics because people cannot file complaints so easily. Rajasthan allows hassle-free registration, which means a person can walk into a police station or an SP’s office or even the police headquarters to lodge a complaint. We punish police personnel who do not register cases. In 2018, 34% of cases came to us through courts. A year later, it came down to 13%, which means more cases are being registered directly. Does the state have the manpower and material resources to handle all the cases?Even constables can become investigation officers in the state, which means more people can probe cases. We have doubled the number of head constables. We are giving more petrol allowance to cops for their bikes. Major crimes have not increased. The problem is with petty crimes. We are strengthening the grievance redressal system. Can we get an annual crime survey done like in some western countries? The Sardar Patel Police University in Jodhpur has centres through which we can get such a survey done. It will help us find if there are cases which are unattended. It is the state’s policy that no case should be left unattended and unregistered. Even the NCRB booklet states increase in registrations does not mean increase in crime. Police have been asked to respond to citizens’ complaints promptly, but we still keep hearing about apathy on part of police. Can anything be done to eradicate it completely? It is a culture which has to be developed and it is happening gradually. We had 198 reports of police personnel not registering cases out of which only 18 were true. We have a public centric approach when we serve the people. What can be done to curb corruption within the force?ACB is working full-time to identify and probe those persons who are involved in corruption. Additionally, we have a vigilance department that investigates complaints regarding police behaviour and corruption. Rajasthan is leading in crimes against women especially when it comes to rape. What measures can be taken to prevent this? We have launched an outreach programme ‘AWAAJ,’ which is essentially targeting both the accused and the victim. While the former is being informed about strict laws, the latter is being informed about rights. This is being done on a largescale and over 24 lakh volunteers are associated with it. However, in 90% of the cases, the accused are known to the victim where prevention becomes difficult, but in other cases we are taking necessary action. Our priority is to control crimes against women as well as against the weaker section. Compared to 2018, rape cases registered increased by 38% in 2019, which means more FIRs are being lodged. Average investigation time has come down to 118 days from 287. In all, 41 investigation units for crimes against women have been created in each district. During lockdown, there were cases of cops committing suicide. Is anything being done for their mental health? At the local level, SPs have counselled the staff. Approximately 18,000 home guards were also deployed during lockdown along with personnel of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) so that everyone works in rotation and there is no fatigue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rise-in-rape-cases-in-raj-means-more-firs-are-being-filed/articleshow/78941405.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 30, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Another black law, says Satnam Singh Ajnala on ordinance||AMRITSAR/BATHINDA: The ordinance calls for heavy penalties, including jail term, on violators. “Laws with stringent penalties already exist, but they are not implemented for ‘presumable’ reasons,” said Jamhuri Kisan Sabha state president Satnam Singh Ajnala, while talking to TOI on Wednesday. He said the new law would just give another reason to the governments to force farmers to abide by their directives through enforcement agencies. The Centre on Wednesday night introduced the law, through an ordinance, to check air pollution in Delhi NCR and it has a provision of fine up to crop Rs 1 crore and a jail term up to 5 years on violators. The ordinance entails setting up of a Commission for Air Quality Management for the National Capital Region (NCR) and Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan. Border Area Sangarash Committee general secretary Rattan Singh Randhawa said instead of dealing with violators, especially farmers who were forced to burn stubble, the government should introduce a policy for compensating farmers to desist them from stubble burning. “We are already protesting tooth and nail against the three controversial agri laws, and this one has just added to our woes as we apprehend the same law for other states in near future,” he said. Kisan Mazdur Sangarash Committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said there was a fear among farmers of Punjab over the new law. “Government claims the law will help curb air pollution, but we fear that the government’s main target will be poor farmers, while rich industrialists who contribute most to air and water pollution go scot-free,” he said. The authorities had been calling the stubble burning in Punjab as the reason behind worsening of Air Quality in Delhi. The crop residue burning had started early this year making Supreme Court direct northern states to act tough. “It seems the central government wants to disturb atmosphere of peace and tranquillity in Punjab. It wants to provoke people, especially farmers, to turn violent, so the central government could put blame on them and could use force to disband protests. It also seems the central government is acting in such a way to pave the way for President’s rule. We will vehemently oppose this and will debate on it in meetings in Delhi on November 3 and in Chandigarh on November 4,” said farm organisation BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) state president Jagjit Singh Dallewal. “Why the provision for imprisonment of 5 years, just jail us for life,” said a representative of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh called it a penalty on Punjab farmers for opposing farm laws. “Such acts woudl cause heartburn. The government needs to work for the welfare of farmers, not punish them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/another-black-law-farm-leaders-on-ordinance/articleshow/78941462.cms||Yudhvir Rana
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP does rethink, seeks expert opinion on masks for solo motorists||BENGALURU: A day after it drew heavy flak for making masks mandatory even for those alone in a four-wheeler with the windows rolled up, the BBMP is doing a rethink on the rule. The civic body has written to the health department seeking clarity on the issue. “Should a person driving a car alone and with windows rolled up wear a mask,” BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad has asked in a letter to Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department. A reply is awaited although sources say it could come only next week. Besides the question on a lone occupant of a four-wheeler, the commissioner has also asked: “Whether a single rider on a two-wheeler should wear a mask while riding?” Although BBMP’s notification was based on recommendations of the technical advisory committee (TAC), the expert opinion was tweaked. TAC’s August 29 report had not made masks mandatory for those alone in cars. In the letter, the commissioner revealed that he had Supreme Court directives in mind while issuing the detailed order on Tuesday (October 27). Prasad told TOI that the apex court had ruled that a four-wheeler on a public road became a public space. “Delhi follows the same rule too. We will wait for the health department’s reply,” Prasad said. He said lengthy discussions were held with the health department authorities and police, prior to issuing the rules. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, confirmed the letter while saying, “There are divided views on the rule. The technical advisory committee has been asked to look into it.” However, given government holidays over the next three days, the committee is unlikely to meet before November 2. Sources also said shifting of the health and family welfare department office from Anand Rao Circle to Arogya Soudha on Magadi Road is under way which could delay a reply further. “We have received the letter and will look into it,” said Prof MK Sudarshan, chairperson, TAC. On Wednesday, BBMP authorities had explained to TAC members why a stricter view of using a mask in cars was taken, although the TAC had not mandated it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-does-rethink-seeks-expert-opinion-on-masks-for-solo-motorists/articleshow/78938924.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 30, 2020||Nagpur||Recovered from Covid-19, doc donates plasma & saves a life||Nagpur: A doctor saves life of a patient not only with his medical expertise, but also with every possible means. One such episode happened at Alexis Hospital in the city recently. Dr Amol Dongre, medical oncologist and bone marrow transplant physician, donated plasma to save a 47-year-old woman, who had contracted Covid-19 infection. Dr Dongre had earlier treated this patient, hailing from Madhya Pradesh, for blood cancer. In 2018, the patient was given six chemotherapy cycles followed by an autologous bone marrow transplant. Following this, the patient used to report for review every three months. In September this year, the patient was again admitted to Alexis Hospital with severe symptoms of Covid infection. As transplant recipients take immunosuppressive drugs, they have a higher risk of infection from viruses such as cold or flu. “Transplant patients can remain vulnerable to infections, hence special precautions are always necessary even against a common cold,” said Dr Dongre. “Because of the vulnerability, bone marrow transplant patients must follow Covid restrictions strictly and also take greater care to safeguard their health,” he added. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde and pulmonologist Dr Manoj Pethe were monitoring Covid pneumonia of this patient. “We advised her to take two units of plasma in view of her deteriorating clinical condition. Following this, Dr Amol Dongre went the extra mile and came to the woman’s rescue by donating plasma for her treatment,” said Dr Shinde. The patient recovered within 20 days of hospitalization with no co-morbidities. She was discharged recently. According to doctors, transplant patients should also be aware and cautious of the people around them, the people they live with. “When you have a bone-marrow transplant, you’ve been given a brand new immune system, which must learn how to fight off infections all over again. So, it needs special care,” said Dr Dongre. After her recovery, the patient said Dr Dongre is just after the almighty God for her. “He saved my life twice and I will always be thankful to him until my last breath,” she said. Her husband had all praise for Alexis Hospital and doctors there for saving his wife from life-threatening situations twice. “The commitment of the doctors in treating their patient even in such risky situations must be appreciated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recovered-from-covid-19-doc-donates-plasma-saves-a-life/articleshow/78941464.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Illicit affair ends in couple’s suicide||Jaisalmer: A couple who were having an illicit affair committed suicide by jumping into a water tank in Mandali police station area of Balotra sub-division in Barmer district on Wednesday night. The couple tied themselves with a veil and jumped into the tank in a government school as they feared social stigma and hurdles in their relationship. The woman was married and her in-laws are in Jodhpur. Police recovered the bodies from the tank on Thursday and handed them to their kin after postmortem. Balotra DySP is investigating the case. Mandali SHO Dawood Khan said Mahendra Singh, 23, was having an affair with Pooja, 23, wife of Shyampuri Goswami, a resident of Jodhpur. Mahendra hails from the woman’s maternal grandparents’ village Bagawas. They were allegedly having an affair for quite a long time. Pooja was married for three years. He further said that Mahendra brought Pooja from Jodhpur on his motorcycle to Bagawas on Wednesday. They sat outside the school for the whole day and jumped into the water tank in the night. No suicide note was found at the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illicit-affair-ends-in-couples-suicide/articleshow/78941443.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Squatters to be removed from Jaisalmer's Sonar Fort||JAISALMER: The condition Sonar Fort, a UNESCO world heritage site, is worsening because of seepage of water in two towers and tampering with the original structure. The committee formed for the conservation of the fort met on Wednesday under the chairmanship of district collector Ashish Modi. Modi gave necessary directions to all officers and discussed the forming of a joint committee to remove encroachments and illegal constructions. It was decided to shift the families so that ASI could start repairing of the towers. Archaeologist Bipin Chand Negi and other officers were present at the meeting. It was also decided to remove the loopholes in the sewerage lines laid by RUIDP. Modi said families residing in towers 44 and 45 would be shifted to different places. The families have given their consent to vacate the towers for repairing. Apart from this, discussions were was held to resolve the loopholes in sewerage system laid by RUIDP, implementation of decisions taken in hill forts meeting, laying underground electricity lines and other subjects. He asked the ASI department officers to submit the list of illegal constructions and encroachments. District collector instructed the SP to ensure that no building construction raw materials were allowed to be taken inside the fort. Negi expressed concern that the fort was situated on an earthquake fault line that passes from Kutch to Kanoi in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/squatters-to-be-removed-from-sonar-fort/articleshow/78941427.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyber threat source still untraceable, school exams stalled for two months||AHMEDABAD: “I want NO exams, if you do conduct, I will ruin the reputation of all,” warned three threat letters issued to the management of Anand Niketan School in Satellite on September 9 after the school declared the schedule of first term exams for Class VIII-XII. The culprit has warned that he would upload morphed pictures of six schoolgirls if the school dared to take exam.  A police complaint was filed on September 9, which got converted into an FIR on October 3. However, the culprit has not been nabbed even as fear of his threat continues to hold the future of 180 students of the school to ransom. The stalemate over the exams and lack of action against the accused who threatened to smear the reputation of the school students, is testing the patience of parents. Some parents reached out to TOI complaining that the police are failing to do their job, while the school treads the safe path by giving in to the threats and avoiding possible embarrassment to its students or the institution. “We have spent sleepless nights over the possibility of a criminal uploading morphed pictures of girl students any time. It is beyond my understanding that why the cyber cell that resolves cases of politicians and celebrities in hours, has failed miserably in cracking this case,” said Gaurav Chowdhry, a parent. The police have been investigating the matter for three weeks now with no success whatsoever. Cops confiscated gadgets of more than 20 students, mostly from Class X and XI as the second mail arrived in the school's inbox when exams of Class X and XI were announced. However, the school managed to conduct exams of Class XII without any trouble. Director of Anand Niketan Group of Schools, Nashy Chauhan, told TOI: “ We had complained about the matter to the police and the FIR has been filed. The police are investigating the matter and we are extending all possible support.” When quizzed about possible exam schedule, Chauhan said, “We will decide it only after taking all stakeholders into confidence.” PARENTS CRY FOUL “It is saddening and shocking that cyber cell has failed to resolve the case and the culprit is free to take advantage. I am worried that if the case is not resolved, then more schools may be targeted like this. Our daughters are not safe in the state which claims to be the safest state in the country for women.” Rajat Sogani , parent “It is surprising that the culprit is at large after so many days of filing the complaint. This long period of inaction is worrying and if the culprit is not caught, he will have the confidence to play this game at his own whim." Parag Mohata, parent CYBER COPS CAUGHT IN THE DARK WEB! Sarfarazuddin.Shaikh Ahmedabad: Amit Vasava- deputy commissioner of police, said, “Probe is going on. The mails were sent through the ‘dark web.’ We don’t know how much time it will take to crack the case but we hope to make progress.” Vasava said that cyber cell officials have written to the service providers. “Some devices such as computers and some phones have been seized, but we can’t give the time-frame in which the case would be detected,” said Vasava. PHOTO QUOTE “If we don’t get any leads, it can take a long time to crack the case as mails were sent using the `dark web'.” Amit Vasava, DCP, Ahmedabad cyber cell. WHAT IS DARK WEB The dark web is a decentralized network of internet sites that try to make users as anonymous as possible by routing all their communications through multiple servers and encrypting it at every step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyber-threat-source-still-untraceable-school-exams-stalled-for-two-months/articleshow/78941483.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Modi likely to visit Keshubhai Patel’s family||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narenda Modi, who is arriving in Gujarat on an official visit on Friday, is likely to meet the bereaved family of former chief minister Keshubhai Patel, who expired on Thursday. The PM will arrive at 1.30pm at Ahmedabad and is scheduled to attend the `Ekta Divas’ celebration at the Statue of Unity (SOU) site at Kevadia to mark the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Although the state administration has not been formally informed, a key source in the government said, “The PM is likely to arrive early as informally communicated. He will arrive before his earlier declared schedule. He will directly go to Keshubhai Patel’s residence in Gandhinagar and return to Ahmedabad airport, before leaving for Kevadia. The PM will fly by helicopter to Kevadia. He will attend a few state government events there.’’ Government sources added that on October 31, the PM will take part in the `Ekta Divas’’ parade at the SOU and address probationer civil servants virtually. The PM will then inaugurate several tourist facilities at Kevadia and launch the seaplane service. While the PM was scheduled to fly from Kevadia to Ahmedabad in a seaplane, sources said that the PM could avoid this part of his itinerary because of the death of former CM, Keshubhai Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-modi-likely-to-visit-keshubhais-family/articleshow/78941455.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Pak ‘spy’ sent to 6-day police remand||Jaisalmer: A man, who was arrested last week on suspicion of spying for Pakistan in Barmer, has been sent to six-day police remand by the court. Rajasthan police intelligence and ATS (ADG) Umesh Mishra said that Roshandeen was arrested for spying for ISI after intensive investigation. He was produced in the court of special metro magistrate Jaipur number 10 and was sent on six day police remand, he said. Mioshra said Roshandeen had received Rs 10,000 from western union money transfer. He is being inquired and investigation is being done as how much money has come into other accounts. Whatever secret information he had sent has been deleted. Efforts are being made to restore the deleted chats. He will be taken to the border areas and the information given by him will be verified. He was involved in spying for last few years and had gone to Pakistan many times to meet his relatives where ISI trapped him and prepared him to spy for them. On the directions of Pak handler Lt. Col. Javed, he used to send confidential information through WhatsApp, he said. Sources said he had gone to Jaisalmer to collect information and roamed in border areas in the pretext of meeting his relatives. Secret and intelligence agencies are trying to find out where he had roamed in Jaisalmer, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pak-spy-sent-to-6-day-police-remand/articleshow/78941435.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: DYES athletes turn labourers||BENGALURU: Until Covid-19 struck, Satish Kumar (named changed) was an aspiring athlete working towards representing the country. Eight months later, sport is a distant dream for the 17-year-old from north Karnataka. Survival is the only thing on his mind. Much like other activities, sport too is limping back to normal. Athletes have begun training in the country but over 2,000 of them and scores of coaches attached to the Department of Youth empowerment and Sports (DYES) face an uncertain future in the state. The sports hostel athletes returned home in March when the government-run facilities shut down due to Covid-19. Most of them come from economically backward families and are struggling to make ends meet. The eldest son of daily wage labourers, Satish was over the moon when he made it to the DYES hostel a couple of years ago. Apart from giving wings to his dream, the hostel ensured three meals, a luxury at his home. Now, Satish earns Rs 300 a day as a daily wage labourer. “Once I came back home in March, we didn’t have enough resources for five people. After a couple of weeks, I joined my parents at a farm to make ends meet. No coach has got in touch with us and we don’t know when we will return to our hostels. Teachers do send us notes on whatsapp but after a hard day’s work, I don’t get time to study,” rued Satish. Satish is not an isolated case. Others like Cariappa have found work in grocery stores in their home towns. “When our parents are struggling, how can we think of sport? In towns, some of us have found work in shops and earn about Rs 4,000 a month now. Others in villages work in farms, while some of our batchmates have found jobs as construction labourers,” said Cariappa. A couple of months ago, a few athletes who came to Bengaluru from other parts of the state for their supplementary examinations, were forced to opt for a hotel after they were told that the hostel where they stayed had been converted into a quarantine facility. Since no alternative arrangement was made for the athletes, they were left to fend for themselves. For a few national-level medallists, however, there was relief in September, when their cash incentive for the previous year was released. Coaches believe the athletes’ return to sport is a long-drawn process and they will have to start from scratch. “There was no way we could give them a program to work with because most of them are working. We should have recalled the seniors to the hostels, but I guess the department does not want to risk it given the circumstances. That said, the athletes return to sport will take at least 3-4 months after they rejoin because we have to start all over again with basic fitness and nutrition being the top priority,” pointed out a DYES coach. Coaches await fresh contractsThe coaches too have their own share of problems. As many as 73 of the DYES coaches are without a contract from October 15 and are in the dark about their future. “We are given an annual contract. We had approached the sports minister and explained our situation to him. He had asked the department to renew our contracts but it hasn’t been done. We were paid our September salary on October 20 and. As our contracts have expired, the department says the reappointments are pending with the finance department. Till then where do we go? How do we feed our families?” questioned Lakshmeesha, a fencing coach. Calls to K Srinivas, DYES commissioner, went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dyes-athletes-turn-labourers/articleshow/78938540.cms||Manuja Veerappa
October 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Women officers to lead IPS body||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The IPS association on Tuesday elected DGP and commandant general of fire force R Sreelekha as the president and IG (south zone) Harshitha Attalluri as the secretary of the association. It is for the first time that the key office bearers of the association that has been male-dominated for years, are making way to women power. The office bearers are elected formally for the first time, after framing the bylaw, according to which, senior-most DGP (barring the state police chief), who is willing would be the president of the association. Even though DGP (prisons and correctional services) Rishiraj Singh was the first choice for the post of president as per bylaw, it is learned that he expressed unwillingness to be the president of the association. Following this, the next seniormost member R Sreelekha was chosen for the post. Though the bylaw allows the secretary to be elected, no one except Harshitha Attalluri had filed the nomination, following which she was elected unopposed. The association was given a formal shape and a fresh bylaw was drafted as there were repeated demands from officers that several issues relating to IPS officers should be aggressively taken up with the government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/women-officers-to-lead-ips-body/articleshow/78939865.cms||---
October 30, 2020||India||Army develops its own WhatsApp-like messaging service to prevent leaks||NEW DELHI: The Army has developed an in-house WhatsApp-like messaging application called ‘Secure Application for Internet (SAI)’ for its personnel to prevent “leaking” of any classified information to inimical intelligence agencies. “SAI is a simple and secure messaging application, which supports end-to-end secure voice, text and video calling services for Android platforms over the internet. It will be utilised pan-Army to facilitate secure messaging within the service,” said an officer on Thursday. SAI was first developed by Colonel Sai Shankar, the commanding officer of a signals unit in Rajasthan, and then upgraded to military-grade standards. Defence minister Rajnath has also complimented Col Shankar for his “skill and ingenuity” in developing the application. Read AlsoStaffer at HAL’s Nashik unit held for spying for ISIThe Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on Thursday arrested an assistant supervisor at defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL)’s facility near Nashik for spying. The accused, Dipak Shirsath, was allegedly providing classified information about Indian fighter aircraft to a handler in“SAI is similar to commercially available messaging applications like WhatsApp, Telegram, SAMVAD and GIMS and utilises end-to-end encryption messaging protocol. SAI scores on security features with local in-house servers and coding which can be tweaked as per requirements,” said the officer. The application has been vetted by the empaneled auditor of CERT-in (the government’s Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) as well as the Army Cyber Group. “The process for filing an Intellectual Property Right application, hosting the infrastructure on the National Informatics Centre and adapting it for iOS platforms is currently in progress,” he added. Read AlsoIndia 6th most targeted by Chinese hackers since 2016Zuola had never fallen in with the party line. He would post translated news about Tibet, assert Taiwan’s sovereignty and call out misuse of government power. In 2010, on December 22, the Hunan-based cyber activist received a mail from a head-hunter offering a 400,000-yuan job. About Rs 43 lakh aWith Chinese and Pakistani online espionage agents constantly on the hunt to surreptitiously obtain classified information and data, the Army last year had directed its personnel to avoid the use of WhatsApp for official work. It had also asked officers holding “sensitive appointments” to delete their Facebook accounts. There have been several cases where Pakistani women spies have virtually “honey-trapped” Indian military personnel through social networking sites into divulging classified information over the last few years. In 2018, even a Group Captain posted at the IAF headquarters in New Delhi had fallen prey to it. Watch Army develops in-house messaging service to prevent leaks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-develops-in-house-whatsapp-like-messaging-service-to-prevent-leaks/articleshow/78943055.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt reduces bar licence fees, gives relief to hospitality sector||JAIPUR: In a bid to give relief to the hospitality industry, the finance department has reduced basic licence fees up to 50% for bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants. In a notification, it said that the bars which have renewed their licences till September 30 for the full year will be given exemption of 25% of the basic licence fees. Such licensees have also been given relaxation in payment. They can now pay the fees in two instalments up to December without interest and additional fees. The exempted amount will be adjusted at the time of renewal of their licence for 2021-2022, the notification said. Similarly, the department has also extended exemptions to bars which want to renew their licences after October 1 or apply afresh for the full year of the current fiscal. They have now been extended 50% exemption on the basic licence fees and also given relaxation in payment. They have to deposit the fees in two instalments before December 2020. Sunil Mehta, a hotelier, said that this will encourage more property or restaurant owners to apply for licences. “A lot of people will be encouraged now to renew their licences. We will also do the same at our property,” added Mehta. However, people in the industry said that those who had renewed their licences till September 30, they will be lose out. “In the first three months, we had no business at all. Instead of giving us higher rate of exemption, the department has given to those who had not renewed the licences,” said a hotelier preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-reduces-bar-licence-fees-gives-relief-to-hospitality-sector/articleshow/78946246.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt reduces bar licence fees, gives relief to hospitality sector||JAIPUR: In a bid to give relief to the hospitality industry, the finance department has reduced basic licence fees up to 50% for bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants. In a notification, it said that the bars which have renewed their licences till September 30 for the full year will be given exemption of 25% of the basic licence fees. Such licensees have also been given relaxation in payment. They can now pay the fees in two instalments up to December without interest and additional fees. The exempted amount will be adjusted at the time of renewal of their licence for 2021-2022, the notification said. Similarly, the department has also extended exemptions to bars which want to renew their licences after October 1 or apply afresh for the full year of the current fiscal. They have now been extended 50% exemption on the basic licence fees and also given relaxation in payment. They have to deposit the fees in two instalments before December 2020. Sunil Mehta, a hotelier, said that this will encourage more property or restaurant owners to apply for licences. “A lot of people will be encouraged now to renew their licences. We will also do the same at our property,” added Mehta. However, people in the industry said that those who had renewed their licences till September 30, they will be lose out. “In the first three months, we had no business at all. Instead of giving us higher rate of exemption, the department has given to those who had not renewed the licences,” said a hotelier preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-reduces-bar-licence-fees-gives-relief-to-hospitality-sector/articleshow/78941465.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||One-day state mourning||Gandhinagar: The state cabinet passed a condolence resolution for the family of former chief minister Keshubhai Patel, who passed away at the age of 92 years on Thursday. The state cabinet lauded contributions of Keshubhai Patel and also announced a one-day official state mourning on Thursday. On Thursday, the state BJP also cancelled all state assembly by-election campaign activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-day-state-mourning/articleshow/78941613.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Security beefed up in Udaipur to curb child trafficking to Gujarat||JAIPUR: The Udaipur administration is taking measures to prevent child trafficking to Gujarat. A special team of 10 policemen has been deployed in the area. Check-posts on three roads in Kotra area of Udaipur have been established to prevent movement of children. Three members of Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSPCR) Shailendra Pandya, Nushrat Naqvi and Vandana Vyas have been camping in the area for the past few days, coordinating and directing the police and the local administration to step up measures to prevent child trafficking. “Children are taken to Gujarat for work in BT cotton fields and other places. With the help of the local administration and the police, strict measures have been taken such as deployment of 10 policemen specifically to check child trafficking, check-posts in Kotra and survey in houses will be conducted,” said Pandya. He said that the work of the police team will only be to check the child trafficking. Besides, survey will be conducted in 12 gram panchayat areas in Kotra for missing children and also for finding out the exact number of children who are not going to school. The RSPCR has roped in a NGO for conducting door-to-door survey of the houses in 12 gram panchayat areas. It will present its report to RSPCR on the basis of which the RSPCR will get children admitted to schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/security-beefed-up-to-curb-child-trafficking/articleshow/78941461.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt reduces bar licence fees, gives relief to hospitality sector||JAIPUR: In a bid to give relief to the hospitality industry, the finance department has reduced basic licence fees up to 50% for bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants. In a notification, it said that the bars which have renewed their licences till September 30 for the full year will be given exemption of 25% of the basic licence fees. Such licensees have also been given relaxation in payment. They can now pay the fees in two instalments up to December without interest and additional fees. The exempted amount will be adjusted at the time of renewal of their licence for 2021-2022, the notification said. Similarly, the department has also extended exemptions to bars which want to renew their licences after October 1 or apply afresh for the full year of the current fiscal. They have now been extended 50% exemption on the basic licence fees and also given relaxation in payment. They have to deposit the fees in two instalments before December 2020. Sunil Mehta, a hotelier, said that this will encourage more property or restaurant owners to apply for licences. “A lot of people will be encouraged now to renew their licences. We will also do the same at our property,” added Mehta. However, people in the industry said that those who had renewed their licences till September 30, they will be lose out. “In the first three months, we had no business at all. Instead of giving us higher rate of exemption, the department has given to those who had not renewed the licences,” said a hotelier preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-reduces-bar-licence-fees-gives-relief-to-hospitality-sector/articleshow/78946249.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt reduces bar licence fees, gives relief to hospitality sector||JAIPUR: In a bid to give relief to the hospitality industry, the finance department has reduced basic licence fees up to 50% for bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants. In a notification, it said that the bars which have renewed their licences till September 30 for the full year will be given exemption of 25% of the basic licence fees. Such licensees have also been given relaxation in payment. They can now pay the fees in two instalments up to December without interest and additional fees. The exempted amount will be adjusted at the time of renewal of their licence for 2021-2022, the notification said. Similarly, the department has also extended exemptions to bars which want to renew their licences after October 1 or apply afresh for the full year of the current fiscal. They have now been extended 50% exemption on the basic licence fees and also given relaxation in payment. They have to deposit the fees in two instalments before December 2020. Sunil Mehta, a hotelier, said that this will encourage more property or restaurant owners to apply for licences. “A lot of people will be encouraged now to renew their licences. We will also do the same at our property,” added Mehta. However, people in the industry said that those who had renewed their licences till September 30, they will be lose out. “In the first three months, we had no business at all. Instead of giving us higher rate of exemption, the department has given to those who had not renewed the licences,” said a hotelier preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-reduces-bar-licence-fees-gives-relief-to-hospitality-sector/articleshow/78946245.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Food security: Raj inks pact with UN body||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that children are the future of the country. The country will become prosperous only if they are healthy. The state government is fulfilling the responsibility of nutrition of children through food security schemes with full commitment. It is our endeavour that Rajasthan be first in achieving the goals of sustainable development, he said. Gehlot was speaking at the signing of the MoU between the state government and the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) at the CMO on Thursday. The MoU was between by Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, food department and Bishow Parajuli, director of World Food Programme in India. Expressing happiness over MoU, Gehlot said that India has had a successful partnership with the World Food Programme for nearly 50 years. The World Food Programme has played a major role in eliminating malnutrition in developing countries and providing food security to large populations of the world. This organization has received its prestigious award like Nobel Peace Prize shows its importance. With their technical expertise, the benefit of food security scheme will be effectively extended to all needy people through mid-day meal, Anganwadi centres and public distribution system in the state, he said. Gehlot said that Rajasthan is moving fast towards the goal of sustainable development by eliminating malnutrition. Effective implementation of our food security schemes and social security schemes are appreciated all over the country. During current Covid crisis, ‘Rajasthan vigilant’ and ‘Nobody sleeps hungry’ has been our basic mantra. Realizing this, the state government has ensured food security of the needy with wide public participation Director of World Food Programme in India, Bishow Parajuli said that our organization will provide its international experience, best practices and technical skills as well as full support for better implementation of food security schemes in Rajasthan. He said that the World Food Programme is helping to provide food security to about 130 million population around the world. He also praised the steps taken by the Rajasthan government for food security of the people in this challenging time of Kovid-19. Government and Secretary of the Department of Food and Civil Supplies, Siddharth Mahajan said that this partnership with the World Food Program will strengthen food security programmes. The Public Distribution System, Mid-Day Meal Scheme and Integrated Child Development Services programmes could be implemented better through this MoU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/food-security-raj-inks-pact-with-un-body/articleshow/78941486.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: State GST collections rise 13% in Sept to Rs 1784.80 crore||JAIPUR: Reflecting increased business activity, State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) collections rose by 13.48% to Rs 1,784.80 crore in September compared to Rs 1,572 crore in the same month last year. SGST mop-up in Rajasthan had risen by 7% in August to Rs 1,803 crore as compared to Rs 1,681 crore in the same month last year. “The increase is both due to pent-up demand and buoyancy in business activity. The figures in September reassure that business transactions are getting back on track,” said Prithvi, finance secretary (revenue). But Prithvi said in the coming months the collections will reflect more organic growth as much of the unrealized demand has already been captured in months of July, August and September. The marginal decline in collections in September of about Rs 18 crore seems to indicate the depletion in pent up demand after the economy was opened gradually from June onwards. Industry bodies in the state estimate that capacity utilization in manufacturing plants has risen to about 60-70% of pre-Covid levels. “While the capacity utilization levels are uneven in different industries, but on average, it has reached about 70% of the pre-Covid levels in the state. The expectation is that if some of the momentum of the festival season spills over, the recovery will gain a sound footing,” said Nitin Gupta, director, CII-Rajasthan. Shortfall in the Centre’s GST collection and the suggestion by the Union finance minister that the states should resort to borrowing to cover it has prompted the chief minister Ashok Gehlot to write a letter to the prime minister. Gehlot in the letter had said, “It is the obligation of the Central government to ensure that the States receive, without liability, the full amount of compensation, notwithstanding the shortfall in the collection of cess and that the compensation can neither be increased nor decreased without amending this Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-gst-collections-rise-13-in-sept-to-rs-1784-80cr/articleshow/78941494.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Dehradun||5 lakh deaf-blind people across 23 states, reveals data||Dehradun: Days after 16-year-old deaf and blind girl Asha Patwal—who bagged the second spot in the “1-minute voices of youth’ contest held by the UN World Data Forum recently —made an appeal for inclusion of those with dual disabilities in the census enumeration, data compiled by an NGO, which is engaged in supporting such disabled people, has revealed that there are 5 lakh deaf-blind people across 23 states and 110 districts in the country. The data was shared by Sense International India, an NGO working on supporting needs-based services for deaf-blind people, during a meeting with other experts from disability sector on Thursday. The experts joined Patwal and vowed to support her call to include such disabled people in the census. “Across 110 districts, spread in 23 states, our field staff have collected the data and confirmed that there are 5 lakh people who have dual disability, that is they are deaf-blind,” said Akhil Paul, executive director of Sense International India, which had sent 11 videos—including the one made by Asha to the UN. The special monitor on disability rights with National Human Rights Commission, Rajive Raturi, who was also present at the meeting, admitted that a lot of gaps exist in the system, which needs to be filled in order to address the concerns of dual-disabled people. “The Rights of Persons with Disability (PWD) Act, 2016 has clearly mentioned that there are 21 types of disabilities and all of them need to be included while conducting the survey. But despite that, from 2011 to 2019, if the survey shows barely 2.2% rise in the number of such dual disabled people then clearly, there is a big gap,” said Rajiv Raturi, who himself has visual disability, and holds vast experience in voicing the concerns of specially-abled people across the globe. According to the experts, there are two main reasons to which the adequate inclusion of people with disability has become difficult. “It seems that the enumerators are not being trained adequately to conduct the survey which is why we still see just a minute rise in disability percentage. And also, sometimes under the pressure of stigma, the family members also resist from giving out details of specially-abled family members to the surveyors,” added Raturi. Meanwhile, Asha who was also among the speakers once again urged the officials to ensure that deafness-blindness is highlighted in next census. “It is a dual sensory loss and therefore, we need schools which give education to children with both disabilities, not just one. Our country has a lot of such children who are still waiting to get education and contribute to the growth of our country,” added Paul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-lakh-deaf-blind-people-across-23-states-reveals-data/articleshow/78938535.cms||Shivani Azad
October 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Electronic surveillance in place for Dubbak polls, webcasting to be done||HYDERABAD: Electronic surveillance has been put in place by the Siddipet district election authorities for the Dubbak election. Engineering students have been trained for webcasting that will be done at more than 125 polling stations. In other polling centres, videography will be done. As many as 315 polling stations have been set up in 165 locations in seven mandals where the polling will be held, including two mandals in Medak district which come under Dubbak constituency. In all, 32 sectoral officers have been appointed to oversee 10-12 polling centres. At every polling centre, apart from providing basic facilities like water, electricity, toilets and tents, ramps and wheelchairs will also be arranged. Ground reports on the availability of all these will have to be submitted by November 1 to the election authorities. The postal ballot process, which began on October 27, will go on till October 30 in the first phase and the second phase will be done on October 31-November 1. Polling personnel are visiting the houses of those who are aged more than 80 years and those who are physically challenged to enable them cast their votes. In all, 1,089 aged people opted for postal ballot and 469 physically challenged had applied for it, returning officer B Chennaiah said. The postal ballots will be collected in a sealed cover, as per the instructions of the EC. Polling personnel are visiting the houses of those who are aged more than 80 years and those who are physically challenged to enable them cast their votes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electronic-surveillance-in-place-for-polls-webcasting-to-be-done/articleshow/78941526.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 30, 2020||India||India wants a more predictable US visa regime||NEW DELHI: India remains engaged with the US for increasing predictability in the visa regime and to minimise the inconvenience being faced by those in the US or those who need to travel to the country for bona fide reasons, said the government days after the third Indo-US 2+2 ministerial dialogue. "Government of India will continue to monitor any development on this issue," said the MEA spokesperson, adding people-to-people relationship was an important foundation of the special relationship between India and the US. "In our engagements, we have emphasised that this has been a mutually-beneficial partnership which should be nurtured," he added. The 2+2 saw India and the US recognising the important role of people-to-people linkages in strengthening the overall bilateral relationship and economic ties. "Both sides look forward to the next iteration of the India-US Consular Dialogue to further increase cooperation and discuss issues of mutual concern, including visas, and familial issues related to marriage, adoption and child custody," the joint statement had said. The Trump administration had recently announced new restrictions on H-1B non immigrant visa programme aimed at protecting American workers, restoring integrity and to better guarantee that H-1B petitions are approved only for qualified beneficiaries and petitioners, in a move which is likely to affect thousands of Indian IT professionals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-wants-a-more-predictable-us-visa-regime/articleshow/78943062.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ranchi||Ratri Pathshalas bridge education gap as schools remain shut||Ranchi: Run by a non-government organisation with help from local youths in 23 villages in Ranchi, Gumla and Lohardaga districts, the initiative taken by Ratri Patshalas (night schools) to provide free and quality education to thousands of poor students has helped bridge the gap in learning ever since schools were shut in March as part of the nationwide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. Ratri Patshalas were first started in 2004 at Uchri village of Mandar block in Ranchi in memory of Kartik Oraon, who founded the Akhil Bhartiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABAVP). Run between 6pm and 8pm, the main aim of Ratri Patshalas is to strengthen the students’ foundation in subjects — including, science, mathematics and English — that teachers at government schools are usually not equipped to teach properly. Students are also made aware of local languages, tradition and social issues like witch-hunting and alcoholism. While speaking to TOI, Nutan Beg, a Class VI student from Totambi village in Ranchi district, chose to converse in English even though she is still not very fluent in the language. “My friends and I believe that attending these Ratri Patshala classes are more rewarding than going to school. The subjects are taught in an interesting way and the key points become easy to grasp,” she said. Many teachers are college-goers who double as teachers to bring about a change in society. Seema Oraon of Uchri is an example how far these classes can take one in life. “I was a student at a Ratri Patshala and managed to score 72% in my matriculation in 2016. The initiative not only helped me understand the subjects, but also educated me on various aspects of life. I am now a teacher at a Ratri Patshala and I am passing on the moral values that the institution taught me to the next generation,” she said. Each night school has between 50 to 200 students and the total strength in the three districts is about 3,000. ABAVP patron and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon (state Congress president) said, “At present, Ratri Pathshalas are filling the void in education due to closure of government schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ratri-pathshalas-bridge-edu-gap-as-schools-remain-shut/articleshow/78941645.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 30, 2020||Ranchi||Paid leaves for all, shops to be shut in Bermo on polling day||BOKARO: The Bokaro district administration has directed all institutions and shops in the Bermo assembly constituency to remain closed on the bypoll day on November 3, so that all workers and employees can get the opportunity to cast their votes. In an order, DC-cum-district election officer Rajesh Singh said employers should give leave to their staff, including casual and contract workers, in the constituency with full salary for the day. Singh, who reviewed a poll preparedness meeting on Wednesday, also directed district and poll officials to ensure social distancing at the booths on the polling day. Notably, the district authorities have made arrangements for the polling day to ensure free, fair, smooth and safe polling with additional polling booths to keep the Covid virus at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paid-leaves-for-all-shops-to-be-shut-in-bermo-on-polling-day/articleshow/78941089.cms||---
October 30, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Marginal spike in Covid-19 cases after Puja, thre more die||RANCHI: Jharkhand on Thursday reported three Covid-19 deaths, taking the state’s toll to 883, and a spike in the number of fresh infections after the Durga Puja celebrations. The number of new cases on Thursday (395) is almost double since Monday when only 200 cases were reported at the start of the puja. The state has now a cumulative caseload of 1,00,964, of which 5,294 are active and 94,787 have recovered. Health experts had already warned about the spike as people have violated the safety norms, including wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing during the festive season. They, however, said the increase is less than expected and termed it as marginal. Dr Devesh Kumar, professor of community medicine at Rims, said, “Had the new cases crossed the 1,000-mark, it would have been a cause for worry. A few hundred cases do not mean the arrival of a second wave. But if the trend continues, it will be a problem for us and more stringent action will be required for Diwali and Chhath Puja.” Meanwhile, of the three deaths reported on Thursday, one each was reported from Ranchi, Palamu and Ramgarh. The number of recovered cases during the day was 461 and it surpassed the fresh infections. Of the fresh cases, Ranchi continued to report the highest at 78, followed by East Singhbhum at 61. Dhanbad and Bokaro reported 50 and 39 new cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/marginal-spike-in-cov-cases-after-puja-3-more-die/articleshow/78941165.cms||Gaurav Pandey
