October 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Theatre troupes write to government to open auditoriums for shows||Keywords: auditoriums, theatre, culture, Jyoti Prakash Panigarhi, Rabindra Mandap, Utkal MandapAuditoriums in the city have remained closed for more than seven months now due to the coronavirus pandemic. And theatre groups that used to stage plays in the auditoriums have been facing a lot of problems. The Odisha Natya Sangha, an association of around 140 theatre groups in the state, recently wrote to state culture minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi, requesting reopening of auditoriums from November 1. They also asked the minister to allow them to start rehearsals in the auditoriums. The letter also mentioned that due to a lack of performances in the past seven months, theatre artistes and those who depend on theatre have been facing huge financial crisis. Haren Sahu, president of the association, said the theatre artistes, directors, writers, musicians, light designers, costume designers and make-up artistes are all in a depressed state due to a lack of income. “It’s high time the auditoriums are reopened and theatre groups allowed to stage live performances,” he wrote. The association also assured the minister that they would take responsibility of following Covid-19 safety guidelines during rehearsals and shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/theatre-troupes-write-to-government-to-open-auditoriums-for-shows/articleshow/78959847.cms||Sandip Bal
October 31, 2020||World||Wife of Scottish Sikh detained in India wins immigration battle to remain in Britain||LONDON: The Punjabi wife of Jagtar Singh Johal — the Scottish Sikh incarcerated in Tihar Jail in Delhi accused of involvement in murders of right-wing politicians — has been granted permission to stay in the UK after winning an appeal against the UK home office. Gurpreet Kaur (32) has been living in Dumbarton, Scotland, with the family of Jagtar — known as Jaggi — since April 2019. She arrived on a one-month “outside of immigration rules” visa, which is given in exceptional circumstances. After Jaggi’s cases were transferred from Punjab to Delhi, Jaggi’s brother, Gurpreet Singh Johal, a solicitor in immigration and asylum, submitted an application for leave to remain so that she could continue to live with his family in Dumbarton. This was prior to the expiry of her visa. On January 18 the home office had turned down the application saying it did not meet immigration rules and there were no exceptional circumstances. The family instructed immigration solicitor Damir Duheric who lodged an appeal on January 22. The appeal was heard at the First Tier Tribunal (Immigration and Asylum Chamber) in Glasgow on October 15, three days before the couple’s third wedding anniversary. A judgment overturning the home office decision was sent to Duheric by email on Thursday. “With this decision, a new energy has been installed. I will not stop until my brother is back home where he belongs” an elated Gurpreet Singh Johal told TOI. “I have been utterly disappointed with the UK government as they have contributed to the unnecessary ordeal we have been subjected to. The granting of the visa was within the UK government’s control but they chose to frustrate the family. I am grateful for the immigration judge’s decision as he considered the evidence and Jagtar’s plight when allowing the appeal. The continued support from the community and my peers has been immense.” Gurpreet was shopping with her husband in Rama Mandir on November 4, 2017, just weeks after they tied the knot, when Jaggi was hooded and forced into a police van by plainclothes policemen. At the time of his arrest, the newlyweds were staying with Jaggi’s paternal grandmother in a village in Jalandhar. The chargesheet alleges Jaggi paid Rs 2.7 lakh to the late Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) chief Harminder Singh Mintoo in France in 2013 to execute the killing of RSS leader Ravinder Gosain in October 2017. KLF was banned in India in 2018. Jaggi denies the charges. “The home office could have withdrawn the decision and saved Jagtar’s wife from going through the immigration appeal ordeal. However, they chose not to do so and subjected her to questioning. Jagtar’s brother was also a witness and was subjected to questioning,” the family said in a statement. “Jagtar supports his wife’s application to remain in the UK. The UK government continues to frustrate the family despite claiming to be supporting Jagtar and his family.” The home office has 14 days to appeal the decision on an error of law, or grant the visa in line with the judge’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/wife-of-scottish-sikh-detained-in-india-wins-immigration-battle-to-remain-in-britain/articleshow/78959974.cms||NAOMI CANTON
October 31, 2020||World||On election night, Trump says he would probably stay at White House||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Friday said he would probably stay at the White House on Election Night, if there are restrictions on celebrations at his Trump International hotel here. Trump is facing Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the November 3 presidential elections. "We haven't made a determination. We have certain rules and regulations. You know Washington DC is shut down. The mayor has shut it down. So we have a hotel (Trump International Hotel).. I don't know if it's shut, if you're allowed to use it or not, but I know the mayor has shut down Washington DC,' Trump told reporters here, when asked where would he be staying on Election Night "And if that's the case, we'll probably stay here (White House) or pick another location. I think it's crazy Washington DC is shut down," said the president. On Election Night in 2016, Trump was in New York. After becoming the president in 2017, he moved his residence from New York to Florida. On Friday, Trump is travelling to Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. The president has been carrying out on an average three election rallies everyday, each of them attracting thousands of supporters. “We're doing a lot of travelling. We'll be doing a lot of rallies. We have some big ones. We're having a problem with some people in Minnesota where they have a cap because Biden goes there and he can't draw flies; he can't draw anybody. Gets a few cars, I guess, and they honk their horn,” he said. “We've got the biggest crowds in the history of politics, and I think you will all be witness to that because there has never been anybody that has ever had bigger crowds or more enthusiasm than we have,” he said, adding that there will be 25,000 people at the rally in Minnesota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/on-election-night-trump-says-he-would-probably-stay-at-white-house/articleshow/78960028.cms||---
October 31, 2020||World||On election night, Trump says he would probably stay at White House||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Friday said he would probably stay at the White House on Election Night, if there are restrictions on celebrations at his Trump International hotel here. Trump is facing Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the November 3 presidential elections. "We haven't made a determination. We have certain rules and regulations. You know Washington DC is shut down. The mayor has shut it down. So we have a hotel (Trump International Hotel).. I don't know if it's shut, if you're allowed to use it or not, but I know the mayor has shut down Washington DC,' Trump told reporters here, when asked where would he be staying on Election Night "And if that's the case, we'll probably stay here (White House) or pick another location. I think it's crazy Washington DC is shut down," said the president. On Election Night in 2016, Trump was in New York. After becoming the president in 2017, he moved his residence from New York to Florida. On Friday, Trump is travelling to Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. The president has been carrying out on an average three election rallies everyday, each of them attracting thousands of supporters. “We're doing a lot of travelling. We'll be doing a lot of rallies. We have some big ones. We're having a problem with some people in Minnesota where they have a cap because Biden goes there and he can't draw flies; he can't draw anybody. Gets a few cars, I guess, and they honk their horn,” he said. “We've got the biggest crowds in the history of politics, and I think you will all be witness to that because there has never been anybody that has ever had bigger crowds or more enthusiasm than we have,” he said, adding that there will be 25,000 people at the rally in Minnesota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/on-election-night-trump-says-he-would-probably-stay-at-white-house/articleshow/78959840.cms||---
October 31, 2020||World||Death toll reaches 39 in quake that hit Turkey, Greek island||IZMIR: Three young children and their mother were rescued alive from the rubble of a collapsed building in western . The health minister said authorities were distributing masks and disinfectant to protect against COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/death-toll-reaches-39-in-quake-that-hit-turkey-greek-island/articleshow/78970443.cms||---
October 31, 2020||World||Death toll reaches 39 in quake that hit Turkey, Greek island||IZMIR: Three young children and their mother were rescued alive from the rubble of a collapsed building in western . The health minister said authorities were distributing masks and disinfectant to protect against COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/death-toll-reaches-39-in-quake-that-hit-turkey-greek-island/articleshow/78960514.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Gurgaon||No trick-or-treat trips, no costume carnivals and skeptical parents: For children in Gurgaon, this Halloween is a low-key affair amid the pandemic||Halloween is quite popular among Gurugrammers, with trick-or-treating kids managing to collect thousands of candies every year. However, the ongoing pandemic has muted this year’s celebrations and not just children, even parents say that they are missing the buzz this year. Virtual parties, small gatherings replace grand celebrationsFrom condominiums planning parties weeks in advance and decorating the common areas with scary props to kids going door-to-door for candies, Halloween celebrations in Millennium City are usually large-scale. But not this year. Arpana Agarwal, a resident of Sector 54, tells us that a virtual Halloween party is being organised this year. “This year celebrations are subdued because of COVID-19. We have a virtual party and kids will dress up for that. All those who are participating in the celebrations got in touch with a group of volunteers, who will be sending party packages to the homes of the kids today,” she says. Sunil Bajaj, a resident of Sector 43, shares, “My kids are part of a badminton group from our condominium and they have been playing with each other for two months. They will be having a party in one of the apartments, and no one else will be invited.” In the previous years, Gurgaon kids would dress up and go trick-or-treating Adults are missing the spookfest, tooAnjali Sharma, a resident of Sohna Road, says that at her condominium, Halloween is a big celebration not just for kids, but also for the adults. Every year, the grown-ups would keep candies and treats ready for kids trick-or-treating. “This year, it is a low-key celebration. I don’t think parents would like to send kids to different houses for trick-or-treating as that would require them using elevators. It is not just kids, but even we are missing the buzz and excitement around Halloween. I will still keep candies ready in case some children do come,” she says. Priya Chawla, a resident of Sector 90, says that this year, they have planned a small party at home just to distract the kids from the fact that they can’t go out. “Just to distract my kids from trick-or-treating, I told them that we can have a small party at home where they can invite three-four of their close friends and dress up,” she says. Vrinda Bhalla, a resident of Sector 55, shares, “People usually call makeup artists, kids buy dresses in advance and the planning goes on for months. But this year, we have no grand celebrations planned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-trick-or-treat-trips-no-costume-carnivals-and-skeptical-parents-for-children-in-gurgaon-this-halloween-is-a-low-key-affair-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/78952989.cms||Riya Sharma
October 31, 2020||World||What are the likely implications of a Biden presidency for Canada?||OTTAWA: If Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden wins the Nov. 3 US presidential election, the implications could be considerable for Canada after four years living with the unpredictable and combative Republican President Donald Trump. Environment/pipelinesBiden's environmental plans and desire to "transition from the oil industry" could pose challenges for Canada, the world's fourth-largest crude producer, which sends virtually all its exports south of the border. Biden says he will scrap permits for TC Energy Corp's Keystone XL oil pipeline, which would run from the Canadian energy-producing province of Alberta to Nebraska. Alberta is suffering from low oil prices and killing the pipeline could inflame separatist sentiment in a province which accuses Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of ignoring the energy industry. While Trudeau has pledged to go even further than the country's current 2030 climate change goals, policies to bring about change have lagged. Biden's ambitious climate change plan, which includes $2 trillion in investment for clean-energy infrastructure over four years, could put pressure on Canada to act more aggressively on its own climate policies. 'Buy America'Biden's economic program promises a $400 billion investment in U.S.-made goods and says "when we spend taxpayer money, we should buy American products". This could harm Canada because its economy is highly integrated with the United States, which takes 75% of all Canadian goods exports. The "Buy America" issue caused tensions with the administration of former President Barack Obama in the wake of the 2009 financial crisis, when a similar provision forced Ottawa to lobby for waivers. Biden is promising to crack down on waivers, saying "too often, 'Buy American' operates like a suggestion, not a requirement". Trade disputes and international relationsTrump had a turbulent relationship with Trudeau, famously dismissing him as "weak and dishonest" in June 2018. Trump twice imposed tariffs on Canadian aluminum, and mused about punishing Canada for its dairy policies. Biden has promised to return to a multilateral approach in diplomacy - a tack favored by Canada - and says in his platform that "rather than picking fights with our allies and undermining respect for America", he will work with friendly nations to address trade challenges. Huawei and ChinaCanada found itself in the middle of US-China trade war when it arrested a Huawei Technologies Co Ltd executive in 2018 on a US warrant. Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou is fighting extradition to face charges of bank fraud and misleading HSBC Holdings Plc about Huawei's business in Iran. Beijing subsequently arrested Canadian citizens Michael Spavor and Michael Kovrig, charging them with espionage, and stopped imports of canola seed. People with knowledge of the Meng case say one solution in theory might be for the U.S. Justice Department to drop charges against her and prosecute the company instead. That could result in her being released. Canadian officials, who have struggled to persuade their allies to present a united front on China, say Biden might be more open to pressuring Beijing as part of a concerted effort to change its approach on detaining foreign citizens. Biden's campaign declined to comment when asked about his approach to Meng and her case. Supply of medicationsLike Trump, Biden favors purchasing Canadian medications to help keep the cost of prescription drugs under control. Canada is pushing back, noting it has a population a tenth the size of the United States and so could not even begin to meet the needs of its neighbor. Marijuana policyCannabis stocks got a big boost this month after Vice President pick Kamala Harris promised the Democratics would decriminalize marijuana at the federal level. This would bring the United States into line with Canada, which became the first developed nation to legalize the use of recreational marijuana in 2018. The move would reshape how cannabis businesses are run in the United States, giving them access to banks and other traditional financial institutions. Decriminalization would also enable licensed Canadian weed producers to accelerate their US expansion plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/what-are-the-likely-implications-of-a-biden-presidency-for-canada/articleshow/78961178.cms||---
October 31, 2020||World||What are the likely implications of a Biden presidency for Canada?||OTTAWA: If Democratic Party candidate Joe Biden wins the Nov. 3 US presidential election, the implications could be considerable for Canada after four years living with the unpredictable and combative Republican President Donald Trump. Environment/pipelinesBiden's environmental plans and desire to "transition from the oil industry" could pose challenges for Canada, the world's fourth-largest crude producer, which sends virtually all its exports south of the border. Biden says he will scrap permits for TC Energy Corp's Keystone XL oil pipeline, which would run from the Canadian energy-producing province of Alberta to Nebraska. Alberta is suffering from low oil prices and killing the pipeline could inflame separatist sentiment in a province which accuses Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of ignoring the energy industry. While Trudeau has pledged to go even further than the country's current 2030 climate change goals, policies to bring about change have lagged. Biden's ambitious climate change plan, which includes $2 trillion in investment for clean-energy infrastructure over four years, could put pressure on Canada to act more aggressively on its own climate policies. 'Buy America'Biden's economic program promises a $400 billion investment in U.S.-made goods and says "when we spend taxpayer money, we should buy American products". This could harm Canada because its economy is highly integrated with the United States, which takes 75% of all Canadian goods exports. The "Buy America" issue caused tensions with the administration of former President Barack Obama in the wake of the 2009 financial crisis, when a similar provision forced Ottawa to lobby for waivers. Biden is promising to crack down on waivers, saying "too often, 'Buy American' operates like a suggestion, not a requirement". Trade disputes and international relationsTrump had a turbulent relationship with Trudeau, famously dismissing him as "weak and dishonest" in June 2018. Trump twice imposed tariffs on Canadian aluminum, and mused about punishing Canada for its dairy policies. Biden has promised to return to a multilateral approach in diplomacy - a tack favored by Canada - and says in his platform that "rather than picking fights with our allies and undermining respect for America", he will work with friendly nations to address trade challenges. Huawei and ChinaCanada found itself in the middle of US-China trade war when it arrested a Huawei Technologies Co Ltd executive in 2018 on a US warrant. Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou is fighting extradition to face charges of bank fraud and misleading HSBC Holdings Plc about Huawei's business in Iran. Beijing subsequently arrested Canadian citizens Michael Spavor and Michael Kovrig, charging them with espionage, and stopped imports of canola seed. People with knowledge of the Meng case say one solution in theory might be for the U.S. Justice Department to drop charges against her and prosecute the company instead. That could result in her being released. Canadian officials, who have struggled to persuade their allies to present a united front on China, say Biden might be more open to pressuring Beijing as part of a concerted effort to change its approach on detaining foreign citizens. Biden's campaign declined to comment when asked about his approach to Meng and her case. Supply of medicationsLike Trump, Biden favors purchasing Canadian medications to help keep the cost of prescription drugs under control. Canada is pushing back, noting it has a population a tenth the size of the United States and so could not even begin to meet the needs of its neighbor. Marijuana policyCannabis stocks got a big boost this month after Vice President pick Kamala Harris promised the Democratics would decriminalize marijuana at the federal level. This would bring the United States into line with Canada, which became the first developed nation to legalize the use of recreational marijuana in 2018. The move would reshape how cannabis businesses are run in the United States, giving them access to banks and other traditional financial institutions. Decriminalization would also enable licensed Canadian weed producers to accelerate their US expansion plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/what-are-the-likely-implications-of-a-biden-presidency-for-canada/articleshow/78961245.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||Covid cases, deaths in India now down to half of peak in mid-Sept||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic in the country is now down 50% from its peak in mid-September, a decline that has so far been sharper than the rise in cases and deaths leading up to the peak. The seven-day rolling average of daily cases in the country stood at 47,216 on Thursday, nearly half of what it was when the graph peaked on September 17 at 93,735 cases. In other words, the average number of cases detected over the past week was around 50% less than the average at the greatest point of the pandemic. The fall in the seven-day average graph of daily deaths has been even sharper. Deaths peaked at 1,176 on September 19. By October 29, the number had fallen by more than 50% to 543. All numbers are based on TOI’s database collated from daily figures released by state governments. Both daily cases and fatalities are currently at levels seen in July. The seven-day average of cases currently is comparable to the numbers on July 27, when the count was 46,760. From there on, it took 52 days for Covid-19 cases to double to their peak on September 17. By contrast, the subsequent fall to 50% of the peak has taken 42-43 days. In the case of daily fatalities, the current number is at the same level as it was on July 15, when the seven-day rolling average was 538. This means that it took 65 days for the daily Covid-19 toll to rise from that level to its peak on September 19. The fall has taken 41 days. That deaths in the country peaked just two days after the highest rise in cases is surprising — as is the sharper decline subsequently — given that there’s usually a lag of around 10-15 days between trends in cases and fatalities. Whether this points to low detection of cases or low recording of deaths isn’t very clear. Meanwhile, fresh infections in the country continued to fall, with 48,496 cases recorded on Friday, a slight decrease from the previous day’s tally of 49,070. Daily cases have crossed 50,000 just once this week — on Wednesday, when 50,224 new infections were detected. The total Covid-19 caseload in the country has risen to 80,87,833. Delhi was among the few states where fresh cases registered a rise on Friday. The capital reported its highest single-day count of 5,891 cases, the fourth straight day of record numbers. The daily death numbers have held steady over the past few days. On Friday, 557 fatalities were recorded, the highest in six days, although the rise hasn’t been sharp. The total toll from the virus in India currently stands at 1,21,632. Maharashtra reported a slight increase in new Covid-19 cases and a decline in the fatalities on Friday. A total of 6,190 cases and 127 deaths were reported taking the total caseload to 16,72,858 and the total fatalities to 43,837. With 1,145 COvid-19 cases added to the tally in Mumbai on Friday, the city’s total caseload since March shot up to 2.56 lakh so far. The civic update on Friday added 32 Covid deaths, taking the toll to 10,261 so far. Watch Covid-19: Cases, deaths in India now down to half of peak in mid-September||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-deaths-in-india-now-down-to-half-of-peak-in-mid-sept/articleshow/78961390.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
October 31, 2020||India||Religious conversion just for sake of marriage is unacceptable: HC||PRAYAGRAJ: While reiterating that religious conversion only for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable, the Allahabad high court has dismissed a petition filed by an interfaith couple seeking directions to police and the girl’s father not to interfere in their married life. Dismissing the writ petition of Priyanshi, alias Samreen, and her partner, the HC said, “The court has… found the first petitioner (the woman) has converted her religion on June 29, 2020 and… solemnised marriage on July 31, which clearly reveals the conversion has taken place only for the purpose of marriage.” In the petition, the couple had stated that they had married in July this year, but the girl’s family members were interfering in their married life. Rejecting their plea saying the HC was not inclined to interfere in the matter under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution of India, Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi relied upon a previous judgment given by the same court in the Noor Jahan Begum case in 2014 in which it was observed that conversion just for the purpose of marriage was unacceptable. The court gave the decision on September 23. In the Noor Jahan Begum case, this court had dismissed a bunch of writ petitions praying for protection for a married couple as they had tied the knot after the girl converted from Hinduism to Islam and then performed the nikaah. The issue considered in the 2014 case was “whether conversion of religion of a Hindu girl at the instance of a Muslim boy, without any knowledge of Islam or faith and belief in Islam and merely for the purpose of marriage (nikah) is valid”. The court at that time answered the question in the negative while relying on the teachings of the religious texts. Watch Conversion only for marriage unacceptable, says Allahabad HC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/religious-conversion-just-for-sake-of-marriage-is-unacceptable-hc/articleshow/78961515.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 31, 2020||India||Taxmen visit govt contractors, stir row||PATNA: The income tax department’s searches of the offices and the residential premises of contractors associated with the Bihar government’s ambitious ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal Yojana’ on Thursday has stirred a political storm in the midst of polls in the state. I-T department officials had searched the office and residential premises of Lalan Kumar and his brother, Suman Kumar, in Bhagalpur, Patna, Nalanda and Purnia. In Patna, similar searches were carried out in the offices of Ganadhipati Constructions Pvt Ltd and Nalanda Engicon Pvt Ltd. Apart from Rs 50 lakh in cash, documents related to investments were also seized during the operation, which started at 7am and continued late into Thursday night, sources said. They said similar search operations were carried out against people engaged in stone quarrying in Gaya and areas adjoining it. RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the CM face of the the opposition Mahagathbandhan, said it was the tip of the iceberg. “Sixty scams have come to the fore during the tenure of CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy S K Modi. Corruption is prevalent in all government offices,” he alleged, claiming even the state government had conceded on the assembly floor that financial irregularities were detected during a departmental inquiry into the execution of the schemes. However, BJP’s Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav defended the NDA regime, saying the I-T department action was initiated after complaints were received by the authorities concerned. “Administrative honesty and transparency are the two special characteristics of the government led by Nitish Kumar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/taxmen-visit-govt-contractors-stir-row/articleshow/78961578.cms||Ramashankar
October 31, 2020||India||India for strong condemnation of violence against women perpetrated by terrorists||NEW DELHI: Calling for strong condemnation of violence against women and girls perpetrated by terrorists, India has urged the UN Security Council to effectively integrate women, peace and security considerations into the sanctions regimes, including by listing terrorist entities involved in violence against women in armed conflicts. "Such women-targeted violence distorts the very basis on which civilised societies rest," the government said in a statement to the Security Council open debate on women, peace and security. India said advancing democratic structures and rule of law in post-conflict situations was instrumental to address the inequalities faced by women and to ensure their full and meaningful participation for peaceful and inclusive development. "It is also important that the council strives to effectively integrate WPS (women, peace and security) considerations into sanctions regimes, including by listing terrorist entities involved in violence against women in armed conflicts," India said. The government noted that conflict and humanitarian crises already held women and girls back from progress. “The further burdening of the healthcare and economic fallout of Covid-19 threatens to put women and girls in war-torn, fragile and humanitarian contexts at even higher risk," the country said. India said through the Action for Peacekeeping initiative, member states are committed to implement the women, peace and security agenda by increasing the number of civilian and uniformed women in peacekeeping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-for-strong-condemnation-of-violence-against-women-perpetrated-by-terrorists/articleshow/78961586.cms||---
October 31, 2020||---||CISF report rebuts cops' Munger claim||PATNA: An internal CISF report has contradicted axed Munger SP Lipi Singh’s claim that there was no police firing during the Durga Puja immersion procession fracas last Monday that whipped up a political storm and triggered arson in the Bihar town, prompting the Election Commission to order the immediate removal of both the DM and the district’s top cop. According to the report sent to the CISF headquarters in Delhi and the chief electoral officer of Bihar, a dispute between local residents and the police over idol immersion led to a clash around 11.45pm on Monday. Amid stone-pelting on security personnel, including a CISF team, Munger police fired in the air, states the report filed on Tuesday by the DIG of the paramilitary unit’s eastern region headquarters in Patna. “That (the first round of firing) instigated the devotees, who indulged in heavy stone-pelting. In self-defence, as the situation threatened to go out of hand, CISF (number, rank and name of a constable mentioned in report) fired 13 rounds from a 5.56mm Insas rifle in the air,” says the report, a copy of which is with TOI. A 22-year-old man was killed that night and at least 20 people, including police personnel, were injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/cisf-report-rebuts-cops-munger-claim/articleshow/78961628.cms||---
October 31, 2020||---||As Bihar moves into phase-2, Tejashwi puts up tough fight||PATNA: With the first phase of the Bihar polls over, the narrative appears to be changing: the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan is putting up a close contest defying pre-poll odds. Those who dismissed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi as no match for chief minister Nitish Kumar till a fortnight ago now believe the election is being fought on issues raised by him. “Earlier, BJP and JD(U) would set the agenda and the opposition would follow. For the first time in years, this has changed. The election is being fought on issues of ‘kamai, padhai aur dawai’ (employment, education and healthcare facilities) raised by Tejashwi,” says RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. Tejashwi is conscious of a BJP-JD(U) trap and has not countered either Modi’s ‘Jungle raj ka yuvraj’ jibe or Nitish’s attack on his family. His refrain has been that “the PM and CM should speak on real issues like unemployment, poor education and healthcare system in the state”. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerBut JD(U) has a counter-narrative based on the work done in the last 15 years. “We have performed at different levels and worked for all sections of society,” Nitish said in Belsand (Sitamarhi) on Friday. Addressing a rally at Valmiki Na-gar on Thursday, he even favoured reservation proportionate to the population. JD(U) also dismissed Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh government jobs and accused him of lying and trying to mislead people. “Tejashwi does not have a narrative. Why couldn’t the JMM-RJD government fulfil the promises of jobs and unemployment allowance in Jharkhand? Bihar is set for a big takeoff as we have a new industrial policy with a road map for employment ge-neration based on promo-ting agro-based industries,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad told TOI. Political analysts, however, doubt that NDA’s ‘jungle raj’ rhetoric will work with young voters. But BJP says that comparing NDA and Lalu-Rabri regimes is necessary to prove that “BJP does what it says”. “Earlier, road, power, water and bridges were the election issues. Now, these are not because the NDA government has already provided these facilities. Now, we have to draw the development line further through microfinance to meet our promise of creating 19 lakh jobs,” BJP spokesperson Prof Azfar Shamshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/as-bihar-moves-into-phase-2-tejashwi-puts-up-tough-fight/articleshow/78961664.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
October 31, 2020||Agartala||90-year-old gang-raped in Tripura||AGARTALA: A 90-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by two men at Kanchanpur in North Tripura recently. The assault reportedly took place on October 24 but came to light recently after relatives of the woman took her to a police station and lodged an FIR against one Anjan Nama (35), a resident of Barahaldi village, and another unidentified man. An investigation has begun and the charges are being examined, Kanchanpur sub-divisional police officer Bikramjit Shukladas said. “Anjan and another man stormed into my house at midnight. They raped me and left me almost half-dead. When I regained my senses the next morning, I informed my neighbour. But Anjan is a very powerful person and we didn’t dare to take a stand against him,” the woman said. Police said that she underwent medical tests and has been admitted to a hospital. None of the accused have been arrested so far, police added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/90-year-old-gang-raped-in-tripura/articleshow/78961671.cms||Biswendu Bhattacharjee
October 31, 2020||India||Opposition should now apologise for Pulwama remarks: BJP||NEW DELHI: Pakistani minister Fawad Choudhry’s bragging in the National Assembly that the Pulwama attack which killed 40 Indian paramilitary personnel was an “achievement” of PM Imran Khan saw BJP question opposition parties who it said had raised doubts on the terror attack that led to the IAF bombing a JeM training camp in Balakot. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said Choudhry’s statement had vindicated claims made by the Indian government that all terror attacks in India are sponsored by Pakistan. “Unfortunately, a senior Congress member had raised doubts about the Pulwama attack and had made unsolicited remarks against PM Narendra Modi,” he said in a TV interview. He was referring to remarks of Congress member Rahul Gandhi, who had then asked as to whom the Pulwama attack would benefit. Singh said Gandhi’s remarks were “sad and ironic” as the opposition party had offered no reaction even after the Pakistani minister’s admission. “Congress members should have at least clarified to the country whether they believe or not that Pakistan has sponsored terror attacks in India,” Singh said and urged the party to rise above party lines on the issue of India’s security and integrity. I&B minister Prakash Javadekar sought an apology from opposition members who had talked about a conspiracy behind the terror attacks. “Pakistan has admitted its hand the behind Pulwama terror attack. Now, Congress and others who talked of conspiracy theories must apologise to the country,” he said. BJP’s social media head Amit Malviya tweeted, “Now, one needs to ask the likes of Arvind Kejriwal, Rahul Gandhi, Farooq Abdullah, Mamata Banerjee, Ramgopal Yadav and others who spoke for Pakistanis.” He also shared the opposition member’s remarks after the Pulwama attack took place. “Today, as we remember our 40 CRPF martyrs in the Pulwama attack , let us ask: 1. Who benefited the most from the attack? 2. What is the outcome of the inquiry into the attack? 3. Who in the BJP government has yet been held accountable for the security lapses that allowed the attack,” Rahul had tweeted after the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-should-now-apologise-for-pulwama-remarks-bjp/articleshow/78961683.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||Set-up of radicalism in place, can’t pretend these are lone-wolf hits: Shringla||NEW DELHI: With France gripped by fear of terror attacks, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla during his visit to Paris this week underscored India’s position that terrorism, and the radicalism that gives rise to it, are together the most chilling form of censorship. In his meetings with opinion-makers cutting across academia, media and think-tanks, Shringla emphasised that terrorism, with the backing of states and organised institutions, threatened cherished democratic freedoms and shared republican ideals. Describing the terror attacks in Nice and Paris as horrific, he said India stood by France and called for countries to no longer postpone a coordinated and definitive response to terrorism. The foreign secretary said it’s not possible to pretend such actions come from simply lone-wolf initiatives and misguided individuals. “There is an infrastructure of radicalism, including its online manifestations, that comes into play. It has the backing of states and organised institutions. You know who they are. We cannot and should not ignore them,” he is learnt to have said in his meetings. He is learnt to have underlined the importance of France as a steadfast friend across many domains. “From terrorism to global warming, from maritime security to sustainable development, from norms-based international institutions to technology and innovation, we are inevitably on the same side of the court,” said a source. “This has been a challenging year due to Covid and stresses on the international system. While multilateralism needs to be reformed and upgraded, its hard-won gains must be nourished. As instinctive multilateralists, India and France have to shoulder responsibilities together, especially at the UNSC where we will work together, added the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/set-up-of-radicalism-in-place-cant-pretend-these-are-lone-wolf-hits-shringla/articleshow/78961738.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||Decline in active case-load in some worst-affected states, but Delhi records highest jump in 24 hours||NEW DELHI: The trajectory of active case-load of Covid infections has been diverse across the country with some of the worst-affected states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala reporting a decline in numbers over 24 hours while Delhi remained a cause of concern with an additional 1574 active cases over the previous day. Among the states reporting decline in number of active cases, Karnataka topped the list with 3681 less active cases over 24 hours, followed by Maharashtra (-2137), Kerala (-1480), Tamil Nadu (-1470), Assam (-665), UP (-629), Madhya Predsh (-405), Andhra Pradesh (-354), Odisha (-304) and Bihar (-271). Besides Delhi, other states which registered an increase in active case-load included Telangana (477), Haryana (377), Chhattisgarh (164), Himachal Pradesh (122), Manipur (75), Chandigarh (36), Puducherry (34), Goa (34) and Punjab (27). According to health ministry data, during the period, 48,648 new confirmed cases were recorded, 78% of them from 10 states and UTs with Kerala still reporting a very high number of new cases with more than 7,000 cases, followed by Maharashtra and Delhi with more than 5,000 cases each. Data show that 57,386 patients recovered with 80 % of such cases being reported from 10 states//UTs. Kerala recorded the maximum 8,000 single-day recoveries, followed by Maharashtra and Karnataka with more than 7,000 recoveries each. The 24-hour period recorded 563 case fatalities, over 80% of them across ten states/UTs, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of single-day deaths (156), followed by West Bengal (61). The number of confirmed Covid-19 cases stood at 80,88,851. Of these, 73,73,375 (91.15%) have recovered while 1, 21,090 deaths have been recorded so far. “Presently, active cases comprise only 7.35% of the total positive cases of the country at 5,94,386. This has strengthened the trend of steady decline,” the health ministry said in a statement. The gap between active and recovered cases has been consistently increasing and stands at 67,78,989. The health ministry said 35 states/UTs have exceeded the advised number of tests. The national average of tests per day per million population stands at 844. The figures for Delhi and Kerala exceeded 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/decline-in-active-case-load-in-some-worst-affected-states-but-delhi-records-highest-jump-in-24-hours/articleshow/78961794.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||Now, khap in UP bars boys from sporting shorts||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A prominent khap in UP’s Muzaffarnagar has issued a “diktat” against wearing of shorts by youths after getting complaints from girls, about four years after it had issued a fiat against sporting of jeans by girls to check their harassment. A panchayat of several prominent khaps was organised in Muzaffarnagar’s Sisoli village on Thursday to discuss issues affecting the society. During the discussion, chief of Balyan khap, Naresh Tikait, announced the decision of “ban” on shorts. “We had put a ban on wearing jeans by girls in the villages. And we got 90% success in this. Now, due to several complaints from the girls, we want to bar youths from wearing half pants. If someone is spotted in the shorts, his name and address will be noted and action will be taken against him,” said Tikait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-khap-in-up-bars-boys-from-sporting-shorts/articleshow/78961817.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 31, 2020||India||Cops book MP MLA for Macron protests, take posters off Mum road||BHOPAL/MUMBAI: MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday warned of strong action following a protest organised by Congress MLA Arif Masood in Bhopal the previous day against French President Emmanuel Macron’s remarks on Islam. On Friday, protesters began to gather at Iqbal Maidan on Masood’s call though police had cancelled permission for meetings. A case was registered against Masood as Covid protocols were violated by the protesters. This came even as Mumbai police took off posters of Macron, pasted on the road in south Mumbai. Mumbai Police spokesperson S Chaitanya said no case was regitered against anyone. Some of them began to raise slogans against the French President. Police were already present in force — personnel had been drawn from half a dozen surrounding police stations. DIG Irshad Wali and collector Avinash Lavania monitored security arrangements and remained on the spot for four hours from noon to 4pm, until the protesters were persuaded to disperse. On Thursday, Masood had called a gathering at the maidan to protest the French President’s statement on Islam. The protesters carried posters with crossed-out photos of Macron and placards that said “Our Prophet Muhammad our honour” and “France heading towards self-destruction”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-book-mp-mla-for-macron-protests-take-posters-off-mum-road/articleshow/78961822.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: FIR against slumdweller who defied quarantine to earn wages||MUMBAI: Acting on BMC’s complaint, Dahisar police on Friday filed an FIR against a slum-dweller for refusing to stay in public quarantine and visiting his workplace despite being identified as a “high-risk contact”. The man, who was told to shift to an institutional quarantine after his three-year-old son tested positive, had no symptoms and stepped out to earn money. He ignored BMC’s request to get admitted to an institutional quarantine facility meant for high-risk contacts for four days. Police booked the man and a relative staying with him under Indian Penal Code section 269, which deals with a negligent act likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life, and section 188, which that allows authorities to act against those violating lockdown rules under Epidemic Diseases Act. Deputy municipal commissioner (zone VII) Vishwas Shankarwar said, “The man rejected our request to move to an institutional quarantine facility. We wanted him to shift as he doesn’t have access to a separate toilet and was unable to maintain distance from others at home.” He refused to be quarantined and visited some areas, exposing others to Covid risk. The family lives at Konkani Pada, Dahisar (E) and, a week back, his three-year-old son tested positive. BMC officials shifted the child along with his mother and younger brother to a Covid facility in Dahisar. “We couldn’t shift the small child alone, so we allowed his mother and brother to accompany him,’’ said a ward official. The father said he would move to a quarantine facility later but failed to do so despite requests. Milind Ranade, spokesperson of CPI and leader of conservancy workers’ union at BMC, said, “It’s an extraordinary situation. The man should have followed BMC’s request as good care is provided at these facilities. He visited his workplace and risked the health of co-workers, many of whom are as poor as him. It is the result of socio-political problems and economic disparity.” Public health expert Dr Ravi Duggal said the man should have been counselled instead of an FIR being filed. A doctor said the man had not been tested for Covid even though he had been designated as a high-risk contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-fir-against-slumdweller-who-defied-quarantine-to-earn-wages/articleshow/78961894.cms||Vijay V Singh
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Referendum 2020 banners at Patiala university, probe on||PATIALA: The police have launched a probe into alleged surfacing of ‘Punjab Referendum 2020’ banners on the Punjabi University premises here. A video in some social media sites showed the banners hung on a gurdwara sahib building on the campus. The police said they are trying to ascertain the authenticity of the video, which also showed some students holding similar banners aloft. The cops said they could not find any banners during their visit to the university campus. They have also not received any complaint from the university authorities in this regard, yet they have initiated a probe into the matter on their own. “I have visited the gurdwara sahib in Punjabi University, but no banners were found. We are looking into the authenticity of the video that went viral in social media sites claiming that some students in Punjabi University raised the banners of Punjab Referendum 2020. It seems some mischievous elements first hung these banners and then removed,” said SHO of the Urban Estate police station. In the video, streetlights and lights at the gurudwara sahib are visible, suggesting that it was shot either during the wee hours or after the sunset, he said, adding, “The video may be old or fabricated. We are looking into it.” Prof Paramvir Singh of Sports Science, who is also president of the committee of the gurdwara sahib at Punjabi University, said he does not know anything about the viral video nor has he seen any banners. “I have come to know from you about the video on social media sites. A few other persons have also asked me about the referendum banners. I checked up even with the gurdwara sahib granthi, but he is also unaware of any such incident,” Prof Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/referendum-2020-banners-at-patiala-varsity-probe-on/articleshow/78961143.cms||---
October 31, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Grand Alliance faces herculean task to retain seats in 2nd phase||PATNA: After the first phase of the assembly polls, which recorded 55.69% of voter turnout, the state is gearing up for the second phase to be held in 94 constituencies on November 3. Phase II is considered to be crucial for the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) as it will determine the political fortune of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap. Besides, majority of the seats are being represented by the leaders of the alliance. The GA had bagged 70 of the 94 seats in the 2015 assembly polls. While the RJD and the Congress had won 33 and seven seats, respectively, the JD (U), which was then an ally of the alliance, had got 30 seats. Later, the JD (U)-led by chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar parted ways with the GA and formed the NDA government with the BJP’s support. On the other hand, the NDA allies — BJP and LJP — had won 20 and two seats, respectively. “Nearly 40% of the seats were won by the RJD and the Congress in the 2015 assembly polls. We can say that it’s the stronghold of the GA going to the polls in the second phase,” political observer Pramod Kumar told this newspaper. In this election, the RJD has fielded its candidates in 56 constituencies, the Congress in 24 and Left parties in 14. On the other hand, the BJP is contesting on 46 seats, the JD (U) on 43 and VIP on five. The LJP, which is not a part of the NDA, is contesting on 52 seats whereas the BSP has fielded its candidates in 33 constituencies. Political observers are of the view that the second phase will affirm Tejashwi as Lalu’s political heir, if the RJD or its allies succeed in retaining the seats it had won in the 2015 election. “Lalu had campaigned for the candidates in the previous election, but this time Tejashwi has taken command of electioneering in his father’s absence,” they said. Altogether seven ministers — Rana Randhir Singh, Madan Sahani, Nand Kishore Yadav, Suresh Sharma, Shrawan Kumar, Maheshwar Hazari and Ram Sevak Singh — are seeking re-election. Lalu’s ‘samdhi’ and Tej Pratap’s father in-law Chandrika Rai is seeking re-election from Parsa on a JD (U) ticket. He switched to the party from the RJD ahead of the assembly polls and reposed his faith in Nitish Kumar. While Tejashwi is seeking re-election from Raghopur, the seat which his father and mother Rabri Devi had earlier represented, Tej Pratap is in the fray from Hasanpur constituency in Samastipur district. In 2015, Tej was elected from Mahua in Vaishali district. RJD principal general secretary Alok Kumar Mehta is contesting from Ujiarpur. “The JD (U) will fare well in the second phase as well. We are contesting on 43 seats,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Sources claimed that among the 43JD (U) candidates, 19 are new faces. Speaker of the outgoing assembly and JD (U) leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary is seeking re-election from his traditional Sarairanjan seat in Samastipur district. The second phase will also prove to be a litmus test for many ‘bahubalis’ (musclemen) who are either in the fray or have fielded their wives or close relatives. Bogo Singh, Sita Devi (wife of Dhumal Singh), Poonam Devi Yadav (wife of Ranvir Yadav) and Veena Singh (wife of Rama Singh) are among them. The 94 constituencies going to the polls in the second phase are spread over in 17 districts. Some of them are considered to be tough for policing due to the riverine belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ga-faces-herculean-task-to-retain-seats-in-2nd-phase/articleshow/78958970.cms||Ramashankar
October 31, 2020||Surat||Traders recover Rs 15 crore with app||Surat: Shailendra Gupta, a textile trader had supplied goods to the tune of Rs 30 lakh to a buyer in Delhi in December. The buyers promised to disburse the payment by March this year, but due to lockdown they started dilly-dallying.Despite many reminders and calls, the buyers were not ready to make the payment citing huge losses. However, Gupta sought the help of Surat Mercantile Association (SMA), an association of the textile traders using the ‘Arjun’ mobile application. SMA threatened the buyer for the ‘name-shame’ on the social media platform with the boycott appeal. To save their prestige, the buyers immediately disbursed the outstanding payment to Gupta. Gupta is not a lone case. Over 500 textile traders have recovered their lost money from the buyers of saris and dress material using the mobile application ‘Arjun’ launched by the textile traders. These traders had supplied goods before lockdown to the buyers and that they were not disbursing the payments citing huge losses. Industry sources said that the textile markets operate on traditional credit system. The traders in Surat offer credit facility ranging from three months to four months for clearing the outstanding payment of fabrics supplied to them. During last year’s Diwali festival, traders had supplied goods on credit, without any inkling about the lockdown and the pandemic in March. “We are giving credit of two to three months to our loyal customers. My payment was stuck and the party stopped receiving my calls. It was after they were threatened for name-shame on social media and police complaint, the party disturbed my payment within 10 days,” said Raju Chirania, a textile trader from Raghukul market, who received his outstanding payment of Rs 12.68 lakh stuck since February. According to SMA office-bearers, mobile application ‘Arjun’ has been developed to curb the frauds, defaults and cheating in the textile industry. Since the launch of the application on September 28, over 4,000 textile traders have registered. Till now, about Rs 15 crore worth of stuck payments of the traders have been recovered from different parts of the country. “It is mandatory for the traders to register on Arjun application. After receiving the cases of fraud or outstanding payments, we contact the parties involved and threaten them for the name-shame on the social media and lodging police complaint. Till now, we have recovered Rs 15 crore worth of stuck payments due to the traders in Surat,” said president of SMA, Narendra Saboo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/traders-recover-rs-15-crore-with-app/articleshow/78958367.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Surat||Refresh your mind and body at Arogya Van at SoU||Surat: Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Arogya Van which divulged a feeling of refreshing health on the undulating hillocks of Vindhya valley on Friday. Aarogya Van is a garden spread over an area of about 15 acres.“Arogya Van is a garden dedicated to the display of a wide range of medicinal plants. Plants play an important role in the well-being of humans. It explains the importance of living a healthy life without disease and having complete health of mind and body with correlation to plants. It emphasizes on Yoga, Ayurveda and Meditation,’‘ said an official.At Arogya Van more than 42600 trees and shrubs of 80 different species are planted. 17 different tree species already existing in the terrain were retained and taken as part of the existing landscape. 60 different species used in the Ayurveda are planted in the Aushadh Manav. 172800 different gardening plants are introduced in the garden to enhance the aesthetic beauty of this garden. 2,92,000 herbs of more than 20 species are also introduced and planted as a part of Aroma, Lutea and Alba gardens of the centre.The other attractions at Arogya Van include Aroma garden where aromatic plants are planted specifically for their distinctive smell. It helps in uplifts mood. More than 20 species of various aromatic plants like Ocimums (Tulsi), Polianthes (Rajanigandha) etc are planted. In Alba garden, It comprises only white flowers, plants and herbs creating a peaceful and soothing ambience. It consists of white and silver colored flowers, Peace and composure define the moonlight garden. As white color symbolizes peace this garden with white color flowers will give ecstatic joy. This color is striking when natural light is low and also at night. They bring a visual contrast to the landscape.While travelling throughout the garden music is played to offer a typical forest surrounding throughout outdoor media system.GAIN THREE DIMENSIONAL LAYOUT OF HUMAN BODY The site has a giant three dimensional layout of the human body named as Aushadh Manav in a resting posture. The walkways traverse through the appendages and organs like veins and arteries. Each of the portions of the body of Aushadh Manav has the plants specific for therapeutic use in the ailment of that particular organ. More than 60 different species used in various ailments of different body parts are planted in Aushadh Manav. Brahmi, Various varieties of Tulasi, Hadsankal etc are planted in this section and details are provided through signage.WELLNESS CENTRE: WELL BEING OF BODY AND MIND!A Wellness Centre is developed to treat various ailments of the body through naturopathy, which is a system of treatment of disease that avoids medicines and surgery and emphasizes the use of natural agents such as air, water, mud and herbs. The therapies includes, Dhara, Snehapanam, Sirovasti, Pizhichil, Udavarthanam, Marma Chikitsa, Nasyam, Karnapooranam, Tharpanam, Njavarakizhi, Herbal Steam Bath, Rasayan Chikitsa,Spinal Bath and Therapeutic Massages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/refresh-your-mind-and-body-at-arogya-van-at-sou/articleshow/78958997.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||Veggie prices soar, traders blame it on assembly polls||PATNA: Even as the Navaratra has just passed and festivals like Diwali and Chhath are round the corner, the rising prices of vegetables are giving a headache to the common man of the city. Prices of all vegetables, including potatoes, tomatoes and onions are touching the sky and there seems to be no respite any time soon. Surprisingly, the soaring prices of vegetables have not been made a poll issue by any political party contesting the ongoing assembly election. Most of the vegetables have become costlier by at least 20 to 50% during the last one fortnight. In retail market, the new crop of potato is selling at Rs65/kg and the older variety at Rs50/kg. Similarly, prices of onions have also increased considerably, from Rs40 to Rs70/kg. Cauliflower is selling at Rs120/kg! “Most of the low-income families are highly dependent on vegetables to make their main meal as pulses are already out of their reach for the last several years,” says Kumkum Upadhyaya, a housewife residing at Anandpuri in west Patna. “But, we have been hit hard with the abnormal rise in prices of potato, onion and tomato,” she added. “I have been forced to reduce the daily vegetable intake of my family members due to steep price rise in recent times,” said retired teacher Badri Narain Singh. When asked about the reason of rising prices of vegetables, Bhim Prasad of Patna Trading Company at Patna Sabzi Mandi said it was mainly due to restricted movement of vehicles from one city to another during the election period. For fear of seizure by the district law and order officials for the purpose of election, owners stop plying most of their commercial vehicles on the roads, he said. Arjun Verma of an online vegetable seller operating from New Patliputra Colony also feels that the price rise is related to the restricted movement of vehicles. The situation is likely to ease out only after the election, he adds. The retail rates per kg of potato is Rs50-65, onion Rs65-70, tomato Rs60-65, cauliflower Rs120-130, cabbage Rs60-70, spounge gourd Rs55, pointed gourd Rs60), ladies finger Rs60, cucumber Rs50-60, pumpkin Rs50, brinjal Rs50, capsicum Rs120-150, spinach Rs65, bitter gourd Rs55 and beans Rs100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/veggie-prices-soar-traders-blame-it-on-assembly-polls/articleshow/78961212.cms||B K Mishra
October 31, 2020||Patna||Three incidents of police high-handedness in a week in Bihar||PATNA: Three incidents of alleged police high-handedness took place in Aurangabad, Naugacchia and Munger within a week. At Aurangabad, a senior additional district judge, Dinesh Kumar Pradhan, was allegedly abused, threatened and chased by a police sub-inspector named Pranav of the Town police station when he was on evening walk on October 21. The SI was accompanied by paramilitary personnel for a flag march that time. The Bihar Judicial Services Association had written a letter to the DGP on October 24 seeking action against erring officers, but no step was taken yet in connection with the incident. The CCTV camera footage showing Pradhan being chased by the police was also been sent to the DGP. The association in its letter mentioned that Pranav had a grudge against the judicial officer as Pradhan had taken action against him and a few other police officers for dereliction of duty a few months back when he was the Aurangabad chief judicial magistrate. In the letter, association secretary Ajit Kumar Singh, an additional district judge, alleged police high-handedness and also wrote that such unabated trend would damage the police image in Bihar if no action was taken against guilty officers. Incidentally, the day the letter was written, a 33-year-old engineer, Ashutosh Kumar Pathak, was allegedly beaten up mercilessly by police personnel inside Bihpur police station of Naugachia in Bhagalpur, which resulted in his death during treatment at the hospital. Pathak had a scuffle with then Bihpur SHO Ranjeet Kumar at Mahant Sthan Chowk from where he was brought to the police station in a patrolling vehicle and was allegedly thrashed. SHO Kumar has been suspended, but he is now evading arrest along with a contractual police driver after Pathak’s family lodged an FIR and accused them of killing him. One Anurag Poddar got killed in the firing during clash between Munger police and devotees taking out a Goddess Durga idol immersion procession on Monday night. The video of security personnel thrashing devotees during the clash also surfaced on social media. When asked, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “Inquiry is going on in all three matters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-incidents-of-police-high-handedness-in-a-week-in-bihar/articleshow/78961188.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 31, 2020||Patna||Five intercity special trains to run till November 30||PATNA: Five intercity special trains will now run on different routes under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) till November 30 instead of October 30. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways has extended the run of the Saharsa-Patna intercity special (02567/02568) in order to cope with the rush of local passengers. It has stoppages at Simri-Bakhtiarpur, Mansi, Khagaria, Begusarai, Mokama and Bakhtiarpur stations. “The Katihar-Patna intercity (05713/05714), which halts at Semapur, Karagola, Kursela, Naugachhia, Birpur Thana, Narayanpur, Maheshkhunt, Mansi, Khagaria, Lakhminia, Begusarai, Barauni, Mokama, Barh, Bakhtiarpur and Patna Sahib, will also run till November 30. So will the Patna-Bhabua intercity (03243/03244) that has stoppages at Punpun, Pothi, Nadwan, Taregna, Nadaul, Jehanabad, Tehta, Makhdumpur, Bela, Gaya, Kashta, Paraiya, Guraru, Ismailpur, Rafiganj, Zakhim, Anugrah Narayan Road, Son Nagar, Dehri-on-Sone, Sasaram and Kudra,” the CPRO told this newspaper on Friday. The railways has also extended the run of the Rajendra Nagar-Jayanagar intercity (03225/03226) and the Rajendra Nagar-Saharsa intercity special (03227/03228). While the former stops at Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Bachhwara, Dalsinghsarai, Samastipur, Laheriasarai, Darbhanga, Sakri, Madhubani and Rajnagar, the latter has stoppages at Patna Sahib, Fatuha, Bakhtiarpur, Barh, Mokama, Barauni, Begusarai, Sahebpur Kamal, Khagaria, Mansi, Badla Ghat, Dhamara Ghat, Koparia, Simri-Bakhtiarpur and Sonbarsa Kacheri stations. Only passengers with confirmed reserved tickets are allowed to travel by these five pairs of intercity special trains. “Those without masks are not allowed to enter the premises of different railway stations. They follow Covid-19 protocols and follow social distancing norms as well,” Danapur senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-intercity-special-trains-to-run-till-november-30/articleshow/78961088.cms||Kumod Verma
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lakshmi Puja in Covid times, idols in isolation, priests in PPE||KOLKATA: Adapting to the new normal, hundreds of households in the city who are in isolation followed all safety measures and quarantine protocol while conducting Lakshmi Puja at home on Friday. At Tala Park, the Ghosh family has been celebrating Kojagari Lakshmi Puja in a big way for over four decades. But after a family member was infected with Covid-19 earlier this week, there were concerns whether the puja could be organized. But the family made immediate changes in the puja venue and itinerary and organized the puja in a muted manner on Friday. All quarantine rules were followed and the priest performed the rituals clad in PPE. “We didn’t want to break the decades-long custom. But we toned down the puja significantly and shifted it out of our home where my brother has been living in isolation on one of the floors. We moved the puja to a flat that we own. Most members of our family are in quarantine at home and only those who haven’t come in direct contact with my brother organized the puja,” said Sourav Ghosh, a doctor and owner of a nursing home in Shyambazar. The family members didn’t even go out for puja shopping and asked the house help to buy whatever was required. There was also no distribution of bhog like in earlier years. “We had prepared bhog and offered it to the deity before serving the family members. But we didn’t risk distributing it in the neighbourhood like in previous years,” said Ghosh. The priest, Raja Bhattacharya, said he has turned down most puja requests this year fearing infection. “But I have been performing puja at the Ghosh household for the past several years. I couldn’t turn this down. But I performed the rituals maintaining all possible safety precautions,” said Bhattacharya, 37. Piyali Roy, a homemaker from Dum Dum Park, had been in home quarantine since Saptami evening when her husband Sourav, a banker, developed high fever and tested positive to Covid on Nabami. He even had to be hospitalized for three days after he complained of breathlessness only to return home on Friday. “I had given up the thought of conducting the puja this year but when the doctors said they were discharging my husband on Friday, I made up my mind to perform the puja even if it meant scaling it down to an absolutely homely affair,” said Roy. She ordered some groceries and fruits online and conducted the rituals by herself while her husband was in isolation in another room. “I neither bought an idol nor called for a priest, but conducted the puja by myself at home,” she said. For Baghajatin resident Lisa Dhar, the puja was one of her last resorts to save her elderly mother who has been down with Covid-19 for two weeks and is under ventilation at a city hospital. “The doctors have told us that her condition is deteriorating at a rapid pace and have asked us to pray to the Almighty for her well being. I was not in the right mental condition to conduct the puja, but since my mother now needs God’s blessings more than medicines, I resolved to organize the puja at the last minute. My friends did the shopping and we conducted it at a separate flat where my husband and I have been staying in quarantine,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lakshmi-puja-in-covid-times-idols-in-isolation-priests-in-ppe/articleshow/78959511.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 31, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Issues galore in Patna urban, will tide turn in BJP citadel?||PATNA: Four assembly seats of Patna — Patna City, Kumhrar, Bankipur and Digha— which come under the Patna Municipal Corporation will go to polls in the second phase on November 3. With very little time left for campaigning, all candidates are walking the extra mile to woo the voters. These seats have been traditionally saffron strongholds. BJP won all four seats in the previous assembly election in 2015 and even in earlier polls. These constituencies, which consist of urban voters have a mixed class of both private and government workers, businessmen, traders and teachers many of whom have come and settled from different parts of Bihar. While the sitting MLAs are showcasing the work done in their tenure such as construction of roads and bridges, door-to-door garbage collection among others, opposition candidates are raking up the issue of waterlogging, outdated drainage system and lack of civic amenities and rampant unemployment. Voters have a mixed reaction, while some say there are no alternatives, others are upset over the civic issues dogging the state capital. For instance, Ashiana-Digha Road resident Arun Kumar said, "I do want to vote for a change, but I don’t see any alternative. I am satisfied with the kind of work done in my locality." Another capital resident Subodh Kumar, whose area comes under the Bankipore assembly was upset with the civic issue. "Patna is not worth living. There are so many problems like garbage issues, traffic and lack of parking space. Though chief minister Nitish Kumar has done a lot, it is the responsibility of local MLA to look after these problems. Hence I will vote for a change." BANKIPUR: BJP MLA Nitin Nabin has been representing this seat for the past three terms since 2006, after his father and senior BJP leader Nabin Kishore Prasad Sinha died and a bypoll for Patna West was held. In 2008, after delineation, Bankipore came into existence and in the next two assembly polls, Nitin had won by huge margin. This time Luv Sinha, son of actor-politician Shatrughan Sinha is contesting on a Congress ticket. Plurals founder Pushpam Priya Chaudhary is also trying her luck. Rebel BJP leader Sushma Sahu, whose candidature was cancelled, is now supporting Luv PATNA SAHIB: Senior BJP leader and road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav is the sitting MLA. Yadav has been representing this seat since 1995 when it was Patna East. This is a Kushwaha dominated business class constituency and also has other castes. This time the seat has gone in Congress’s kitty and it has fielded Parveen Kumar, another Kushwaha. KUMHRAR: BJP MLA Arun Sinha is representing this seat and in 2015, he defeated Congress’s Aquil Haider. This time the seat has gone to RJD’s Dharmendra Kumar. Sinha had won from here twice in two polls held in 2005. This seat is dominated by EBCs and OBCs and professionally, it has retired government officers, doctors and business class. DIGHA: This newly formed seat came into existence after delimitation in 2008 and in 2010 assembly election, JD (U)’s Punam Devi had won from here. At present, BJP MLA Sanjeev Chaurasiya is representing it. He had defeated JD (U)’s Rajeev Ranjan Prasad by margin of 24779 votes. Since alliance has changed and JD (U) is with BJP, the seat has gone in BJP’s kitty and Chaurasiya is contesting. From Mahagatbandhan’s side, CPI ML candidate Sashi Yadav is in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/issues-galore-in-patna-urban-will-tide-turn-in-bjp-citadel/articleshow/78960413.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: In pandemic times, Kalanagri’s rangolis to light up virtual world||VADODARA: Not wanting to get left behind, even Rangoli artists in Banyan City have joined the virtual bandwagon and will display their creativity online this Diwali. At a time when Covid-19 pandemic has led many rangoli exhibitions to cancel their annual events in the city, the artists haven’t lost their festive spirit and have decided to unfold their creativity through online exhibitions. To continue with their decades-old tradition, the oldest rangoli group in the city, Swastik Group, has decided to organize the exhibition online. “Every year, all the artists gathered at the spacious Kirti Mandir hall to draw rangolis for days together. Our works were then exhibited during Diwali and thousands turned up to see some of the finest rangolis made on different subjects,” said Rajendra Dindorkar who has been doing rangoli exhibitions for the past 34 years. “We didn’t want to risk people’s lives this time and become a cause for the spread of infection. So we cancelled our annual exhibition. But to keep the artists’ spirit alive, we decided to hold the online exhibition,” Dindorkar told TOI. The artists will, however, make rangolis at their own homes this time for a change. “We will continue our tradition of making rangolis which will be displayed online for the first time ever for people all over the world to get a glimpse of our unique and splendid works,” Dindorkar added. Another rangoli artist Uday Korde too has decided to go online this year. “In the times of pandemic, it wasn’t possible to gather people for the exhibition. So we hope that our online exhibition brings positivity and hope during Diwali,” said Korde, who has been running the Parampara Rangoli Kalakar Group in the city for the past one decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/in-pandemic-times-kalanagris-rangolis-to-light-up-virtual-world/articleshow/78958373.cms||Tushar Tere
October 31, 2020||Rajkot||Four booked for robbing hotelier of his revolver||RAJKOT: Four persons were booked on Thursday night for allegedly robbing a man of his licensed revolver in Rajkot. Police said the accused, Piyush Der, Nando Ahir and their two unidentified accomplices, had allegedly thrashed Hitesh Humbal (32) and snatched his revolver after the latter had allegedly tried to intimidate them with the firearm on the night of October 26. According to the police, Humbal’s brother-in-law Ghanshyam Jalu told him that Jaideep Vyas had abused him over the phone. Humbal told Jalu that he knew Der, who is the friend of Vyas, and that he would strike a compromise. Both Humbal and Jalu are hoteliers. “Both Humbal and Jalu went to meet Der at Indira Circle. As Humbal had come armed with a revolver the accused asked him whether he had come with the firearm to intimidate them. Saying this, the accused attacked Humbal and Jalu with bats and snatched Humbal’s revolver worth Rs 75,000 which was loaded with six cartridges,” said R S Patel, sub-inspector with Gandhigram police station. Humbal waited for two days, hoping that the accused would return him his revolver. When the accused did not return the firearm to him, he lodged the complaint against them. “The accused have gone absconding ever since the complaint was lodged against them. We have launched a manhunt for them,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-robbing-hotelier-of-his-revolver/articleshow/78958674.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Bellary onion yet to be sold for Rs 45/ kg||TRICHY: Despite the cooperative department’s announcement to sell Bellary onion at Rs 45 per kg at its farm-fresh outlets to stabilize its skyrocketing price, it is yet to materialize. Bellary onion sales began at all the 14 farm-fresh outlets in Trichy on October 22 when onions were sold at Rs 100 per kg in the retail market. As the supply from Maharashtra was very low, officials sold 2 tonne onions in the outlets for two days. Meanwhile, tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan told reporters on October 27 that the cooperative department had purchased 11 tonnes of Bellary onion to sell through the outlets and that orders have also been placed for additional 20 tonnes from Maharashtra. A large number of customers started flocking the outlets soon after, including the one on Chinthamani cooperative supermarket premises on EVR Road, but only to return empty-handed. S Raja, a resident of Beemanagar, said he had been visiting Chinthamani market twice a day in the last three days, but the salesmen said there was no stock. “There was no use spending money on petrol for my bike to reach the shop”, he said. S Murugesan from Raja Colony said, “Around a hundred customers return without purchasing onions every day. Already the price has come down to Rs 80 per kg. What is the use of announcing a subsidised rate when there is no stock”, he said. When contacted, joint registrar of cooperative department K P Arularasu told TOI that the consignment of 11 tonnes arrived only on Friday afternoon. Customers could get it from all the outlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bellary-onion-yet-to-be-sold-for-rs-45/-kg/articleshow/78961141.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 31, 2020||Trichy||Farmers unable to avail credit at PACCS in Orthanadu||THANJAVUR: Members of a Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society (PACCS) in Thanjavur have been left in the lurch as the society has not been functioning for more than a month. Farmers have alleged that after the secretary of the society was suspended in connection with misappropriation of funds, they could not even purchase fertilizer or avail crop loans due to the absence of a dedicated secretary. There are around 1,000 farmers who have been members for years of the society located at Kannukkudi West in Orathanadu for years, apart from 20 self help groups (SHGs). As this is the season for samba paddy cultivation, farmers are busy with transplanting paddy and other allied activities. They have to get crop loan and buy fertilizers for their standing crop. “However, due to the absence of a dedicated secretary, no transaction has been taking place, leaving farmers in the lurch as they are unable to get crop loan or jewel loan. SHGs are also unable to get renewal loans for their members,” said U Ravichandran, a member of the society. “Normally farmers re-pledge their pledged jewels to avert high interest rate with the society. As no routine business is done at the society, around 300 farmers who have already pledged their jewels are blinking without knowing what to do next,” he added. Following misappropriation charges to the tune of Rs 40 lakh, then secretary Rajalakshmi was under suspension since August. “The secretary of a nearby society from Thondarampattu has been the in-charge. Since then, functioning of Kannukudi society has been paralysed,” Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association secretary Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. Officials from the co-operative department acknowledged the issue and assured to fill the post as soon as possible so that regular functioning would not be affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-unable-to-avail-credit-at-paccs-in-orthanadu/articleshow/78961146.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
October 31, 2020||Varanasi||Minister inspects construction work of Gorakhpur Zoo||GORAKHPUR: The state environment minister Dara Singh Chauhan on Friday inspected the under-construction Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoo near Ramgarhtal lake. He said the zoo is the dream project of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and would attract international tourists as Gorakhpur is comes under the Buddha tourism circuit which includes adjoining districts like Lumbini and Kushinagar. “CM Yogi is focusing on quality work and the standards of the zoo should not be compromised at any cost. The zoo will soon be ready and will create employment opportunities for people,” said Chauhan. The minister also had a meeting with the two-member team of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). The team was on a two-day visit to the place. During the meeting, the team members, Dr Devendra and Laxmi Narsimha, confirmed that the the zoo is being constructed as per the standards of CZA. However, they pointed out shortfalls in a few areas like the drainage system, which they had instructed the workers to overcome soon. DFO Avinash Kumar, Rotary Club president Arvind Vikram Chowdhary and Heritage Foundation member Anil Kumar Tripathi were also present during the inspec tion of the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/minister-inspects-construction-work-of-gorakhpur-zoo/articleshow/78959141.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||RIL Q2 net falls 7%, Jio adds most to operating profit||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL), India’s largest company in terms of market value, reported a 7% fall in its second quarter profit to Rs 10,602 crore due to the negative impact of the novel coronavirus on the oil market. Revenue declined 24% to nearly Rs 1.2 lakh crore, it said on Friday. Operating profit, too, fell around 10% to Rs 23,299 crore in the July through September months due to weak earnings in its two dominant businesses — refining and petrochemicals. A Bloomberg poll had estimated RIL to report a net profit of Rs 8,441 crore on a revenue of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. “We delivered strong overall operational and financial performance compared to previous quarter with recovery in petrochemicals and retail segment, and sustained growth in digital services business. Domestic demand has sharply recovered across our O2C (oil-to-chemicals) business and is now near pre-Covid level for most products. Retail business activity has normalised with strong growth in key consumption baskets as lockdowns ease across the country,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. On a sequential basis, the operating profit of petrochemicals and retail units were up 35% and 86%. Operating profit of RIL’s refining and petrochemicals businesses declined 49% and 33% to Rs 3,002 crore and Rs 5,964 crore. Earnings were impacted due to weak demand and lower price realisations. The company’s Jamnagar refinery, the world’s largest, secured a price of $5.7 from every barrel of crude it processed, much lower than what it earned in the second quarter of fiscal 2020 (which was $9.4). Operating profit of retail declined 14% to Rs 2,009 crore. But operating profit of digital services (Jio) rose 53% to Rs 8,345 crore due to an improved average revenue per user (ARPU) and higher data usage by people while remaining sheltered at homes due to Covid-19. ARPU is the total revenue of the telecom operator divided by the number of users on its network. Jio continued to be the top contributor to RIL’s operating profit. Its ARPU was Rs 145 in the September quarter, up from Rs 120 a year ago. Jio, which was launched in 2016, has 405 million customers and saw a data traffic growth of 20% on its network. RIL said Jio has become the only operator (outside China) to have reached the milestone of 400 million subscribers in a single-country market. RIL said that its entire retail store network was not operational in the September quarter and footfalls too were significantly lower than the pre-Covid levels, thus impacting earnings. Partially open and fully open stores were up to 85% in Q2FY21, it added. Operating profit of the media unit rose 75% to Rs 166 crore as advertisers upped spends following a restart in economic activity after tapering of lockdowns, while the oil & gas business made an operational loss of Rs 194 crore. Financial services, which RIL recently started to report separately, made an operating profit of Rs 530 crore, up 116% from the year-ago period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-q2-net-falls-7-jio-adds-most-to-operating-profit/articleshow/78961659.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar poll race tightens as Tejashwi puts up a tough fight||PATNA: With the first phase of the Bihar assembly election over, the narrative appears to be changing with the polls becoming a close contest between the ruling NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, defying pre-poll odds. Those who dismissed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as no match to CM Nitish Kumar till a fortnight ago now believe he is putting up a tough fight. “Earlier, BJP and JD(U) used to set the poll agenda and the opposition followed. But it is for the first time in many years that the state election is being contested on real issues of ‘kamai, padhai aur dawai’ (employment, education and healthcare facilities) raised by Tejashwi,” says RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. Countering PM Narendra Modi’s jibe at Tejashwi and calling him the ‘Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj’ referring to the 15-year rule of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi, Tiwary said Modi tried to whip up the same fears like in 2015 and the result was for everyone to see. “And even PM, that way, admitted that the NDA fight is against Tejashwi,” Tiwary chuckled. Tejashwi is conscious of the BJP-JD(U) trap and never countered either Modi’s jibe or Nitish Kumar’s attack on his family. He keeps saying “the PM and the CM should speak on real issues of unemployment, poor education and healthcare system in the state”. “BJP and NDA tried to deviate us from issues which concern people the most, but Tejashwi ji’s googly has trapped the NDA, which is now trying to follow our agenda of employment, good education and better health facilities. National issues being raised by BJP cannot earn bread and butter and youths are fed up with unemployment. The kind of crowd Tejashwi is drawing indicates the change people want in the state,” Tiwary told TOI on Friday. But JD(U) has a counter-narrative based on the work done in the last 15 years of NDA rule under Nitish, who is seeking votes with the promise of more development in the state. “We have performed at different levels and worked for all sections of the society,” Nitish said in Belsand (Sitamarhi) on Friday. Addressing a rally at Valmiki Nagar on Thursday, Nitish even favoured reservation proportionate to the population. JD(U) also dismisses Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh government jobs and accuses him of lying and trying to mislead people. “Tejashwi has no narrative at all. Why the JMM-RJD government could not fulfil the promises of jobs and unemployment allowance in Jharkhand? What Tejashwi is in a position to say is based on the work Nitish ji has done for basic infrastructures like roads and quality electricity supply besides improving the law and order situation. Now, Bihar is set for a big take-off as we have a new industrial policy with a solid road map for employment generation based on promoting agro-based industries,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad told TOI. Many political analysts, however, doubt that the NDA’s ‘jungle raj’ rhetoric will work with young voters. But BJP says comparing the NDA and Lalu-Rabri regimes is necessary to prove that “BJP does what it says”. “Earlier, road, power, water and bridges were poll issues. Now, these are not because NDA government has provided the facilities. We have to draw the development line bigger through microfinance to meet our promise of creating 19 lakh jobs and employment opportunities. They (Lalu) provided 98,000 jobs in 15 years while over 7 lakh youths, including 3.5 lakh contractual teachers, got jobs in NDA regime. Now, saying I am a Bihari is a matter of pride,” BJP spokesperson Prof Azfar Shamshi told TOI. He also defends BJP top leaders raising triple talaq, Ayodhya Ram Mandir and the abolition of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir issues in the state election. “We are a national party and do what we say. We mention these issues to tell people that we deliver on our poll promises. Cheeze apne aap bikti nahi hain, bechni padti hai (one has to sell the product),” Prof Shamshi said to drive his point home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-poll-race-tightens-as-tejashwi-puts-up-a-tough-fight/articleshow/78965850.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
October 31, 2020||Patna||Will voters ‘feminise’ Bihar Vidhan Sabha this time?||PATNA: Altogether 28 women MLAs of Bihar assembly staged a show of unity to commemorate Women’s Day 2020 in March. Joining hands, women from both the Treasury and Opposition benches trooped into the Well of the House demanding 33% reservation in state and central Legislatures. If you are wondering why women who were successfully elected, engaged in protest, the clue is in the Shakti/Times of India Panel Discussion on Women’s Representation held a few weeks ago, with spokeswomen from all major parties. “Sometimes, when we raise incidents of sexual harassment or other serious matters, the men laugh at us or simply ignore us,” a panellist had said. Unless there is a critical mass of women MLAs, 33-50%, the nature of issues discussed, and, therefore, the solutions to address them, cannot be changed. That is the reason why women elected to ask the government for reservation. While the number of women MLAs fell to 28 from 34 in 2015, the table shows the percentage of women fielded by parties with the most vote share, is up by 3 percentage points. Shakti, a citizens collective championing women's representation joined hands with over 120 local, grassroots groups, eminent Biharis, elected mukhiyas, sarpanches and many sitting women MLAs to run numerous campaigns pressuring political parties to field more female candidates. The ballot now has 76 female candidates from the top 5 parties, in addition to a few more from the Left and other smaller alliance parties. Numerous women are also in the fray as Independents and from unrecognised parties. While all of these female candidates will have to win to form a critical mass in the assembly, voters still hold the trump card. They can choose to send a historic number of women to the Vidhan Sabha, which, while less than a third, could be 50 women, making up a fifth of all members. This would be unprecedented not only in Bihar but in the history of India. This is critical in a state whose governance priorities are in dire need of a reset. Unemployment leading to mass migration, law and order (including women’s safety,) basic amenities like water, toilets, power, infrastructure, social evils like child marriage, domestic violence among others, and, education. How is transformation conceivable if voters recycle the same old men as MLAs? After all, women have cut their teeth in local governance for two and a half decades, numbering thousands in Bihar. Even if only 10%, very conservatively were of superlative quality, it would still amount to hundreds. That is grassroots political talent with a deep understanding of people’s problems being left by the wayside while sub-par MLAs rule the roost. Unless the players change, governance cannot change. In this iteration, female candidates include doctors, social activists, experienced mukhiyas, sitting MLAs. Women with proven public service records and a wide variety of perspectives and lived experiences to lend to laws, policies and governance. In a state where the female electorate votes at a higher rate than their male counterparts, they are surely entitled to fair representation. It is then not only the onus but a duty of the 7.2 crore voters of Bihar to feminize the Vidhan Sabha and pave the road to a glorious Bihar. (The writer is co-founder of Shakti — Political Power to Women)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-voters-feminise-bihar-vidhan-sabha-this-time/articleshow/78966040.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar election will strengthen Congress, says Sachin Pilot||PATNA: Congress leader Sachin Pilot tells TOI’s Sheezan Nezami that the ongoing assembly polls will benefit his party as CM Nitish Kumar has done nothing for Bihar in the last 15 years. Excerpts: What message do you want to give to people in Bihar?There is huge anti-incumbency factor against CM Nitish, who has done nothing in the last 15 years. He boasts of good governance, but what happened in Munger is the reality of Bihar. People must vote for a change and I am sure young people want that change. What about Congress’s prospects in this election?We had won the previous assembly election with RJD and JD(U), but then Nitish ji left. This time again, Congress and RJD are together with three other Left parties. Also, we are contesting 70 seats. This is good for our future. We are not only fighting to get the Mahagathbandhan into power, but also to strengthen Congress in Bihar as well. There are lots of confusion within Congress as you have seen in Rajasthan. Also, states like UP and Bihar lack strong leadership. How Congress will counter these issues?There is no confusion in Congress at all. We were in power in 2004 and then in 2009. Haar jeet chalti rahti hai. But, Congress has ideology, commitment and respect for each other. We do not have politics of acrimony and young people are looking forward to us as Congress is the only alternative to take on BJP at national level. We have to work hard in many states and Priyanka Gandhi is working very hard in UP. In Bihar, Congress will be strengthened after this election. Your contemporary Jyotiraditya Scindia left Congress and joined BJP. Several other leaders have also left the party?See, people have left as well as joined Congress. But we will carry on with the spirit of ideology. Congress raises the voice of people and we are doing issue-based politics. It is said that your hard work paid dividends in the Rajasthan election. How will you utilize that skill in the Bihar election?I have had the privilege of being the party’s state president there for six and a half years. When I assumed office, Congress had 20 out of 200 MLAs in Rajasthan, while BJP had 165 seats. We focused on taking everybody along. Also, young people need to be motivated. The same we are trying here. What are the strengths and weaknesses of Congress in Bihar?We have ideology and leadership across the country. We have a rich history of struggle. Congress works for the farmers, youth, labourers and everyone. You will find a Congress flag in every village. As far as weakness is concerned, there are states where we are out of power and we have to work hard for comeback. Rahul Gandhi has visited Bihar twice for election campaign and talked about demonetisation, farm laws, migration and unemployment. Will these issues garner votes? He has narrated the truth. Everyone has faced problems due to demonetisation, GST and lockdown. Both the Centre and the state government had left people to walk back home without food and water. People will remember these things. Even in Bihar, there is no employment opportunity and people are compelled to migrate. I will again say Nitish did nothing for Bihar. What will you say to PM Modi, who talks about Ram Mandir and Jungle Raj?Since last 15 years, they are ruling Bihar and still talking about what happened 30 years ago. This is the sign of weakness. Discussion should be on electricity, employment, education and fertilizers. But they talk about Hindu-Muslim and China. Also, what I feel is that some dignity and decorum should be maintained by people holding respectable positions. They should not make personal and family attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-election-will-strengthen-congress/articleshow/78965686.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||---||Bihar election will strengthen Congress, says Sachin Pilot||PATNA: Congress leader Sachin Pilot tells TOI’s Sheezan Nezami that the ongoing assembly polls will benefit his party as CM Nitish Kumar has done nothing for Bihar in the last 15 years. Excerpts: What message do you want to give to people in Bihar?There is huge anti-incumbency factor against CM Nitish, who has done nothing in the last 15 years. He boasts of good governance, but what happened in Munger is the reality of Bihar. People must vote for a change and I am sure young people want that change. What about Congress’s prospects in this election?We had won the previous assembly election with RJD and JD(U), but then Nitish ji left. This time again, Congress and RJD are together with three other Left parties. Also, we are contesting 70 seats. This is good for our future. We are not only fighting to get the Mahagathbandhan into power, but also to strengthen Congress in Bihar as well. There are lots of confusion within Congress as you have seen in Rajasthan. Also, states like UP and Bihar lack strong leadership. How Congress will counter these issues?There is no confusion in Congress at all. We were in power in 2004 and then in 2009. Haar jeet chalti rahti hai. But, Congress has ideology, commitment and respect for each other. We do not have politics of acrimony and young people are looking forward to us as Congress is the only alternative to take on BJP at national level. We have to work hard in many states and Priyanka Gandhi is working very hard in UP. In Bihar, Congress will be strengthened after this election. Your contemporary Jyotiraditya Scindia left Congress and joined BJP. Several other leaders have also left the party?See, people have left as well as joined Congress. But we will carry on with the spirit of ideology. Congress raises the voice of people and we are doing issue-based politics. It is said that your hard work paid dividends in the Rajasthan election. How will you utilize that skill in the Bihar election?I have had the privilege of being the party’s state president there for six and a half years. When I assumed office, Congress had 20 out of 200 MLAs in Rajasthan, while BJP had 165 seats. We focused on taking everybody along. Also, young people need to be motivated. The same we are trying here. What are the strengths and weaknesses of Congress in Bihar?We have ideology and leadership across the country. We have a rich history of struggle. Congress works for the farmers, youth, labourers and everyone. You will find a Congress flag in every village. As far as weakness is concerned, there are states where we are out of power and we have to work hard for comeback. Rahul Gandhi has visited Bihar twice for election campaign and talked about demonetisation, farm laws, migration and unemployment. Will these issues garner votes? He has narrated the truth. Everyone has faced problems due to demonetisation, GST and lockdown. Both the Centre and the state government had left people to walk back home without food and water. People will remember these things. Even in Bihar, there is no employment opportunity and people are compelled to migrate. I will again say Nitish did nothing for Bihar. What will you say to PM Modi, who talks about Ram Mandir and Jungle Raj?Since last 15 years, they are ruling Bihar and still talking about what happened 30 years ago. This is the sign of weakness. Discussion should be on electricity, employment, education and fertilizers. But they talk about Hindu-Muslim and China. Also, what I feel is that some dignity and decorum should be maintained by people holding respectable positions. They should not make personal and family attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-election-will-strengthen-congress/articleshow/78958996.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||---||EC: Provide proper security to Tejashwi during public rallies||PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) on Friday issued directives to all district magistrates and superintendents of police to provide proper security to RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav during his election campaign. The EC’s directive came a day after the RJD raised the issue of security lapses at the election rallies of Tejashwi. The party also shot off a letter to state chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa on Thursday urging the latter to provide security to the opposition leader. An officer of the EC told this reporter, “The directive has been issued by the CEO to all the DMs and the SPs who will look into Tejashwi's security in their respective districts during his election campaign.” The commission has also asked the DMs of the districts adjoining Munger to remain cautious during the second phase of elections to be held on November 3. Additional CEO Sanjay Kumar Singh said, “An alert was sounded in the wake of vandalism and arson in Munger on Thursday as a sequel to the police firing during idol immersion procession in the district headquarters town on Monday.” He added that the DMs of neighbouring Begusarai, Khagaria and Bhagalpur had been asked to remain extra cautious. Singh also pointed out that EVMs had been stored in the strongroom under the strict surveillance of the security personnel in Munger after the polling. During the first phase, the commission had received 70 complaints related to polls. “The commission will look into the complaints and sort them out at the earliest. The DMs of the districts concerned have already been apprised of the nature of complaints,” he told mediapersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ec-provide-proper-security-to-tejashwi-during-public-rallies/articleshow/78959201.cms||Ramashankar
October 31, 2020||Surat||Jungle Safari inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi||SURAT: Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated Jungle Safari at Statue of Unity at Kevadia on Friday. Jungle Safari is spread over an area of 375 acres on an undulating terrain with seven different altitudinal levels ranging from 220 ft to 466 ft. According to officials, Jungle Safari has a blend of exotic animals of African, Australian, South American and European continents along with Indigenous animals of Northern, Southern, Eastern and Western India. It has ten animals exclusive to Zoos in India which include Alpaca, Llama, Oryx, Wildebeest, Cotton top tamarin, Kinkajou, Coatimundi, Serval cat, Silver fox and Japanese racoon dog. “The enclosures are grouped into four zones – Aviaries, Carnivores, herbivores, exotic wildlife dedicated to Africa and Australia continents. The Safari has 2 bird aviaries built using state of the art geodesic design for Indian and exotic birds. Both the aviaries are the largest aviaries among the walk-through geodesic dome aviaries. This has been certified by SACON” said an official. The zoo has been designed to cater the feed requirement of the animals and birds in the form of fruit farm and fodder plots. “The Jungle Safari houses Exotic Aviary, a unique Bird Aviary of Exotic Birds made in 4 interconnected Geo-Domes of different Heights. It’s Spread over an area of 4300 Sq. Mts. It houses 350 Birds of 26 Species from all over the world. It has different exotic herbs, shrubs and grass species which facilitate the natural habitat of the exotic birds,’‘ an official added. “The zoo has been designed to cater the feed requirement of the animals and birds in the form of fruit farm and fodder plots’‘ added official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jungle-safari-inaugurated-by-modi/articleshow/78958956.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Rajkot||Adolescent boy allegedly rapes nine-year-old cousin sister in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A 16-year-old boy was detained on Thursday night for allegedly raping his nine-year-old cousin sister in Nani Rafudal village of Lalpur taluka in Jamnagar district. The boy took the survivor to a nearby farm and allegedly raped her on Thursday afternoon. The girl returned home and was crying when her parents, both farmers, returned from their farm. “The girl, who was bleeding from her private parts, confided her sordid tale to her parents who lodged the complaint, leading to the detention of the accused,” said an official from Lalpur police station. The boy, who has been detained at present, will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/adolescent-boy-allegedly-rapes-nine-year-old-cousin-sister/articleshow/78958626.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Amid Covid spike, Bidhannagar brings dengue under control||KOLKATA: Even though Covid cases continue to rise in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, dengue situation is under control with less than 100 cases till date this year. Last year, 850 dengue cases were reported from the area till the end of October. In the last three years, over 20 people died and several hundreds were affected by dengue in Bidhannagar civic body jurisdiction area covering Salt Lake and Rajarhat. Since January this year till the first week of September, the number of dengue cases reported in the Bidhannagar area was 15. The figure was 165 during the same period last year. Since then there has been a slight increase in the number of cases, since this is considered the peak dengue season. said civic officials “Less than 75 people have been affected by dengue in the last two months, whereas during the same period last year, the figure was close to 700,” said an official. “Civic teams have been conducting sanitization drives and spraying disinfectants across all the 41 wards as part of both Covid and dengue preventive measures. Periodic inspections are also being done to keep track if there is any water accumulation within houses and complexes,” said a civic official.  “We have been taking all preventive measures to prevent spread of dengue. For Covid, we have been urging people to follow safety measures,” said Pranay Roy, member, Bidhannagar municipal corporation board of administrators member. Covid situation in Bidhannagar continues to be grim with an average of over 100 daily cases getting reported. Till Friday, the total Covid figures in Bidhannagar reached 9,313. The area currently has 1,115 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amid-cov-spike-bidhannagar-brings-dengue-under-control/articleshow/78959710.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Missed pandal-hopping? You can still get a glimpse of Kolkata’s best idols at Lake museum||KOLKATA:The pandemic has redefined celebrations this festive season. Many gave pandal-hopping a miss this year, confined themselves to four walls and had to remain content with a virtual tour of pandals. But hang on, the opportunity is not lost just yet. They still have the option of seeing prize-winning idols that have been kept preserved at the Durga Museum or idol gallery at Rabindra Sarobar. Some idols, however, have made their way to folk art museums in neighbouring states. The Durga idol in the form of migrant labourer-mother, which won many awards and acclaims this Puja, is among those preserved at the Rabindra Sarobar idol gallery. Animesh Chakraborty of Barisha Club, prime mover of the concept of migrant mother as Durga, attributed the whole concept to artist Rintu Das, who had shaped the idea into a fibre glass idol. “We had conceived a completely different idea about idol. But pandemic left plans upside down. Das’s idea was very strong to refute. The state government’s invitation is the proof of how strong the idea has been,” said Chakraborty. The Durga idol of Santoshpur Lake Palli completely made out of paper also got its prized position at the gallery. “We are delighted to be invited by the state government to have our idol at the gallery. Since it is made out of papers, it will be there for a long time,” said Somnath Das of Santoshpur Lake Palli. Das said they had refused a similar offer of preservation of the idol from an organization from a foreign country. Another idol made out of paper, however, is going to the folk and tribal art museum of Odisha. Hatibagan Sarbojonin’s Saswata Basu said, “We readily agreed to the proposal as our idol needs expert techniques of preservation for long-term conservation. We hope more and more people will see and appreciate our efforts.” Samir Ghosh of Chetla Agrani was happy that their idol also got place in the museum. “People this year did not get to see the idol. We hope once the pandemic is over, people will go to Rabindra Sarobar to catch a glimpse of what we had attempted to do this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/missed-pandal-hopping-you-can-still-get-a-glimpse-of-citys-best-idols-at-lake-museum/articleshow/78959638.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Issues galore in Patna urban, will tide turn in BJP citadel?||PATNA: Four assembly seats of Patna — Patna City, Kumhrar, Bankipur and Digha— which come under the Patna Municipal Corporation will go to polls in the second phase on November 3. With very little time left for campaigning, all candidates are walking the extra mile to woo the voters. These seats have been traditionally saffron strongholds. BJP won all four seats in the previous assembly election in 2015 and even in earlier polls. These constituencies, which consist of urban voters have a mixed class of both private and government workers, businessmen, traders and teachers many of whom have come and settled from different parts of Bihar. While the sitting MLAs are showcasing the work done in their tenure such as construction of roads and bridges, door-to-door garbage collection among others, opposition candidates are raking up the issue of waterlogging, outdated drainage system and lack of civic amenities and rampant unemployment. Voters have a mixed reaction, while some say there are no alternatives, others are upset over the civic issues dogging the state capital. For instance, Ashiana-Digha Road resident Arun Kumar said, "I do want to vote for a change, but I don’t see any alternative. I am satisfied with the kind of work done in my locality." Another capital resident Subodh Kumar, whose area comes under the Bankipore assembly was upset with the civic issue. "Patna is not worth living. There are so many problems like garbage issues, traffic and lack of parking space. Though chief minister Nitish Kumar has done a lot, it is the responsibility of local MLA to look after these problems. Hence I will vote for a change." BANKIPUR: BJP MLA Nitin Nabin has been representing this seat for the past three terms since 2006, after his father and senior BJP leader Nabin Kishore Prasad Sinha died and a bypoll for Patna West was held. In 2008, after delineation, Bankipore came into existence and in the next two assembly polls, Nitin had won by huge margin. This time Luv Sinha, son of actor-politician Shatrughan Sinha is contesting on a Congress ticket. Plurals founder Pushpam Priya Chaudhary is also trying her luck. Rebel BJP leader Sushma Sahu, whose candidature was cancelled, is now supporting Luv PATNA SAHIB: Senior BJP leader and road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav is the sitting MLA. Yadav has been representing this seat since 1995 when it was Patna East. This is a Kushwaha dominated business class constituency and also has other castes. This time the seat has gone in Congress’s kitty and it has fielded Parveen Kumar, another Kushwaha. KUMHRAR: BJP MLA Arun Sinha is representing this seat and in 2015, he defeated Congress’s Aquil Haider. This time the seat has gone to RJD’s Dharmendra Kumar. Sinha had won from here twice in two polls held in 2005. This seat is dominated by EBCs and OBCs and professionally, it has retired government officers, doctors and business class. DIGHA: This newly formed seat came into existence after delimitation in 2008 and in 2010 assembly election, JD (U)’s Punam Devi had won from here. At present, BJP MLA Sanjeev Chaurasiya is representing it. He had defeated JD (U)’s Rajeev Ranjan Prasad by margin of 24779 votes. Since alliance has changed and JD (U) is with BJP, the seat has gone in BJP’s kitty and Chaurasiya is contesting. From Mahagatbandhan’s side, CPI ML candidate Sashi Yadav is in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/issues-galore-in-patna-urban-will-tide-turn-in-bjp-citadel/articleshow/78963410.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||Business||IndusInd Bank profit dips 53% in Q2||MUMBAI: IndusInd Bank reported a net profit of Rs 647 crore for the quarter ended September 2020, a decline of 53% from the Rs 1,383 crore reported in the corresponding period of the previous year. The dip was due to a 166% rise in provision to Rs 1,964 crore, which includes provisions of Rs 952 crore for Covid-affected borrowers. The bank also denied reports that Kotak Bank was in discussion with the promoters to acquire IndusInd Bank. tnn“I cannot comment on market speculation, I can assure that there is no such discussion with the promoter and the promoter has issued a denial,” said IndusInd Bank MD & CEO Sumant Kathpalia. Total deposits as of September 30, 2020 were Rs 2,27,884 crore as against Rs 2,07,193 crore — an increase of 10% over September 30, 2019. Advances as of September 30, 2020 were Rs. 2,01,247 crore as against Rs 1,97,113 crore from a year ago. The gross non-performing assets (NPAs) were at 2.21% of gross advances as on September 30, 2020 as against 2.19% as on September 30, 2019. Net NPAs (after provisions) were 0.52% of net advances as on September 30, 2020 as compared to 1.12% in the earlier year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indusind-bank-profit-dips-53-in-q2/articleshow/78961667.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Grand Alliance faces herculean task to retain seats in 2nd phase||PATNA: After the first phase of the assembly polls, which recorded 55.69% of voter turnout, the state is gearing up for the second phase to be held in 94 constituencies on November 3. Phase II is considered to be crucial for the RJD-led Grand Alliance (GA) as it will determine the political fortune of RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his elder brother Tej Pratap. Besides, majority of the seats are being represented by the leaders of the alliance. The GA had bagged 70 of the 94 seats in the 2015 assembly polls. While the RJD and the Congress had won 33 and seven seats, respectively, the JD (U), which was then an ally of the alliance, had got 30 seats. Later, the JD (U)-led by chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar parted ways with the GA and formed the NDA government with the BJP’s support. On the other hand, the NDA allies — BJP and LJP — had won 20 and two seats, respectively. “Nearly 40% of the seats were won by the RJD and the Congress in the 2015 assembly polls. We can say that it’s the stronghold of the GA going to the polls in the second phase,” political observer Pramod Kumar told this newspaper. In this election, the RJD has fielded its candidates in 56 constituencies, the Congress in 24 and Left parties in 14. On the other hand, the BJP is contesting on 46 seats, the JD (U) on 43 and VIP on five. The LJP, which is not a part of the NDA, is contesting on 52 seats whereas the BSP has fielded its candidates in 33 constituencies. Political observers are of the view that the second phase will affirm Tejashwi as Lalu’s political heir, if the RJD or its allies succeed in retaining the seats it had won in the 2015 election. “Lalu had campaigned for the candidates in the previous election, but this time Tejashwi has taken command of electioneering in his father’s absence,” they said. Altogether seven ministers — Rana Randhir Singh, Madan Sahani, Nand Kishore Yadav, Suresh Sharma, Shrawan Kumar, Maheshwar Hazari and Ram Sevak Singh — are seeking re-election. Lalu’s ‘samdhi’ and Tej Pratap’s father in-law Chandrika Rai is seeking re-election from Parsa on a JD (U) ticket. He switched to the party from the RJD ahead of the assembly polls and reposed his faith in Nitish Kumar. While Tejashwi is seeking re-election from Raghopur, the seat which his father and mother Rabri Devi had earlier represented, Tej Pratap is in the fray from Hasanpur constituency in Samastipur district. In 2015, Tej was elected from Mahua in Vaishali district. RJD principal general secretary Alok Kumar Mehta is contesting from Ujiarpur. “The JD (U) will fare well in the second phase as well. We are contesting on 43 seats,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Sources claimed that among the 43JD (U) candidates, 19 are new faces. Speaker of the outgoing assembly and JD (U) leader Vijay Kumar Choudhary is seeking re-election from his traditional Sarairanjan seat in Samastipur district. The second phase will also prove to be a litmus test for many ‘bahubalis’ (musclemen) who are either in the fray or have fielded their wives or close relatives. Bogo Singh, Sita Devi (wife of Dhumal Singh), Poonam Devi Yadav (wife of Ranvir Yadav) and Veena Singh (wife of Rama Singh) are among them. The 94 constituencies going to the polls in the second phase are spread over in 17 districts. Some of them are considered to be tough for policing due to the riverine belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-faces-herculean-task-to-retain-seats-in-2nd-phase/articleshow/78965287.cms||Ramashankar
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly polls: 6 East Champaran seats ready for Phase II polls||MOTIHARI: The 12 constituencies in East Champaran district will see highest number of candidates in its history – 159 – locking horns against each other. Polling will be held for six assembly constituencies in the second phase on November 3 and the rest of the six seats will go to polls in the third phase on November 7. Eleven outgoing MLAs, nine former MLAs, two ministers, four former ministers and only five women candidates are among others in fray. The six seats going to polls in the second phase are as follows: KESARIYA: Famous for largest Buddha stupa and a CPI citadel in the past, there are 17 candidates in fray in Kesariya. JD(U)’s Shalini Mishra is pitted against RJD’s Santosh Kushawaha. Both are debutants. Shalini Mishra is daughter of CPI leader Kamala Mishra Madhukar. Dr Rajesh Kushawaha, the sitting RJD MLA, was denied ticket this time. Maheshwar Singh, former MLA and JD(U) leader and Ram Sharan Yadav, a BJP leader, were also aspirants for NDA ticket. These netas may play spoilsport to the poll prospects of the NDA nominee, say observers. HARSIDHI (SC): Altogether seven candidates are in the fray in Harsidhi. BJP candidate Krishnandan Paswan is locked in a direct contest with RJD’s Nagendra Ram. Krishnandan was defeated by RJD’s Rajendra Ram in 2015 assembly polls. However, Rajendra failed to get RJD ticket this time. GOBINDGANJ: Areraj, the headquarters of Gobindganj, is a famous religious place as the Someshwarnath Mahadeo temple here is the second old temple of Bihar after Mundeshwari Devi temple. There are 11 candidates are in fray in the constituency. Gobindganj was a stronghold of Congress in the past. The Congress has fielded Brajesh Pandey this time against BJP’s Sunilmani Tiwari. Raju Tiwari, the sitting MLA of Gobindganj, is also in fray as LJP candidate. KALYANPUR: BJP’s two-time MLA Sachindra Prasad Singh is pitted against Manoj Kumar Yadav of RJD here. Badru Jamma, a BSP candidate, may dent the RJD votes. Manoj had contested from this seat unsuccessfully two times in the past. PIPRA: Pipra assembly constituency lies on both sides of NH-28 between Pipra Kothi and Mehasi. Altogether 15 candidates are in fray here. Sitting BJP MLA Shyambabu Yadav is locked in a direct contest with CPM’s Raj Mangal Prasad. Awadhesh Kushawaha, an ex-JD(U) MLA and former minister, is contesting as independent. Subhash Kushawaha of RLSP is trying to make it a four-cornered contest in the seat. MADHUBAN: Battle lines has been drawn in Madhuban constituency where minister Rana Randhir Singh, a BJP candidate, is locked in a direct contest with RJD’s Madan Sah, a greenhorn. Sheoji Rai, former MLA and JAP-L candidate, is making his presence felt. This constituency has a dominant presence of Baniyas. Hence, RJD has fielded Madan Sah as its candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-east-champaran-seats-ready-for-phase-ii-polls/articleshow/78965461.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
October 31, 2020||Rajkot||Three killed in bus-MUV collision||Rajkot: Three persons, including a five-year-old boy, were killed and eight others injured when a bus collided with an MUV (multi utility vehicle) in Palasava village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district on Thursday night. Police said the deceased, Dhaval Bharwad (5), Jasharam Bharwad (40) and Bhavan Devipujak (30), were travelling in the MUV which was on its way to Gagodar village from Samakhiyali in Kutch district. “The accident occurred when the MUV was negotiating a turn caused by the diversion due to road repairing work and came head-to-head with the bus, resulting in the collision,” said Y K Gohil, sub-inspector with Adesar police station. The injured who were also passengers of the MUV were shifted to Radhanpur civil hospital. The bus was going from Radhanpur in Patan district to Gandhidham in Kutch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-killed-in-bus-muv-collision/articleshow/78958500.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vadodara||KEVADIYA CALLING: PM UNVEILS SoU 2.0||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his two-day visit to Gujarat, he inaugurated a slew of projects unveiling a new ‘avatar’ of Kevadiya, the tiny tribal hamlet of Gujarat known for being home to world’s tallest statue — the Statue of Unity (SoU). The PM inaugurated 17 tourist attractions and laid foundation stone of four new projects in the picturesque backdrop of Vindhyas and Satpura mountain ranges blended with the tranquil sight of sacred Narmada river. Here’s what SoU 2.0 looks like.GLOW GARDEN: A GARDEN THAT GLOWS AT NIGHTIt is first of its kind garden in the country that has been developed in 3.61 acres land with a glimmering array of installations, figures and optical illusions. With 331 decorative lighting elements, 2.41 lakh LEDs, 31 glowing animals, 125 glowing flowers, 35 trees, four artificial 3D foundation and 51 interactive lighting elements, the garden has been developed to promote night tourism at Kevadiya.EKTA CRUISE: A FERRY RIDE ON NARMADAVisitors to SoU will be able to get breathtaking view of world’s tallest statue with a 40 minutes cruise on a two-decks high catamaran vessel from Shrestha Bharat Bhavan to SoU covering 6 km. The vessel 26m in length and 9m width can carry 200 passengers for whom two jetties have been constructed. The 160 sq ft performance stage on the upper deck will be used for conducting musical or cultural events while tourists will be able to take a dinner cruise on the waters of Narmada river.AROGYA VAN: HEALTH IS WEALTHRecognising the importance of medicinal plants, Arogya Van, spread over an area of 17 acres, displays a wide range of medicinal plants. Around 5 lakh plants of 380 selected species have been grown here. It also comprises of lotus pond, garden of colours, alba garden, lutea garden, aroma garden, yoga and meditation garden, indoor plant section, digital information centre, souvenir shop, cafeteria serving ayurveda foods and ubiquitous setup of tribal music.KEEPING THE CHILD WITHIN ALIVE: CHILDREN NUTRITION PARKPromoted as world’s first technology driven, the children nutrition park, developed in 35,000 sq mt area is one of the biggest tourist attractions at Kevadiya. A 600m-long track of ‘Nutri Train’ takes kids to various stations like ‘Falsakhagriham’, ‘Payonagri’, ‘Annapurna’ among others. There are 47 technology driven attractions themed around ‘Sahi Poshan, Desh Roshan’. India’s biggest ‘Mirror Maize’ is a fun place both for the young and the old. It is also home to ‘Bhool Bhuliaya’ theatre showcasing a 5-D movie – ‘Bharatiya Thali’.TAKE A SAFARI OF THIS ‘JUNGLE’Spread across 375 acres, the Sardar Patel Zoological Park or simply known as ‘jungle safari’ is another major tourist attraction at Kevadiya. Spread on 7 different levels altitude, it houses more than 1,100 indigenous and exotic birds and animals of more than 100 species. It comprises of 29 different enclosures and two of world’s largest geodesic dome aviaries. A petting zone provides a unique experience of cuddling their favourite animals including exotic species like macaw, cockatoo, persian cat, rabbits, guinea pig, miniature pony, miniature sheep, miniature goat, turkey and geese.EKTA MALL: TRIP FOR SHOPAHOLICSDeveloped on the theme of ‘Unity in handicraft and handloom diversity’, Ekta Mall is one-stop-shop for a chic, relaxing shopping experience rooted in the vitality and diversity of India’s traditional textiles and artisanal handicrafts. It houses 20 emporia representing handloom and handicraft traditions of various states.CACTUS GARDEN: MIRACLES OF ADAPTATIONYou get experience of the desert ecosystem at this unique garden. Spread in 25 acres, it is home to more than 450 species of cacti and succulents, with a total of 6 lakh plants representing 17 countries around the globe. A grand octagonal dome spread in an area of 836 sq mt that hosts some of the rare and endangered cacti and succulents is a special tourist attraction.ENGAGE WITH TRIBALS: EKTA NURSERYDeveloped in ten areas of area, this high-tech nursery has capacity of raising one million saplings every year. It also has a demonstration-cum-sale unit with live making of bamboo crafts, areca leaves utensils and organic pots, bonsai, hydroponics, apiary, ethnic tribal culture, souvenir shops, cafeteria serving tribal delicacies, orchidarium and soap making unit. Most of the activities here are run by self-help group of women, benefiting 311 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/kevadiya-calling-pm-unveils-sou-2-0/articleshow/78959051.cms||Prashant Rupera
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||More carriers on board, Bangla flights to increase from Wed||Kolkata: Flight movement between Kolkata and Bangladesh is set to increase from next week with IndiGo and Spice Jet resuming direct operations from Wednesday and Thursday as part of the air bubble agreement between the two countries. While IndiGo is set to fly to Dhaka on Monday, Wednesday and Friday starting November 4, Spice Jet will operate four weekly flights each to Dhaka and Chittagong from November 5. Flights between Kolkata and Bangladesh had started last Wednesday with the arrival of 37 passengers from Dhaka operated by US Bangla Air. The airline resumed services with a six-days-a-week schedule. With Biman Bangladesh set to start operations with a three-days-a-week schedule on Tuesday, at least four carriers — two Bangladeshi and two Indian — will resume direct operations from next week. Regent Air, the third Bangladeshi private carrier that operated to Kolkata before the lockdown, and three other Indian airlines — Air India, Vistara and Go Air — have also said they will resume operations, but are yet to submit a schedule. Passengers going both ways have to get Covid tests before boarding. Before lockdown, Biman Bangladesh had twice-daily operations while US Bangla Air and Regent Air operated daily flights. Indian carriers IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air India had daily operations. The air-travel bubble is valid till January 31, 2021. The news sparked excitement among businesses in New Market and Park Street. Bangladeshis account for over 50% sales at New Market, 70% business in hotels, guest houses and foreign currency exchanges on Sudder Street, Marquis Street, Free School Street, Royd Street and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and 80% of the transport business in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-carriers-on-board-bangla-flights-to-increase-from-wed/articleshow/78959600.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
October 31, 2020||Business||Karur Vysya Bank Q2 profit up 83%||Chennai: Karur Vysya Bank September quarter net profit increased by 83% at Rs 115 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2020, on the back of lower bad loan provisions and improved asset quality. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) reduced to Rs 3,998 crore in September, 2020, from Rs 4,391 crore in September, 2019. Net NPA has reduced by Rs 690 crore to Rs 1,428 crore. Provisioning for bad loans is lower by 30% to Rs 285 crore in the September quarter, 2020 on yearly basis and lower by 16% on a sequential basis. The private sector bank’s provision coverage ratio stood at 75.2%. Its total advances grew by Rs 1,020 crore to Rs 50,408 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/karur-vysya-bank-q2-profit-up-83/articleshow/78959575.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Patna||Cong urges Bihar governor to dismiss Nitish govt||PATNA: Congress leaders on Friday met governor Phagu Chauhan and demanded dismissal of Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state in view of Munger violence over police firing in which a youth was killed and several others were injured on October 26. A four-member Congress delegation comprising state party president Madan Mohan Jha and senior leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Pawan Keda and Sandeep Singh met the governor and demanded a Rs 50 lakh compensation for the next of kin of the youth, Anurag Kumar, who died in police firing. The delegation said earlier version of the police that the cops didn’t open fire was false. The party demanded that the guilty officials should be suspended and FIRs be lodged against them. “Bullet was fired by the police. This has become clear in the CISF report,” Surjewala said, adding the governor assured the delegation that law would takes its own course as far as Munger violence is concerned. The opposition had earlier demanded that the Munger violence should be probed under the supervision of a working high court judge. Meanwhile, citing a report on health index released by World Bank and Union health ministry, the Congress on Friday hit out at the Nitish government for pushing the state to the “bottom” on most parameters. Surjewala said the government health institutes lacked 60% doctors and 71% nurses. “Of the 12,206 sanctioned posts of doctors, there are only 5,202 doctors in the state. Against the 19,155 posts of nurses, the government hospitals have just 5,634 nurses,” Surjewala said, adding NITI Aayog chief Amitabh Kant had blamed Bihar for bringing down the country in human development index.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-urges-bihar-governor-to-dismiss-nitish-govt/articleshow/78961137.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||Patna||PM to address rally in Chhapra tomorrow||CHHAPRA: Security has been tightened in Chhapra town where PM Narendra Modi will address an election rally at the local airstrip at 11am on Sunday. Arrangements have been made for 25,000 people to attend the rally amid Covid protocols. Officials of special protection group and central security agencies have inspected the venue to take stock of security arrangements. They have also held discussion with Saran district administration officials. District BJP president Ram Dayal Sharma said 10,000 chairs have been arranged in the VVIP block of the pandal where entry will be allowed only to those holding the pass issued by the district administration. “The SPG has directed the administration to get the helipad ready for the rally and repair the damaged boundary wall. Covid protocols will be maintained at the venue during the PM’s rally,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-to-address-rally-in-chhapra-tomorrow/articleshow/78961220.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Patna||Two held in Sheohar twin murder case||PATNA: Two criminals were sent to judicial custody on Thursday for their alleged involvement in killing of Janata Dal Rashtravadi Party candidate Shree Narayan Singh and one of his supporters at Hathsar village under the Purnahia police station area in Sheohar on October 24. SHO of Purnahia police station Munna Kumar said the arrested criminals were identified as Babusaheb Jha and Purushottam Kumar Mishra. He said Vikash Jha, who is lodged in Tihar jail, had hatched the conspiracy to kill Singh to avenge the murder of his boss, notorious gangster Santosh Jha. He said the two were riding a bike when they were arrested at Asogi check-post under Purnahia police station area on Wednesday night. “Two country-made pistols, including a semi-automatic one and eight live cartridges, were recovered from the possession of the criminals,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-held-in-sheohar-twin-murder-case/articleshow/78961165.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||I-T search: DMK man complains of chest pain, hospitalised||Coimbatore: As income tax search continued for the third day on his properties, DMK functionary R Krishnan complained of chest pain and got himself admitted to a hospital on Friday.I-T sleuths had landed at Coimbatore west urban district secretary of DMK Krishnan’s house at Kalappati on Wednesday. The 63-year-old man, who was in Erode at the time, rushed to his house. Searches continued on Thursday and Friday as well. I-T sleuths questioned him as well as his family members.On Friday, Krishnan complained of chest pain and was rushed to the private hospital near his house. Doctors have advised complete rest for him for the next few days.Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan (CPM) visited Krishnan at the hospital. DMK cadres gathered in front of the house and the hospital, sparking tension. DMK men termed the searches as political vendetta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/i-t-search-dmk-man-complains-of-chest-pain-hospitalised/articleshow/78961142.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Doctor, 42, son, 11, drown in Amaravathi river||COIMBATORE:A 42-year-old doctor and his 11-year-old son drowned while taking bath in Amaravathi river near Kadathur in Tirupur district on Friday afternoon. The deceased were identified as N Jothilingam, 42, a native of Amanalingampillai Street at Kaniyur near Udumalpet and his son J Sarveshwar Raja, 11. Police said Jothilingam was working as a doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi government general hospital in Chennai and his son was studying Class VII in a private school in Chennai. Police said Jothilingam came to his home town Kaniyur near Udumalpet from Chennai along with his daughter J Srinikha, 14, and Sarveshwar Raja on Wednesday. On Friday around 2pm, Jothilingam and his son Sarveshwar went to Amaravathi river to take bath. Srinikha and her relative Arun Prakash, 12, were taking photographs using mobile phones on the river bund. Unable to withstand the water current, Sarveshwar Raja drowned in the river. Jothilingam was washed away when he tried to save his son. Srinika and Arun Prakash informed the locals who in turn alerted the Kaniyur police and Udumalpet fire and rescue services personnel. The dead bodies were retrieved from the river and sent to the Udumalpet government hospital for postmortem. The Kaniyur police registered a case and further investigation is on. The bodies will be handed over to the relatives on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/doc-42-son-11-drown-in-amaravathi-river/articleshow/78961153.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Free oximeter use in home isolation||KOLKATA: With close to one-third of Covid-positive patients in Bengal in home isolation, the state health department is set to tag each such patient to a local doctor for better monitoring. The state on Friday rolled out a detailed protocol for home isolation of Covid patients to ensure that they get timely hospital care in case the need arises. Expecting to bring down the mortality rate, the health department has roped in IMA Bengal chapter for this mission. The civic administrators and local health officials will work in tandem as well. On Friday, the state health department came out with a circular on how to provide care to Covid patients in home isolation by tagging each patient with a local doctor. Administrative heads and health officials of districts, civic body administrators and its medical officials will be coordinating to run this project. The first phase of training of physicians on how to take care of these patients and how to spot early warning signs will start on Saturday. IMA will start training its member doctors and the Association of Physicians of India (API) will tutor its members by November 7. Health officials of all civic bodies, too, will get the training during the same period. “Our local IMA leaders will prepare a list of general physicians who will be enrolled for the training. They will then be tagged along with patient/patients in his/her locality. Around 10,000 doctors of IMA in the state will be part of this mission,” said radiologist Santanu Sen, secretary IMA. According to doctors, about 50% of Covid deaths are taking place within two days of hospital admission. Many of these patients could have been saved if they got timely medical intervention, they felt. “We are noticing a casual attitude of patients who either go for test after days of the symptoms persisting or rushing to hospital only when the symptoms have got aggravated beyond repair. If doctor monitors patients in home isolation, such delays could be prevented,” said public health specialist Anirban Dalui, assistant finance secretary of IMA Bengal. The health department will also give monitoring devices like pulse oximeter to patients in home isolation. The device needs to be returned on completion of the isolation period. “Monitoring of oxygen saturation five times a day after a six-minute walk inside the house is very important for these patients. If the oxygen saturation drops below 95%, it is an alert that calls for medical attention. We see many patients coming to hospital only when they start feeling respiratory distress,” said internal medicine specialist Syamasish Bandyopadhyay, director (medical services) of Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/free-oximeter-use-in-home-isolation/articleshow/78959560.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Liquor to get 20%-25% dearer from next week||KOLKATA: Liquor is all set to burn a bigger hole in the pocket of tipplers from next week. India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) across all categories will be dearer by 20%-25% across the board from November 3. However, liquor in some off-shops may be available at the old rate till stock remains. The only solace could be that the price of imported liquor (bottled in origin) and some liquor of overseas spirits bottled in India (OSBI) category will go down by 5%-10%. However, these categories constitute only 2%-3% of the total liquor consumption basket. A retailer in central Kolkata felt that the new IMFL price regime is a major blow to the liquor trade. Another retailer in South Kolkata opined that this round of price hike would force tipplers to shift to lower brands, which is neither good for the exchequer nor for the health of the tipplers. Vinod Giri, the director general of Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverages Companies (CIABC), said the confederation has expressed its concern to the new finance secretary and the excise commissioner. “We have said that any experimentation at this peak time would be detrimental to the industry,” he added. CIABC has pointed out the state has already seen a 35% fall in volume in July, August and September, which could worsen going forward. “When most states are rationalizing taxes, like Odisha and Delhi, in order to bring MRP at such levels that revenue is maximized, Bengal has proposed a taxation structure which would take MRPs higher. We estimate 40%-45% fall in overall volume for the entire year if such a taxation structure is implemented in its current shape and form,” the CIABC had said. It had earlier said that it had presented a similar analysis to the Delhi government, showing how imposition of high coronavirus taxes by Delhi had severely brought down liquor sales and, thus, government tax revenues. Incidentally, the 15%-20% increase in IMFL prices will lead to a 45%-50% jump in prices of some popular IMFL brands from their pre-Covid prices. The state had imposed a Covid tax of 30% from April 7. Now this will be replaced by the new tax structure, which is based on ex-distillery price (EDP) and ex-brewery price. There are 22 slabs for IMFL and 16 slabs for beer. Based on the new tax structure, price of beer had came down earlier this month. But the price of IMFL will go upwards. The revised tax regime was supposed to be implemented from September, but was deferred following requests from liquor bodies.  Bengal has an annual market for 14.1 million (1.4 crore) cases of hard IMFL and 8 million (80 lakh) cases of beer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liquor-to-get-20-25-dearer-from-next-week/articleshow/78959654.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||Amazon India sees 2x Prime user growth in August sale||BENGALURU: Amazon India added twice as many Prime subscribers in this year’s Prime Day sale even in August than previous year, the e-tailer has said in its quarterly earnings for the July-September period. In 2020, only the Indian market went ahead with Prime Day in India in August with record sales. The marquee sale event had been pushed to October in the rest of the world, including the US. “Amazon India also hosted Prime Day on August 6-7, during which twice as many customers became Prime members compared to the previous year,” the US-based e-tailer said in a statement. Globally, Amazon has over 150 million subscribers but it does not disclose country-specific subscriber numbers. A recent report by J P Morgan, which was part of the US subcommittee report on Big Tech, said it expects Amazon’s Prime subscriber base to reach 180 million by 2020, with international subscription sales growing double the rate of the US. Prime enables one- to two-day deliveries and gives users access to its video and audio streaming services. In August, TOI reported that Amazon India had seen record sales to the tune of around $600 million in 48 hours. Globally, Amazon said its third-party sellers sold goods over $3.5 billion during Prime Day, a growth of 60% compared to last year. Meanwhile, the pandemic-induced demand for e-commerce continued to grow for Amazon. For the September quarter, its overseas sales, which includes India, grew close to 40% to $25 billion with $407 million in profit. This is the second consecutive quarterly profit for Amazon in its international business as it clocked profits of $345 million in the June quarter. In 2019, for the quarter ending September and June, it saw international business loss at $386 million and $601 million, respectively. Amazon CFO Brian Olsavsky told analysts that the company has seen “a very strong Prime Day and Diwali is off to a good start”. Amazon‘s international business profits were driven by high sale volumes and leverage in markets like the UK and Germany, he told analysts after announcing the quarterly earnings. Globally, Amazon said it saw 37% growth in sales at over $96 billion during the quarter, compared to last year during the same period, with a profit of over $6 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-india-sees-2x-prime-user-growth-in-aug-sale/articleshow/78961684.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Probe begins in monastic school case. 3 Of 7 students who fled brought back from border||DEHRADUN: A police inquiry was initiated on Friday in the monastic school case in which few of the students, mostly hailing from Nepal, escaped from the school, Sakya Academy at Bhagwantpur, after alleging that the staff members had beaten them up when they sought permission to go to their homes. According to sources, a total of seven boys in the age group of 15-16 years had fled from the school in two groups earlier this week on separate days. While four boys from the first group reached their respective homes, three boys from the second group were caught while they were trying to cross the India-Nepal border at Banbasa. Police said that the three boys caught at Banbasa would be brought back to Dehradun by Friday night. Speaking to TOI, Lokjeet Singh, SP (Crime), Dehradun, who is investigating the matter, said, “The process of collecting evidence and scanning CCTV recordings has begun. We have found that nearly 35 students of the school want to go back to their homes in Nepal and directions have been given to the school authorities to make arrangements for the same. The allegations of physical abuse made by a few students are being investigated and we can come to a conclusion only after a probe.” Meanwhile, representatives of the monastic school claimed that they never denied the demand for leave made by the students. An official from the principal’s office at Sakya Academy, told TOI, “A few days back, 47 students suddenly came to us and asked to be sent back to their homes to which we said that it will take time as we have to take permission from the concerned authorities and the parents too. Later, some of them became rude and told us that they will leave on their own.” The official said that seven boys thereafter fled from the school. “After getting to know that the boys have escaped, we decided to wait for 24 hours before going to the police but the matter escalated before we could do that. As far as the charges of physical abuse being made by some students, they are completely untrue,” she added. Notably, the matter came to light when a video made available by the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) began circulating on Thursday in which few of the students can be seen making allegations of physical assault against one of the their teachers. The local Gorkha community organisations had also taken up the matter and protested against the alleged beating up of students. Meanwhile, the state child rights body has directed the health department to conduct a medical check-up of the students who have alleged that they were beaten.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-enquiry-begins-in-monastic-school-case-3-of-7-students-who-fled-school-after-complaining-of-being-beaten-up-brought-back-from-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/78958408.cms||Mohammad Anab
October 31, 2020||Business||Nabard arm to back agriculture loans||MUMBAI: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) will set up a subsidiary, NABSanrakshan Trustee, to provide a guarantee for agriculture and rural development loans. To start with, the guarantee will be provided for loans under the animal husbandry infrastructure-CGAHI scheme. This was announced as part of the Animal Husbandry Infrastructure and Development Fund (AHIDF), under the PM’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ programme. It will also support financing of farmer producer organisations (FPOs) as part of the central sector scheme for these entities. The apex bank for agri finance also announced its results for the half-year ended September 2020. The assets of the bank have increased to Rs 5,56,708 crore, registering a YoY growth of 17.3%. Its loan portfolio increased to Rs 4,95,095 crore, registering a growth of 20.8%. Nabard chairman G R Chintala said that the institution disbursed Rs 91,698 crore during April to September 2020 under various schemes to banks and government entities. He added that the bank would disburse over Rs 2 lakh crore, in the second half of FY20-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nabard-arm-to-back-agri-loans/articleshow/78961676.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||Wheels India to invest Rs 41 crore in windmill parts business||CHENNAI: Wheels India is planning to invest Rs 41 crore in its wind mill business as part of the Rs 72 crore capex lined up for the second half of this financial year. “The windmill capex will happen in the latter part of Q4. We make 85 mass volume parts for windmill majors and we supply both domestically and globally to top companies like Vestas, Siemens Gamesa, Nordex and GE. Our exports go to Europe, North America, Brazil and to a small extent China,” said Srivats Ram, MD, Wheels India. The windmill segment in particular and the industrial segment in general has done well for Wheels India. “Almost 20% of revenue in the first six months has come from the industrial components division like railways and windmill parts and there has been very strong demand for our windmill products even during lockdown,” said Ram. “We expect this to continue in H2 as well,” he added. Wheels India earned a net profit of Rs 7.4 crore for the Q2 of FY20-21 on revenues of Rs 28.7 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wheels-india-toinvest-rs-41-crore-inwindmill-parts-biz/articleshow/78959615.cms||---
October 31, 2020||---||Bihar assembly polls: 6 East Champaran seats ready for Phase II polls||MOTIHARI: The 12 constituencies in East Champaran district will see highest number of candidates in its history – 159 – locking horns against each other. Polling will be held for six assembly constituencies in the second phase on November 3 and the rest of the six seats will go to polls in the third phase on November 7. Eleven outgoing MLAs, nine former MLAs, two ministers, four former ministers and only five women candidates are among others in fray. The six seats going to polls in the second phase are as follows: KESARIYA: Famous for largest Buddha stupa and a CPI citadel in the past, there are 17 candidates in fray in Kesariya. JD(U)’s Shalini Mishra is pitted against RJD’s Santosh Kushawaha. Both are debutants. Shalini Mishra is daughter of CPI leader Kamala Mishra Madhukar. Dr Rajesh Kushawaha, the sitting RJD MLA, was denied ticket this time. Maheshwar Singh, former MLA and JD(U) leader and Ram Sharan Yadav, a BJP leader, were also aspirants for NDA ticket. These netas may play spoilsport to the poll prospects of the NDA nominee, say observers. HARSIDHI (SC): Altogether seven candidates are in the fray in Harsidhi. BJP candidate Krishnandan Paswan is locked in a direct contest with RJD’s Nagendra Ram. Krishnandan was defeated by RJD’s Rajendra Ram in 2015 assembly polls. However, Rajendra failed to get RJD ticket this time. GOBINDGANJ: Areraj, the headquarters of Gobindganj, is a famous religious place as the Someshwarnath Mahadeo temple here is the second old temple of Bihar after Mundeshwari Devi temple. There are 11 candidates are in fray in the constituency. Gobindganj was a stronghold of Congress in the past. The Congress has fielded Brajesh Pandey this time against BJP’s Sunilmani Tiwari. Raju Tiwari, the sitting MLA of Gobindganj, is also in fray as LJP candidate. KALYANPUR: BJP’s two-time MLA Sachindra Prasad Singh is pitted against Manoj Kumar Yadav of RJD here. Badru Jamma, a BSP candidate, may dent the RJD votes. Manoj had contested from this seat unsuccessfully two times in the past. PIPRA: Pipra assembly constituency lies on both sides of NH-28 between Pipra Kothi and Mehasi. Altogether 15 candidates are in fray here. Sitting BJP MLA Shyambabu Yadav is locked in a direct contest with CPM’s Raj Mangal Prasad. Awadhesh Kushawaha, an ex-JD(U) MLA and former minister, is contesting as independent. Subhash Kushawaha of RLSP is trying to make it a four-cornered contest in the seat. MADHUBAN: Battle lines has been drawn in Madhuban constituency where minister Rana Randhir Singh, a BJP candidate, is locked in a direct contest with RJD’s Madan Sah, a greenhorn. Sheoji Rai, former MLA and JAP-L candidate, is making his presence felt. This constituency has a dominant presence of Baniyas. Hence, RJD has fielded Madan Sah as its candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/6-east-champaran-seats-ready-for-phase-ii-polls/articleshow/78959800.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Boy, man drown in Bhadra canal||DAVANAGERE: Two people drowned in the waters of Bhadra canal while they were taking bath near Somanahalu village in Channagiri taluk of Davanagere district on Thursday. Their bodies were recovered late in the night. The deceased are Chinmay, 15, a resident of AK Colony in Channagiri town and Rangaswamy, 25, also from Channagiri town. Both of them did not know swimming and drowned when water level in the canal increased after water was let out from Bhadra dam. Five swimmers were pressed into the rescue operation who later traced the bodies that were struck in the sub-channel. “We stopped water flow from the main canal and then we were able to recover the bodies. We handed them over to their families after conducting postmortem,” said PSI Shivarudrappa Meti. “A man named Gagan had accompanied the victims and he alerted us about the incident,” said Meti. A case has been filed at Santhebennur police station and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/boy-man-drown-in-bhadra-canal/articleshow/78959375.cms||---
October 31, 2020||---||BJP has road map to boost Bihar’s economy, says Ravi Shankar Prasad||PATNA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Friday that if the NDA government is formed in the state again, it would create IT hubs, besides linking all its 45,945 villages with optical fibre internet that will help in creating employment and work opportunities for 5 lakh persons in five years. Prasad took a jibe at grand alliance CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for his repeated claim of sanctioning 10 lakh government jobs in his first cabinet meeting, if he came to power in the state. “We don’t make false promises. In contrast, we have the road map to give employment and create work opportunities. We can do it, because we have done it, and they cannot do it, because they have not done it. People also know we will do it,” Prasad said. Prasad was explaining the NDA’s vision and road map as contained in the party’s 11-point resolutions aimed at improving the state’s economy and work opportunity scenario over the next five years if voted to power again. The Patna Sahib MP also said survey has been completed in 22,012 villages for laying the optical fibre and it would also be completed in the remaining villages by November end. “We are committed to laying the optical fibre in six months, as directed by PM Narendra Modi,” Prasad said, adding it would help people in every village to avail of the Wi-Fi connections. The anganwadi sevikas, Jeevika didis and ASHA workers will be given free Wi-Fi connection for one year,” he said. He said 12 BPOs, including nine at Patna, had been opened in the state, while TCS has already opened its unit at Patna. “We will bring big IT companies to open their units once the infrastructure for the IT hubs is created. Bihar will also be a part of the burgeoning IT-enabled economic activities worth US$171 billion in the country,” he said and gave details of the transformation that has been made in the state through e-governance as facilitated by the digital mode of functioning in government departments that has helped in transferring the scheme funds to the poor and farmers, besides saving the leakage of the money worth Rs1.70 lakh crore meant for the poor. Prasad criticized the Congress for being a part of the grand alliance and through it for aligning with the Maoists. “PM Modi wants peace and order in the country, but the Congress stance militates against it,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/minister-bjp-has-road-map-to-boost-bihars-economy/articleshow/78959072.cms||Abhay Singh
October 31, 2020||---||Will voters ‘feminise’ Bihar Vidhan Sabha this time?||PATNA: Altogether 28 women MLAs of Bihar assembly staged a show of unity to commemorate Women’s Day 2020 in March. Joining hands, women from both the Treasury and Opposition benches trooped into the Well of the House demanding 33% reservation in state and central Legislatures. If you are wondering why women who were successfully elected, engaged in protest, the clue is in the Shakti/Times of India Panel Discussion on Women’s Representation held a few weeks ago, with spokeswomen from all major parties. “Sometimes, when we raise incidents of sexual harassment or other serious matters, the men laugh at us or simply ignore us,” a panellist had said. Unless there is a critical mass of women MLAs, 33-50%, the nature of issues discussed, and, therefore, the solutions to address them, cannot be changed. That is the reason why women elected to ask the government for reservation. While the number of women MLAs fell to 28 from 34 in 2015, the table shows the percentage of women fielded by parties with the most vote share, is up by 3 percentage points. Shakti, a citizens collective championing women's representation joined hands with over 120 local, grassroots groups, eminent Biharis, elected mukhiyas, sarpanches and many sitting women MLAs to run numerous campaigns pressuring political parties to field more female candidates. The ballot now has 76 female candidates from the top 5 parties, in addition to a few more from the Left and other smaller alliance parties. Numerous women are also in the fray as Independents and from unrecognised parties. While all of these female candidates will have to win to form a critical mass in the assembly, voters still hold the trump card. They can choose to send a historic number of women to the Vidhan Sabha, which, while less than a third, could be 50 women, making up a fifth of all members. This would be unprecedented not only in Bihar but in the history of India. This is critical in a state whose governance priorities are in dire need of a reset. Unemployment leading to mass migration, law and order (including women’s safety,) basic amenities like water, toilets, power, infrastructure, social evils like child marriage, domestic violence among others, and, education. How is transformation conceivable if voters recycle the same old men as MLAs? After all, women have cut their teeth in local governance for two and a half decades, numbering thousands in Bihar. Even if only 10%, very conservatively were of superlative quality, it would still amount to hundreds. That is grassroots political talent with a deep understanding of people’s problems being left by the wayside while sub-par MLAs rule the roost. Unless the players change, governance cannot change. In this iteration, female candidates include doctors, social activists, experienced mukhiyas, sitting MLAs. Women with proven public service records and a wide variety of perspectives and lived experiences to lend to laws, policies and governance. In a state where the female electorate votes at a higher rate than their male counterparts, they are surely entitled to fair representation. It is then not only the onus but a duty of the 7.2 crore voters of Bihar to feminize the Vidhan Sabha and pave the road to a glorious Bihar. (The writer is co-founder of Shakti — Political Power to Women)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/will-voters-feminise-bihar-vidhan-sabha-this-time/articleshow/78959084.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||EC: Provide proper security to Tejashwi during public rallies||PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) on Friday issued directives to all district magistrates and superintendents of police to provide proper security to RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav during his election campaign. The EC’s directive came a day after the RJD raised the issue of security lapses at the election rallies of Tejashwi. The party also shot off a letter to state chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa on Thursday urging the latter to provide security to the opposition leader. An officer of the EC told this reporter, “The directive has been issued by the CEO to all the DMs and the SPs who will look into Tejashwi's security in their respective districts during his election campaign.” The commission has also asked the DMs of the districts adjoining Munger to remain cautious during the second phase of elections to be held on November 3. Additional CEO Sanjay Kumar Singh said, “An alert was sounded in the wake of vandalism and arson in Munger on Thursday as a sequel to the police firing during idol immersion procession in the district headquarters town on Monday.” He added that the DMs of neighbouring Begusarai, Khagaria and Bhagalpur had been asked to remain extra cautious. Singh also pointed out that EVMs had been stored in the strongroom under the strict surveillance of the security personnel in Munger after the polling. During the first phase, the commission had received 70 complaints related to polls. “The commission will look into the complaints and sort them out at the earliest. The DMs of the districts concerned have already been apprised of the nature of complaints,” he told mediapersons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-provide-proper-security-to-tejashwi-during-public-rallies/articleshow/78966111.cms||Ramashankar
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 1,018 fresh cases take state's Covid tally to 2.15 lakh||PATNA: Altogether 1,018 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Friday. With this, the state’s tally has jumped to 2,15,964. Officially, eight deaths were reported in the state in the last 24 hours. The virus has so far claimed lives of 1,084 people in the state. However, with 2,06,625 recoveries, active cases in the state stand at 8,253. As per the data shared by the state health department, two fresh deaths were recorded in Patna on Friday. The district’s Covid toll has now jumped to 265. Darbhanga, Madhepura, Munger, Rohtas and Muzaffarpur districts recorded one death each on Friday. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths on Friday and the victims were a 55-year-old man from Nagma village in Jehanabad, a 60-year-old man from Muzaffarpur and a 74-year-old man from Motihari. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 18 patients were admitted and 11 discharged on Friday. Currently, there are 181 Covid patients in the hospital. Those admitted to AIIMS-Pana on Friday were also from different localities of Patna, including Khajpura, Boring Road, Mahatma Gandhi Nagar, Mahavir Nagar and Danapur cantonment. Of 1,018 new Covid-19 cases registered on Friday, 308 were from Patna. The district’s Covid tally has now increased to 35,671. However, with 33,152 recoveries and 265 deaths, there are 2,254 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Munger recorded 43 fresh cases on Friday, Nalanda 38, Purnia 36, Gaya 33 and Saharsa 33. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 1,240 people have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate has touched 95.68%. “In the last 24 hours, 1,45,913 samples were tested. So far, 1.07 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus,” the minister tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1018-fresh-cases-take-bihars-covid-tally-to-2-15-lakh/articleshow/78961154.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||Rajkot||Cong to protest against new farm law in Rajkot, seeks permission from CP||Rajkot: The Congress party will hold sit-in protest in Rajkot against new farm laws on the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel that falls on Saturday. The party has sought permission for a day-long dharna where state level leaders will participate.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be celebrating National Unity Day on Saturday at Statue of Unity in Kevadiya in Narmada district, the opposition Congress will register protest in Rajkot. According to Congress’s application submitted to the Rajkot police commissioner, the party has sought permission for dharna in which 100 people will participate. The participants include Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and All India Congress Committee general secretary Rajiv Satav. The permission has been sought for dharna at Trikon Baug from 10am to 4pm. Rajkot district Congress president Hitesh Vora said, “We want to register our protest against the anti-farmer laws on Sardar Patel Jayanti which is the same as death anniversary of Indira Gandhi. The police is yet to give us the permission. But we will register our protest even if police does not give us permission.” The opposition parties protesting across the country against three laws including The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation), the Farmers’ (empowerment and protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. These new laws allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cong-to-protest-against-new-farm-law-in-rajkot-seeks-permission-from-cp/articleshow/78958542.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Rajkot||Woman exposes forgery for marriage||Rajkot: A man was detained on Thursday night for allegedly forging a certificate in the name of Rajkot police commissioner for setting up a solar factory. By showing the fake certificate, he convinced a woman to marry him. After the woman found that the accused had no factory, she lodged a complaint of cheating against her husband.Police said the accused, Nikunj Ramavat (28), had allegedly fabricated a certificate stating that it was issued by Rajkot police commissioner. The document certified that he had a solar factory in Metoda GIDC, on the basis of which he convinced Nimisha Ramavat (25) to marry him. “Nimisha kept mum after she came to know that Nikunj was not the owner of any factory. However, she was forced to lodge the complaint after Nikunj and his father Kalidas Ramavat asked her to bring Rs five lakh from her parents. After she brought the money, Nikunj and Kalidas allegedly started demanding more money from her,” said an official from Rajkot taluka police station. “The Rajkot police commissioner does not have anything to do with the issuance of certificate for setting up any factory. We have detained Nikunj at present. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes Covid-19 test,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-exposes-forgery-for-marriage/articleshow/78958342.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi should apologise for RJD’s misrule: Nadda||BEGUSARAI: Hitting out at Mahagathbandhan’s chief ministerial face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for seeking vote on the issues of development and employment, BJP national president J P Nadda on Friday said in democracy, political parties and their leaders are judged by their past track records. “Those who organised ‘lathi ghumawan, tel pilawan’ rallies while in power in the state for 15 years now talk about development and employment,” he said, adding Tejashwi should apologise to people for his party’s 15-year “misrule” which destroyed the state’s economy. “Tejashwi says that development was not possible during RJD rule in Bihar as it is a land-locked state. The fact is that his mind is locked,” Nadda, who was addressing an election rally at Khamhar village in the district, said. Referring to the poor infrastructure during the RJD rule, Nadda attacked the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan by seeking to know from whether they would vote for LED or lantern. “Under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi at the Centre and CM Nitish Kumar in the state, Bihar has seen rapid development. In 2015, the PM had announced a special package of Rs 1.25 lakh crore for Bihar. He has kept every word of that promise,” Nadda said. He added under the PM’s package, mega projects like expansion of Barauni Refinery, revival of the closed fertilizer plant in Barauni, rail and road bridges over Ganga river in Simaria besides special schemes for farmers have been launched. Begusarai MP and Union minister Giriraj Singh, BJP MP Anurag Thakur and state agriculture minister Prem Kumar also addressed the rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-should-apologise-for-rjds-misrule-nadda/articleshow/78958985.cms||Rajiv Kumar
October 31, 2020||Rajkot||Three kill friend after drunken brawl in Bhuj, held from Rajasthan||Rajkot: Three persons were arrested from Sirohi in Rajasthan on Friday for allegedly killing their friend in Bhuj following a drunken brawl at a party plot on October 19. Police said one of the accused, identified as Nirav Soni (28), Chetan Dave (26) and Anil Bijlani (33), had allegedly bludgeoned Shivsahay Dwivedi (40) with the handle of a spade, while the other accused bashed him with a belt, kicks and fists on the night of October 19. Trivedi had died on the spot. “The murder was the result of a drunken brawl that erupted after Dwivedi called the accused ‘impotent’. The accused said during their interrogation that Dwivedi, who suffered constant humiliation at the hands of his employer Narottam Pokar at the party plot, where he worked as a gardener, had hatched a conspiracy to abduct Pokar’s son to teach him a lesson,” said M R Barot, inspector with Bhuj A division police station. “When the accused refused to become part of the conspiracy, Dwivedi got incensed and started abusing them, calling them impotent. Angry at this, the accused attacked Dwivedi. After killing Dwivedi, the accused fled from the spot and went to their native in Sirohi of Rajasthan,” added Barot. The accused were identified and traced on the basis of the call details of Dwivedi. On the basis of the locations of the cellphones of the accused, the police found out that the accused were in Sirohi. “We had already found an empty bottle of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and had deduced that the murder was the result of a drunken brawl. After we found that the accused were hiding in Sirohi, we along with a team of Bhuj local crime branch officials went to Sirohi and nabbed them,” said Barot. The accused have been detained at present. They will be formally arrested once they undergo Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-kill-friend-after-drunken-brawl-in-bhuj-held-from-rajasthan/articleshow/78958571.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||Hyundai to augment production capacity||Chennai: With the new hatchback launch in a few days, Hyundai Motor India is looking at “augmentation of its production capacity” in the next 2 months. The company, which has hit 98% peak capacity of 7,20,000 units a year or 60,000 units a month, will watch the market till December before taking a call.“Depending on how the market performs we will go in for capacity augmentation by end-December. This will involve new investment in machinery and tooling and debottlenecking,” said Ganesh Mani, director-production, Hyundai Motor India.The company, which had opted for a third shift from end-August onwards, is looking to crank up capacity to the maximum of 7,50,000 units that the Sriperumbudur factory is capable of. “Currently in terms of capacity we have an elbow room of around 30,000 units or another 2,500 units extra per month. We can use multiple model mix and debottlenecking and we have a flexible line to be able to produce more. We have hit our highest peak ever in October and we've gone for a 25%-30% ramp up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hyundai-to-augment-production-capacity/articleshow/78959513.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
October 31, 2020||Patna||A lot at stake for Left parties in Begusarai||BEGUSARAI: Altogether 104 candidates are in the fray in seven constituencies in Begusarai district, which will go to polls in the second phase on November 3. Begusarai had earned the epithet of ‘Leningrad of the east’ as Left parties, mainly the CPI, used to dominate the political arena in the district for over four decades. However, after the advent of the social justice era in the state, the dominance of Left parties receded gradually. With the Left parties under the Grand Alliance umbrella this time and contesting four of the seven seats, they are hoping to regain the lost turf. Here is how the political equations stand in the seven Begusarai seats: MATIHANI: The seat is dominated by upper caste Bhumihar voters. Though the CPM has fielded Rajendra Prasad Singh as its candidate, LJP’s Raj Kumar Singh has taken the contest by storm. JD(U)’s Narendra Kumar Singh alias Bogo Singh is the sitting MLA from here. The seat was considered to be safe for the four-time JD(U) MLA Bogo Singh until Raj Kumar Singh, a debutant, entered the fray. Raj Kumar, who did his graduation from Delhi University in 1990, has a clean image with no criminal record. However, he is the son of Kamdeo Singh, the most dreaded gangster of the eastern part of India whose smuggling network extended from Nepal to far off Kolkata and Mumbai during the 70s. JD(U)’s Bogo Singh, on the other hand, has over a dozen cases of crime still pending against him. BEGUSARAI: Congress’s Amita Bhushan is the sitting MLA from this crucial seat. Amita is president of the state women wing of the party also. She is locked in a direct fight with BJP’s Kundan Kumar, a debutant. Amita enjoys a good image for being constantly in touch with voters and easily accessible. “Development work in rural areas, health, education and women empowerment are my main poll planks,” she said. Kundan pins his hope on the massive development works like renovation of the closed fertilizer unit and expansion of Barauni Refinery carried out by the NDA government under PM Narendra Modi. Kundan is considered close to Begusarai MP and Union minister Giriraj Singh. His father Upendra Prasad Singh is Begusarai mayor. TEGHRA: Birendra Kumar Singh had won the last election from this seat on an RJD ticket. However, he is the JD(U) candidate this time. The contest here is expected to be triangular with Ram Ratan Singh of CPI and Lallan Kunwar of LJP being the other two prominent candidates. Lallan Kunwar is a BJP rebel who jumped into the fray as a LJP nominee after the seat went to JD(U) as part of NDA’s seat-sharing arrangement. BAKHRI (SC): This reserved seat is set to witness a direct battle between the CPI and the BJP. Upendra Paswan (RJD) is the sitting MLA. However, with Left parties also forming part of the Grand Alliance in this election, the RJD acceded to the CPI demand to put its candidate from here. Surya Kant Paswan is the CPI nominee. He had also contested as the party nominee from this seat in 2015 and come third. BJP has fielded Ram Shankar Paswan from here. SAHEBPUR KAMAL: Even as JD(U) is fighting it out with RJD in the seat, the LJP has also put its candidate to make the battle triangular. Srinarayan Yadav of RJD is the sitting MLA. However, the party has made Srinarayan’s son Satanand Sambudh alias Lallan Yadav as its candidate this time owing to the former’s old age. JD(U) has put its bet on Amar Kumar Singh, a former BJP man. The LJP has fielded Surendra Vivek as its candidate in a bid to make the fight triangular. CHERIA BARIARPUR: JD(U) has reposed its faith in Manju Verma, the sitting MLA from here. Manju, the former social welfare minister, remained in the eye of a storm after her name cropped in an Arms Act case. A CBI team had recovered prohibited bores of live cartridges from her house at Sripur village here. She had to remain in jail in the case and got bail after an intense legal battle. To counter her, RJD has fielded Rajvanshi Mahto, a former MP. The LJP has also a strong presence in this constituency with its former nominee Anil Choudhary remaining second in the last two assembly elections for this seat. However, the party has fielded Anil’s daughter in-law this time. BACHHWARA: This is the only seat from where an independent candidate is also posing a strong challenge to his rivals. Shiv Prakash alias Garib Das, an independent candidate, is son of Ramdeo Rai, the former Congress MLA who passed away only recently. Garib was seeking a Congress ticket. However, the Grand Alliance decided to field Awadhesh Rai, the general secretary of the state unit of the CPI, from here. BJP has fielded Surendra Mehta from the seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-lot-at-stake-for-left-parties-in-begusarai/articleshow/78959831.cms||Rajiv Kumar
October 31, 2020||Patna||Last date to apply for assistant professor job extended till Dec 2||PATNA: The last date for online submission of applications for appointment of assistant professors in different universities of the state has been extended till December 2, according to a notification issued by Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) on Friday. The last date for online submission of applications was November 2. The decision was taken at a meeting of the BSUSC held under the chairmanship of Rajvardhan Azad. Earlier, the commission had consulted the state education department on the issue following several representations made by aspirants with regard to the difficulties faced by them in submission of applications owing to Covid-19 pandemic, state assembly election and festivals. With the restricted functioning of universities during the period, the aspirants were finding it difficult to procure required documents and certificates. As most staff remained busy in election work and the offices also remained closed during festivals, PhD scholars were not able to get relevant certificates with regard to getting their degree as per the UGC 2009 regulations. Even the viva voce exam of some candidates could not be held due to the delay in receipt of the evaluation reports from the examiners, the representations pointed out. The BSUSC had on September 23 advertised altogether 4638 posts of assistant professors against existing vacancies in 52 subjects in all the 13 conventional universities of the state after a gap of seven years. Now the last date of online submission of application has been extended till 5pm on December 2 and the last date for receipt of downloaded hard copies of online applications along with photocopies of required documents has been extended till December 24, said BSUSC secretary Upendra Nath. The last advertisement for appointment of assistant professors was issued by the Bihar Public Service Commission in 2013. The process of interview started in 2015 and concluded in 2020. And, during the period, the number of vacancies continued to grow with the gradual superannuation of teachers in different universities and colleges. Consequently most colleges and university departments are facing acute dearth of teachers. BSUSC sources admitted that only about 20,000 applications have been received so far for 4638 posts. It was expected that more than one lakh candidates would be applying for the appointment. Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha welcomed the decision. With the extension of the last date, more candidates would now be able to apply for the appointment, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/last-date-to-apply-for-assistant-professor-job-extended-till-dec-2/articleshow/78961112.cms||B K Mishra
October 31, 2020||Patna||Probe begins into Munger mob violence||PATNA: A day after the mob violence in Munger, Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao started investigation into the incident as police staged flag march in the town as a confidence building measure on Friday. Three police stations and two police outposts were torched by unruly mob on Thursday against the killing of a 22-year-old man in alleged police firing on the idol immersion procession Monday night. The Election Commission (EC) immediately transferred Munger DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh. The EC has asked Ao to complete the inquiry within seven days. Sources said the Magadh commissioner recorded the statements of eyewitnesses who were present at Bata chowk and Deendayal Upadhayaya Chowk Monday night when the clash took place between police and devotees going for Goddess Durga idol immersion. Munger range DIG Manu Maharaaj, who along with new SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon, led the flag march said six to seven FIRs were being lodged in connection with the Thursday violence. “The situation is peaceful now. We have technical inputs as well as CCTV camera footages to nail the culprits,” he said. The DIG said the Thursday’s violence was planned and rumourmongering played its part, but refused to comment if the violence was organized keeping in mind the assembly election. Dhillon said action on any subordinate police personnel would be taken only after the inquiry is completed. Dhillon said no one is named in the FIR being lodged in connection with the Thursday’s rampage. “The FIR would be against unknown persons at present. The accused would be identified on the basis of CCTV camera footages and eyewitness accounts,” he said. “Rumourmongering is still going on. We are continuously trying to counter it through communication with all stakeholders, including a large number of civilians,” he said, adding markets in the violence affected areas opened on Friday. The SP also said 140 live cartridges of self-loading rifles along with its one magazine were missing from the Purabsarai police outpost attacked by the mob. Dhillon said altogether three police vehicles, including a bike, were torched at Purabsarai outpost and one more was damaged in stone pelting at the SP office. He said 21 police personnel were injured in the Thursday violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-begins-into-munger-mob-violence/articleshow/78961177.cms||Debashish Karmakar
October 31, 2020||Goa||Underground cable damaged, Taleigao loses power for 5 hours||Panaji: Some residents of Taleigao were left without power for around five hours on Friday after a private contractor dug and damaged an underground cable. Alternate power supply arrangements were made to the area, which receives electricity from the Altinho substation. It was backfed from the Campal substation, but after five hours. The private contractor was working in a residential and commercial complex close to Models Legacy. “If it was an overhead cable, it would have been easier to locate the fault, but since it was underground, it took time,” an engineer said. The staff had first to find out which part of the cable developed the fault, and then, via site inspection, identify why it occurred. The underground cable was laid before the building came up, department engineers say. “The contractor admitted there was a spark while digging, and agreed to bear the cost of repairing the cable,” the engineer said. When agencies dig and damage cables, the department files police complaints if nobody owns up to the work. However, since various agencies have to get on with their utility works, the contractors own up and agree to pay to get the cable restored. Underground cables are laid more than a metre deep, and protected with sand and kadappa. However, this protection is insufficient when landmovers and shovel trucks are used for digging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/underground-cable-damaged-taleigao-loses-power-for-5-hours/articleshow/78961157.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||Card machines emerge as new agents for loans||MUMBAI: The card swipe machine is replacing the in-store finance executive. Not only are banks extending personal loans against card swipes, but customers in the smallest of towns are making purchases with zero-interest EMIs. This is because vendors like mobile manufacturers are able to provide interest subvention on these swipe payments. According to Amrish Rau, CEO of Pine Labs, which provides a payments platform to merchants, of the Rs 12,900 crore spent on its card swipe machines in shops this October, around Rs 1,700 crore is against EMI payments. The company has partnered 30 banks and NBFCs that have already run an analytics application on their debit card base to determine the extent of credit to be made available to every cardholder. This makes it possible for Pine Labs to convert a large payment into EMIs using its Pine Pay Later application. The platform enables vendors to subsidise the interest on the loan by identifying the product serial number without having any tie-up with the retailer. Until now, having a financing desk used to be the preserve of big box stores. The humble card swipe machine has levelled the field for the small merchants. This year’s Navratri saw consumer durables sold against EMIs at points-of-sales (PoS) machines accounting for 79% more than last year’s Navratri, while laptops were 44% higher. Compared to pre-Covid (February 2020 levels), consumer durable sales in October are almost three times higher, while laptop sales on EMIs have increased of 129%. “The highest growth that we saw during Navratri was in small regional retail stores and with independent dealers. Also, this is happening in non-metros,” said Rau. For instance, big organised retail chains saw a growth of 29% in EMI purchases, while it was 41% for small retail stores and independent dealers. The states that recorded more than 50% growth were Gujarat (81%), Madhya Pradesh (56%) and Rajasthan & Kerala (50%). Among cities, Rajkot saw the highest growth (122%) followed by Vadodara (96%) and Surat (85%).“We are seeing immense interest from retailers to be part of the pay later platform. The highest growth is in the two-wheeler segment where EMI purchases are being made by swiping cards. Other new segments are furniture and wellness,” said Rau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/card-machines-emerge-as-new-agents-for-loans/articleshow/78961651.cms||Mayur Shetty
October 31, 2020||---||Bihar poll race tightens as Tejashwi puts up a tough fight||PATNA: With the first phase of the Bihar assembly election over, the narrative appears to be changing with the polls becoming a close contest between the ruling NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, defying pre-poll odds. Those who dismissed RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as no match to CM Nitish Kumar till a fortnight ago now believe he is putting up a tough fight. “Earlier, BJP and JD(U) used to set the poll agenda and the opposition followed. But it is for the first time in many years that the state election is being contested on real issues of ‘kamai, padhai aur dawai’ (employment, education and healthcare facilities) raised by Tejashwi,” says RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary. Countering PM Narendra Modi’s jibe at Tejashwi and calling him the ‘Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj’ referring to the 15-year rule of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi, Tiwary said Modi tried to whip up the same fears like in 2015 and the result was for everyone to see. “And even PM, that way, admitted that the NDA fight is against Tejashwi,” Tiwary chuckled. Tejashwi is conscious of the BJP-JD(U) trap and never countered either Modi’s jibe or Nitish Kumar’s attack on his family. He keeps saying “the PM and the CM should speak on real issues of unemployment, poor education and healthcare system in the state”. “BJP and NDA tried to deviate us from issues which concern people the most, but Tejashwi ji’s googly has trapped the NDA, which is now trying to follow our agenda of employment, good education and better health facilities. National issues being raised by BJP cannot earn bread and butter and youths are fed up with unemployment. The kind of crowd Tejashwi is drawing indicates the change people want in the state,” Tiwary told TOI on Friday. But JD(U) has a counter-narrative based on the work done in the last 15 years of NDA rule under Nitish, who is seeking votes with the promise of more development in the state. “We have performed at different levels and worked for all sections of the society,” Nitish said in Belsand (Sitamarhi) on Friday. Addressing a rally at Valmiki Nagar on Thursday, Nitish even favoured reservation proportionate to the population. JD(U) also dismisses Tejashwi’s promise of 10 lakh government jobs and accuses him of lying and trying to mislead people. “Tejashwi has no narrative at all. Why the JMM-RJD government could not fulfil the promises of jobs and unemployment allowance in Jharkhand? What Tejashwi is in a position to say is based on the work Nitish ji has done for basic infrastructures like roads and quality electricity supply besides improving the law and order situation. Now, Bihar is set for a big take-off as we have a new industrial policy with a solid road map for employment generation based on promoting agro-based industries,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad told TOI. Many political analysts, however, doubt that the NDA’s ‘jungle raj’ rhetoric will work with young voters. But BJP says comparing the NDA and Lalu-Rabri regimes is necessary to prove that “BJP does what it says”. “Earlier, road, power, water and bridges were poll issues. Now, these are not because NDA government has provided the facilities. We have to draw the development line bigger through microfinance to meet our promise of creating 19 lakh jobs and employment opportunities. They (Lalu) provided 98,000 jobs in 15 years while over 7 lakh youths, including 3.5 lakh contractual teachers, got jobs in NDA regime. Now, saying I am a Bihari is a matter of pride,” BJP spokesperson Prof Azfar Shamshi told TOI. He also defends BJP top leaders raising triple talaq, Ayodhya Ram Mandir and the abolition of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir issues in the state election. “We are a national party and do what we say. We mention these issues to tell people that we deliver on our poll promises. Cheeze apne aap bikti nahi hain, bechni padti hai (one has to sell the product),” Prof Shamshi said to drive his point home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-poll-race-tightens-as-tejashwi-puts-up-a-tough-fight/articleshow/78959033.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
October 31, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Home to world’s tallest statue touches new heights||KEVADIYA (NARMADA): The world’s most towering statue - Statue of Unity - brought this little hamlet of Narmada district on the global tourism map, in 2018.  Exactly two years on, Kevadiya is seeing its stature growing manifold with a slew of attractions centred around this 182 m tall structure being dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Modi, who embarked on his first two-day visit to the state after the Covid-19 lockdown, unveiled as many as 17 projects that are touted to change the face of this village nestled amid the Vindhyachal ranges. Aarogya Van, a garden housing 42,600 trees and shrubs of 80 species; the Jungle Safari teeming with exotic animals, a sprawling dome aviary full of winged beauties and cosy tribal homestays nestled among the hills and children nutrition park were some of the major tourist attractions that Modi personally visited. In fact, the PM spent nearly 80 minutes at the aviary, feeding the birds and jungle safari that has animals like alpaca, llama, oryx, wildebeest, cotton top tamarin, kinkajou, coatimundi, serval cat, silver fox and Japanese raccoon dog, which are all exclusive to this zoo. “The Fly High Indian Aviary would be a treat for those interested in birdwatching. Come to Kevadiya and visit this aviary, which is a part of the Jungle Safari Complex. It will be a great learning experience,” the PM tweeted. Two geodesic dome aviaries, which houses 350 birds of 26 species in 4,300 sq m are touted to be the world’s largest. “The PM inquired details about each of the animals/birds he visited, especially the origin of the country of the animals or birds, their behaviour diet etc,” said an official. At Aarogya Van, Modi interacted with some tribal women of a self-help group engaged and inquired about their education, tourist inflow and livelihood support before taking a ride inside the vast expanse in a golf cart. Later, he visited the Ekta Mall and took a keen interest in the Jammu and Kashmir and North East emporia. Modi will attend the 145th birth anniversary of India’s Iron Man which is celebrated as National Unity Day on Saturday before inaugurating the seaplane connecting Ahmedabad to Kevadiya at the Sabarmati Riverfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/home-to-worlds-tallest-statue-touches-new-heights/articleshow/78958303.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Varanasi||PM to land at airport in Gorakhpur on November 1||GORAKHPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi while returning from Bihar election campaign will touch down at Gorakhpur Airport via helicopter in the evening of November 1 and thereafter leave for Delhi by plane, said BJP media in-charge Brijesh Tripathi on Friday. “We are making preparations to welcome the Prime Minister at the airport. However, the visit will be very short as he will come to the airport by helicopter and take a plane for Delhi soon thereafter,” he said. Keeping in view the arrival of the PM at Gorakhpur airport, meetings of administration, police and health department officials were held on Thursday evening and Friday morning. However, the detailed programme regarding the PM’s airport visit has not arrived at the information department so far. “Our routine flights will be there and the airport will be filled with passengers at the time of PM Modi’s arrival, so his helicopter will not land at the civil terminal but at the Airforce station. I don’t have any more details regarding the matter,” said airport director AK Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-to-land-at-airport-in-gorakhpur-on-nov-1/articleshow/78959184.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||GFP backs anti-coal protests||Margao: Goa Forward Party (GFP) announced its support to the anti-coal agitation in Goa. Addressing reporters, GFP spokesperson Prashant Naik said the party would actively participate in the agitation. If the railways goes ahead with its scheduled work of laying the second track at the level crossing at Chandor on November 2, Naik said the party would join protesters at the site. “We can prove that the project has been undertaken only to favour Adani and his syndicate of coal transporters and to make Goa a landing point for coal,” Naik said. He alleged that the railways has scheduled work at midnight of November 1-2 to take advantage of All Saints Day and All Souls Day observed by Catholics on these days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-backs-anti-coal-protests/articleshow/78961162.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Trichy||Thieves break into bank, find no cash, steal PCs||NAGAPATTINUM: Computers and some electronic equipment from the Indian Bank branch at Melavanjur in Nagapattinam district were stolen by thieves after breaking open the backdoor, which was captured on CCTV. The branch has around 3,000 account holders. The incident came to light when assistant manager Muthu Prasad arrived at the branch on Thursday morning. He informed the manager and Nagore police. A sniffer dog and forensic experts were brought to the crime scene. “The daily deposits and other cash are handed over to the main branch at Nagore. As there was no lockers at the branch, the thieves might have stolen the electronic gadgets,” police said. Bank customers said that the lack of adequate security system was the main reason for the theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thieves-break-into-bank-find-no-cash-steal-pcs/articleshow/78961156.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Roorkee: Two held for stealing 40 laptops||ROORKEE: Two men were arrested by city police on Friday for allegedly stealing 40 laptops. The stolen devices were also recovered from their possession. The action comes after 40 out of 42 laptops brought to Roorkee in a mini-truck were stolen. The vehicle had come to Roorkee from Dehradun on Tuesday. The two accused told the police that they had gone jobless due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. They also confessed their plan to lift laptops from the loading vehicle. According to Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S, a mini-truck was loaded with 42 laptops from Dehradun on October 27. When it reached Roorkee, 40 laptops were stolen from the vehicle. During the investigation of the crime, police found out that a car was parked near the mini-truck. “With the help of the CCTV footage, we tracked the car. Later, our probe confirmed that two men — Jitender Chaudhary and Sunny Tomar — had used the car to steal laptops from the mini-truck. The duo had also involved the driver of the mini-truck in their plan,” added the SSP. The driver of the mini-truck and two other miscreants involved in the crime are still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-for-stealing-40-laptops/articleshow/78958438.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 164 traffic cams linked with national vehicle registry||COIMBATORE: For the first time in the state, the city traffic police have linked 164 surveillance cameras to the Union government’s vehicle registry, Vahan. The cameras, including the automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras at 20 major junctions in the city, will send pictures of traffic rule violations including helmetless riding, red light jumping and triple riding to the National Informatics Centre’s (NIC) servers. Traffic police officers will login to the Vahan website to verify the pictures and give approval to issue online challan. Four more city polices including Chennai and Madurai will link cameras to the registry soon. The city police had installed the 164 CCTV cameras on Avinashi Road, Trichy Road, Mettupalayam Road, Sathyamangalam Road and Palakkad Road with the help of NGO Uyir. The cameras sent traffic violation pictures to the servers at the office of the assistant commissioners of police, deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. “Till now, traffic police personnel downloaded the pictures to check the offences. Later, they would upload the challans on the Vahan website, which would send them as SMS to the vehicle owners. Now as the cameras are linked to the NIC, the pictures will be sent to the NIC servers. After cops verify them, challans will be uploaded automatically in Vahan. The cameras capture about 25,000 traffic violations every day,” said Mutharasu. The city police are planning to conduct an official launch ceremony in the first week of November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/164-traffic-cams-linked-with-national-vehicle-registry/articleshow/78961155.cms||A Subburaj
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 2 men arrested with Rs 7.4L fake currency||COIMBATORE: The city police on Friday arrested two people for printing fake notes amounting to Rs 7.36 lakh in a house at Kumaran Nagar near Cheran Maa Nagar. Police identified them as S Deepsith, 25, a call taxi driver from Namakkal and his friend S Ragavendran, 21, a native of Pudukkottai district. They had printed 368 counterfeit notes in the denomination of Rs 2,000 to circulate ahead of the festival season. Police busted the racket while searching for a missing girl. “A 15-year-old girl from Thirumayam in Pudukkottai district had eloped with Ragavendran’s friend N Ranjithkumar, 25, a native of Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district. The couple stayed at Ragavendran’s rented house at Kumaran Nagar for a few days. After finding their location, the girl’s father and head constable L Kulasekaran from the Peelamedu (law&order) police reached the house on Thursday. As the house was locked, police requested the house owner to open it. They found the fake notes, a scanner and a printer,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-arrested-with-rs-7-4l-fake-currency/articleshow/78961159.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Complaint against law professor for social media post||Panaji: Assistant professor at V M Salgaocar College of Law Shilpa Singh is facing more trouble after Ponda-resident Rajiv Jha asked the cyber cell of Goa Police to register an FIR against Singh for a social media post. Jha, in his complaint, stated that the teacher should be booked “for passing derogatory comments on social media mocking Hindu religion, traditions, faith and beliefs”. On October 9, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) had complained to Salgaocar College of Law that Singh was “promoting hateful thoughts against a particular religion” during her online lectures. Responding to the ABVP letter, Singh told the institute that the complaint was an attempt to tarnish her academic credentials. Jha has now said that a Facebook post by Singh on April 21, 2020, has hurt the religious feelings and sentiments of the Hindu community. He has alleged that Singh “has made a habit of posting controversial posts on social media time and again attacking Hindu religion, its culture and its traditions”. The complainant has alleged that Singh’s post is “offensive, abusive and derogatory in nature and has made direct reference to Hindu women wearing mangalsutra.”. Jha’s complainant alleges that Singh has also mocked Muslim women on earlier occasions in her posts. Singh had stated she had been trolled and even received rape threats for a social media post in 2018. The assistant professor said she feels unfairly targeted since. Meanwhile, the college is also inquiring into how the recording of the online lecture by Singh was leaked, based on which ABVP has complained against Singh. The institute said that recording of online lectures is not allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complaint-against-law-professor-for-social-media-post/articleshow/78961170.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP spreading lies on state schemes: Harish||Hyderabad: Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, finance minister T Harish Rao on Friday said the local leaders were spreading lies over the state government schemes. Calling it as a ‘Bharatiya Jhuta Party’ at press conference in Siddipet, Harish Rao said that right from BJP state president to local leaders, all of them were spreading lies during the Dubbak bypoll campaign. He said the BJP leaders were claiming that the Centre had been contributing Rs 1,600 out of total Rs 2,016 pension being given to beedi workers which, he claimed, was a big lie. “Due to 18% GST imposed on beedis, the workers were losing 15 working days a month. The BJP leaders were claiming that of Rs 13,000 spent towards KCR Kits, Rs 6,000 was being given by the Centre, which is not true. The entire fund is being borne by the state government,” he said. Even in sheep rearing units and ration subsidy amount, statements by some of the BJP leaders were totally untrue, he said. “Though ESI Hospital was not sanctioned to Gajwel, the saffron party is misleading the people by saying that the Centre had sanctioned an ESI Hospital to Chegunta, but was shifted to Gajwel by the state government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-spreading-lies-on-state-schemes-harish/articleshow/78959927.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Raj Bhavan to be lit up in pink today||Hyderabad: For the first time, inspired by Ushalakshmi Breast Cancer Foundation’s consistent Pink Ribbon Campaign for the past 10 years in the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Governor of Telangana has accorded permission for the foundation to illuminate Raj Bhavan in pink on Saturday, the last day of international breast cancer awareness month, to create awareness about importance of early detection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raj-bhavan-to-be-lit-up-in-pink-today/articleshow/78959953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: ‘Waiting’ protest by farmers continues||Coimbatore: Farmers staged a ‘waiting’ protest for the third consecutive day on Friday opposing the move to set up high voltage transmission towers on agriculture land in Tirupur district. The state government has been setting up high voltage transmission towers from Virudhunagar district to Kavuthampalayam in Tirupur district and transmission lines of 765 KV would be laid through three taluks – Uthukuli, Kangeyam and Dharapuram – in the district, according to R Kumar, district secretary of Tamil Nadu farmers’ association. Pointing out that the transmission towers are set up in agriculture lands in the district and hundreds of farmers are affected because of the move, he said that they had been demanding the state government to choose alternative place to install the towers and farmers had filed two separate cases in the Madras high court. The court had merged both the cases and posted next hearing on November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/waiting-protest-by-farmers-continues/articleshow/78961163.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Mountain biking expedition concludes in Uttarkashi||UTTARKASHI: The first-of-its-kind Mountain Terrain Biking (MTB) expedition to the Nelong Valley region of Indo-China border in Uttarkashi district concluded on Friday. The week-long expedition was organised by a private organisation — Adventurous Traveling in Himalayas — with the support of the state tourism department, Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM), and Uttarkashi Hotel Association. More than two dozen cyclists traveled a distance of nearly 250 km in six days to promote mountain cycling in the district. Expedition coordinator Dinesh Bhatt said, “During the expedition, which commenced on 25th October from Vishwanath temple, cyclists — both amateurs and professionals — visited Harsil, Gangotri shrine, and Nelong valley. It is the first time ever when a group of cyclists has traveled to the Nelong Valley, which is situated at an altitude of nearly 11,500 feet above sea level and is renowned for its picturesque landscape like Ladakh.” “The objective of the expedition was to promote mountain cycling based tourism business in the district. So that adventure lovers can enjoy the beauty of nature without degrading it,” he added. Meanwhile, Ramesh Semwal, chairman of Uttarkashi Municipality, and Shailendra Matuda, president of Hotel Association, welcomed the cyclist group and praised their effort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mountain-biking-expedition-concludes-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/78958463.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Without government help, custodians of Rajasthan’s cultural heritage struggle for survival||JAIPUR: In good times, kachhi ghodi dancer Om Prakash Rana would make Rs 25,000-30,000 a month. Besides running a family of seven, including his five children, he would still save a small portion of it for their future or hard times. But he never imagined the difficulties of the present times would be so crushing. The lockdown may have been lifted and almost all sectors of the economy may have reopened, but for folk singers, kachhi ghodi dancers, kathputli makers and theatre artists, the fight for survival continues. As these custodians of Rajasthan’s colourful cultural heritage struggle to get two meals a day, the government has no plans to assuage their suffering. TimesViewThe cultural heritage that everybody in the state including the government takes pride in owes in great measure to these artists. Even though the traditional occupation is not hugely financially rewarding, they are comfortable in the crafts and arts passed down to them through generations. In distress times like this pandemic, they need the government's support. Otherwise, their next generation will not take interest and we may lose the vibrancy of these art forms that give the state its unique identity.“There are no fairs and festivals. Weddings have been allowed, but there is no place for activities like ours. Hotels have opened, but they are as good as closed for us. Every road has been blocked for us and it’s been too long to cope with. I have mortgaged my family ornaments to meet daily basic needs of the family,” said Rana, who lives in a village on the outskirts of Jaipur. Rana is not alone. Most of the artiste communities share the same predicament. Ask Kailash Bhat, a kathputli maker in Kalakar colony in Panipech, about how he manages his life without any income for such an extended period, he will leave you speechless with his agonizing experience. “All that can go wrong has gone wrong with me. Since I was a child, I learnt the art from my father. Ups and downs are part of life. But I have never gone through a situation like this in life,” said Bhat. The state government did announce a scheme in April to help the artiste communities, but it was meant for those who stayed in rural areas. Only 337 artistes who uploaded their performance videos were given Rs 2,500. Close to Rs 9 lakh has been spent under the scheme which was stopped after the lockdown was lifted. “The artiste community representing various forms of art has lakhs of members. For many it was their only profession and they have had no money since March. Going forward, nobody knows when the situation will change for the better. We have been asking the state government to provide kalakar cards like kisan cards. So that they can get some recognition, even a loan from banks to do something else,” said Chandradeep Hada, vice-president of Theatre Artists Association of Jaipur. He also alluded to the Kalakar Sahayata Kosh which has around Rs 11.5 crore. “The funds can be used to give relief to the artistes who have been rendered jobless due to the pandemic,” added Hada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/without-govt-help-custodians-of-rajs-cultural-heritage-struggle-for-survival/articleshow/78959951.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
October 31, 2020||Goa||Anti-coal stir is with eye on next assembly election: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||MARGAO: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the anti-coal protests were driven by forces opposed to the government with an eye on the 2022 assembly elections. “People opposed to the government have this habit of opposing any and every development project. Elections are approaching, and these people have no agenda. People sitting in London (who aren’t even remotely connected to Mollem) are opposing projects coming up in Mollem. Some forces have started working against the government. People need to be wary of them,” Sawant said. The chief minister made these statements while addressing the audience after launching the Salaulim canal desiltation work at Cuncolim under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, minister for water resources Filipe Neri Rodrigues, Cuncolim MLA Clafacio Dias, were among those present on the occasion. A 90km stretch of the canal will be desilted under the works estimated to cost Rs 35 lakh. Under the MGNREGA scheme, 90% of the cost is funded by the Centre with the state government sharing the remaining 10%. By undertaking the work under MGNREGA scheme, the state government has saved Rs 76.5 lakh, as the water resources department had estimated the work to be tendered at Rs 80 lakh. A total of 450 MGNREGA job card holders will be employed for the work. Speaking further, Sawant said that the power transmission lines (Tanmar) project at Mollem was essential for meeting the increased demand for power consumption in the state. “If we don’t bring the Tanmar project then all these industries would stop functioning. The air conditioners in your homes will also stop working,” he said. He further stressed that the double tracking project wasn’t being done for coal transportation as was being made out. “If the IIT project is going to provide 1,000-2,000 jobs to people, why oppose it? We have already got the Betul jetty project scrapped. Therefore don’t come out on the streets to protest. Support this government, as this government listens to people’s grievances and works out solutions. I urge people to place their problems before the government, we will try to solve them,” he said. Speaking further, Sawant said that 191 government officers will visit all panchayats every Saturday beginning October 31, and spend three hours working on implementation of various welfare schemes. He said that within one month, all persons with disabilities will be provided with devices needed by them — wheelchairs, hearing aids, prosthetic limbs, etc. He urged such people to register themselves with their village panchayats. The devices will be made available to them at the panchayats within a month, he said. “The government is working on the principle of Antyodaya where the last person is taken care of,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-coal-stir-is-with-eye-on-next-assembly-election-cm/articleshow/78961176.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Kamat urges collector to withdraw nod for rail project||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday urged South Goa district collector to withdraw permission given to the Railways for closure of level crossings in Salcete to carry out the work of railway double tracking which, he said, could lead to law and order problem. He also called for instructions to the South Western Railway (SWR) to stop all such works pertaining to railway double tracking. “…There is strong opposition to the three mega projects proposed by the government, namely railway double tracking, widening of national highway, and laying of power transmission lines, as these projects will cause severe damage to the environment,” Kamat said in his letter to the collector. He pointed out that people were now coming on roads protesting against the government decision to allow the Railways to carry out the work of double tracking. Protests were staged during the closure of the level crossing at Sao Jose de Areal on the midnight of October 27. “The protests will continue during the next scheduled closure of level crossing at Guirdolim, Chandor. There is every possibility that the strong opposition to the double tracking work may lead to law and order problem,” Kamat said. Later, Kamat called on South Goa collector Ajit Roy and briefed him about the rising opposition to the track doubling work. “I hope better sense will prevail and all permissions given to SWR will be withdrawn,” Kamat said in a tweet from his Twitter handle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-urges-collector-to-withdraw-nod-for-rail-project/articleshow/78961179.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Kanpur||Pocso court rejects bail plea of rape accused woman||KANPUR: The designated Pocso court Kanpur on Friday rejected the bail application of Anita Rajput, who had been charged for rape, criminal conspiracy (sections 376/504/506/120 B IPC), SC /ST Act, Pocso Act and Information Technology Act. The accused pleaded in her bail application that as she is the wife of the complainant of this case Manoj Kumar, hence charges under the SC/ST Act do not stand against her and that there was no eyewitness in the case. Moreover, being a woman, she cannot be charged for the offence of rape. She had nurtured the complainant’s two daughters as their mother, she stated in her bail application. The complainant said that her husband Manoj Kumar was a drunkard and a person of loose character who used to drink with accused Shyam Sundar, and used to thrash her whenever she objected to his drinking habit. Due to such a behavior of the complainant, she got involved in an affair with Shyam Sundar alias Pintoo. Since she had not committed any crime, therefore, she should be released on bail. Special prosecutor Ganga Prasad Yadav while opposing the bail said that that since the applicant was a step- mother of the victim, and in order to grab property of the complainant, she had connived with the accused Shyam Sundar and helped him in physical exploitation of the complainant’s daughter, therefore, her bail application was liable to be rejected. Police had already filed a charge sheet against both the accused, he said. Judge Rajvir Singh, after going through the police report and the case diary, observed that the accused (the step-mother) had assisted the main accused in physical exploitation of her 12-year-old- daughter and made her pictures viral. The victim in her statement recorded by the magistrate stated that Anita had forced her to sleep with Shyam Sundar, and used to thrash her whenever she opposed. Shyam Sundar had physically exploited her several times, clicked her pictures and made them viral despite her requests not to do so. The judge in his order also observed that as this court had already rejected the bail application of Shyam Sundar alias Pintoo, therefore without making any comment on the merit of the case, did not find any ground to grant bail to Anita Rajput hence her bail application was being rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pocso-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-rape-accused-woman/articleshow/78959433.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
October 31, 2020||Kanpur||Chitrakoot will soon be linked to other parts of India by air: CM Yogi||Jhansi: After his grand plan to link Chitrakoot with Ayodhya through the Rampath, a 220km greenfield expressway, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Friday that the temple town, where Lord Ram spent many years in exile, would soon be connected to other parts of the country by air. “The airport coming up here will be modern with a scenic backdrop,” he said after his over two-hour stay at Valmiki Ashram in the temple town. He also asked officials to develop places linked to sages Valmiki and Tulsidas by not disturbing the environment so that more pilgrims could come and feel the sanctity of these places, which carry Lord Ram’s footprints. He also said, he will return to Chitrakoot soon to review the piped water project. It was also the first time the chief minister came to Chitrakoot on a purely religious quest and took part in the opening ceremony of 24-hour recital of Valmiki Ramayana, ahead of the birth anniversary celebrations of the sage. Yogi landed at Lalpura in the afternoon and stayed for around two-and-half hours after climbing 360 stairs to reach the ashram, which he visited for the first time. Later, addressing a gathering, he said he felt lucky to be part of celebrations of Rishi Valmiki, who emphasised the importance of ‘sanatan dharam’ thousands of years ago. “Our faith is now being questioned in the name of secularism,” he said. He also paid obeisance to Bharat Ratan Nanji Deshmuk whose birth anniversary coincides with Valmiki Jayanti. “India is a fast-developing nation under leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is emulating Nanaji’s vision. We need to unite and fulfil his dreams. PM’s mantra of ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ is also a part of ‘Ram Rajya’ which advocates a discrimination-free society,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chitrakoot-will-soon-be-linked-to-other-parts-of-india-by-air-cm-yogi/articleshow/78959519.cms||Arindam Ghosh
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||No threat to Srisailam dam: Engineer||Amaravati: Stating that there is no threat to the safety of Srisailam dam, Kurnool region chief engineer (irrigation) R Muralinatha Reddy said that minor patches in the plunge pool are a very common phenomenon during flood season and officials have been constantly reviewing project safety and taking all necessary measures. Owing to heavy floods in upstream river Krishna, crest gates of Srisailam project were opened at least 5-6 times during the current season to release floodwater downstream. As the project brims with water at full capacity, officials have had to let out water at regular intervals, whenever there has been an inflow. Frequent and heavy flood from upstream resulted in heavy outflows during the current season. This is believed to have caused minor cracks in the plunge pool between gates six and eight. The cement concrete work done in 2002 is also believed to have suffered damage due to the massive outflows. Speaking to TOI, chief engineer Muralinatha Reddy said, “We have noticed minor cracks in the plunge pool away from the dam. Such small patches occur due to the force of the water falling from the dam height. There is absolutely no threat to dam safety.” He said that grouting of patches is usually taken up every 10 years as cement grouting keeps witnessing cracks due to heavy inflows from the project. Muralinatha Reddy explained that the panel of experts (PoE) constituted by the state to study dam safety had submitted its report last March and that they are studying the comprehensive recommendations made by the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-threat-to-srisailam-dam-engineer/articleshow/78959942.cms||Samdani MN
October 31, 2020||Allahabad||HC says conversion only for marriage not valid||Prayagraj: Reiterating that religious conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable, the Allahabad High Court has dismissed a petition filed by an interfaith couple seeking directions to the police and the girl’s father not to interfere in their peaceful married life. Dismissing the writ petition filed by Priyanshi alias Samreen and her partner, Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi said, “The court has perused the record in question and found that the first petitioner has converted her religion on June 29, 2020, and just after one month they have solemnized their marriage on July 31, 2020, which clearly reveals to this court that the said conversion has taken place only for the purpose of marriage.” In the petition, the couple had stated that they had married in July this year but family members of the girl were interfering in their married life. Rejecting their pleas, the court relied upon a judgment given by Allahabad High Court in the Noor Jahan Begum case in 2014, in which it was observed that conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable. The court dismissed the writ petition saying that it is not inclined to interfere in the matter under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution of India. In Noor Jahan Begum case this court had dismissed a bench of writ petitions filed by certain couples praying for protection as a married couple as they had tied the knot after the girls got their religion converted from Hinduism to Islam and then performed the ‘nikah’ (marriage). The issue considered in the said case was, “Whether conversion of religion of a Hindu girl at the instance of a Muslim boy without any knowledge of Islam or faith and belief in Islam and merely for the purpose of marriage (nikah) is valid?” The court at that time had answered the question in negative while relying on teachings of religious texts. The court gave this decision on September 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-says-conversion-only-for-marriage-not-valid/articleshow/78959248.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Stop work notice by Areal civic body||Margao: The Sao Jose de Areal panchayat has issued a notice to Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL) to stop its construction work near the railway gate at Nessai and near the railway station at Ralloi, Sao Jose de Areal. The notice states that following a site inspection on October 22 it was noticed that the Railways had undertaken the construction work at these two places. Further pointing out that it hasn’t granted any permission to the Railways for the work, the panchayat directed the RVNL to stop the construction activity “until such time you produce the valid licenses granted to you or a proper explanation showing your right to carry out the said construction within the jurisdiction of this panchayat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-work-notice-by-areal-civic-body/articleshow/78961175.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Congress objects to reopening of casinos||PANAJI: Aghast with the government’s move to reopen off-shore and on-shore casinos in the state, Congress on Friday marched to Raj Bhavan and petitioned governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to instruct the state government not to allow off-shore casinos to commence operations. Congress said that opening of the off-shore casinos will create traffic jams, lead to a further spread of Covid-19 and will also increase pollution in the Mandovi In a memorandum submitted to Koshyari, chief secretary Parimal Rai, Goa police and other officials, Congress said that they would launch an agitation if the BJP-led government went ahead and allowed casinos to reopen. “The safety and health of Goans should not be compromised and must be given high priority and anything which will jeopardize lives of Goans should not be allowed at any cost,” Congress said in the memorandum. State Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar, state general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar and other Congress workers attempted to march towards Raj Bhavan but were stopped a distance away by the police. Resumption of off-shore casinos will increase in water pollution, Congress said, adding that traffic congestion and haphazard parking will also increase in the state capital as patrons return to the casinos. “The youth congress demands that a proper parking plan should be activated and strictly implemented to avoid traffic problems near casino entrances,” the memorandum said. While acknowledging the protocols put in place by the state, they said that people continue to flout safety norms. “Congress requests you to consider our sentiments strongly and instruct the state government to find solution on pollution, parking problem, Covid-19 situation and likely outbreak of deceases due to reopening of casinos in the Mandovi,” the memorandum said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-objects-to-reopening-of-casinos/articleshow/78961235.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Goa||Pay heed to people’s protests, says South MP||Margao: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Friday urged the government to heed people’s protests over the Railways double tracking works in Goa and stop the project. “I only hope the chief minister opens his eyes and respect the sentiments of the people. Otherwise Goa will become another Punjab where people are sleeping on the railway tracks,” Sardinha said while addressing reporters at the Congress party’s South Goa district office here. Anti-coal protestors had gathered at the level crossing at Sao Jose de Areal at midnight of October 27 to protest the work of double tracking for which the South Goa collector has issued permission for the Railways. The protestors had squatted at the site holding candles even as the Railways went ahead with the work as planned. Protestors are now planning to hold protests at Chandor level crossing on the midnight of November 1. He urged chief minister Pramod Sawant not to “go all the way out to help the corporates at the cost of the state.” “Take into consideration the feelings of the people of the state,” he said. Sardinha also voiced his opposition to the state cabinet adopting the State Action Plan for Climate Change which seeks to adopt holistic approach across all spheres concerning all government departments. Pointing out that the budget required for implementing the plan is projected to Rs 465 crore over the next 10 years, Sardinha said, “Don’t waste public money. Climate change is not in the hands of a state or just one country, it’s concerning the whole world. Control pollution if you can, that’s the only thing in your hands. That’s why people are saying, don’t import coal, don’t make Mormugao Port a coal hub. If you do that pollution will go beyond control.” Expressing his disapproval over the delay in disbursement of payments under social welfare schemes, Sardinha urged the government to ensure the beneficiaries receive the monetary benefits in time to ensure they are able to meet their needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-heed-to-peoples-protests-says-south-mp/articleshow/78961184.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Goa||Goa best governed small state: Public Affairs Centre||Panaji: Goa was adjudged as the best governed state among smaller states by Bengaluru-based Public Affairs Centre, joining Kerala and Chandigarh who topped the list among larger states and Union territories. Headed by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Kasturirangan, the not-for-profit body released its Public Affairs Index-2020 in which Uttar Pradesh ended in the last place among large states. Goa ranked first among smaller states with 1.745 points, with Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh filling the remaining two spots. Worst performers in this category were Manipur (-0.363), Delhi (-0.289) and Uttarakhand (-0.277), according to the PAC report. “I am glad to learn that Goa has been adjudged the best governed small state in the country in the Public Affairs Index-2020 released by the Public Affairs Centre which is headed by K Kasturirangan, former chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO),” said chief minister Pramod Sawant. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka took the top four spots in the large state category. In its report, PAC ranked states on governance performance based on a composite index of sustainable development, particularly equity, growth and sustainability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-best-governed-small-state-public-affairs-centre/articleshow/78961189.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||State maintains 91 per cent recovery rate for 2nd day||Jaipur: The state maintained its 91per cent recovery rate from Covid-19 for the second consecutive day on Friday when 1,794 fresh cases were reported, which took the total number of cases in state to 1,95,213. With 11 fresh deaths, the total number of deaths in the state has reached 1,898. Meanwhile, Jaipur still has a recovery rate of almost 85 per cent. The state now has 15,251 active cases while 2,087 persons were discharged from various hospitals on Friday. Though in October so far, the number of cases is dipping, deaths of patients dealing with co-morbidity are still a matter of concern. “Earlier we were reporting 14 to 15 deaths, which is now 10 to 12 deaths. Now, early detection of the cases and sensitivity of the patients is helping us bring down fatality,” said a senior officer of the health department. In Jaipur, 340 cases were reported which took the total number of cases to 33,036. “The best part is that we now have 4,379 active cases out of which majority of them are under home isolation. In Jaipur, at RUHS the number of patients seeking hospitalisation is also dipping,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, additional superintendent of SMS Medical College who is also the in-charge of Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS). Out of the 11 deaths reported on Friday, two deaths were reported in Jaipur, while one death each was reported from Alwar, Ajmer, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Churu, Dausa, Rajsamand and Udaipur. Apart from Jaipur, 223 cases were reported from Jodhpur, which was followed by 198 cases in Bikaner and 135 cases in Alwar. In rest of the districts, less than 100 cases were reported. “Districts like Bundi and Pratapgarh reported merely one case on Friday,” said an officer. Health minister Raghu Sharma attributed the dip in the number of cases to mass public awareness and following of norms. “Public is now more cautious and is following the norms. If one is wearing a mask and sanitising their hands, it eliminates the chances of getting the infection. We have distributed more than 1 crore masks across the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-maintains-91-per-cent-recovery-rate-for-2nd-day/articleshow/78959973.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schools’ Diwali break cut by 8 days, Christmas by 2||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has curtailed the Diwali and Christmas vacations for all schools for the academic year 2020-21, to be able to make up for the academic time lost due to the pandemic. While the Diwali holidays have been cut down by eight days, schools will get two fewer days of the Christmas break. The original Diwali vacation was to be from November 9 to 28. Now, the break will begin on November 9 and end on November 20. However, schools have been allowed a discretionary holiday on November 26, on the occasion of tulsi vivah. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic situation globally, it has been decided to review the Diwali and Christmas vacations for schools under jurisdiction of this directorate for the academic year 2020-21,” director of education Santosh Amonkar said in a circular issued on Friday. The instruction is applicable to government, aided and unaided schools from the primary to the higher secondary school level, including special schools. The Christmas vacation will now begin on December 24 and end on December 31, as against the earlier break from December 24 to January 2, 2021. On June 22, chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant had announced that these two festival vacation days would be reduced to make it possible to complete the syllabus for the year. Schools in Goa have not yet reopened for students for the current academic year, and teaching continues to be carried out largely through online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-diwali-break-cut-by-8-days-christmas-by-2/articleshow/78961183.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Army contractor detained on suspicion of spying||JAIPUR: The state intelligence agency picked up Army’s civil contractor for questioning in Jaipur on suspicion of espionage. The Army officials had contacted the intelligence department and the detained person was jointly questioned by cops as well as Army officials. A spy was arrested from Barmer for espionage earlier this month. Umesh Mishra, ADG (Intelligence) said, “The Army officials got in touch with us as they found the contractor’s activities to be somewhat suspicious. We are in the process of questioning him and would be able to give details once we have something concrete.” Jaipur is the headquarter of South Western Command with many regiments deployed here. The sprawling military station also sees many Army offices and a suspected spy in this situation does raise alarm bells for the defence forces. Recently, Roshan Deen, alias Roshan Bheel, was arrested from Bijrad police station area following a tip off that he was passing confidential and strategic information to his Pakistani handlers. He is in police custody till November 2. The accused got in touch with the handlers when he had visited Pakistan few years ago. He would send pictures of military vehicles which moved in the area through WhatsApp though he could not send any important details. The accused was spying since 2017, but had been inactive for the last six months. Prior to this in August, cops had arrested Mushtaq Ali, who also hailed from Barmer, on suspicion of being a double agent for India and Pakistan. He appeared to have been active in espionage for at least two years, claimed officials. According to sources, when previously the cops had planted a bug on Mushtaq’s phone, another person was able to access his camera as well while the accused was in the police station, thus establishing the fact that he was involved in illegal activities, including spying. The suspect visited Pakistan twice — in 2014 and 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-contractor-detained-on-suspicion-of-spying/articleshow/78959968.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
October 31, 2020||Allahabad||1 killed, 20 hurt as Volvo bus overturns on Agra-Lko e-way||Kanpur: One person was killed while more than two dozen others suffered injuries when an over-speeding private high-end double-decker Volvo AC bus lost control and turned turtle and fell into a deep ditch in Mirzapur Ajigaon village area under the limits of Auras police station of Unnao district on Agra-Lucknow Expressway during the wee hours of Friday. Police said nearly 13 seriously injured passengers were rushed to KGMU Trauma Centre in Lucknow while others have been admitted to the nearby Community Health Centre. “One person, identified as Rahul Kushwaha (24) of Magariya Anchal village under the limits of Paru police station in Muzaffarpur district of Bihar, died on the spot. We have informed his family members about the tragedy. They are on way to Unnao to claim the body of the deceased. We have shifted the body to the district hospital for postmortem examination. UPIEDA team, besides a team of Auras police rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. Prima facie it appears that the bus driver dozed off and failed to apply the brakes, leading to the mishap,” said Raj Bahadur, Auras police station in-charge. The incident took place during the wee hours when the private Volvo bus heading from Anand Vihar Terminus in Delhi to Bihar was passing the Unnao on Agra -Lucknow E way. While reaching near Mirzapur Ajigaon village, the bus lost control and turned turtle and fell into a deep roadside ditch, the police said further. The wind-shield and the side window-panes of the bus were badly damaged. The majority of passengers including those, who was killed, were sleeping, informed the fellow passengers. The injured were initially rescued by locals and fellow passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/1-killed-20-hurt-as-volvo-bus-overturns-on-agra-lko-e-way/articleshow/78959394.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested after minor son kills one in accident||Hyderabad: Three days after a man died and his wife was injured in an accident at Medchal, a minor and his father were taken into custody on Friday on the charge of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Officials said that Laxman was arrested and sent to jail, whereas his 16-year-old son was sent home. Laxman runs a construction business. On October 28, Laxman allegedly asked his son to bring his workers to him in his car. The minor while driving, went into the wrong lane and hit the bike the couple was riding. Mallesh, 45, died while undergoing treatment, but his wife escaped with injuries. During the investigation, police found that it was a minor who was riding the car. Since it was his father who gave him the car, he was booked under the 304 II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-after-minor-son-kills-one-in-accident/articleshow/78959970.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||1 injured in firing at Muhana||Jaipur: Shots were fired in Muhana on Friday evening in which one person got injured after getting hit with two bullets. Police immediately placed blockades in the area though no one has been arrested yet. The injured person is undergoing treatment at SMS Hospital.Heeralal Saini, SHO, Muhana police station said, “Around 4pm two persons fired at each other out of which one got injured while the other got away. It appears to be case of rivalry but we are yet to determine if it involves some gangs or is more personal. The injured person was first taken to a private hospital and then shifted to SMS Hospital.”Sources, meanwhile, claimed that there were more than two gangsters who came in a car and fired at each other. The gangs apparently are from Bharatpur though cops did confirm this.“We are looking for the accused and the investigation is underway. We have found CCTV footage and are trying to identify the person/persons involved in this firing. We will talk to witnesses who might have seen something. As the injured person is undergoing treatment, we will wait till he is in a condition to speak to question him. He should be able to give us more details,” added the official.During the lockdown, while the gangs had gone underground for a while with rare firing incidents, they are back after a brief lull and appear to be active again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-injured-in-firing-at-muhana/articleshow/78959965.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||MAT asks home dept, DGP to consider city ACP’s application||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal bench at Aurangabad has issued directives to the state home department as well as the director general of police to consider Aurangabad city’s assistant commissioner of police’s (ACP) application for transfer. HS Bhapkar, who is currently serving as ACP city division, was transferred and posted in Aurangabad in August 2017. As per the norms, senior officers get a fixed term of two years at a given posting and, in exceptional cases, their term is extended by another year. In case of Bhapkar, the officer has already completed over three years in Aurangabad city and is due for retirement in May 2021. It was in the month of June as well as October this year, Bhapkar made a representation to the DG office and requested posting in or around his hometown of Pune. But, much to the awe of the officer, when the transfer orders of the rank of deputy superintendent of police, sub divisional police officers and assistant commissioner of police, Bhapkar’s name did not appear in the list. Unhappy over the same, Bhapkar moved to MAT while marking home department’s additional chief secretary as well the state police chief as parties to his petition. While disposing off the original application, MAT vice chairman BP Patil issued directives to both the respondents to decide the representations filed by the ACP dated June 5 and October 4 on merit as per rules. Lawyer Sunil Chawre, who represented the ACP before MAT, said that as per the directives, the home department as well as the DGP office is expected to decide the applications by October 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mat-asks-home-dept-dgp-to-consider-city-acps-application/articleshow/78959966.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports 2,800 new cases as state achieves 96% recovery||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,886 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,20,565, even as the toll increased to 6,676 with 17 more deaths. As many as 3,623 Covid-19 patients were declared cured, while there are currently 25,514 active cases with 7,88,375 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. Andhra Pradesh also achieved 96% recovery rate, a basic metric used to track the improving conditions after May. Kerala, which once claimed to have flattened the curve, was the only state to witness more than 96% recovery rate before AP in May. But it has seen a spurt in cases in recent months. The national average recovery rate stood at 91.5% as of Friday. Andhra Pradesh tested 84,401 samples on Friday, with a case positivity rate of 3.4%. The state has so far conducted 79.46 lakh Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-2800-new-cases-as-state-achieves-96-recovery/articleshow/78959964.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Now, get therapy for Covid without admission to Rajasthan hospitals||JAIPUR: For patients who have mild Covid-19 symptoms but still need some therapy, like intravenous injectable anti-viral and anti-biotic medicines, the medical and health department is coming up with Covid therapy treatment centres. Under this, the patients would require visiting the hospital merely for some hours for the therapy and can go back home and visit the hospital as per the doctor’s advice. Rajasthan University of Health Sciences (RUHS) has successfully treated 50 patients by giving them specialised and categorised therapy and now, the health department is going to start this in all the five medical colleges in the state to start with and later, it would be started across the state. This day-care facility would be developed across the state for the patients with mild symptoms. TOI on Friday spoke to the authorities of the medical and health department and the doctors involved in Covid treatment to know how this would work. “There are many patients who are under home isolation but they require some therapy. Usually, they avoid getting admitted. For such patients, we are opening up Covid therapies, under which they will have to come to the hospital and undergo the therapy as per their requirement and according to the doctor and can go back home. For better Covid care management we need to differentiate between patients,” Akhil Arora, principal secretary, medical and health told TOI. He added that this will also benefit the patients who are in critical condition and need hospitalisation. “We don’t want to create a haywire situation where a critical patient is deprived hospitalisation due to overcrowding at hospitals. So, the patients with mild symptoms would be invited to the hospitals on day-care basis and would be given whatever is required including intravenous injectable, plasma therapy or even oxygen therapy,” he added. RUHS had identified 50 such patients in the recent past who were cured without getting admitted and were given the required therapy only. “For a patient who needs say only intervenes injections everyday, say for a course of seven days, he can only come, get the injections and can go back home. Why to hold him at the hospital for seven to ten days,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS Medical College and head of the core Covid-19 team. Under this, patients would be administered injectables and other therapies and would be allowed to go home. This has been done to differentiate the Covid care, so that hospitals may not be flooded with patients, especially those who don’t need hospitalisation. Patients are also given a leaflet in which they are supposed to monitor their oxygen saturation, blood pressure, blood sugar and are asked to go for their second Covid test 10 to 14 days after the first test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/now-covid-patients-can-get-specialised-therapy-without-admission-to-hosps/articleshow/78959978.cms||Ashish Mehta
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Kerala couple catches dacoit, suffers injuries||CHAMARAJANAGAR: Three dacoits, armed with iron rods, struck a farmhouse at Hongalli village in Gundlupet taluk on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday and made away with mangalsutra, gold jewellery and other valuables after throwing chilli powder and thrashing its occupants. Farmhouse owner Pradeep, a native of Kerala, and his wife resisted the attack. Though they managed to catch hold of one of the dacoits, the other two managed to escape. Pradeep, who sustained injuries in the incident, has been hospitalised. One of those caught is also being treated at the government hospital in Gundlupet town. Pradeep is engaged in farming on a leased land. Chamarajanagar additional superintendent of police Anita B H told TOI that she and other local police personnel visited the spot on Friday. “We are investigating the case from all angles. One of the offenders is undergoing treatment at the hospital, and we would get more details on the incident from him,” she said. Based on a complaint filed by Pradeep, Gundlupet police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kerala-couple-catches-dacoit-suffers-injuries/articleshow/78959547.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth submits forged documents during army recruitment, arrested||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police have arrested a 20-year-old youth on the charges of cheating and forgery after he allegedly submitted forged Aadhar card and academic records while participating in the army recruitment process carried out in Parbhani and Jalgaon districts. The forgery came to light during the recent document verification process of shortlisted candidates, following which the army authorities nabbed the suspect identified as Amol Khambat, a resident of village Dahegaon of Kannad taluka in the district. The suspect has stated that he comes from a farming background and in desperation to bag a job in the forces, allegedly committed the forgery. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-submits-forged-documents-during-army-recruitment-arrested/articleshow/78959983.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 31, 2020||Goa||Notice to Neura ryots panel chief||Panaji: The Tiswadi mamlatdar has served a memorandum to the chairman of Neura-O-Grande Tenants Association regarding the largescale felling of mangroves on internal bundhs in khazan land in September. A complaint was filed by a farmer Kanta P Naik of Gudiwada, Neura, on September 25, regarding the indiscriminate hacking of mangroves, which are a source of support to marine resources. Following the complaint, the forest department conducted an inspection while the mamltadar directed the talathi of Neura to inspect the area and submit a report. “The chairman has been allowed four days to explain reasons for cutting the mangroves or action will be taken as per law,” a source said. In another instance, large patches of mangroves were cleared some months back in Neura, but farmers had stated that these were cut to pave a road for carrying material to repair broken bundhs. Another site of largescale hacking of mangroves on the Zuari’s northern bank at Dandi is yet to be inspected by the authorities, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/notice-to-neura-ryots-panel-chief/articleshow/78961191.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||SC to hear Congress disqualification plea on Nov 3||PANAJI: The disqualification petition filed by Congress against 10 of its former MLAs is likely to come up for hearing before the Supreme Court on November 3. The petitioner had sought that the court’s decision on its disqualification plea be expedited by two weeks. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar had approached the Supreme Court pointing out the nearly nine-month delay by the speaker in deciding the disqualification petitions filed against the MLAs.  The apex court had asked the MLAs and speaker Rajesh Patnekar to file a reply. The GPCC president in his plea had cited an order in the Manipur assembly case passed by the Supreme Court in March and sought a direction to restrain the MLAs from attending the assembly proceedings during the pendency of the disqualification petition. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition before the speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP in July 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-to-hear-cong-disqualification-plea-on-nov-3/articleshow/78961202.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Allahabad||UPSESSB embarks on its biggest ever recruitment drive to fill up 15,000 posts||PRAYAGRAJ: After a wait for four long years, the authorities of Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Service Selection Board (UPSESSB) has started the process for the biggest ever recruitment by the board. In one go, the board would be filling up 15,508 posts of teachers in government-aided secondary schools of the state. The recruitment includes 12,913 vacancies of trained graduate teachers (TGT) and 2,595 posts of postgraduate teachers (PGT) of various subjects. Ending the wait for these recruitments, the online applications for the these vacant positions can be filled at the board’s website www.upsessb.org and https://pariksha.up.nic.in/, informed exam controller, UPSESSB, Naval Kishore. According to the board, the interested aspirants can register themselves by November 27 and the last date of depositing the fee is also November 27. However, the last date of completing all formalities and submitting the duly filled online form is November 30, said the official. The UPSESSB officials had initially sent a proposal for recruitment drive against a total of 17,011 vacant posts including 12,949 posts of TGTs, 2,609 posts of PGTs and another 1,453 posts of principals. However, following adjustment of some positions and non-starting of recruitment against vacant posts of principals ended up bringing down the number of vacant seats to 15,508, that are to be filled through this recruitment drive. Earlier, the board had also resolved to speed up its recruitment process by announcing to form pool of subject experts to expedite the recruitment process. These experts would be chosen based on their experience and merit. They would then help the board conduct the recruitments by contributing in the setting of question papers for exams, doing evaluation work and by also being part of the interview panels, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/upsessb-embarks-on-its-biggest-ever-recruitment-drive-to-fill-up-15k-posts/articleshow/78959337.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Bonanza for tourists as Goa hotels slash rates by up to half||PANAJI: It’s bonanza time for tourists in Goa, as hotels — eager to return to business after the lockdowns — continue to offer huge discounts even as the tourist season begins. Stakeholders say that hotels have been forced to adopt this strategy to increase room occupancy. “Hotels in all segments are offering discounts in the range of 20-50%,” said president of Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, Nilesh Shah. There are a wide range of incentives available for tourists. Some hotels are offering packages from Rs 20,000-30,000, which is for three days and nights including a ride to and from the airport or any other arrival point. Some have complimentary happy hours in the evenings, some have a pay-for-two-stay-for-three offer, while others allow tourists to avail the off-season rate for stay during winter. “Hotels had to give discounts to sell rooms,” said Guitry Velho, assistant vice-president and general manager, Heritage Village Club, Goa . “Also, easing of entry protocols brought in footfalls, as tourists from Mumbai, Bengaluru, and other cities started travelling to Goa.” Velho said these kinds of offers and packages were unheard of in the past during Goa’s tourist season, but that hotels will start correcting pricing in the next two months. Starred hotels, which have fared better than other hotels so far, will be able to have 100% occupancy if tourists increase over the next two months. “Nonetheless, on weekdays, the occupancy drops,” said hotelier Francisco de Braganca. However, the season is likely to see very few foreign tourists, as the Centre is yet to lift the ban on international commercial flights. “There are no Britishers, Russians or European tourists. There is a big void, and it is affecting everybody,” said Velho. As of date, as many as 900 hotels have started operations, said Shah. Velho said that starred hotels did better due to customers’ perception that they would follow better safety and hygiene protocols. “In the beginning, starred hotels trained their staff and adopted all safety protocols to provide a safe and secure environment to guests,” he said. “But now, all hotels, whether big or small, have hopped on to the safety bandwagon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bonanza-for-tourists-as-goa-hotels-slash-rates-by-up-to-half/articleshow/78961186.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||No call on water allocation from dams in Marathwada||Aurangabad: The Canal Advisory Committees of major irrigation projects in Marathwada have failed to meet even after lapsed stipulated deadline of October 15. Headed by Maharashtra water resources minister and NCP leader Jayant Patil, these panels decide reservation of water for drinking, irrigation and industrial purposes, among other needs, till next monsoon. Assistant engineer with the Command Area Development Authority (CADA) Jaisingh Hire on Friday said that the proposals for holding meetings were already submitted to the state water resources department (WRD). “The desired meetings are likely to take place during first or second week of the next month. We are awaiting official communication from the WRD,” he said. Marathwada houses 10 major irrigation projects, including Jayakwadi dam, which are filled with the designed storage capacity currently, raising hopes of bumper Rabi crops as well as the hot-weather season of crops. As far as Jayakwadi dam is concerned, it has whopping 1.83 lakh hectare area under irrigation, besides supply of drinking water to Aurangabad, Jalna and other towns. Nathsagar, the dam reservoir, also supplies water to industrial areas from Aurangabad and Jalna districts. Water rights activists have called for timely and meticulous planning of water distribution from dams to ensure smooth supply of water for different purposes. “As per official schedule, Rabi season of crops started from October 15 and, therefore, meetings of the Canal Advisory Committees should have been over by now. If farmers have idea in advance about total rotations of water release of crops for Rabi and hot-weather season, they can plan their crop pattern accordingly,” water right activist from Marathwada Abhijit Dhanorkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-call-on-water-allocation-from-dams-in-marathwada/articleshow/78959975.cms||Prasad Joshi
October 31, 2020||Vadodara||Banner, poster slamming French president surface||Vadodara: A banner seeking boycott of French goods with a picture of French president Emmanuel Macron was put up in the Navabwada area of the city by unidentified persons. On the road near the area, a poster was also pasted so that people drove over it. The banner and the poster were put up by unidentified persons sometime between late on Thursday night and early Friday. None of them mentioned the name of a person or organisation who may have put it. In wake of the incident, officials of the Karelibaug police spoke to influential people in the area and asked them to ensure no untoward incident happened there. The banner was brought down subsequently. No offence was registered regarding the incident. The French president has been targeted over a controversy in France. His stand on the controversy did not go down well with members of the minority community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/banner-poster-slamming-french-president-surface/articleshow/78958385.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Residents, shopkeepers oppose illegal mobile food vans in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: Local residents and shopkeepers are up in arms against the growing number of illegal “food vans” in the hill town which conduct business on the roadside. The members of Mussoorie Traders’ Association have opposed the presence of food vans and urged the municipal council to ensure that all such vans are removed from across the town. Speaking to TOI, Rajat Aggarwal, president of Mussoorie Traders’ Association, told TOI that as many as 15 such food vans are illegally operating across the town but no action is being taken by the local authorities. He added that a food van was even spotted on the Mall Road, the major tourist attraction of the hill town. Among other areas where food vans are operating include — Jaypee Bend, Kincraig, Tehri bypass road, Big Bend, Kincraig to Gandhi Chowk Road, Barlowgunj, and Jharipani. “These vans have no license from health authorities or from the transport department. They are encroaching upon public roads and state highways. They are not only causing health hazards but also traffic bottlenecks which increases the risk of road accidents,” Aggarwal said. Residents have also demanded strict action against such vans. “These van operators are violating all norms. They must be removed immediately by Mussoorie Municipal Corporation,” said Sachin, a local resident. Meanwhile, Ashutosh Sati, executive officer of MMC, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/residents-shopkeepers-oppose-illegal-mobile-food-vans-in-mussoorie/articleshow/78958532.cms||Anmol Jain
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts: Build effective infra to encourage EV adoption||Hyderabad: To encourage use of electric vehicles and reduce their landing cost in the state, industry experts who attended the panel discussion — ‘Scaling Indian EV Ecosystem through Partnerships and Collaborations — An Industry Perspective’ said the state can look at supporting the Electric Vehicle (EV) ecosystem by building effective infrastructure. They said manufacturers should start investing in technology, product and capacity as the product offerings are very limited. Sulajja Firodia Motwani, founder and CEO, Kinetic Green Energy said the state can support the EV ecosystem by encouraging electric three-wheelers for public transport and setting up infrastructure for battery swapping. Uber India president Pradeep Parameswaran said: “We are in support of swapping technology and hoping the state will look at improving the parking issue at metro stations.” Experts said the onus is on the manufacturers, service providers and users to help adoption of EVs. Rohit Vadera of Pure EV said, “Electrification of public transportation will make Hyderabad one of greenest cities in India.” IT and industries secretary, Jayesh Ranjan, said: “This is a very practical policy. We have ... ensured only those provisions are put in which are actionable. There is an ownership by some government agency or the other for implementing all components to support ecosystem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-build-effective-infra-to-encourage-ev-adoption/articleshow/78959997.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Five held for making bid to kidnap boy||Vijayawada: Police booked five persons on Friday for allegedly trying to kidnap a 19-year-old boy for ransom. According to the police, the victim Manne Yogendra Sai, a resident of Moghalarajapuram in Vijayawada and son of a police officer, was allegedly being blackmailed by his acquaintances who reportedly told him that they would falsely accuse him of possessing ganja and report him to the police officers. Yogendra Sai reported this to the police and all five accused were traced. A case has been registered against the accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-held-for-making-bid-to-kidnap-boy/articleshow/78959971.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||Expansion of Chhattisgarh elephant reserve to bury 64 coal blocks||NEW DELHI: The Chhattisgarh government’s decision to expand the proposed Lemru Elephant Reserve eightfold will put 64 coal blocks with close to 17 billion tonne reserves out of bounds for mining, hitting fuel supply to power sector and other industries at a time when the Narendra Modi government is making efforts to reduce imports. According to a dossier prepared by the state’s chief conservator of forests, 36 blocks, or 38% of the Mand-Raigarh field, will be hit by the decision. Similarly, 18 blocks in the Hasdeo Arand field will be affected. Inclusion of additional catchment areas of Hasdeo and Mand rivers will affect another 10 blocks. As a result, coal supplies to government power plants in Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh will be disrupted and the utilities will have to look for alternative supplies for years, assuming the Centre allots other mines which will take time to develop. Vedanta group’s BALCO also may be affected since it owns the Chotia-1 coal block in Lemru region. The Centre had in 2007 approved the setting up of the reserve with an area of 450 sq km. But in August last year, the Bhupesh Baghel government decided to expand the area to 3,827 sq km. State government officials said the decision was taken with the aim of protecting the regions’ rich biodiversity and preserving catchment areas of the two major rivers to ensure availability of water. Another reason behind the decision was to end the conflict between pachyderms and humans. Elephants have killed 322 people in the last five years and cost the government more than Rs 80 crore by way of compensation to villagers for loss of life and damage to crops. There are an estimated 300 elephants in the area. Industry analysts said spiking 64 blocks will kill the prospects of investments worth Rs 2-3 lakh crore in mining, allied and ancillary industries. This will lead to loss of 6-7 lakh direct and indirect jobs in addition to loss of royalty to the state, which depends heavily on mining revenue. There are political ramifications for Baghel as well since it will hit fuel supply to Rajasthan, where his own Congress party is in power, and Andhra Pradesh under YSR Congress government. Both are likely to protest in case fuel supply is disrupted to their power plants. There are also rumblings within Baghel’s government. Reports from the state said health minister and senior party leader T S Singh Deo has expressed his concerns over expanding the reserve area and is reported to have appealed affected villagers to dissent with the revised plan in Gram Sabha, or village meetings akin to public hearings, being held. Despite assurances from the forest minister Mohammad Akbar, many villagers in natural resource-rich districts such as Katghora, Korba, Surguja and Dharamjaygarh are apprehensive of losing their farmland and livelihoods that are dependent on forests as their entry will be barred after the area becomes a reserve. Many have also questioned the logic of reserving 3,827 sq km for 300 elephants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/expansion-of-chhattisgarh-elephant-reserve-to-bury-64-coal-blocks/articleshow/78961919.cms||Sanjay Dutta
October 31, 2020||Goa||Govt issues transfer orders for officers||Panaji: The state government on Friday transferred seven officers including Biju Naik, registrar of cooperative societies who has been transferred thrice in less than two months. Naik has now been transferred to the department of general administration as joint secretary and Arvind Kutkar has been posted as the registrar of cooperative societies. Dashrath Redkar will be the new director of the Environment department. He replaces Johnson Fernandes who would head the department of Land Records & Settlement as director. Santosh Kundaikar will serve as secretary of the Goa rehabilitation board, while Sushma Kamat has been posted as director, state lotteries and Gaurish Kuttikar has been transferred and posted as additional collector – III south, Ponda. Sanjeev Gadkar, administrator of Sanjivani Sugar factory has been given the additional charge of special land acquisition officer Mopa airport. Meena Naik Goltekar, project director, district rural development agency (DRDA), south will hold additional charge as managing director Goa state SC (scheduled castes), OBC (other backward class), finance development corporation and member secretary, Goa state commission for backward classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-issues-transfer-orders-for-officers/articleshow/78961218.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Goa among five states to meet Centre’s power revenue target||Panaji: Goa is one of only five states to have succeeded in eliminating revenue gaps in power distribution in 2019-20, thus meeting the Centre’s Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) targets. According to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) report on state finances, Assam, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana and Maharashtra are the only states to bridge the gap between the average cost of power supply and the average realisable revenues. “Estimates of the revenue gap per unit of power sold (average cost of supply minus average realisable revenues) for 2019-20 reveal that most states have seen a further worsening in their financial performance,” the RBI report said. “Only five states – Assam, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana and Maharashtra – have eliminated revenue gaps in 2019-20, thus meeting the UDAY target. Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have the highest revenue gaps, which have widened further in 2019-20,” the report said. However, the RBI report has warned that the financial position of power distribution companies is expected to weaken further in 2020-21 as the Covid-19 lockdown has severely impacted power demand, particularly in the lucrative industrial and commercial segments. “While the Union government announced a liquidity support of Rs 90,000 crore for state power distribution corporations (discoms), which may help tide over immediate liquidity concerns, another round of bailouts of loss-making discoms seems imminent in the aftermath of the crisis, imparting downside risks to state finances,” the RBI report said. Goa had a shortfall of 0.30 paise per unit of power as on March 2019, improved to a surplus of 0.1 paise per unit of power as on March 2020. With such a slim margin, the RBI prediction that state-owned enterprises face a significant downside risk due to Covid-19 suggests that Goa Electricity Department faces difficult days ahead. The government had launched the UDAY scheme in November 2015 with the objective of financial turnaround of discoms. The way to reduce the losses is to progressively increase power tariffs, which in Goa remain among the lowest in the country. Going forward, managing fiscal risk through well laid down strategies is going to be critical, especially with the emergence of new shocks and risks - the global financial crisis, natural calamities and now the pandemic, the RBI report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-among-five-states-to-meet-centres-power-revenue-target/articleshow/78961190.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru City Corporation to incentivise segregation of solid waste||MANGALURU: With no end in sight to the city’s growing solid waste management (SWM) woes, Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) is exhorting citizens to participate in handling domestic waste on their own. In offering 50% rebate in SWM cess levied with property tax and in trade licence, the civic body has seen a way forward to address this issue. MCC will shortly disburse rebate certificates to households or commercial units that have taken a lead in this direction. Madhu Manohar, MCC environmental engineer, told TOI that the Pachanady landfill disaster and subsequent developments in the high court have brought intense focus on the civic body’s handling of the city’s waste. MCC is ensuring that Antony Waste Handling Cell Private Limited, the agency contracted to handle the city’s waste, too falls in line and takes only segregated waste from the households and commercial bulk waste generators, he said. The pilot that MCC started in five wards with segregated waste collection nearly a year ago, has since been extended to all 60 wards of the corporation. Antony Waste has been directed to ensure that dry and wet waste is not mixed in either their primary waste transport vehicle or in the secondary compactor vehicle that takes the trash to the city’s landfill at Pachanady. The onus is now also on households to go in for segregation compulsorily, he said. The move to announce rebate in SWM cess in light of above development has evoked a good response, Madhu said. As on date, 51-odd residential apartments and around 4,000 individual households are processing wet waste generated on their own, by means of composting. These stakeholders are also coming forward to apply for SWM cess rebate, and the civic body will formally hand over the rebate certificates to them shortly, he said. Akshy Sridhar, commissioner, said the move to segregate waste at source will make it easy for MCC to process the same at its compost making plant at Pachanady. “We are upgrading our machinery to handle wet waste more scientifically,” he said. The health department is keeping a watch on the contractor to ensure that mixed waste is not taken to Pachanady. Rewarding citizens following norms, with a rebate too is part of the process, he said. “The MCC will accept claims from people, organisations or any other party affected in any way by the landslide in Pachanady and Kudpu villages on August 2019, as directed by the high court. Claimants may submit their claims to the commissioner, MCC from 3pm onwards on Tuesday . They may do so either in person, or through the district legal services authority as directed by the high court. MCC will process their claims and make a final settlement within six months,” said Akshy Shridhar, commissioner, MCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-to-incentivise-segregation-of-solid-waste/articleshow/78958560.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||19-yr-old woman found dead||Vijayawada: A 19-year-old woman was found dead at her residence in Yerrabalem village of Mangalagiri mandal in Guntur district on Thursday. The deceased, identified as Kunnera Venkatalakshmi, was found dead by locals, according to Mangalagiri circle inspector Seshagiri Rao. When police reached the spot, they found blood stains on the floor and the deceased had suffered a severe injury to her head leading them to suspect that she was murdered. Venkatalakshmi from Yerrabalem village fell in love with Yekayya from the same colony. The two got married three months back. Venkatalakshmi’s parents have alleged that her husband Yekayya could have been involved with the murder. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-yr-old-woman-found-dead/articleshow/78960008.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Incentives for buyers in electric vehicle policy||HYDERABAD: In a bid to develop an apt electric vehicle ecosystem in the state, the Telangana’s Electric Vehicles and Energy Storage Systems (EV & ESS) policy plans to push demand by offering incentives for consumers to opt for EVs. Encouraging consumers to go for EV vehicles, the government will be offering 100% exemption of road tax & registration fee for the first 5,000 private electric 4-wheelers purchased and registered in the state. As part of the policy, existing state self-employment schemes will be extended to provide financial assistance for purchase of EVs for commercial purposes also. Even the adoption of EVs at institutional level will be promoted starting with government entities. In fact, the government also plans to invest in the charging infrastructure in the initial stage so as to boost the EV adoption in the state. The policy also proposes setting up of preferential parking slots with required charging infrastructure for EVs. Not just the individual customers, the state government aims to work towards increasing the adoption of EV in public transportation, two & three wheelers, four-wheelers, light commercial vehicles and shared transportation. “To promote the demand side, one has to start with public transport as that would give confidence to consumers that EV are performing well,” said Telangana IT and industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan during the launch of EV policy on Friday. Telanagana transport principal secretary Sunil Sharma too said that state RTC has been running 40 electric buses and is keen on increasing the numbers in the coming days. “By charging for 3 hours, we are able to run these buses for 300km. Even the maintenance cost is very low. We are also saving a lot on the diesel cost,” he added. Besides encouraging public transport to go the EV way, the state government will also focus on developing Telangana as a hub for cutting-edge research and development in EV, battery technologies and other emerging technologies such as autonomous/connected vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/incentives-for-buyers-in-ev-policy/articleshow/78960024.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Almost ‘zero rainfall’ in October may hit rabi crops in U’khand||Dehradun: The south-west monsoon has ended with a rain deficiency of 21% while the month of October — the first month of the post-monsoon season — has witnessed a 99% rain deficit. These conditions might take a toll on the upcoming rabi crops, say experts. The state received 0.1 mm rainfall between October 1 and October 30 against a normal of 33.6 mm. About 11 districts receiving ‘zero rainfall’. Only Pithoragarh and Chamoli districts received isolated showers in the past 48 hours, still recording rain deficit of 99% and 98%, respectively,. Met officials believe that the scanty rainfall resulting in huge deficiency directly impacts the moisture in soil and this may impact the farmers planning to sow Rabi crops, which is usually sown in mid-November. Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, said, “As the monsoon withdrew on time this year and there has been no rain in the state since September 26, the rain deficiency would directly impact the moisture available in soil, more so if the dry spell continues in the first fortnight of November.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/almost-zero-rainfall-in-october-may-hit-rabi-crops-in-ukhand/articleshow/78958565.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||War of words: BJP, Congress trade charges over corruption, compensation to disaster-hit families||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand units of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress traded charges over issues ranging from corruption to compensation for disaster-hit people on Friday. During a press conference on the day, former state chief minister (CM) and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat raised the issue of compensation to disaster victims of Pithoragarh saying that the incumbent state government is yet to give financial relief to many of the affected families. “I have been to Pithoragarh and have met the disaster-affected victims. Around 28 people had lost their lives in the landslides which took place in June and July. Many homes were totally destroyed and others were badly damaged. The BJP-led state government in Uttarakhand has not just failed in giving compensation to these people but is also asking the homeless and poor people to vacate the disaster camps as they are being shut now. This is inhuman,” said Rawat. The Congress leader also took a dig at the BJP when asked about the allegations of corruption on CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. “When the same journalist conducted a sting operation on me, the BJP was garlanding him. What happened now? The same man has become a fraud now,” asked Harish Rawat. Quickly reacting to the allegations levelled by the Congress, BJP chief spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan, in another press conference, especially organised to counter Congress, said, “I would like to tell Harish Rawat Ji that a corruption-free BJP government, under the leadership of CM Trivendra Singh Rawat Ji, has given Rs 3 lakh to every household that was destroyed in the disaster. This is double the amount that was given to the disaster-hit families when Harish Rawat was in office. Those who lost their family member(s) in the disaster were given Rs 4 lakh. Besides, the state government is also giving six-month home rent to those affected people who want to live in rented accomodations and get their homes constructed in the village,” added Chauhan. In regards to the corruption allegations against CM Rawat, Chauhan said that the Congress leaders know that they have lost ground in the state and hence, are attempting to malign the CM’s image by conspiring with Umesh Sharma. “I would like to tell the people of Uttarakhand that conspiracy theories and fake allegations by the Congress will increase as we reach close to the election date,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/war-of-words-bjp-congress-trade-charges-over-corruption-compensation-to-disaster-hit-families/articleshow/78958574.cms||Ishita Mishra
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: Seven killed as van plunges down ghat road in East Godavari||RAJAHMUNDRY: Tragedy struck a marriage party in the wee hours of Friday when seven persons, including four women, were killed after the van they were travelling in plunged down the ghat road leading to the temple of Sri Venkateswara Swamy. The accident happened at Thantikonda village in Gokavaram mandal of East Godavari district. The van fell 10 feet down on the pedestrian steps of the temple. Eight others, who suffered serious injuries, have been admitted to different hospitals in Rajahmundry and Kakinada. The accident happened when the van was coming downhill from the temple after the marriage ceremony at about 2.30 am on Friday. Police suspect the driver may have dozed off or was speeding down the ghat road, leading to the accident. The deceased belonged to Gokavaram and Thakur Palem villages. The victims have been identified as Yalla Naga Sreelakshmi (33) of Diwan Cheruvu in Rajanagaram mandal, Kambala Bhanu (33) of Gokavaram, Simhadri Durga Prasad (19) from Thakur Palem village in Gokavaram mandal, Changanti Hema Sri Lalitha (13) of Gadarada village in Korukonda mandal, Yalla Divya Siva Gayathri (13) of Diwan Cheruvu village in Rajanagaram mandal, Pachikuri Narasimha Murthy Dora (25) of Gangampalem village in Gokavaram mandal, and Somarouthu Gopalakrishna (72) from Thallapuram village in Unguturu mandal of West Godavari district. The marriage ceremony ended at around 2 pm, following which 22 people boarded the ill-fated van. The van fell on the pathway for foot pilgrims adjacent to the ghat road. After falling on the pedestrian route, the vehicle overturned, killing five people on the spot. Two others died while receiving treatment in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-killed-as-van-plunges-down-ghat-road-in-east-godavari/articleshow/78960027.cms||Samson Raj
October 31, 2020||Goa||‘Let Maha, K’taka use their ports to import coal’||Colva: Benualim MLA Churchill Alemao on Friday said that the Karnataka and Maharashtra should use their own ports to import coal for industries in their states. “The only purpose the government is pushing double tracking is to transport coal to Maharashtra and Karnataka. Goa does not have coal-based industries. If the neighbouring states want coal for their industries then it should imported through to their ports. It is a wrong decision of the government to allow transportation of coal to these states through Goa,” he said. While stating that he is opposing double tracking and transportation of coal through Goa, he urged all the 40 legislators to unitedly oppose the projects for the welfare of the state. Earlier, on October 2, Alemao had said that it is a central project and the state government does not have much say in the matter and that all three MPs should have objected to it in Parliament. The NCP MLA said his support to the government is issue-based but he does not support it on double tracking and transportation of coal through Goa. “If transportation of coal is allowed it will spell the death knell for the tourism industry and the state,” said Alemao. Stating that while the state government is trying hard to get mining started, the former chief minister said that if mining is allowed, it will be difficult to accommodate ore at the Mormugao port along with the ongoing coal import. When questioned whether he would support the agitation against double tracking and coal transportation, Alemao said, “During the language and statehood agitations I have galvanised lakhs of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/let-maha-ktaka-use-their-ports-to-import-coal/articleshow/78961219.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||Curbs in East & West, more Indians head for Maldives, Dubai this Diwali||MUMBAI: For over two decades, top international tourist hotspots for Indians have been South East Asian destinations of Bangkok and Singapore. But this Diwali, with travel restrictions brought on by Covid-19, preferences have changed, and for most holiday-makers it’s Maldives or Dubai, destinations currently with least hurdles for foreign tourists. Demand for Male is evident in airfares on flights out of cities like Mumbai and Delhi. On Friday, the average return fare on Mumbai-Male route for travel on most days in November and December was around Rs26,000, with the cheapest fare hovering around Rs22,000. Pre-Covid, for a Mumbai-Male flight, the cheapest fare would have begun at around Rs15,000, said a travel agent. Aditya Agarwal of Cleartrip said, “Data on our platform shows Male and Dubai are by far top two destinations during the Diwali weekend. Mumbai is the leading source for both destinations. Male is also preferred from Bangalore and New Delhi.” Anoop Kanuga of Bathija Travels said, “During Diwali holidays and right up to Christmas, we can see tourist movement to Maldives and Dubai. Couples prefer travelling to Maldives and families with children largely prefer Dubai. Since most schools and colleges are online, demand is scattered up to the end of December.” As Dubai is served by comparatively more flights, it has emerged as cheaper of the two as far as fares are concerned. The cheapest return fare between Dubai and Mumbai was around Rs15,000 for travel in November. India was the top tourist source market for Dubai, with nearly 1.4 million visitors in 2019 and demand continues this year, though volumes are low. A travel industry insider said, “With Schengen tourist visas not being issued, UK making a 14-day quarantine mandatory, US not issuing fresh visas and most South East Asian destinations closed to Indian tourists, international holiday options have narrowed down this winter. With curtailed flights and India’s ban on international scheduled flights, tourist traffic this winter will only be a fraction of last year’s.” In October and November last year (Diwali was on October 27), over four million Indians travelled overseas for leisure, work and other reasons, according to Bureau of Immigration. Top destinations for Indian tourists in 2019 were Thailand, Singapore, US, Malaysia and Dubai, data collected by an online visa service provider showed. Thailand and Singapore together had over four million Indian visitors in 2019, according to data from tourism departments of these countries. Maldives was way behind at number 10 spot. That ranking is probably set to change this winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/curbs-in-east-west-more-indians-head-for-maldives-dubai-this-diwali/articleshow/78961604.cms||Manju V
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Tibetan youths take out bike rally to oppose China, show support for Indian armed forces||Mussoorie: A team of around 30 Tibetan youths embarked on a bike rally from Mussoorie to Gangotri on Friday. The rally, the youths said, is being taken out as “a mark of respect for Indian armed forces and to oppose China's oppressive policies”. A team of about 30 bikers, all Tibetan youths from Dehradun, were flagged-off from Dalai Hill at Happy Valley, Mussoorie by Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi. The bikers would drive for more than 200 kilometres to reach Gangotri. Tenzin Choden, one of the bikers, said that “The purpose of this bike rally is to show solidarity with the Indian armed forces, oppose China’s oppressive policies in Tibet, and urge people to boycott Chinese products.” Choden added that another purpose of the rally is to hold China accountable for Covid-19 virus that has affected the world and claimed millions of lives. Meanwhile, Tsering Loden, president of Regional Tibetan Youth Committee (RTYC) of Mussoorie, said, “The rally is a way to convey to the world that Tibet stands in solidarity with India. We are against the illegal occupation of Tibet by the Chinese forces. Tibet must be liberated from the Chinese occupation.” Meanwhile, a car and bike rally to Nelong Valley was flagged off from Municipal Corporation office in Dehradun on Friday. The rally, organized by India Tibet Cooperation Forum and Regional Tibetan Youth Congress, was flagged off by Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal 'Gama'. The aim of the rally to the cold deserted mountain area of Uttarkashi district is to show support for the Indian Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tibetan-youths-take-out-bike-rally-to-oppose-china-show-support-for-indian-armed-forces/articleshow/78958608.cms||Anmol Jain
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Century-old Jauljibi Mela to not be held this yr due to Covid-19||Pithoragarh: In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Dharchula administration has decided to not organise Jauljibi Mela this year. The traditional Jauljibi Mela, which was officially started by an aristocratic landowner (zamindar) of Askot town, began in 1911. It is a trade fair that once used to attract merchants from Nepal, Tibet and China. The fair is especially famous for the sale of raw wool and warm clothes. “It won’t be possible to maintain Covid-19 protocols during the fair and hence, we have decided to not hold it this year,” said SK Shukla, SDM, Dharchula. Dhrendra Dharmsaktu, president of traders' association, told TOI, “This year, the Indo-China annual border trade at Lipulekh was also cancelled due to Covid-19 and thus, the local traders of Bhotia community do not have any goods to sell. So, they were not enthusiastic for the Jauljibi Mela this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/century-old-jauljibi-mela-to-not-be-held-this-yr-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/78958625.cms||Prem Punetha
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Spend at least 40% funds for self-employment on animal husbandry, agriculture, fisheries and honey bee farming: CM to DMs||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday directed all district magistrates (DMs) to ensure that 40% of the funds for self-employment schemes at the district level are spent on animal husbandry, agriculture, fisheries and honey bee farming sector. CM Rawat also directed DMs to continuously coordinate with banks, so that entrepreneurs do not face problems in taking loans and self-employed people can strengthen their ventures. “As many as 10,000 motorbikes have been approved in the tourism sector, on which the interest of up to 2 years will be borne by the state government. Besides, 50% subsidy is being given for the purchase of buses under Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali Tourism Self-Employment Scheme,” the CM said. Rawat also met a large number of local party workers, councillors, gram pradhans and panchayat members at Lachchiwala Forest Guest House, heard their complaints and gave the necessary directions to officials to resolve the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/spend-at-least-40-funds-for-self-employment-on-animal-husbandry-agriculture-fisheries-and-honey-bee-farming-cm-to-dms/articleshow/78958660.cms||Gaurav Talwar
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||IIT Roorkee develops biosensor to accurately detect environmental pollutant||Roorkee: A five-member team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT-R) claimed to have developed the world’s first specific reliable bacterial biosensor to detect the presence of a common environmental pollutant - Sodium Dodecyl Sulphate or Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (popularly known as SDS). SDS is extensively used in soaps, toothpaste, creams, shampoos, laundry detergents in households, agricultural operations, laboratories and industries. Its subsequent disposal in waterways causes harmful effects on aquatic organisms, environmental microcosms and associated living organisms, besides deteriorating the quality of drinking water. Until now, there were no specific biosensors developed to date for the detection of SDS with high precision. According to the researchers, they genetically redesigned DNA of a specified bacterium (Pseudomonas aeruginosa) for their research. “We have developed a biosensor to detect the presence of harmful detergent (SDS ) in the environment after redesigning the DNA in bacteria (which gives signal in the form of a green fluorescent protein. The highlight of this biosensor is its sensitivity to even minute quantities of SDS in the environment and its ability to distinguish between SDS and SDBS (sodium dodecybenzenesulfonate),” said Naveen Kumar Navani, Department of Biotechnology, IIT Roorkee. “This is the world’s first whole-cell bacterial biosensor for direct, specific and efficient detection of SDS, without involving sample preparation steps, toxic chemicals, sophisticated polymers and sensor development steps” said Sourik Dey, final year MSc student at IIT Roorkee and lead author of the study that announced discovery of the biosensor. The findings have been published in ‘Biosensors and Bioelectronics’ a peer-reviewed journal published by Elsevier publication. Apart from Navani and Dey, other members of the research team include Shahnawaz Ahmad Baba, Ankita Bhatt and Rajat Dhyani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-roorkee-develops-biosensor-to-accurately-detect-environmental-pollutant/articleshow/78958654.cms||Tapan Susheel
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangalore University mulls setting up chair for dairy farming||MANGALURU: Soon a dedicated chair on dairy farming is expected to be set up at the Mangalore University campus. The university has constituted a committee to examine the pros and cons of setting up the chair. The chair is expected to focus on the study of various aspects of dairy farming in the state. Confirming the development, P S Yadapadithaya, vice-chancellor, told TOI that based on a request from a syndicate member to set up a chair, they have constituted a committee that will evaluate the need as well as examine its feasibility. “Following the committee’s report, further action will be taken. The university has the expertise in varied subjects, that may be channelised to bring about innovation, research and training for cooperatives,” he said. Meanwhile, the Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Limited (DKMUL) board is yet to discuss the issue. Raviraja Hegde, president, DKMUL, said that the board has not discussed the issue, and will take up the matter soon. Opinions over setting up a chair at the Mangalore University have been mixed. A few experts feel that value addition should not be restricted to only milk and milk products. The chair will enhance research. For instance, there is a scope for research in terms of developing and marketing organic manure. Worldwide, a lot of developments are taking place in the dairy farming sector and there is a lot to learn about breeds and animal care, they feel. However, a few members feel that the proposal can be put on hold for the time-being. “During the pandemic, the demand for milk and milk products fell by about 20%. Milk production has increased, but the demand has remained the same. The sector enjoys government support. All unions have sufficient stock of milk powder too. Value addition needs to be strengthened, but this would mean additional investment and not many unions at this point of time are ready for it,” a union member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mu-mulls-setting-up-chair-for-dairy-farming/articleshow/78958661.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||My nana, Captain Mohansingh Bayas||Praveensingh Pardeshi’s grandfather passed away in Pune a couple of days ago at 99. He was ADC to the last Chhatrapati of Kolhapur and served as ACP in Nagpur for a few yearsCaptain Mohansingh Bayas was an army officer in Raja Ram Rifles, the royal army of the Kolhapur Maharaja. He worked as ADC to Shahaji Raje, the last Chhatrapati of Kolhapur state. He was deputed to Landli Kotal on the Afghanistan border to keep peace during the restive Second World War period against rebellious Pakhtun tribes by the British. He spent his time walking the mountains and hunting chukar (patridge). Bayas missed his wife Meera Deo so much that he secretly called her in defiance of army orders to maintain strictly non-family residence. He was reprimanded by his superior but Bayas kept Meera in a hired house nearby. Meera and Mohan were inseparable since the age of 18. They met on the way to a film when he was only 18 years. On first sight, Mohansingh was smitten. He proposed to the girl’s father — the eminent lawyer of Kolhapur, Narayansingh Deo (actor Ramesh Deo’s father). An early marriage followed. Bayas was closely associated with the last days of accession of Kolhapur to the Union of India. Kolhapur was the last of the states to accede. Shahaji Raje was confident that until Baroda had not acceded, he could hold out. My grandfather accompanied Shahaji Raje to meet Sardar Valabhbhai Patel. VP Menon, secretary to Sardar Patel, showed Shahaji Raje that Baroda had already signed the accession deed six months ago. Sardar Patel convinced him to sign on the dotted line of merger with the Union. When Shahaji Raje came out of the meeting, Nana reminisces, he was heartbroken. Clasping my grandfather, Shahaji Raje said, “Mohan, apla Kolhapur gela.” (We have lost our Kolhapur). My grandfather was a great naturalist even though hunting was the norm those days. While learning jungle warfare, he went on a long walk with Jim Corbett. When they sat down for a small break, Corbett quietly told him, “Mohansingh you are sitting on a curled up python.” After the second World War, Kolhapur Rifles was disbanded and Bayas absorbed in the state police. He served in Dahanu, Dhule, Alibaug and Solapur. Nana was at his peak as ACP of Nagpur for several years. He was famously known for having put down the violent protest launched by Jambuwant Dhote by resorting to police firing in which a few people were shot. The inquiry by sitting high court Judge Justice Ghatne stated: “By sacrificing a few lives Mohansingh dispersed a mob of over 1 lakh people with just a platoon. If he had not dispersed the mob, Nagpur would have burnt and more lives would have been lost.” For this feat, he received the President’s police gallantry award. As a young police officer, nana was in charge of PM Jawaharlal Nehru’s security arrangements. When crowds surged too close to the PM, he used the lathi to maintain distance. Nehruji, watching from a distance, was annoyed. He rushed towards Mohansingh and took the lathi away and scolded him that you should not treat people like this. Mohansingh responded, “I am keeping my PM safe as per the police protocol.” Nehruji only smiled (anecdote published in Readers Digest). Mohan was at the centre of a large joint family. His mother Deepabai lived with him from the age of 30 until her death at 90. Meera kept a house open to all children, grandchildren and great grand children over 3 generations. Our summer holidays from Shillong, Jorhat and Wellington, where we moved with my Air Force father Group Captain Pardeshi, were memorable. Every year we spent dreamlike holidays in the large family home of my nana in Nagpur, Daund and Pune. He would fulfil every childhood fantasy for us. From putting up movies on a screen in the garden, to bringing buckets of Dinshaw ice cream, nana’s home in holidays was the sweetest place on earth. All our growing childhood memories are linked to nana’s home and, nani and aji cooking all the Maharashtrian delicacies. After retiring as IPS officer he used to counsel police personnel to overcome their administrative difficulties. He even wrote a wonderful book — Dandeli Chi Waghin. It chronicles his encounters with wild leopards and elephants in Maharashtra and Karnataka. In his late 70s, when he lost his wife and mother, nana was inconsolable. However, his children and grandchildren made all-out efforts to give him a raison d’être and kept his spirit high. With me, he visited Mont Blanc and pretended to be Hannibal crossing the pass. With his other grandson Prashant, he visited Indonesia where he climbed down to one of the active volcanoes. Priya and Ajay took him driving in Denmark. His grandson Shatrughan went to Hong Kong. Shardul, Shilpa, Santosh and Sidharth always doted over him. We all wanted him to score a century. But God willed otherwise. Nana passed away in his sleep at the ripe old age of 99 on Thursday. He is survived by his son, PM Bayas (ex IAS officer), daughter-in-law Sulabha, and daughters Mangala and Meena, both married to Air Force officers — Group Captain Pardeshi and Komal Singh Pardeshi. We, 8 grandchildren and further generation of great grandchildren, will always treasure the memory of that young sprightly police officer who was a role model for me and inspired me to join the civil services. He was a loving grandfather to all of us and made our childhood most wonderful and a happy period of our lives. (The writer is with the United Nations Institute for Training and Research as the Global Programme Coordinator for the Defeat-NCD Partnership. He was additional chief secretary and former Mumbai municipal commissioner)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/my-nana-captain-mohansingh-bayas/articleshow/78974083.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||M&M K2 tractors to be made in Telangana||Hyderabad: In a major boost for the automobile sector in the state, auto giant Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) will be manufacturing its latest tractor series, which is being developed on a new platform K2, exclusively at its Zaheerabad plant in Telangana. “We have future plans for the state. We are developing a new tractor series called K2 and it is being developed in Japan and this is by far our most ambitious tractor development project ever. We have decided that Zaheerabad plant will be the sole location in India to manufacture this tractor. This will lead to more than doubling employment in the tractor plant,” M&M MD & CEO Pawan Goenka said during the launch of Telangana EV policy. M&M has invested over Rs 1,000 crore at its Zaheerabad plant in Telangana and it employs over 4,500 people in that unit, he added. Goenka also said that M&M will plan its next phase EV expansion in the state. M&M has already launched five EV models and it will be launching another two models this year, he added. He said with FAME incentives, GST benefits and state government initiative, it is time for the industry to step up its game and start investing in EV technology for India. “India is lagging behind other nations…As of now the product offerings are very limited and except at the very low-end, the products are far too expensive. All global OEMs are investing in EVs but in India, OEMs are still in the wait and watch mode. It is important that we make India’s frugal approach to make EV affordable,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mm-k2-tractors-to-be-made-in-telangana/articleshow/78960057.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Student seeking flight ticket refund, loses Rs 3.2 lakh to fraudster||PUNE: A student seeking refund of a Pune-Chennai flight ticket lost Rs 3.2 lakh after a cybercrook siphoned off the money from the bank account held by him and his parents by way of 32 transactions of Rs10,000 each. Police said the fraudster used a remote desktop software application to siphon off the money via multiple transactions on September 20. The student’s mother, a resident of Karvenagar, lodged an FIR with the Warje Malwadi police on Thursday following a verification of her complaint application by the Pune cyber police. Inspector Amrut Marathe of the Warje Malwadi police said, “The woman’s son is pursuing his studies in Tirupati, around 150km from Chennai, and had returned to Pune during the lockdown. However, his belongings were still there. In September, he had booked a flight to and from Chennai for bringing his belongings home. He booked the air tickets on the website of an airline company.” “A few days later the woman’s son received an SMS that his flight had been cancelled. He surfed the net and contacted the customer care number of the airline. The man who responded to the call promised the complainant’s son of a refund of the entire amount. He managed to get the bank details from her son and requested him to download ‘Anydesk’ software and ‘SMS to Phone’ applications. The man then asked her son to send him a trial message,” he said. Marathe said, “Soon after, the suspect made 32 transactions of Rs10,000 each to transfer the money from the bank account to an e-wallet account.” Senior inspector Machchindra Pandit of the Warje Malwadi police said, “By misusing the services of the applications, the suspects created mirror images of the electronic devices held by the victims. The mirror images enable cybercrooks to access the cellphone or laptop of the victims from some remote location. By using text message, the suspects send some links to the victim who then download such links and share the details of the bank or credit/debit card on the system, which is already in control of fraudster. By using the details, the fraudster then siphons off the money from the victim’s bank account.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/student-seeking-flight-ticket-refund-loses-rs3-2-lakh-to-fraudster/articleshow/78961616.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 31, 2020||Vadodara||Imposter ‘inspects’ Covid-19 hospital||Vadodara: An imposter took an inspection round at the GMERS Hospital at Gotri early in the morning on October 19. Meanwhile, authorities at the hospital that has been designated as a Covid-19 hospital were already expecting an inspection by officials of the state health department and the superintendent of the hospital had asked the staffers to stay prepared and cooperate with the inspection team. Hence, the charade by the man who identified himself as an ex-army doctor Lakshyapreet Singh went undetected. It came to light that he had no connection with the health department. According to the offence registered by the resident medical officer Dr Ajit Jhaveri, a man came to the Covid-19 OPD and said that he had come for checking. The doctors on duty shared details of patients with Singh. Later, the man wanted to visit the ICU and go inside the OPD. A staffer asked his identity card at this time, but the man left from the hospital in a car. Later, when the inspection team from Gandhinagar came to the hospital, it was asked about the man. The officials did not know anything about him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/imposter-inspects-covid-19-hospital/articleshow/78958405.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC lens on irregularities in RR dist hosps’ construction||HYDERABAD: The HC on Friday issued notices to health secretary, ACB director general and commissioner of Telangana Vigilance Commission and asked them to respond to irregularities in construction of hospitals and other health facilities in Rangareddy district within four weeks. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy issued notices to MD of Telangana State Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation also in connection with a PIL filed by Syed Naveeduddin of Forum for Anti-corruption, an NGO. In his PIL, Naveeduddin alleged that medical and health department’s construction works in Rangareddy district and Secunderabad were being entrusted to those who were close to the authorities which, he said, was leading to misappropriation of public funds. He also contended in his plea that his complaints to the authorities had been ignored. The petitioner cited construction of a new blood bank building at Kondapur area hospital, district TB control centre at Mailardevpally primary health centre, upgradation of Vikarabad government hospital to 100 beds, etc. He also listed modernisation of casualty and gas pipeline systems at Gandhi hospital’s emergency block and also its emergency ward and operation theatre construction of library cum lecture hall at Gandhi medical college, Rs 50 lakh worth construction of sub-registrar office building at Ghatkesar, maternity and child health centre at Tandur, renovation of T B sanitorium at Ananthagiri hospital in Vikarabad, ayurvedic hospital building at Katedan, renovation of health centre at Mansurabad etc. He sought an inquiry into issue and also strict action against errant officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-lens-on-irregularities-in-rr-dist-hosps-construction/articleshow/78960071.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: One killed as drunk driver rams sedan into vehicle on ORR||HYDERABAD: Drunken driving caused the death of a person on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) at Dundigal on Friday. Three others, including the driver suffered injuries. At 2.30am, a sedan, proceeding towards Kukatpally from Warangal, rammed into an unknown vehicle from behind on the ORR. The driver of the car, Jagadeeshwar, who was drunk, escaped with injuries as the airbag opened. Jagadeeshwar’s friends, Balaji, who sat next to him and Ravi, who sat behind Jagadeeshwar suffered injuries. The fourth person, Praveen, a private worker, who sat behind Balaji, suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. The injured were shifted to a private hospital in Kompally. The blood alcohol content of Jagadeeshwar was 95 mg/100 ml. Police registered a case under section 304 (II) of the Indian Penal Cose (IPC) against Jagadeeshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-killed-as-drunk-driver-rams-sedan-into-vehicle-on-orr/articleshow/78960074.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Farmer leaders to campaign against BJP in Sira, RR Nagar||MYSURU: Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene state president Badagalapura Nagendra on Friday urged farmers to defeat BJP candidates in the Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar bypolls as BJP-led governments in the Centre and state have brought anti-farmer laws. He said farmer leaders will campaign against BJP candidates from Saturday in both constituencies. Freedom fighter HS Doreswamy, activist and actor Chethan, writer and activist BT Lalitha Naik, litterateur SG Siddaramaiah and labour leader Michael Fernandez will take part in the inaugural campaign at RR Nagar on Saturday. KRRS has planned to hold a Delhi Chalo protest on November 26 and 27 and has given a call to block highways across Karnataka on November 5 to prevail upon the Centre to withdraw the anti-farmer laws it introduced recently, he said. As Karnataka has suffered losses due to floods, he demanded that the centre announce Rs 1 lakh crore package for the state. Cane growers’ protest on Monday Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers Association President Kurubur Shanthakumar said on Friday that association members will protest in all district and taluk headquarters in the state on November 2, urging the government to provide higher price for sugarcane. He said the fair and remunerative price (FRP) fixed by the Centre at Rs 2,850 per tonne was not adequate and didn’t even cover the input cost. He wanted the state government to announce a state advisory price (SAP) of at least Rs 350 more per tonne along with Rs 200 incentive per tonne, over and above the FRP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmer-leaders-to-campaign-against-bjp-in-sira-rr-nagar/articleshow/78959465.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Mapusa Urban depositors want liquidation process expedited||PANAJI: Upset with their money being stuck, aggrieved depositors of the erstwhile Mapusa Urban Coop Bank of Goa (MUCB) on Friday said they are unhappy with the “prolonged delay” and slow liquidation process. In a signed statement, depositors demanded that the government-appointed liquidator, Daulat Hawaldar, speed up the liquidation process and ensure that all the depositors get their money back. They also expressed concern over the continued expenditure on rent and utility services at the defunct bank’s 15 branches. “The depositors demand that the liquidator immediately set in motion the liquidation proceedings, the process of paying the depositors as per the DICGC Act, 1961, wherein every depositor is entitled to repayment of his or her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of Rs 5 lakh,” Joseph Carneiro, a depositor, said. Around two lakh account holders have been frozen out of their deposits since July 2015 due to financial curbs enforced by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which culminated in the cancellation of the bank’s license this April. The depositors also want Hawaldar to take cognisance of the financial irregularities that led to MUCB’s downfall and want complaints to be filed with the Economic Offences Wing and Enforcement Directorate against the management of the bank. The RBI, in its audit, identified serious financial irregularities that were detrimental to the functioning of the bank. “The liquidator miserably failed to cite and take note of these for reasons best known to him. Unfortunately here in Goa, the culprits responsible for banking frauds are still at large and scot-free without shame or fear of any authority,” Prabhakar Salgaonkar, another depositor, said. Hawaldar, the former finance secretary of Goa, met with the depositors on October 27 and agreed to be present at the Panaji branch every Tuesday morning to meet them and address their concerns. Among the many requests of the depositors is a demand for the bank’s loan defaulters to be publicly named. Arun Khaunte, a depositor, said that of the 24 branches across Goa, 15 are on rented premises. “The continued rentals of these 15 branches, salaries of the staff, electricity bills and other utilities accrue an additional financial burden that the liquidator has failed to act upon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-urban-depositors-want-liquidation-process-expedited/articleshow/78961251.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 60% ventilator beds full, but good recovery rate a boost||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 bed occupancy and ventilator requirement in Delhi government and private hospitals have witnessed a sharp rise in the past fortnight. With the number of daily new cases rising due to multiple factors, including season change, high pollution and reckless behaviour by citizens, nearly 40% of the Covid beds and 60% of the ventilators are currently in use. On October 13, 587 ventilators and 616 ICU beds without ventilators were occupied. These had increased to 780 and 1,190, respectively, on October 29. However, because more than 4,000 people recover daily and many of the new cases are advised home isolation, there is no immediate increase in the strain on the Covid care infrastructure. The occupancy in private hospitals is higher than in government hospitals. According to Covid beds occupancy status on a Delhi government website, 15,760 beds are kept aside for Covid in in all the hospitals, of which 6,242 are currently occupied. The website, delhifightscorona.in, is dynamic and the occupancy status of beds and ventilators changes numerous times in a day. In Lok Nayak Hospital, Delhi government’s largest dedicated Covid facility, 1,435 of the 2,010 reserved beds were vacant on Friday evening, while in GTB, 1,300 of the 1,500 lay unoccupied. Among private facilities, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals had 148 of its 300 Covid beds free, though only 24 out of 250 beds were vacant in Max Saket. More than 60% of the available ventilators in Delhi were occupied on Friday. Of the 1,244 ventilators in city hospitals, 787 were in use, though unevenly. So, while Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital had 198 unused ventilators among 200 there only 14 were not in use among the 200 at Lok Nayak Hospital. These figures make it clear that Despite the spike in cases, there is no immediate crisis of beds in Delhi and no major strain on the existing health infrastructure. While around 4,000 Covid-positive people are asked to go into home quarantine, over 16,000 Covid beds in hospitals and care centres are available for use. Dr Mahesh Verma, member of Delhi government’s Covid experts panel, said. “We see that 15%-20% of Covid-positive people have moderate to severe symptoms. Only 5%-7% require hospitalisation due to comorbidities or advanced age. Hospitals have upgraded a large number of beds in general wards to oxygenated beds because many patients need oxygen but are not critical enough to be shifted to the ICU or ventilator beds.” A health department official said on Friday that there was no plan at present to associated hotels and banquet halls with Covid hospitals. Another official said any additional beds required can be set up in central and Delhi government hospitals or at Commonwealth Games Village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/60-ventilator-beds-full-but-good-recovery-rate-a-boost/articleshow/78960118.cms||AlokKNMishra
October 31, 2020||Pune||Pune police to act tough against ‘noisy bikers’||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad traffic police have launched a drive against motorcyclists modifying silencers of their vehicles to make deafening sounds, triggering noise pollution. The offenders would have to pay a penalty of Rs1,000 and change the modified silencer, police said. “Modification without prior permission is an offence as per the Motor Vehicles Act,” assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Shrikant Disale told TOI. Disale said the police had also warned the garage owners against making modifications in silencers of two-wheelers, especially of the Royal Enfield motorcycles.He said the police collected a fine of Rs2.3 lakh from owners of 211 bullets with modified silencers in the last eight days. Disale said the police have also warned the number plate makers against making fancy number plates, adding that 77 violators had been fined of Rs55,000 collectively in the past eight days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-to-act-tough-against-noisy-bikers/articleshow/78961619.cms||Mihir Tanksale
October 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Mid-term assessment on social media for standards I to IX||PUNE: All state board students from standards I to IX will take an online mid-term assessment on WhatsApp starting from the first week of November. The education department has roped in software firm ConveGenius to devise the tests to be taken on the social media platform. Students will receive time-bound multiple choice questions for all the subjects. The results for each test will be generated immediately. The assessment will be based on the online classes that they are undergoing in the last three months. The student will send his/ her name to the WhatsApp number given by the respective teacher and questions will follow. Each question will pop up after the answer to the previous one has been sent. The time taken by every student to answer each question will be recorded and a report generated almost immediately. The pilot run has been conducted. State education director Dinkar Patil said the online classes are being conducted well by teachers in state board schools across Maharashtra. He said, “With the progress of online teaching, it is imperative that a small assessment is conducted to know what the students have understood. It will also be treated as a mid-term assessment. We have devised a novel method with the help of a software firm to send the tests on WhatsApp.” Patil said their survey of online classes has revealed that nearly 80% state board students from standards I to X are able to attend through various mediums including smartphones, tablets, desktop machines or the volunteer--based teaching where smart devices or network are unavailable. “If 80% of students are already into online education, we can surely assess them based on the progress so far. The easiest way for students to take tests is on WhatsApp,” he added. Schools across the city from other education boards have been taking online exams for the students who submit them online via smartphones, tablets, desktops and laptops. Some schools ensure that students get some training via mock exams, training videos, training sessions on online exams so that they do not flounder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mid-term-mcq-exam-next-week-on-social-media-for-state-board-students-from-stds-i-to-ix/articleshow/78961620.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man arrested for rape and murder of labourer||HYDERABAD: Medchal police along with Balanagar special operations team (SOT) have arrested a 48-year-old construction worker for killing a 22-year-old labourer and stealing her jewellery. The accused, KYellappa (48), is a stone cutter. According to police, Yellappa went to the labour adda in Medchal and hired the 22-year-old victim, claiming that his house had to be cleaned. “Yellappa hired the victim after noticing the gold and silver jewellery on her,” Balanagar DCP, PV Padmaja said. Yellappa took the victim to his rented room near the railway track in Medchal and convinced her to have some toddy. Yellappa had also consumed toddy and liquor. After she was intoxicated, Yellappa raped the victim and tried to steal her gold ear studs. “When she resisted his attempts, Yellappa punched her repeatedly and killed her. Later, he stole her jewellery and dumped the body near the railway track,” the DCP said. Based on the complaint of the vicitm’s mother, a missing case was registered on October 18. After the body was detected the next day, it was converted to a murder case. Yellappa was previously involved in six crimes, including three murders and three property offences. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-rape-and-murder-of-labourer/articleshow/78960128.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Aquarium complex proposed by College of Fisheries||MANGALURU: College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, has proposed to develop one of the largest aquariums in the country, along the Karnataka coast. The proposed aquarium shall house biospheres of all aquatic flora and fauna of the Western Ghats and other biosphere reserves. The said aquarium will showcase all the aquatic organisms, the flora, tribal communities and their lifestyles, and special emphasis will be given to the endangered and endemic species of the Western Ghats. A research and conservation wing shall be established to study the species, their life cycle and conservation methods. Apart from the above education facilities, skill development in aquarium fabrication and ornamental fish will be provided, said Dr A Senthil Vel, professor and dean (fisheries) Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University, College of Fisheries. He said the aquarium will be built on approximately 25 acres. It will be of international quality, and shall attract international researchers and tourists. The proposal was presented before fisheries minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/aquarium-complex-proposed-by-college-of-fisheries/articleshow/78958750.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Couple booked for selling their baby for Rs 1 lakh||HYDERABAD: Nacharam police registered a criminal case against a couple, who sold their newborn son for Rs 1 lakh to childless parents. According to Nacharam police, Meena and Venkatesh were worried as their twin daughters failed to survive. Fearing that this child also would die, they decided to sell the newborn and entered into an agreement with a GHMC outsourcing employee. Based on the complaint given by the district officials, a case was registered on charges of cheating and the Juvenile Justice Act against the broker Janaki and others. No arrests were made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-booked-for-selling-their-baby-for-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/78960151.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||Proctored backlog SPPU exams likely from November 25||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) may conduct the backlog examination for non-final year students from November 25. They would be held online and in a proctored manner, unlike the final-year tests which were not proctored, and students could opt for online or the offline mode. “The dates of the exam will be communicated. The university has some 50,000 students who have backlogs and would appear for these examinations,” vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said. These examinations would be proctored, but students would be given an option of appearing for the examination from home. “It will be an MCQ-based examination. During the examination for the final-year students, we realised that outstation students opted for online examination. Hence, this time, there will be only online examination. Those who have a problem with the network, or lack gadgets would be given an opportunity to visit the nearest examination centre to appear for the exam in the online mode,” Karmalkar said. Students, who had applied for the class improvement scheme, will appear for the examination along with the backlog examinees. “After we announced results for non-final year students using a formula, there were those who felt that they could have scored more had the examination been held on time. We had a window to apply, and about 18-19,000 students sought class improvement. They too would be given a chance to appear for the examination along with the backlog students,” Karmalkar said. Students have been complaining that the delay in the conduct of the backlog examination has made it difficult for placement and internship interviews generally conducted in the final year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/proctored-mcq-online-backlog-exams-for-non-final-yr-students-likely-from-nov-25/articleshow/78961624.cms||Ardhra Nair
October 31, 2020||Pune||Standard XI Maharashtra board classes to begin online from Monday||PUNE: All first-year junior college (FYJC) students from the Maharashtra board, irrespective of their admission status, can get ready for online classes from November 2. The directorate of education has roped in 80 teachers from different colleges to roll out the classes online for three hours every day. The lectures will begin with common language subjects like English in the arts, science, commerce and MCVC streams. Each day, a batch of 50 students, whose admissions have been confirmed before the Maratha quota stay, will attend classes through the Zoom application. The classes will simultaneously be livestreamed on You-Tube for the rest of the students across Maharashtra. The batch of 50 students will change daily. Lectures for FYJC all set to begin online from MondayDirector of education Dinkar Patil said, “We decided to begin lectures for standard XI even though the admission process has halted. The students are waiting for some progress in their academic year. If we begin classes, they will make the most of this time while sitting at home.” After the first merit list was announced by the centralised admission process committee on August 30, as many as 40,013 students were allotted admissions. The second list was expected on September 10 but the Supreme Court ordered a stay on admissions over the Maratha reservation quota a day before that. Since then, there has been no headway in the matter, leaving lakhs of students in the dark about their academic year. Patil said the entire education system is adapting to this online education till physical classrooms begin. “Even if all the admission rounds would have gone through for FYJC, colleges would have conducted online classes. So, we decided to start classes for the common subjects in all four streams,” he added. Most homes will buzz with more online activity and screen time as these students take online classes. Parents will have to arrange for more gadgets and proper internet connections for their wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lectures-for-fyjc-all-set-to-begin-online-from-monday/articleshow/78961622.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM had first sought EWS quota 20 years ago, says Kodiyeri Balakrishnan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Defending the introduction of 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in state government jobs, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday said his party has realized that setting up an alliance of the poor of all caste groups is crucial to the development of all. “The party has concluded that aligning the poor among the forward class with the backward classes is vital for achieving this,” Balakrishnan said in an article in the party mouthpiece, Deshabhimani. The three-point agenda of the CPM regarding reservation -- to continue reservation for SC/STs, according priority to economically weaker sections among backward classes and introducing 10% reservation for economically weaker sections among the forward castes – was formulated after detailed discussions. “The demand for economic reservation was put forth by the CPM central committee on November 4, 1990 through a resolution. I am pointing this out in reply to arguments that the CPM has come up with a new policy regarding reservation,” Balakrishnan said. “Unlike other political parties, the Communist party views the issue of reservation as part of the class struggle. Unemployment and poverty are the creation of capitalism. A permanent solution cannot be achieved through reservation,” Balakrishnan wrote, explaining his party’s position. He said the realization that land reforms are essential to bring the backward and Dalit classes to the forefront of society led to the introduction of the land reforms act of 1957. Continuing with the government’s attempts to convince agitated organizations about the relevance of economic reservation, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan convened a meeting of SC/ST organizations on Friday. “The government won’t allow anyone to interfere with the statutory reservation for SC/STs. There is an attempt in some quarters to mislead SC/ST community members in the wake of recent controversies,” Vijayan said at the meeting. He said the LDF government in the state has introduced several projects for the welfare of SC/ST community members. “We are committed to uplifting the SC/ST communities who still live in the worst conditions,” he said. Referring to the Walayar and Pandalam sexual harassment cases, the CM said his government is committed to protecting the interest of the aggrieved families. The meeting, convened on the request of dalit adivasi mahasakhyam patron P Ramabhadran, was attended by representatives of 20 SC/ST organizations. Rajya Sabha MP K Somaprasad also spoke in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-had-first-sought-ews-quota-20-yrs-ago-kodiyeri/articleshow/78958806.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: Timely measures keep Alwal localities safe during floods||SECUNDERABAD: While parts of the city were inundated due to floods, two residential localities situated in low lying areas of Alwal in Secunderabad ensured not even a single lane in their locality was water logged. Speaking to TOI, residents of Sri Prashant Nagar Colony and Citizens Colony in Alwal said that the recent floods had zero impact on them. They explained that they survived the floods by following basic rules which include construction of structures as per approved layout/ building plan, maintaining rain water harvesting pits, reporting encroachments and sanitation activities especially in nalas. In Sri Prashant Nagar Colony rain water receded easily, though the adjacent colonies were inundated. “When most parts of Hyderabad city were hit by the flood, efforts of residents saved our colony from inundation,” said Surya Prakash residnet of Prashant Nagar Colony. K Srinivas Varma, general Secretary of Lok Satta Party (Greater Hyderabad) said that they have reported the new encroachments in Alwal and surrounding areas to authorities. “Resident welfare associations in Alwal were able to report encroachments and stop inundation at multiple places. Citizens Colony is one among them,” he said. Similar success stories were shared by residents of Methodist Colony Begumpet. Residents of the locality urged people to take up water harvesting. “Water harvesting ensured there was no flooding in Methodist Colony and increased ground water levels too,” said Gita Dendukuri a resident of Methodist Colony, Begumpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/timely-measures-keep-alwal-localities-safe-during-floods/articleshow/78960160.cms||Nabinder Bommala
October 31, 2020||Pune||Two held on abduction, rape charges||PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Thursday arrested two men, detained one of their aides and are looking for another man after a 15-year-old girl accused them of abducting and raping her at different places since Monday. Police said the survivor and the four men were from a village in Beed district and lived in a same area in Pune. “The girl’s father on Tuesday told the police that she was missing ever since she left home on Monday following a tiff with her mother,” Hadapsar police senior inspector Ramesh Sathe said on Friday. “The Saswad police found the girl on Thursday and, on inquiry, she narrated her woes to them,” he said. “The girl told us that after walking out of her house, she met one of the four men. He offered her help to take to her relative’s place. But he took her to an area and forced her into a physical relationship. He then called his three aides. She was then taken to other places,” Sathe said. The police have admitted her to a government hospital. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-on-abduction-gangrape-charges/articleshow/78961627.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||CP assures developers of police support||Pune: Commissioner of Pune police Amitabh Gupta on Friday urged developers to file complaints in case of any harassment and assured them of action. In an interaction with Credai-Pune Metro members, Gupta also urged developers to install CCTV cameras in all residential societies. “It will help us tackle the issue of on-site accidents and make investigations easier,” he said. PMRDA commissioner Suhas Divase was also part of the interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cp-assures-developers-of-police-support/articleshow/78961630.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Two hawala rackets busted, Rs 48 lakh seized||Hyderabad: Task Force sleuths busted two hawala rackets and apprehended five persons at Sultan Bazar and Secunderabad. Police seized Rs 48 lakh unaccounted cash from their possession. Task Force north zone team intercepted two suspects — Manish Toshniwal (32) of Gowliguda and Vishnu Biradar (21) of Shalibanda in Sultan Bazar on Thursday. Police seized Rs 31 lakh unaccounted cash. The duo were handed over to Sultan Bazar police. Task force police nabbed three members of another hawala gang and recovered Rs 17 lakh near a hotel in Secunderabad on Friday. They were handed over to Mahankali police for further probe. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-hawala-rackets-busted-rs-48-lakh-seized/articleshow/78960185.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Peaceful Milad-un-Nabi processions in Old City||Hyderabad: On the occasion of Milad-un-Nabi, a centralized procession was taken out in the Old City by the Sunni United Forum of India on Friday. Scores of people joined in and the rally ended on a peaceful note. The procession, which was flagged off by Moulana Auliya Hussaini Murtuza Pasha of Quadri Chaman, started from the historic Charminar after the Friday prayers. However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, decorations on streets, lanes and by-lanes was much less compared to last year. The procession passed through Gulzar Houz, Pathergatti, Madina Building, Salar Jung Museum, Kotle Ali Jah, Bibi Bazaar. It ended at Talabkatta. Several smaller processions, starting from neighbouring areas like Shaheen Nagar, Pahadi Shareef, Hasan Nagar and Kishan Bagh, joined the main procession. Several volunteers were also deputed during the procession to facilitate smooth flow of traffic. The Hyderabad traffic police had enforced several diversions in various parts of the Old City in view of the rally. Police made elaborate bandobust as Telangana State Special Police and Rapid Action Force were deployed near Charminar and other parts of the Old City.  City police commissioner Anjani Kumar and ACP (crimes) Shikha Goel visited Old City and supervised police bandobust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peaceful-milad-un-nabi-processions-in-old-city/articleshow/78960184.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Pune||Floods, rain claim 49 lives, more than 14k houses damaged in Pune division||Pune: As many as 49 lives were lost in floods in Pune division during the monsoon according to the Pune divisional commissioner’s office. Most deaths and damage were caused in the second and third week of October. Heavy rainfall damaged over 14,000 houses, including 9,000 in Solapur district alone, and loss of crops was reported on 4 lakh hectare farm land in the division. The figures were revealed after completing the panchnamas of the affected areas. The report stated that most of the casualties were in Solapur, where 22 deaths have occurred due to rainfall and floods, followed by Pune and Sangli district, where 13 and 10 deaths were recorded respectively. As many as 2,623 animals and over 50,000 birds died due to the deluge. Solapur district recorded the worst agriculture damage due to just two days of rain in October. Standing crops on 3.24 lakh hectare farm land were damaged in the district. Ajit Deshmukh, resident deputy collector, Solapur, said that they have demanded Rs348 crore as compensation from the state government for damaged crops. The amount has been calculated after the panchnamas were completed and sent to the Pune divisional commissioner’s office on Thursday. “We have recorded 22 deaths due to floods, of which families of 16 have been paid compensation of Rs4 lakh, while three are still missing and another three people have no record of family members,” Deshmukh said. Sangli district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said, “The district is repeatedly witnessing floods and incessant rainfall. Last year too, we had witnessed major floods. Over 34,000-hectare agriculture crops have been damaged this year and we have demanded Rs38 crore from the state government.” Shekhar Singh, district collector of Satara, said that the rainfall has caused damage to crops and, hopefully, the state government will soon release funds to be distributed among those affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/floods-rain-claim-49-lives-more-than-14k-houses-damaged-in-pune-division/articleshow/78961634.cms||Piyush Bhusari
October 31, 2020||Pune||Gold pieces worth Rs 8L recovered from passenger at Pune airport||Pune: The customs officials at Pune airport on Thursday caught a 55-year -old man attempting to smuggle 24-carat gold pieces in his luggage. This was the first case of gold smuggling to come to light at the airport this year. The man, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, arrived from Dubai on a special Air India repatriation flight under the Vande Bharat Mission, officials said.A senior customs official, refusing to divulge the man’s identity, said the gold pieces were concealed in a clever manner in his luggage. “Two pieces were hidden inside two erasers — a cavity was made in each, the piece was inserted and the opening was covered with a blue carbon strip. One gold piece was hidden inside a neatly packed chocolate bar. The man wore a gold road coated in silver,” the official said, The official added that one gold piece was concealed in the handle of the man’s trolley bag. “The other gold pieces were hidden in his sling bag,’ the official said.The gold weighed 151.8 grams and was valued at Rs7.9 lakh. “Since the quantity of the gold recovered was not huge, we haven’t arrested the man. That said, our investigation is on and he will be summoned at a later stage for questioning,” the official said, adding that the sophisticated manner in which the gold pieces were hidden raised many questions. For two months from March 24, all flights — international and domestic — had been grounded due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and the consequent lockdowns. Repatriation flights under the Vande Bharat Mission had started in May and have regularly brought back stranded Indians to Pune airport. The Air India flight flies from Dubai to Pune every Thursday and will operate till the end of December, airport officials said. The last time gold was recovered from a passenger at Pune Airport was in December 2019, when more than a kilogram of the yellow metal worth Rs41.1 lakh was recovered from a Mumbra-based man, who had arrived from Dubai. “Even with fewer international flights operating, we are on our toes and are thoroughly checking and frisking passengers,” a customs official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gold-pieces-worth-rs-8l-recovered-from-passenger-at-pune-airport/articleshow/78961633.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 31, 2020||Kochi||TOI wins product innovation award||KOCHI: The Times of India, for the third consecutive year, won the product innovation award for its ‘pour and reveal’ print innovation at WAN IFRA World Printers Summit 2020. WAN IFRA awards recognize most innovative print advertisements and products from across the world. The print innovation award category was introduced two years ago. TOI bagged the award for its ‘pour and reveal’ innovative advertisement published on World Blood Donor Day (June 14) across its editions in Kerala. The innovation was used to inform young readers about donating blood to their compatible groups. The ‘do-it-yourself-kind’ advertisement asked its young readers to pour water on the advertisement where blood groups are printed to know who all can receive blood from the particular group. For example, AB+ can donate only to AB+. A+ can donate to A+ and AB + and so on. Lauding the innovation, the jury said, “It was an excellent idea for attracting young readers to newspapers. Publishing on a globally recognized day was wise. The playful implementation was very successful and suited the young target group perfectly. The idea, thus, offers both emotional and economic advantage.” Another member said, “It was an excellent, educative and engaging idea aimed at the right audience.” The winners were honoured at a virtual awards ceremony organized from Germany.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/toi-wins-product-innovation-award/articleshow/78958830.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC Greater Hyd extends bus pass validity||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad zone of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) is providing an opportunity for extension of bus pass facility to the extent of number of days lost due to lockdown, for the general commuters.  As per the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation, this facility has been extended for those who have not utilised their bus passes such as ordinary, metro express, metro deluxe, Greater Hyderabad airport pushpak AC during the lockdown period. Such bus pass commuters were requested to utilise the opportunity by submitting their old pass (Id card, ticket) at the bus pass counters seeking extension of number of lost days while obtaining new bus passes. This facility has to be availed on or before November 30, a press release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-greater-hyd-extends-bus-pass-validity/articleshow/78960186.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||PPP cell to discuss stalled heli-tourism, skydiving projects||PANAJI: The Public Private Partnership (PPP) cell of the state government will take up three tourism projects for discussion at its meeting on November 6. Chaired by chief minister Pramod Sawant, the meeting has skydiving at Quitol, motorised paragliding and heli-tourism on its agenda. The three projects were initiated by Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) but as little progress was made, the state government appointed the PPP cell as a hand-holding agency to complete them. A senior officer said that GTDC has signed a concession agreement and completed the tendering process but the projects have been stalled as many permissions are pending. The cell will review these projects, set a deadline and act as guide to obtain the necessary permissions to start the projects. The officer added that a presentation will also be made on the Goa International Convention Centre after which the PPP Cell will finalise the request for proposal (RPF) for its construction. “With regard to GTDC projects, MD GTDC has requested to brief, well in advance, the respective departments/officers with regard to the hand-holding support required from them so as to facilitate discussion in the meeting,” the senior officer said. The other projects which would be discussed and reviewed at the meeting are solar power generation projects which include proposal to float RFP for installation of solar panels on various government buildings and irrigation canals on PPP basis, review of GEDA proposal for installation of floating solar panel through SECI and review GEDA proposal for ground-mounted solar power plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ppp-cell-to-discuss-stalled-heli-tourism-skydiving-projects/articleshow/78961290.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Red sand boa rescued, five held||MYSURU: Foresters arrested five persons near ColumbiaAsia Hospital on Mysuru-Bengaluru gighway for illegally possessing a red sand boa snake on Thursday. The accused — Hemanth, Barmegowda and Yogesh of Honnali in Davangere district and Ravi and Doddaiah from KR Nagar taluk in Mysuru district — were searching for prospective customers to sell the snake when they were arrested by the foresters attached to Forest Mobile Squad (Mysuru division). Five cellphones and a cab which was used for the crime have been seized from them. During interrogation, the accused from Davangere revealed that recently they found the snake crossing the road in their village in Honnali, and thought of making money by catching and selling it. They knew that the snake would fetch a good amount in black market. The trio contacted their friend Ravi in KR Pet taluk, who offered to find them customers in Mysuru. The trio hired a cab and came to Mysuru to sell the reptile. Though they tried to strike a deal with three customers in exchange for about Rs 10 lakh, nothing came through. However, they were subsequently caught during a raid by the foresters, who acted on a tip-off. Sand boa snakes are non-venomous and are in great demand and hugely trafficked. They are the costliest reptiles in the black market with price ranging from lakhs to crores. As per the myths surrounding this snake, possessing it will bring good luck and it is also widely used in black magic. The specie has been listed under Schedule 4 of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/red-sand-boa-rescued-five-held/articleshow/78959571.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for robbing senior citizen||Vadodara: The Prevention of Crime Branch (PCB) of the city police held a man involved in robbing a senior citizen in the Sharda Society on the Warasiya Ring Road on October 23. The accused has been involved in a series of similar offences earlier. PCB sleuths nabbed the accused Mohammed Mustafa alias Khansaheb Pathan from a society on the Sangam Crossroads to Gadheda Market road. A gold bar, motorcycle, mobile phone and cash amounting to Rs 1,500 was seized from Pathan. The seizure has been valued at Rs 1,81,320. It came to light that he was staying in a hotel in the Sayajigunj and had borrowed the motorcycle from a man working at the hotel to commit the crime. Pathan is a resident of the Patel Colony area in Jamnagar. He changed his name after changing his faith, said PCB police inspector R C Kanamiya. He added that Pathan had committed similar offences in Ahmedabad and other places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-robbing-senior-citizen/articleshow/78958425.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||Kalaburagi-Bidar railway line waiting for trains since three years||KALABURAGI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the 110.4km Bidar-Kalaburagi railway line on October 29, 2017. Though it’s been three years, the people of the region are yet to benefit from the line, said to be the first line built in the region after independence. Before Covid-19 struck, only two trips of DEMU were operated. They took about 3.35 hours for the train to run from Bidar to Kalaburagi at an average speed of 33kmph. Now with no train running on the route, people here are disappointed. Kalyan Karnataka Grahakara Vedike president Sunil Kulkarni said, during his speech, Modi had assured that his government would not delay completing any project like the previous government. “But the line, inaugurated by the PM himself, is still in a limbo even after three years,” he said. He said many buses ply on Bidar-Kalaburagi-Bidar route, but South Central Railway (SCR) and Central Railway (CR) are not tapping the potential of this route. “Officials of both SCR and CR are least bothered about Kalaburagi, Bidar and Wadi as they are focused on Secunderabad and Mumbai regions,” Sunil alleged. Kedar Joshi , a techie-cum-railway enthusiast, said people of Bidar never had train connectivity to Karnataka cities like Kalaburagi. “When the PM inaugurated the line, we had dreamt of getting train connectivity. Our demands like new Bidar-Bengaluru Express via Kalaburagi, Kalaburagi-Aurangabad Passenger, Bidar-Kalaburagi-Ballari Intercity Express, diversion of Hubballi-Secunderabad Express via Bidar have not been considered,” he rued. Both Sunil and Kedar said the Hassan-Bengaluru new line via Nelamangala, which was also inaugurated in the same year, has three-four express trains and one inter-city express (now paused by the pandemic). When contacted, Shivaji Sutar, CPRO, CR (Mumbai), said CR has jurisdiction over just 12km between Kalaburagi and Sultanpur and SCR has to take a call on running trains on the line. Rakesh CH, CPRO, SCR, Secunderabad, admitted that a DEMU train was being operated by SCR, which has now been stopped due to the pandemic. “As the patronage is comparatively less, more trains were not introduced after inauguration. Normally, it will take sometime to increase train operation on new lines. As the situation improves, we will introduce more trains on this line as per the instructions of Railway Board,” he added. Kalaburagi-Bidar railway line project was approved in 1998-99 budget. But it took about two decades to be completed. The Union and the state governments jointly spent Rs 1,542 crore on 110.4km line. The project was completed in two phases — Bidar-Humnabad stretch inaugurated by Mallikarjun Kharge in 2013, and Humnabad-Kalaburagi stretch was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in October 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kalaburagi-bidar-railway-line-waiting-for-trains-since-three-years/articleshow/78959235.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||NDRF team conducts mock drill in Dharwad to equip public with life-saving skills||DHARWAD: The disastrous collapse in March 2019 of an under-construction building in Kumareshwar Nagar near the New Central Bus Stand in Dharwad, in which 19 people died and over a 100 sustained injuries, resulted in a rising chorus for the setting up of a unit of the National Disaster Response Force or the State Disaster Response Force in North Karnataka. In the event, an NDRF team that reached the spot within 48 hours of the tragedy being reported helped rescue many who were trapped underneath the debris. Although the demand for an NDRF or SDRF unit in North Karnataka is no closer to reality, a mock drill was held on Friday at the multi-storey building of the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha to train people on the best course of action in the event of another building collapse. The mock drill on Friday was conducted by 40 NDRF personnel from Bengaluru. The training focussed on climbing with the help of a rope, carrying injured victims on one’s shoulders and first-aid. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, also chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, said that the collapse of the under-construction building in Kumareshwar Nagar had served as a wake-up call to one and all, including the government authorities. “The district administration and Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) have identified high-rise buildings that have grown weak with time, and asked owners to reinforce them. We have also mandated adoption of all safety norms for builders,” Patil added. He said that life-saving skills was vital to preventing loss of lives in calamities, natural and otherwise. He called on youngsters to shoulder the responsibility of saving the lives of others in such emergencies. Dharwad superintendent of police P Krishnakanth, deputy commander of NDRF Battalion 10 Sukhendra Datta and HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal were among those in attendance at the mock drill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ndrf-team-conducts-mock-drill-in-dharwad-to-equip-public-with-life-saving-skills/articleshow/78958290.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||BSP member elected president of Kollegal CMC||CHAMARAJANAGAR: Bahujan Samaja Party’s ward number-6 councillor Gangamma and BJP member Kavitha were on Thursday elected as president and vice president of the Kollegal City Muncipal Council. Gangamma and Kavitha were elected by defeating their nearest Congress rivals Pushpalatha and Susheela by securing 17 votes each. Gangamma, who is a supporter of local MLA N Mahesh, was elected with the support of seven BJP members, one independent along with the votes of the local MP and MLA. Of the 31 CMC members, the Kollegal CMC had received a split mandate in the recently held urban body polls. While 11 members were elected from Congress, BSP bagged nine seats and independents were victorious in four wards. MLA N Mahesh’s BSP has grabbed power with BJP’s support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bsp-member-elected-president-of-kollegal-cmc/articleshow/78959501.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||Bodies of 2 boys recovered from Malaprabha||HUBBALLI: The bodies of the two boys who had drowned in Malaprabha river on Thursday near Pattadakallu village in Badami taluk, were recovered on Friday. The boys had gone for swimming on Thursday evening. The deceased are Basavaraj Hiremath, 12, and Praveen Ronad, 12, both residents of Bachangudda in Badami police station limits. Police said the boys drowned in the river when they tried to swim to the other end of bank. It is said that the boys might have got tired in the middle and drowned. The bodies were fished out by local fishermen with the help of fire and emergency department staff. Badami police have registered a case in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bodies-of-2-boys-recovered-from-malaprabha/articleshow/78958313.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Saibaba’s parole plea rejected: Kin||Hyderabad: The family members of GN Saibaba claimed that Nagpur jail authorities orally informed the former Delhi University (DU) professor that his second parole was rejected. Saibaba is serving a life sentence after he was convicted by Nagpur court in 2017 for his links with Maoists. His brother Ramdev told TOI that though they have applied for parole three months back they are yet to receive any official reply. “On October 20, when we spoke to Saibaba, he informed us about the rejection of parole. The jail authorities refused to give any details to Saibaba. When he insisted on what grounds it was rejected they told him that since his family members moved the parole application they would only be given the reasons for rejection,’’ Ramdev said, adding that he did not get any official reply from the jail authorities. “Usually, jail authorities decide a parole application within 38 days. If the application is rejected, the applicant can appeal within 15 days before an appellate authority of the prison department,” Ramdev added. So far, Saibaba’s family moved two regular paroles and an emergency parole when his mother died in August.It may be mentioned here that Saibaba threatened to fast-unto-death in the jail alleging that he was not being provided with facilities like newspaper and medicines supplied by his family and friends. Saibaba is serving a life sentence after he was convicted by Nagpur court in 2017 for his links with Maoists. So far, Saibaba’s family moved two regular paroles||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saibabas-parole-plea-rejected-kin/articleshow/78960197.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||Storage in Temghar dam finally reaches full capacity this season||Pune: Water storage in Temghar dam, which had been around 99% for the last two weeks, reached full capacity of 3.71 TMC on Friday morning. This is the first time this season that Temghar dam is at full capacity. With the stock in Temghar dam reaching the highest level, the collective stock in the four dams in Khadakwasla circle also touched 100% mark on Friday.The water level in Panshet, Varasgaon and Khadakwasla dam is already at the maximum level. Irrigation officials said that all three dams have also released water in the last two months. However, Temghar was the only dam that had not released water during the monsoon because the stock had not reached 100%. On October 14, water stock in Temghar dam was at 98%. The stock increased to 99.5% on October 16 and rose to full capacity on Friday. So far, the catchment areas of Temghar dam have reported 3089mm rainfall, which is the highest among all four dams in Khadakwasla circle. “Barring Temghar, the three dams have collectively discharged over 12 TMC water into Mutha river between June and October. But the stock in Temghar dam remained at around 99%. It has reached full capacity at the end of October. As monsoon season has already ended it is now unlikely that water release will be initiated from Temghar dam or from either of the other three dams,” an official from the irrigation department said. Sources from the irrigation department added that many dams in the Bhima basin also hold 100% stocks at the beginning of winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/storage-in-temghar-dam-finally-reaches-full-capacity-this-season/articleshow/78961636.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Neighbour attempts to rape woman in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 34, from the Chandkheda area of city, who was working with 181 Abhayam helpline a few months ago, filed a complaint on Thursday alleging that her neighbour trespassed into her house to rape her. In her FIR, the woman stated that she was home alone when the accused entered. Her father was in Navsari and her brother had gone to work. “I was advised rest after a surgery and have been staying home for around two months,” she said. On Thursday evening, she perceived some movement in the house when she was praying. “I thought my brother had come home, so I called his name but no one responded. I then went to check who was there,” she said. She said that her neighbour, Paresh Narottam, 45, had entered the house and begun approaching her. She alleged he had come there to rape her and he was telling her to listen to his proposal. She started screaming for help and two neighbours rescued her, while Narottam fled. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neighbour-attempts-to-rape-woman/articleshow/78960242.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||Std XI classes to start online from Monday||Pune: All first-year junior college (FYJC) students from the Maharashtra board, irrespective of their admission status, can get ready for online classes from November 2. The directorate of education has roped in 80 teachers from different colleges to roll out the classes online for three hours every day. The lectures will begin with common language subjects like English in the arts, science, commerce and MCVC streams. Each day, a batch of 50 students, whose admissions have been confirmed before the Maratha quota stay, will attend classes through the Zoom application. Colleges, in rotation, will be told to put these 50 students on to the meeting. The classes will simultaneously be live streamed on YouTube for the rest of the students across Maharashtra. The batch of 50 students will change daily. Director of education Dinkar Patil said, “We decided to begin lectures for standard XI even though the admission process has halted. The students are waiting for some progress in their academic year. If we begin classes, they will make the most of this time while sitting at home.” After the first merit list was announced by the centralised admission process committee on August 30, as many as 40,013 students in Pune division were allotted admissions. The second list was expected on September 10 but the Supreme Court ordered a stay on admissions over the Maratha reservation quota a day before that. Since then, there has been no headway in the matter, leaving lakhs of students in the dark about their academic year. Patil said the entire education system is adapting to this online education till physical classrooms begin. “Even if all the admission rounds would have gone through for FYJC, colleges would have conducted online classes. So, we decided to start classes for the common subjects in all four streams,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-xi-classes-to-start-online-from-monday/articleshow/78961639.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Ethanol developed from jackfruit selected for Shell NXplorers||MANGALURU: Students of Sri Ramakrishna High School, Puttur, have demonstrated that ethanol can be derived from jackfruit, which is available locally in abundance. The project of the five-member team of students has successfully produced ethanol from jackfruit and their innovation on biofuel research, using locally available fruit, has received recognition at the international level. Students Prakhyath YB, Pranav YB, Nishan Rai, Rohan and Nithesh Shetty have developed the project in the Atal Tinkering Lab in the school. “Our project has been selected for case study under the Shell NXplorers innovative education programme. Only six projects from 20 participant nations qualified for the case study. We have used the whole parts of jackfruit for our innovation. While the outer skin of the fruit is used to make cardboard, its pulp and seeds are used to produce ethanol. Even rotten jackfruit flesh can be used to produce ethanol. The biofuel produced from jackfruit can be mixed with petrol to increase its efficiency and thereby reduce the cost,” Prakhyath said. He added that the ethanol derived through the project was also subjected to further examination to confirm the chemical’s presence. Science teacher and mentor Vasanthi K said the students’ project was initially selected for the state-level at the National Children Science Congress and later it was also qualified at the national-level. In fact, it was one among the 15 projects and only project from Karnataka to be selected at the national event. “Many students from our institution have bagged several national and international recognition for innovations. This year, even during Covid-19 pandemic, our students have successfully produced biofuel using jackfruit. Ours is the only team from India to be qualified for the international competition,” said Kavu Hemanath Shetty, correspondent of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ethanol-developed-from-jackfruit-selected-for-shell-nxplorers/articleshow/78958851.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Wife bites man, strikes him on head with sansi||Ahmedabad: A resident of Naroda, Anil Pandya, of Devnandan Sankalp City, filed a complaint with Naroda police from Civil Hospital on Thursday, alleging that his wife, Priya, 26, had bitten his right thumb and injured his forehead with a sansi (kitchen tongs). According to the complaint, he had objected to eating out and chided her for not cooking properly at home. Naroda police registered the complaint and began an investigation. According to complaint details, Anil had married Priya four years ago. They have a three-year-old daughter. On Wednesday night, Anil stated Priya had served stale food to him and his daughter. When asked why she hadn’t cooked a fresh meal, Priya said she had gone out and had dinner at a hotel. This began the altercation ending with Anil being bitten and injured. Bleeding profusely, Anil called up 108 ambulance and he was taken to Civil Hospital, Asarwa, for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wife-bites-man-strikes-him-on-head-with-sansi/articleshow/78960252.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Marcel theft accused held after 4 months||PONDA: The Ponda police on Friday nabbed Vishnu Pujari, 20, a native of Karnataka, who was absconding for over four months after breaking into seven shops in Marcel. It may be recalled that on the intervening night of June 3 and 4, some unidentified thieves had ransacked seven shops in the Marcel market, and had decamped with mobile handsets worth Rs 43,800 and Rs 10,000 in cash. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said that after the initial investigation, police had concluded that there were three persons involved in the crime, following which Allabaksh Shaikh had been arrested. Shaikh is presently in judicial custody at the Colvale Central jail. The second accused, Sahil Jaiwal, is also in judicial custody in another case and the police will soon seek his custody, Gaude added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marcel-theft-accused-held-after-4-months/articleshow/78961297.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||SAC developing sub-mm wavelength astronomy observatory in Himalayas||AHMEDABAD: The star-filled skies over the Indian Astronomical Observatory (IAO) atop Mt Saraswati in the Hanle valley of Changthang Ladakh, is now becoming a window for astronomers to unravel the mysteries of the universe. The Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO), a part of the Centre for Astrophysics, Harvard & Smithsonian, is engaged in discussions with the Space Applications Centre (SAC) of the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) to collaborate on the construction of a new submillimetre-wave (microwave) astronomy observatory at the Hanle site of the Indian Astronomical Observatory in Ladakh. It is situated in the high-altitude deserts of the Himalayas at 4,500m (14,700 ft), the ninth highest optical telescope in the world. Members of the Indian Submillimetre-wave Astronomy Alliance (ISAA) are also involved in the project. Currently a three-meter antenna is under development at the SAC and a six-meter antenna is under consideration, with the Smithsonian submillimeter array (SMA) antenna design being a candidate. “Two broad areas of science have been identified, study of the neutral interstellar medium (ISM), atomic and molecular, and the transition between them, and enhancement of the capabilities of the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT),” a white paper of the project says. Under the project, the new observatory will be used to jointly map large parts of the Milky Way and select external galaxies by analysing emission lines of neutral atomic carbon. “High-energy telescopes like the one planned for Hanle are important to analyse most energetic dynamos in the cosmos, such as active galaxies, the remnants from massive dying stars and accretion of matter around black holes,” said a senior ISRO official. “High, dry sites, such as Hanle and others in the Ladakh region, are among a few globally, with low atmospheric absorption, and are necessary for these observations. A new receiver will be developed for this purpose,” states the white paper, a copy of which is with TOI. Sources say that a high-level meeting was held in May 2019 and the matter was to proceed further this year but was interrupted because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sac-developing-sub-mm-wavelength-astronomy-observatory-in-himalayas/articleshow/78960263.cms||Paul John
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC orders probe into bride-selling by parents||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered an investigation into the alleged sale of a bride for Rs 3 lakh, and said that prosecution should be initiated against the erring persons, if the need arises. The high court, however, restrained itself from probing deeper into the case which involves a barter marriage and divorce proceedings, as the couple before it requested it not to do it fearing that they may become victims of honour killings. The case is from Patan district, where a woman was embroiled in the sata (barter) system of marriage. She was married five years ago, but returned to her maternal home after a year. She fell in love with another man and wanted to marry him. Her parents and caste leaders charged the man Rs 3 lakh to let her marry him. Her parents did not complete proceedings of her divorce from her first husband. They did not deposit Rs 5,000 at the temple of their community deity as is customary for finalizing a divorce, but she was allowed to marry the other man. However, she was later separated from her second husband. The new husband moved the high court in August stating that his wife was detained by her parents. The woman narrated her story to the judges and affirmed that she wanted to live with her new husband, who spilled the beans to the court and told it that his marriage had got consent from the woman’s parents because they had accepted Rs 3 lakh from him. This shocked the judges, who observed how the skewed sex ratio in north Gujarat has reduced the system of marriage to such monetary considerations. The court ordered protection for the couple, who shifted from Patan to Kutch district, due to pressure from the woman’s family and other community members. The high court then probed the possibility of the woman’s divorce from her first husband. Without the formal divorce, she cannot register her second marriage. Upon the court’s queries, it was found that the first husband of the woman was missing. The court said that it would not go “deeper into these unpalatable rituals and practices” because the couple requested it so, fearing that they might become victims of honour killings. The court ordered the Patan SP to probe the “malice of selling of the corpus (the woman)” and bring those responsible to book. The court also directed that her first husband be traced and that legal aid be provided to the woman for divorce proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-probe-into-bride-selling-by-parents/articleshow/78960303.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gota murder accused sent to three-day police custody||Ahmedabad: Nikita Agrawal, the 29-year-old woman who on Tuesday night allegedly killed her mother-in-law over the latter’s suspicions that Nikita was having an illicit relationship with her father-in-law, has been remanded in police custody for three days by a local court.The court sent her to police custody as investigators wanted to known more about what she did for two-and-a-half hours after the alleged killing. Police had demanded five days of custodial interrogation. An officer of Sola police said Nikita had bludgeoned her mother-in-law to death at around 8.30pm on Tuesday, after which she tried to keep her husband away from the house about two-and-a-half hours. “We need to know whether she tried some other things to dispose of the body before setting it on fire,” said the police officer. On the other hand, the sequence of events suggests she had spoken to her husband, Dipak, over the phone, for over an hour after killing her mother-in-law, Rekha Agrawal, during which kept repeating that she was being beaten by Rekha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gota-murder-accused-sent-to-three-day-police-custody/articleshow/78960265.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Abandoned elephant calf united with its herd||MANGALURU: Forest officials had a torrid day after an elephant calf was deserted by its herd at a farm in Kadirudyavar village in Belthangady taluk on Friday. For the past few days, wild elephants have been on the move in and around Mundaje, destroying several acres of farmland in the area. On the intervening night of Friday, a herd of jumbos destroyed crops belonging to Rajendra Gowda and Ravindra Gowda. Close to 2 acres of farmland with 200 arecanut trees, 100 banana plantations and coconut trees are said to have been destroyed. Rajendra said he noticed a herd with five elephants and a calf early in the morning, and tried to chase them away. Though they started moving towards the forest, the calf, aged about three months, remained back. Later in the day, forest officials tried to leave the calf in the forest. Forest officials alleged that a large gathering of people, who gathered there after getting wind of the operation through video clips on social media, delayed the operation. Range forest officer Tyagaraj said the forest staff, with help from locals, successfully united the calf with its herd later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/abandoned-elephant-calf-united-with-its-herd/articleshow/78958882.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vadodara||Couple not wearing mask enters into scuffle with cop, booked||VADODARA: In an alleged scuffle that took place over a couple not wearing mask, a police sub-inspector suffered scratch injuries on his face. The couple, travelling in a car, had been stopped as they were not wearing masks. According to an offence registered at the Sayajigunj police station by police sub-inspector B S Jadeja, the accused Rakesh Singla and Garima Singla were passing by the Sangam Crossroads when they were stopped by Jadeja on Thursday night. When Jadeja asked them to pay a fine, the couple picked up an argument with Jadeja. The accused allegedly scratched Jadeja on his face.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/couple-not-wearing-mask-enters-into-scuffle-with-cop-booked/articleshow/78958776.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||In ‘ODF Panaji’, individual toilets being built more than a year later||PANAJI: Construction of individual toilets has begun in Panaji, more than a year after the state capital declared itself open defecation-free (ODF). The work, undertaken by Sulabh International, has started at Aivao, the ward that had the highest requirement of toilets, 46, mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “These are all individual toilets, one for each family. The first 15 are expected to be ready by next week, after which work in other wards Ribandar, Mala, Bhatulem, St Inez and others will begin,” he said. Despite tall claims, Panaji is not yet open defecation-free and has a shortfall of over 300 toilets. It has missed several deadlines to make itself ODF. Madkaikar said work on the toilets will be completed by December. The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) issued a work order and signed an MoU with Sulabh International Social Service Organisation last month for the construction of 310 individual home toilets in Panaji city. The construction cost of 310 single-seater, pour-flush latrines, is estimated at Rs 1.6 crore and is being financed under the 14th Finance Scheme. The corporation declared its jurisdiction ODF in August last year, promising toilets by Diwali. A month later, mayor Madkaikar said councillors were pressurised into signing certificates stating that their wards were ODF. “Panaji is not ODF,” he had told reporters at the time, adding that people are openly defecating in Miramar and Caranzalem. In January the department of urban development rejected the corporation’s request to build toilets through Sulabh International and stated that the work could be tendered instead. The department had asked the CCP for detailed justification for taking up the work through the organisation and not tender it. Other delays were attributed to the initial estimate not including floor and wall tiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-odf-panaji-individual-toilets-being-built-more-than-a-year-later/articleshow/78961318.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Short videos teachers’ tool of choice||Ahmedabad: Short videos have emerged as a popular choice among teachers in Gujarat for online education during these months of online teaching. Around 50% of government school teachers and 67% of private schools teachers honed their digital skills to adapt to a new mode of teaching, using video clips and PowerPoint presentations to keep students abreast of their course work. This became an issue for some, as between 13% and 20% of parents of children across all standards have either no education or minimal education. “This meant that parents found it difficult to solve problems in higher classes. We visited such homes to clear students’ doubts,” says a Dharmendra Patel, who teaches at a Sanand school. An advantage Gujarat had is that a little over 80% of students at government and private schools had textbooks. Secretary education Vinod Rao said: “It took until June foor us to manage to get textbooks to children’s homes. The teachers did a marvellous job of reaching out to their students.” Chaman Vaghela, a teacher from a village in Banaskantha, said, “Remote villages of Tharad and Vav talukas had problems with mobile phone networks or televisions. In these cases we gathered children into small groups and fixed days we visited them and taught them with safety measures in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/short-videos-teachers-tool-of-choice/articleshow/78960307.cms||Bharat Yagnik
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: RPF launches ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative||HUBBALLI: In view of the festival season, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) has launched ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative for the safety of women passengers in trains originating in Hubballi Division. ‘Meri Saheli’ has been launched in view of the passenger carrying train services being introduced in phased manner and special train services being run for the festival season, said SWR in a press release. In Hubballi Division, ‘Meri Saheli’ has been introduced in four pairs of trains — Hubballi/Vasco Da Gama-Hazrat Nizamuddin- Hubballi/Vasco Da Gama Express Special (T.No. 07305/02779-02780/07306), Hubballi-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Hubballi Express Special (T.No. 07317/07318), Hubballi-Vijayawada-Hubballi Express Special (T.No. 07225/07226) and Gadag-Mumbai CSMT-Gadag Express Special (T.No. 01140/01139). Under ‘Meri Saheli’, a team of women sub-inspectors and constables will be formed at starting stations and before the trains start, the team will enter all passenger coaches, including the ladies’ coaches and identify women passengers travelling alone. The team will brief them about xthe precautions to be taken during their journey and also to contact 182 security help line in case they face any security-related issues during the journey. RPF at Hubballi division can also be contacted by the passengers through mysaheliubl@gmail.com and 7022626987 for security assistance, said the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rpf-launches-meri-saheli-initiative/articleshow/78959390.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Cops to engage Covid warriors to spread clean-Diwali msg||KOLKATA: Kolkata Police is planning to take help of Covid warriors to build up a strong pitch for green Diwali. The fact that doctors, nursing staff and the Covid survivors need to breathe in fresh air will be highlighted in the campaign. The police have already called for tenders from interested agencies that can develop online contents on behalf of police — each clip to last between 90 seconds and 120 seconds. According to police sources, each year, they take help of school students and those residing in housing apartments to develop awareness against sound crackers. There have been instances where the cops even organized rallies, asking people to think about the pets and their rights. “However, given the pandemic situation, we will not be able to involve the children much beyond some online contribution from home. There is no question of involving apartment residents. So, the Covid warriors and survivors can deliver the most important message,” said an officer. The final decision will be taken by the top brass and the community policing unit is expected to pitch in. With barely less than two weeks to go before Diwali, the police want to identify the core areas of focus, said a source. “We want to reach out to the maximum number of people in the shortest possible time,” said an officer. “We are requesting the residents to avoid burning firecrackers in congested lanes or roof tops and stop people from crowding together. Apart from trying to bring down pollution levels, accidents, too, can be avoided. We will have proper security arrangements so that people can enjoy the festival in a peaceful manner. Each police station has been asked to begin their homework,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. In south suburban Kolkata, the cops will go to some of the biggest high-rises in the Garfa, Anandapur and Kasba areas where they said firecrackers ideally should be burst at only one open space and in turns so that all social distancing norms are maintained. “This will stop the chances of embers falling on people walking on the road. This will also ensure community watch on the actions of each individual. Last year, two persons had lost their lives due to such accidents — one of them an eight-year-old child. We cannot allow the same this year,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-to-engage-cov-warriors-to-spread-clean-diwali-msg/articleshow/78960283.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 31, 2020||India||Facebook pulls down 3 ‘love jihad’ pages for violating policies||NEW DELHI: Several community pages on “Love Jihad” carrying inappropriate content such as hate speech and adult nudity were active on Facebook for years. The groups also resorted to bullying, moral policing and violated privacy of interfaith couples by revealing their identities. On Thursday, Facebook took down three of these groups for violating their Community standards. TOI studied the content of at least four such open groups, which referred to Love Jihad as a conspiracy between men from a minority community and clerics to hoodwink women into changing their religion. The content on these were pulled down only after TOI sent a questionnaire to the social media giant with specific details of the pages. Several such private groups still exist on the platform. The week-long research revealed that these groups regularly posted content targeting the minority community, asked for their economic boycott and warned people to be careful of them. One of the groups, created on August 27, 2014, had over 18,000 members and used to regularly issue “guidelines” advising parents to note down the timings of their daughters’ universities, and to strengthen vigil, if their friends and neighbours belong to the minority community. It also asked parents to keep a close watch on their daughters’ mobiles phones and see whose calls they receive. Another group, now defunct, used to put out sexual images of men with beards, and asked women from the majority community to be cautious of such “jihadi” men. Responding to TOI’s detailed questionnaire, a Facebook spokesperson said, “We have clear policies against hate speech, and remove hateful content that targets anyone based on their religion, nationality, ethnicity or caste. We’ve made significant investments to keep hate off of our platform.” Facebook termed these groups as violating multiple policies on “hate speech, bullying and harassment, adult nudity and sexual activity and privacy violations”. The company, however, did not respond to TOI’s question of why and how the groups remained active on the platform for over half a decade, despite these violations. The Centre in February had stated that the term “Love Jihad” is not defined under the extant laws, and had added that no such case was reported by any Central agency. “Article 25 of the Constitution provides for the freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion subject to public order, morality and health. Various courts have upheld this view including the Kerala High Court,” Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy had said in Parliament. Nishant Shah, co-founder of Centre for Internet and Society believes that such content "dehumanises a community" and creates a context of violence. “Acts of violence need context of violence. It doesn’t matter if these pages are followed by a small number of people. Once these posts are put out in the public domain, they become natural utterance with no opposition, so it emboldens a section of people to act with impunity,” he said. According to Shah, the content on these pages would qualify as “hate speech” because they create conditions of violence. “Facebook looks at hate speech in a transactional way. It doesn’t take down content unless there is a direct call for physical hurt against people. In such a context, it’s important for the highest level of judiciary to pull up Facebook and tell them that they need to stop promoting hate for profits,” he said. Divij Joshi, a Mozilla tech policy fellow whose research focuses on online speech, said that Facebook community guidelines are extremely broad and centralised, which makes it impossible to apply them successfully everywhere. "These guidelines are made according to the US political landscape but applied universally. So, they lack local contexts," he said. Joshi said a lot of problematic content slips through the cracks since there is very little incentive for such platforms to improve content moderation, Additionally, there are no regulations that are legally binding for social media companies. "We need to set standards, there needs to be audits and checks. We need to have laws that hold these platforms accountable to these standards and rules," he said, asserting that social media companies need to have a "have a sense of accountability towards the public and their moderation process should be more transparent."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fb-pulls-down-3-love-jihad-pages-for-violating-policies/articleshow/78962025.cms||Anam Ajmal
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru City Corporation invites applications from public for ward committees||MANGALURU: Following a direction from the high court, the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has initiated the process of appointing members for ward committees in 60 wards. As per the mandate of the Constitution, the MCC has to form ward committees in each ward, under the chairmanship of the respective ward corporators. Hence, applications for the ward committees are invited by the city corporation, said MCC commissioner Akshy Sridhar. As per the directions of the government, the city corporation must nominate 10 members, including one representative each from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, three women, two representatives from civic groups and three from the general category for the ward committees, in each of the 60 wards in the city limits. The city corporation will accept applications from the public to take part in the ward committees of their respective wards. Applications will be accepted at the three zonal offices at Surathkal, Central and Kadri till November 17. Applicants must furnish details including name, date of birth, address, ward number, Aadhaar number, caste, category, educational qualification and their area of interest or experience, along with the application form. Applicants must declare that there are no pending criminal cases against them. They also must declare that they are neither members of any political party nor have any political affiliations that will bias their decisions, the commissioner stated in a release. The MCC has been expediting the process to form committees as per the high court’s direction. The 74th Constitutional amendment and the amendment of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation (KMC) Act in 2011 mandates formation of ward committees and area sabhas in city corporations. Further, the high court, while hearing a petition, also had ordered the formation of ward committees and area sabhas in Mangaluru. An agenda to form ward committees was presented at the council meeting of the MCC on August 28, 2014, and a special meet was held in this regard on October 29, 2014. It was again passed unanimously at a council meeting on August 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-invites-applications-from-public-for-ward-committees/articleshow/78958908.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Oct 30 deadline ends, some UG seats still up for grabs||KOLKATA: Colleges in the city have managed to fill up most of the seats in their under-graduate courses even though some seats in different subjects remained vacant as the deadline drew to a close on October 30. Principals said they had not received any notice from the government about any extension in the deadline to fill up the remaining seats. In September, the government had extended the deadline by almost six weeks after majority of the seats in the colleges were vacant. Most colleges reopened their admission portals to invite fresh applications. Principals said the deluge of marks in the board examinations led to a situation where some students who made to the top of merit lists were not interested in pursuing those subjects. In Bethune College, 520 of the total 560 seats have been filled up. “We issued 12 merit lists during the entire admission process. While some seats in the general categories are vacant, maximum vacant seats are in the reserved category,” said an official of the college. Lady Brabourne College, too, has managed to fill up most of the seats in all the subjects. “According to the 12th call list published on Thursday, there are vacant seats in all the subjects but none of them exceed five,” said an official. Bulk of the seats in Bengali, Persian, Sanskrit and philosophy are vacant in Maulana Azad College. “The candidates can email us and register for admission,” said Subhasis Dutta, principal of the college. At Scottish Church College, almost all reserve category seats got filled in many subjects. “Some seats in the general category in subjects like English, botany, mathematics, microbiology and zoology are vacant,” said an official. At Presidency University, after publishing the seventh merit lists, there are eleven vacant seats in political science, five seats in economics, ten seats in life science, eight in mathematics and seven in physics. Vacant seats in English, history and sociology are negligible. “If the seats do not fill up we may publish another merit list on November 6 so that deserving candidates do not miss out on an opportunity to study in this university,” said an official of the admission committee of the university. In Jadavpur University where the admission process to UG courses started only in October, the authorities have published second round of merit lists with vacancies in English, history, comparative literature and economics. But the college authorities are worried about how many candidates will turn up for registration. “Every year there are many candidates who do not cancel their admission but also do not turn up for the registration. Several seats remain unfilled after that,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oct-30-deadline-ends-some-ug-seats-still-up-for-grabs/articleshow/78960325.cms||Zeeshan Javed
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC plans to restore flood-hit roads by Dec||Hyderabad: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) decided to restore all the damaged flood-affected roads by December.  “To repair 315 bitumen roads covering 99.51 kms, Rs 52.17 crore has been sanctioned. For most of these works, tenders have been finalised and proposed works will be completed by November 30,” read a statement issued by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. According to the civic records, 766 cement concrete roads covering 272.97 kms have been damaged and all these roads will be restored by December 31. The main roads will be restored by private agencies who have been handed over the stretches under Comprehensive Road Maintenance Program (CRMP). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-plans-to-restore-flood-hit-roads-by-dec/articleshow/78960310.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||MP’s wife booked for forging documents to acquire land in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: An FIR was lodged against Farhat Ansari, the wife of BSP MP Afzal Ansari, for allegedly forging documents to acquire a land (nishkrant sampatti) and building an illegal house over it in Lucknow’s Jiamau locality. The FIR was lodged at Hazratganj police station by lekhpal (revenue official) of Jiamau Surjan Lal on Friday. Nishkrant sampatti (evacuee property) refers to land that belonged to people who migrated to Pakistan after the Partition. Such properties then came under the ambit of the central government. Ghazipur MP Afzal is the brother of jailed don and BSP’s Mau MLA Mukhtar Ansari. Farhat and some unidentified persons have been booked under IPC sections 420 (fraud) and criminal conspiracy (120-B), 447 (criminal trespassing), 448 (house trespassing) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50). “Under a criminal conspiracy, accused Farhat Ansari and unknown people encroached evacuee property which has been registered as government land. Farhat constructed an illegal home on the land further causing revenue loss to government,” read the FIR. Earlier, Farhat had moved the high court to prevent Lucknow Development Authority from demolishing her house in Jiamau. In an order passed on September 29, LDA had cancelled the map of the said house on the grounds that it had been constructed on evacuee property. A Lucknow bench had restrained authorities from demolishing the house and directed the two sides to maintain the status quo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mps-wife-booked-for-forging-documents-to-acquire-land/articleshow/78961320.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sola doctors remanded in graft case||Ahmedabad: A court at Mirzapur on Friday granted two-day police remand for two doctors of the Sola Civil Hospital, who were caught allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 8 lakh for sanctioning a canteen bill and for extending the catering contracts. The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) produced the two doctors, the in-charge RMO of Sola Civil, Dr Upendra Patel and in-charge of hospital administration, Dr Shailesh Patel, and sought their custodial interrogation to find out more evidence in the case. The custodial interrogation was granted till 1pm on November 1. The ACB said that the complaint was made by a catering contractor, who won a contract for serving staff and relatives of Covid-19 patients for four months in Sola Civil Hospital. He provided the services and put in a bill of Rs 1.18 crore to the hospital authorities. The doctors had earlier demanded 30% commission on total bill, but after negotiations it was agreed upon that the contractor should pay Rs 16 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sola-doctors-remanded-in-graft-case/articleshow/78960375.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||City police to intensify patrolling at Saraf Bazaar||Nashik: A bag containing Rs 20 lakh was stolen from a trader in the Saraf Bazaar area of the city on Thursday. The incident prompted the police to step up patrolling in the area which has many jewellery stores.Senior police officers said that while CCTVs have been set up at various locations, they would be stepping up patrolling as Diwali is around the corner and more and more people would be coming to Saraf Bazaar to purchase gold and silver jewellery. In the latest theft, an unidentified burglar stole a bag containing Rs 20 lakh from a trader. The trader had hung the bag to the rear mirror of his bike. The incident took place at 4.40 pm when Bharat Madhukar Pawar, of Panchavati, had gone to Saraf Bazaar to purchase gold jewellery. While he was crossing the Dharam Kata area, someone hit his bike from behind. When he turned around, he realised that the cash bag was missing.After realising that his bag was stolen, Pawar registered an offence of theft with the Sarkarwada police station. Senior police officials of the Sarkarwada police station said that Pawar himself owns a jewellery shop and had come to the Saraf Bazaar area to make purchases. DCP (crime) Sangramsinh Nishandar said, “We are investigating the case. The criminal would soon be arrested.”“However, we would be stepping up patrolling in the area to ensure that similar incidents do not occur again. Increased patrolling is also important as Diwali festival is around the corner and people would come to purchase jewellery,” Nishandar further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-police-to-intensify-patrolling-at-saraf-bazaar/articleshow/78957621.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Presi physics legend, ‘DRC’ to students, passes away||Kolkata: One of the most celebrated teachers of physics of the erstwhile Presidency College, Dipanjan Rai Chaudhuri, died of cardiac arrest at his residence on October 24. He was 75. He studied physics at the college from 1961-64 after ranking first in the Senior Cambridge Examinations. It was after serving Acharya Jagdish Chandra Bose College for 10 years that he joined Presidency College and later became the head of the department of physics. A brilliant student of legendary teachers of the college like Amal Ray Chaudhuri and S N Ghoshal, Rai Chaudhuri furthered their cause in theoretical physics and went on to complete his PhD in Queen Mary College, London University, before returning to the city. Rai Chaudhuri was caught in the turbulence of the Naxalite movement of the 60s and in the 70s, he got arrested with other prominent leaders like Asim Chatterjee in Deoghar. He spent 11 months in jail, recalls contemporary colleague Subhas Ranjan Chakraborty. Known to his students as DRC, he lovingly groomed them till he retired in 2004. Many of his students have gone on to have illustrious careers. “He had a rare passion for improvising teaching methods in science and mathematics which left its mark on Sramajibi Pathsala, Belur. His interest spanned several fields that included literature, history, politics, economics and movies,” Chakraborty said. While physics and the fight for rights were the dominant themes of his life, it got chiselled further with poetry and creative writing in both English and Bengali, colleagues and friends recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presi-physics-legend-drc-to-students-passes-away/articleshow/78960381.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 31, 2020||Chennai||Day after GO, guv okays 7.5% medical quota for government students||CHENNAI: After nearly 45 days of delay and political uproar over a pending bill on Tamil Nadu’s 7.5% quota in medical seats for government school students, governor Banwarilal Purohit gave his assent on Friday, following a favourable legal opinion for it from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. The assent came a day after the state government issued a GO to implement the quota. Green-signalling the horizontal quota, the solicitor-general’s opinion on Thursday said: “Considering the fact that the proposed classification is on the basis of a commission report, I opine that the same is grounded in an intelligible differentia which has a rational nexus with the object sought to be achieved. The said intelligible differentia would enable the state to make provisions of affirmative action to such identifiable socially and educationally backward class.” He, however, said Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on Preferential Basis to the Students of Government Schools Bill, 2020 was subject to rigours of judicial review and other constitutional principles that entail an upper limit to the extent of reserved posts/seats in a given exam as well as the principles laid down by the Supreme Court. Hours after the assent came, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami met the governor and thanked him. Earlier, he told reporters at Pasumpon that his government issued an order due to the delay in getting assent from the governor. It proposed to implement the quota in the current academic itself and realize the dreams of the students to study medicine, he said. “I also studied in government school. We issued the order respecting the sentiments of the government school students. It is to uphold the principles of social justice,” Palaniswami said. Though there was no representation from the Opposition nor the public, the AIADMK government introduced, passed and sent the Bill to the governor. Politics by certain sections over the delay would not succeed, Palaniswami said. The governor had sought solicitor-general’s opinion to ascertain whether the Bill was in accordance with the Constitution or whether it would violate Article 14 and 15. He sat on the Bill for almost 45 days, despite chief minister and a delegation of ministers visiting him and exerting pressure. On October 20, Purohit told the delegation that he would take more than three weeks to decide on the bill. He also confirmed it in a letter to DMK chief M K Stalin saying he would need three or four weeks to take a decision. On Friday, however, the Raj Bhavan press release said: “It may be noted that the governor sought the legal opinion of the solicitor-general of India through a letter dated September 26 and the opinion was received on Thursday. As soon as the opinion received, the governor has given assent to the Bill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/day-after-go-guv-okays-7-5-med-quota-for-govt-students/articleshow/78960376.cms||Julie Mariappan
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Beware! Cops to surveil citizens using 5 hi-tech vans||Nagpur: The city police have deployed a ‘mobile surveillance vehicle’ in each of city’s five policing zones, headed by a DCP. The vehicles are equipped with 12 CCTV cameras and a drone for keeping an eye on citizens. They also have a public address system that can also be remotely accessed from control room. They would be stationed at sensitive areas across the city.These vehicles used to be earlier kept parked at the motor transport section and taken out mostly during the winter legislature session in city. City police chief Amitesh Kumar now decided to use them on regular basis. They are working as a mobile control room that can be used for crowd management and mass surveillance. Zonal DCP Lohit Matani said the senior inspectors of the respective police stations would be briefed as to how best can these special vehicles can be deployed. “The 12 wireless CCTV cameras can be installed anywhere within 100 metres of the vehicle and the footage can be used as evidence in cases involving law and order breaches and violence by crowd,” he said. Matani also said the vehicles’ drone can fly out at least five kilometres. “It can collect footage and send them back to police control room that can issue directions. The vehicle too can monitor the footage and take appropriate action,” he said. Footage from the vehicle’s drone or cameras can be also accessed by the Command-and-control centre (CCC). Matani said the vehicle also has a fixed camera that can be manoeuvred 360-degree with in-depth zoom facility. “Its ublic address system can be used to address any crowd by local cops or those in control room,” he said. Another officer said the vehicle would be effective during political rallies and also during the bandobast of the major cultural programmes and festivals in the city wherever crowd management is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/beware-cops-to-surveil-citizens-using-5-hi-tech-vans/articleshow/78956722.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||CU PG applications from Mon; Presi 2nd list likely today||Kolkata: Calcutta University will accept applications to its post-graduation courses in various streams between November 2 and November 10. The entire admission process will be conducted online due to the pandemic and the candidates will not be required to visit the campus for any of the aspects of admission. The courses are taught either on various campuses of the university or in various affiliated colleges across the city. There are 26 subjects in humanities in PG course, while 27 subjects in science stream. “This year the admission is being conducted online owing to the pandemic. Students awaiting their final semester results can also apply but they must produce their marksheets before merit list is published,” said a university official. Till two years ago, colleges providing PG courses would conduct their own admissions but the university turned the entire admission process centralised in 2018. This year the entire admission process to the UG courses were also conducted online. Presidency has already issued the first merit list for all the subjects in PG courses. A second merit list is expected on Saturday. “The university provides PG courses in 16 subjects with a total of 417 seats. The applications were accepted between October 16 and October 26,” said an official. Jadavpur University will announce the dates of admission to its PG courses next month. West Bengal State University will accept applications between November 2 and November 18. It provides PG courses in 30 subjects. The universities want to wrap up admission process by end of November so that classes can be started immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-pg-applications-from-mon-presi-2nd-list-likely-today/articleshow/78960390.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Second coronavirus wave likely in winter, warn doctors in UP||LUCKNOW: Cases of Covid-19 have declined over the past one month but approaching winters may not only bring along the second wave of pandemic but the severity of infection can also be higher. According to doctors, viruses that cause respiratory tract infections thrive during winter season. Since the novel coronavirus also attacks respiratory tract, there is a possibility that it will behave in a similar manner. Explaining why transmission rate of viruses is high during winter, experts said ultrafine pollutants (PM 2.5 micron) combine with tiny water particles in the atmosphere to form aerosols which play host to viruses shed by an infected person. Viruses which are just 0.1 micron in size can also form aerosols on their own. The formation rate of aerosol increases in winter due to fog. These aerosols get stuck in nostrils or mouth during inhalation when exposed to contaminated air and infect a person. Director, microbiology department, Institute of Medical Sciences at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Dr Anil Kumar Gulati said, “Since wind velocity is also low during winter season, aerosol concentration in the atmosphere is high and it remains in the air for long. As a result, more people are exposed to aerosols, that too for a longer duration, which increases the possibility of infection.” “People tend to stay indoors when it is cold outside. If ventilation is poor and anyone in the house is infected, possibility of transmission also increases,” he added. Epidemiologist and a faculty at the Provincial Health and Family Welfare Training Centre, Dr Amit Singh, said: “Human body produces more mucus that is thicker and stickier in which viruses get stuck, making a person prone to infection. Further, cold stress leads to constrictions of blood vessels in respiratory tract, resulting in suppression of immune responses, which increases the chances of severe infection.” Pulmonary medicine expert at KGMU Dr Santosh Kumar said people with respiratory issues should take extra care during winter as high pollution level could aggravate their condition, which could turn fatal if they catch infection. However, communicable disease expert at KGMU Dr D Himanshu said, “As of now, we do not have enough scientific evidence to conclude that Covid-19 incidence is high in winter season. It has been seen that transmission rate remains low for about two months after the peak before surging again. This means that Lucknow which saw peak in September may witness a second wave in December. Intermingling in upcoming festivals may also contribute to the spread.” A health department officer said the second wave has been more severe at many places in the world, hence its possibility in India cannot be ruled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/second-coronavirus-wave-likely-in-winter-warn-docs/articleshow/78961325.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Surgery successfully performed on ruptured liver tumour||MANGALURU: Surgery was performed successfully on a ruptured liver tumour at Father Muller Medical College Hospital here. A patient at the Father Muller Medical College Hospital, who had abdominal pain, was diagnosed with a ruptured liver tumour. The patient was stabilised and taken for surgery immediately. The operation took four hours, and the the tumour measuring 11x14cm was removed, stated a release form the hospital. The most common primary liver cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma. In order to surgically remove this type of cancer, it requires good surgical expertise. In 3%-15% of patients, this cancer can rupture and causes severe abdominal pain and bleeding. The surgery was performed by a team of doctors of the hospital. The primary surgeons were Dr Erel Diaz, professor and Dr Leo Francis Tauro, professor & HOD, department of general surgery, who were assisted by Dr Chirag Pereira and Dr Supraja Subramaniam. Meanwhile, Dr Radhesh Hegde was anaesthetist in-charge assisted by Dr Nichelle Saldanha and Dr Don. “The patient did not have any intra-operative or postoperative complications following the major surgery, and was discharged after 10 days. Various liver surgeries ranging from simple liver cyst to complex liver tumours are routinely performed at Father Muller Medical College Hospital. The hospital has highly advanced operation theatres and equipment to perform these types of surgeries at an affordable price for the common man,” said Dr Erel Diaz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/surgery-successfully-performed-on-ruptured-liver-tumour/articleshow/78958939.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Contractor booked for 25-year-old’s electrocution||NASHIK: A day after a 25-year-old man was electrocuted at Shiv Shakti Chowk area in Cidco, the Ambad police have booked the civic contractor for causing death due to negligence. “The deceased’s brother, Amol, also got an electrict shock. He was admitted to a private hospital and his condition is stable,” a police officer said. On Thursday morning, 25-year-old Dhiraj Jagtap was watering the front garden of his house when he got electrocuted from an exposed under-ground electricity cable. Dhiraj’s bother, who rushed to help him, also got an electric shock. Both the brothers were rushed to a private hospital in Kamatwade area of Cidco where doctors declared Dhiraj brought dead. “A contractor appointed by the civic body had dug the area in front of the house of the two brothers for a drainage line. In the process, the underground electricity cables were ruptured and left uncovered by the workers. This led to the electrocution of Dhiraj when he started watering the area in front of his house,” the officer said. Kumar Chaudhary, senior police inspector of the Ambad police station, said, “We have booked the contractor under Section 304 (A) of the IPC for causing death by negligence. He has not been arrested yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/contractor-booked-for-25-year-olds-electrocution/articleshow/78957628.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Starved of new releases, halls stare at hard times||Kolkata: Lack of content, which has directly hit footfall, is forcing theatre owners to reduce shows or shut down in Bengal. Unless Maharashtra opens its theatres, big-ticket Hindi movies will not be released nationally. As a result, a few cinema halls, including Priya, Menoka and Asoka, are planning to shut down from November 6. Arijit Dutta, who owns four single screen theatres and three plexes in Bengal, has shut down all of them except Priya, where two shows are running a day, instead of five shows during the Puja. On Friday, only four people turned up for the show of ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’. Dutta said, “These two shows of ‘Ebhabei Golpo Hok’ and ‘SOS Kolkata’ will also run only for a week, after which Priya will close down. Since the rent was paid for this week, I had to continue these two shows. From November onwards, I cannot pay salaries to 150 staffers of mine.” On being asked whether he paid salaries to all his staffers during the lockdown, Dutta replied, “I couldn’t pay for those who were outsourced. But now, I can’t pay for anyone. I could have still sustained, had it just been this lockdown-induced closure for seven months in 2020. Priya had been badly hit due to a seven-month closure in 2018. Financially, I can’t bleed any further. I can’t sell assets to pay the salaries.” Menoka has brought down the number of shows from four to two this week. “But we will be forced to shut down indefinitely from November 6. The sale of all Bengali movies has taken a beating. With no news on reopening of theatres in Maharashtra or Diwali releases, the future looks bleak,” said Menoka’s owner, Pranab Kumar Roy. According to Roy, his staffers have been paid 50% of their salaries during lockdown unless they have gone away from Kolkata. “We will take a call on what to do with salaries once we shut down from November 6,” Roy said. Asoka’s owner Prabir Roy is doubtful about continuing to run show from Monday. “Originally, we had planned to shut down from November 6. This week, we cut down from four to two shows. Just 10 people came to watch one show on Friday,” he said. Minar, Bijoli and Chhabighar have cut down from four to three shows. Navina has cut down from four to two shows daily. “If content isn’t there next week, I might screen one show only. But I will never shut down Navina,” said owner Navin Choukhani. He will continue to pay the salaries of his staff. “Last Puja, when I ran six shows, neither did they ask nor did I raise their salaries. Under extraordinary circumstances that is beyond anyone’s control, there is no reason for me to link that to their salaries. Irrespective of two or no shows, I will continue paying them,” he added. Satadeep Saha, who co-owns Ajanta Cinema, has scaled down from eight to three shows this week. “We are paying full salaries to our staff,” Saha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/starved-of-new-releases-halls-stare-at-hard-times/articleshow/78960426.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Kumar Vishwas to unveil his poetic ‘Awadh’ at Lucknow University after 30 years||LUCKNOW: Once in the evening of early 90s, a budding poet in his 20s entered the precincts of the Residency to pen his thoughts in a quiet corner. Mesmerised by the historic ruins and the Lakhnavi skyline, he captured the beautiful setting in a poem titled “Main Awadh ki Shaam”. A few years later, this young man became a shining star of Hindi poetry and the audience won’t let him leave the stage until he recited his most famous compilation: ‘koi deewana kehta hai, koi pagal samajhta hai’. While these captivating lines became Kumar Vishwas’ token to fame, the poem on ‘Awadh’ still remained close to his heart. Though written more than three decades ago, Vishwas never recited it on any stage. Perhaps he was waiting for an apt occasion, one that he has finally found now. And that too on Awadhi soil. Vishwas will do the maiden recital of “Main Awadh ki Shaam” at Lucknow University’s centenary celebrations in the event suitably titled “Awadh ki ek khas shaam”. Not many know about Kumar Vishwas’ bond with LU, whose premises he often preferred for his poetic creations. “Lucknow University and I are connected by heart; it was the very place which I often visited to participate or attend the literary events. I am happy to be back to the stage where I had read my poem ‘pagal ladki’ before eminent poets like Kaifi Aazmi during a kavi sammelan in 1992,” he recalled. “Returning to LU after three decades is like going back to one’s roots and rewinding my visit to the campus which fascinated me a lot,” the eloquent poet told TOI. “It was this connection for which I kept ‘Main Awadh ki Shaam’ locked in my treasure trove. This would be the first occasion when I will read it which I wrote as a budding poet,” said Vishwas. It was also at LU that Vishwas made friends and met mentors. “LU not only gave me a stage but also friends like the then LU Students Union president Brajesh Pathak, who is now UP law minister, and mentor like the former head of Hindi department Prof SP Dixit,” he said. “Besides LU, Hazratganj, Coffee House, Gomti banks also reside in my heart. The city’s zubaan and words like ‘hum’, ‘ji’, ‘aap’ and ‘janab’ and its Ganga Jamuni tehzeeb are admired by all,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vishwas-to-unveil-his-poetic-awadh-at-lu-after-30-years/articleshow/78961344.cms||Mohita Tewari
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Most schools declare revised fee structures||Kolkata: A large number of city schools uploaded their revised fee structures on their websites on Friday. Those who did not were still in legal consultations till late on Friday evening and said they would put it up on Saturday. This is being done in accordance with the Calcutta High Court order of October 13 that asked schools in the state to bring down tuition fees for the pandemic months by 20%. The order has been upheld by the Supreme Court in an interim order passed on October 28, though the apex court stayed some other clauses till further hearing. All the six Loreto schools in the city and those in the rest of the state announced their revised fee structure together on Friday noon. Those were signed by the respective principals, who declared that the revised fees were 80% of the tuition fees that the schools had charged in the corresponding months of 2019, following the HC order. A relief of 20% has also been extended for session fees. For example at Loreto Convent Entally, kids of nursery will now have to pay Rs 2,900 and those in class XII Rs 3,600. The session fees was scaled down by 20% of the usual Rs 2,500, stated the notice, signed by principal Jessica Gomes Surana. Among the other schools that have revised their structures following the HC order are Apeejay schools on Park Street and in Salt Lake, Queen of the Missions schools, Frank Anthony Public School, South Point, MP Birla, Birla High School Boys and Girls and Shri Shikshayatan. Some of those will announce their structures on Saturday. “We are in last-minute legal consultations. We will upload the revised fee structure on our website on Saturday,” said Krishna Damani, spokesperson for both South Point High School and MP Birla Foundation. “Before the court case started, we had given concessions of 17%-23% . Now that we are having to do a re-calculation of a flat 20%, it is taking us a while and we should be able to upload the details on our website by Saturday morning,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for Birla High School Boys and Sushila Birla High School for Girls. “We will announce the new fees on Saturday on our website after we check the calculations by Friday night,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson for Shri Shikshayatan School and Marwari Balika Vidyalaya. All the schools that have revised their fees have already filed special leave petitions against the Calcutta High Court order, which is now being heard in the SC. But as the apex court did not stay the HC order on the 20% waiver in the interim order, the schools in unison said that for the time being, they were announcing their revised fees because they did not want to flout the HC deadline of October 31. If the final order of the SC indicates otherwise, they will re-work the structure. Schools under Church of North India will not upload any revised structure on their websites right now. Twelve CNI schools, including La Martiniere for Boys and Girls, Pratt Memorial, St James’, St John’s Diocesan and St Thomas’ School Kidderpore, have filed a special leave petition in the SC and their matter has not come up for hearing yet. Legal counsel for CNI B P Tewari said the schools would not take any decision on fees till the matter came up for hearing in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-schools-declare-revised-fee-structures/articleshow/78961353.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi air pollution: EPCA’s exit leaves GRAP hole to be filled in crucial month||NEW DELHI: November is considered the ‘defining’ month for air pollution in the region and generally logs the most number of days when the air quality is in the ‘severe’ category. This year, Delhi steps into the month without a pollution monitoring body like Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority, which earlier oversaw the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan and issued additional instructions to control any spike in pollution. With the newly formed Commission for Air Quality Management likely to take some time to be constituted, the state pollution boards and involved agencies are confused about how GRAP measures will be enforced. Officials said that while EPCA remained the designated implementing body for GRAP, an amendment might have to be issued to formally shift this role to a new agency. Officials of Delhi Pollution Control Board speculated the Union environment ministry would assume the role until the new commission took over. A DPCC official assured that existing work, including initiating action against violators of anti-pollution norms under the Air and Environment Protection Acts will continue, further directions are not likely to be issued even if air quality turned ‘severe’. “We are awaiting clarity on the new commission. Until then, we will submit daily and action-taken reports to CPCB,” the DPCC official told TOI. A CPCB official said while the central pollution board-led task force advised EPCA when to issue direction or enforce norms, it was not in a position to replicate EPCA’s role. “While the task force can issue advisories, the order for their implementation was issued by EPCA. Some more clarity on the change in this role may arrive soon,” the official said to TOI on condition of anonymity. An environment ministry official later clarified that GRAP would continue to be enforced in the same manner as at present and CPCB would oversee it until the new commission was constituted. “GRAP will not be replaced in any way and will continue to be implemented. Until the Commission gets members, CPCB will oversee its enforcement or issue directions when required,” said the official. On October 28, EPCA extended the use of diesel generator sets till November 30 for 14 residential colonies and one commercial complex in Haryana. The ban on DG sets was an anti-pollution GRAP measure enforced by the Supreme Court-appointed panel. However, EPCA had subsequently said that Haryana government would have to be submit an affidavit in the next 8-10 days, specifying details of how and by when electricity would be supplied to these locations requiring the use of DG sets. Officials said the work of submitting daily reports on pollution or on affidavits like this under the new commission will also require clarification from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/epcas-exit-leaves-grap-hole-to-be-filled-in-crucial-month/articleshow/78960455.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||RRU starts online module on India, its neighbourhood||Ahmedabad: City-based Rashtriya Raksha University (RRU) has started an online two-week intensive programme on ‘India and its Neighbourhood’. The initiative was launched by the School of Foreign Affairs, Languages and Political Economy (SFALPE), RRU, on Tuesday, according to a press statement. The key objective of this online programme is to impart an insightful understanding of the contemporary issues in South Asia and the efforts made by the Indian state to create a peaceful, stable, and secure neighbourhood, it said. RRU extensively undertakes academic and research engagements in the field of diplomacy and foreign policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rru-starts-online-module-on-india-its-neighbourhood/articleshow/78960420.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid ICUs remain full, refusals rise||KOLKATA: Critical care beds for Covid patients are full across private hospitals in Kolkata, forcing many health facilities to refuse scores of patients with moderate or severe symptoms even though they need immediate admission. More than 100 patients had been turned away by five-six private establishments over the past seven days and the number could spiral in case there’s a Puja-induced spurt in number next week, as feared, said hospitals. Last week, a critically ill Covid patient under treatment at an Alipore hospital was referred to an EM Bypass hospital which, despite having promised a bed, failed to accommodate the person. “We had just one vacancy in the ICU that had to be offered to another critical patient minutes before our ambulance was to pick up the patient from Alipore. We found the patient a berth at a government hospital and our ambulance ferried him there,” said an official of the Bypass hospital. Though most said they had exhausted their space and resources to add Covid critical beds, some explored the possibility of converting non-critical beds into ITU or ICU ones to meet the demand. At Peerless Hospital, two-three critical or potentially critical patients are being turned away every day, as all 21 ITU beds remain occupied and merely one getting vacant every three days. “We have been forced to screen patients over phone, based on their reports and symptoms. Those with severe symptoms are being asked to look for other hospitals since our ITU has been full since a week before the Pujas. Those with minor breathing distress—particularly the elderly—are also being refused as they may need ITU care, which we can’t provide now,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. Peerless has 130 non-critical beds for Covid. AMRI Hospitals have turned away at least 80 Covid patients since September due to lack of vacancies. The hospital has more than 100 Covid critical beds, out of 265 across its three units. Charnock Hospital plans to add 15 ICU beds to its existing 52. Critical patients were being refused daily, said the authorities. “We are compelled to turn away patients as ICU beds are fully occupied most of the time. We are adding 30 beds to our Covid unit, including 15 for ICU. We are stretching ourselves to the limit,” said Charnock managing director Prashant Sharma. The waiting list of patients has been getting longer at Medica Superspecialty Hospital since mid-October. Vacancies have been slow, particularly in ICU, which has already been expanded thrice. The hospital now has 200 Covid beds, including 160 critical care ones. “The flow of critical patients has increased over the past fortnight and despite a pre-Puja expansion, our ICU beds have been full. As it could be risky to admit a critical patient to the ward, we have been refusing patients,” said chairperson Alok Roy. He added they were ready to take over smaller nursing homes in the area. “We can recruit more personnel and set up an ICU if more space is made available,” said Roy. Some like RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) have been finding it difficult to run their non-Covid unit due to Covid unit constraints. The Covid ICU has been expanded to an 130-bed facility. “Our Covid ICU remains full and we are facing capacity constraints even in non-Covid ICUs,” said zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-icus-remain-full-refusals-rise/articleshow/78961347.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||‘SMS’ a day to keep Covid away: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked officials to spread the message of ‘SMS’ – Soap (handwashing), Mask and Social distancing – to check the spread of Covid-19 in the state. During the Team 11 review meeting, the CM said an awareness campaign should be launched in the state and people should be informed about the concept of ‘SMS’. “The practice, when followed religiously, will be useful in prevention of the disease as there is no specific medicine for Covid-19 yet,” Yogi said. Launching a programme for focussed testing, the CM said under no circumstances should testing be less than 1.5 lakh per day, especially in view of festival season. “The CM has said that the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in districts like Kanpur, Meerut, Basti and Varanasi should be improved. Meanwhile, as dengue has also gripped the state, he said all programmes being implemented to prevent communicable and vector-borne diseases should be carried out rigorously, including sanitisation and fogging. Public address systems should be used effectively to spread awareness about Covid-19 and other diseases,” an official said. The CM also directed the revenue department to ensure purchase of blankets at the earliest so that it could be distributed among the homeless. Under the ongoing Mission Shakti programme, the CM said the plan had delivered good results and it should be continued till November 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sms-a-day-to-keep-covid-away-up-cm/articleshow/78961355.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur Metro, Aapli Bus services to run parallel||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Metro had started plying from March last year and it was expected that MahaMetro and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) would sign an agreement for providing feeder services to Metro stations soon. Further, city buses would not ply on routes covered by Metro. However, both parties did not show interest and city buses continue to run on Hingna and Wardha roads causing loss of ridership to the Metro. A senior official from the NMC’s transport department said there was no joint transport plan for Aapli Bus and Nagpur Metro to provide service in the city. “In fact, Metro’s demand to stop the city bus service on its routes was never discussed earlier. In the past, Metro officials never raised this and continued with their demand for NMC’s feeder bus service to stations,” the official clarified. “Apart from feeder bus service, the Nagpur Metro had submitted a plan for Common Mobility Card (CMC), which too was rejected,” he claimed and further said the nationalized bank roped in for the service was insisting on 4% charge for transferring the money collected through the card. Another reason for rejecting the CMC proposal was that the ticketing money would be transferred to the civic body’s account only after three days of swiping the card. “We have no problem introducing the CMC if we get the ticketing revenue collected through it the same day,” the official pointed out. “Had we accepted the proposal, it would have been difficult to maintain the funds needed for operation of the Aapli Bus service,” the officer explained. The official also said the NMC’s revenue from ticketing is around Rs6 crore per month and the gap funding by the civic body Rs7 crore to ensure smooth operation of the city bus service. Apart from 1.50 lakh passengers, Aapli Bus was being used by almost 65,000 pass-holders per month. Metro was insisting us not to renew their pass and instead direct them towards it. He also claimed that the civic body also provides discount not only to students but to regular pass-holders, senior citizens etc. Students get almost 67% discount every month, while regular pass-holders get 25% discount for two-month route pass. A Metro official said a proposal had been submitted to the NMC for providing feeder services to 16 Metro stations and also to stop plying of city buses on Hingna and Wardha roads. “A meeting was held in NMC on our proposal and the municipal commissioner has to agree to the plan. Once that happens, we will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with NMC for feeder services. NMC should cooperate with us as both stand to gain if people use Metro in large numbers,” he added. Before the lockdown, MahaMetro had submitted proposals for providing feeder services to eight Metro stations. NMC had started services for six stations. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has already ruled out any possibility to stop the Aapli Bus service on Metro routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-metro-aapli-bus-services-to-run-parallel/articleshow/78958991.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Two nabbed for Rs 11L festive season fraud at electronics outlet||Kolkata: Using fake signatures on original cheques, a gang duped a major electronic retail outlet, owned by a business conglomerate, of several electronic gadgets, worth Rs 11 lakh, in the past couple of weeks. Cops suspect that the accused had sold the gadgets online later by offering discounts in the festive season. Two persons, Sejan Taj and Shahbaz Raja, have been arrested so far in connection with the fraud. Cops said the accused had used a “unique modus operandi” for the fraud. “The accused first landed up at the company outlets located at Rajarhat and Chinar Park. They chose some costly electronic items like I-phones, Mac-books and I-pads. They offered to pay in cheques. They said they would pick up the items a day later when the cheques got credited. The store managers found the offer compatible and agreed. The cheques issued always belonged to a particular private bank. This bank showed the cheques as credited in the account of the receiver before they got cleared. Later the cheques would be rejected as signatures did not match,” said a police officer. When the company was duped twice at its two outlets, its internal security team swung into action. When the accused came to book the electronic items at its Sarat Bose Road outlet, they informed the police. “We picked up the accused and questioned them. They led us to a flat at New Town, from where we recovered several of the items,” said an officer. The accused reportedly induced the complainant to sell consumer durables and deposited a forged cheque of Rs 5.2 lakh in first lot. The amount got reversed as the cheque was not cleared by bank. The duo has been remanded in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-nabbed-for-rs-11l-festive-season-fraud-at-electronics-outlet/articleshow/78960443.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Quick police action saves elderly Kasba resident’s life||KOLKATA: An SI from the Kasba police station reached the home of an ailing 66-year-old with a doctor, after the elderly man’s condition suddenly deteriorated. Bijoy Mukherjee, who lives on Rajdanga Main Road, had returned home from hospital after about a week ago after undergoing treatment. He, however, complained of weakness and his condition kept worsening. Mukherjee lives with his wife, Kumkum, and their son works abroad. On Thursday, his wife dialed a few doctors, requesting them to attend to him. But since none of them was ready to visit the two, a relative called up the Kasba police station, seeking help. Kasba police station office-in-charge Saikat Neogi immediately took up the case and asked SI Gourav Bhattacharya to visit the patient with a doctor. Bhattacharya, in turn, called up Jopan Chakma, a general physician attached with KS Roy TB Hospital. “Chakma had helped us in previous incidents. When I called him up, he readily agreed and reached the police station,” said Bhattacharya. On examining, Chakma found the patient was weak and showed imbalance in his sodium potassium levels. The patient felt better after he was given medication. The doctor felt there was no need for hospital admission. “I found them helpless. I thank cops for reaching out to the patient,” said Chakma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/quick-police-action-saves-elderly-kasba-residents-life/articleshow/78961358.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
October 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||6,638 new Covid cases, 7,828 recoveries in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state on Friday reported more recoveries than positive cases. While 6,638 were confirmed with Covid-19 in the day, 7,828 patients recovered from the infection. To date, 4,25,122 cases have been reported in the state and the active-case count is 90,565. Among the new cases, 6,553 contracted the virus through local contacts while the sources were unknown in 700 cases and 64 healthcare workers were among the infected. In 24 hours, 53,981 samples were tested. Meanwhile, 28 recent deaths were confirmed as due to Covid taking the toll in the state to 1,458. Subramanyam (61), Babu (72), Rajamma (90), Esther (78), Rukmini (58), Sushila (65) and Srinath (28) from Thiruvananthapuram, Sanathanan (82) and Hamsakutty (81) from Kollam, Biju K Nair (45) from Pathanamthitta, Pareeth Rauthar (77) and Sarasamma from Kottayam, Gopalakrishnan (65) from Alappuzha, P K Ali (65) and Baby Varghese (57) from Ernakulam, Prabhakaran (63), Umadevi (57) and Devassy (76) from Thrissur, Pathumma (65), Aisha (84) and Aboobacker Siddique (43) from Malappuram, Mallu (65), Kunjikannan (65), Radha (78), Abdu Rahman (78) and Balamani (59) from Kozhikode, Fauzia (29) from Wayanad, and Khadeeja (70) from Kannur were the deceased. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases, 1,096 followed by Malappuram, 761, Kozhikode, 722, Ernakulam, 674, Alappuzha, 664, Thiruvananthapuram, 587, Kollam, 482, Palakkad, 482, Kottayam, 367, Kannur, 341, Pathanamthitta, 163, Kasaragod, 133, Wayanad, 90 and Idukki, 76. Thrissur topped the daily local spread tally among districts with 1,080 cases followed by Malappuram, 723, Kozhikode, 698, Alappuzha, 629, Kollam, 474, Thiruvananthapuram, 460, Ernakulam, 457, Kottayam, 360, Palakkad, 258, Kannur, 251, Pathanamthitta, 131, Kasaragod, 129, Wayanad, 84 and Idukki, 55. Most (14) healthcare workers were infected in Ernakulam while Kozhikode reported 13, Thiruvananthapuram, 10, Kannur, eight, Thrissur, seven, Malappuram, four, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam, two each, and Alappuzha and Kasaragod, one each. Malappuram made the most recoveries in the day (1,106) while Kottayam reported 1,007 and Kozhikode had 959 cases of patients recovering from Covid-19. There are 2,88,635 under observation in the state, including 2,66,953 under home or institutional quarantine and 21,682 at hospitals; 2,621 admitted on Friday. There were six new places added to the list and 10 areas excluded leaving 690 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/6638-new-covid-cases-7828-recoveries-in-kerala/articleshow/78958994.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP got Rs 6,700 crore investment in 6 months despite pandemic||LUCKNOW: Despite Covid-induced lockdown, Uttar Pradesh has received an investment of around Rs 6,700 crore in the past six months. Industrial authorities have already allotted 426 acres land for these projects. Besides, they have already received more than 40 investment intents of companies from countries like US, UK, Germany, Canada, South Korea and Japan. This, said infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon, is a reflection of the pro-industry policies of the government and the effort to develop the state even as the Covid-19 pandemic raged in the state. Tandon said that 326 plots have been allocated to major investors such as Hiranandani Group, Surya Global, Hindustan Unilever, MG Capsules, Kesho Packaging, Mountain View Technologies. The units where work has started or where construction has begun have an employment generation potential of nearly 1.35 lakh, Tandon said. Post Covid-19 lockdown, UP Government has identified key sectors where it will encourage new investment, said an official. These include bulk drug and medical device manufacturing, logistics, defence, data centres etc. The Greater Noida area, where the Jewar airport is coming up, is also being developed as an industrial hub where upcoming projects include an MSME park, electronics park, apparel park, handicraft park, toys park, cargo complex, MRO facilities etc. These are expected to bring in investments of Rs 40,000 crore and employment to about 2.5 -3 lakh people. Tandon added that during the past few months, the state also attracted more than 40 investment intents, including from companies from 10 countries such as Japan, US, UK, Canada, Germany and South Korea worth around Rs 45,000 crore. This includes investments of Rs 750 crore in data centre by Hiranandani Group, Rs 300 crore in an integrated food processing unit by Britannia Industries Ltd, Rs 750 crore in yeast manufacturing by Associated British Food, UK, Rs 200 crore in consumer electronics by Dixon Technologies, Rs 300 crore in footwear manufacturing by Von Wellix, Germany, Rs 953 crore by Surya Global Flexi Films Pvt Ltd, Rs 200 crore in software development by US’ Maq Software, Rs 746 crore in grain infrastructure equipment by Ekagrata Inc, Canada. At present, UP has a land bank of 20,000 acres which is ready to move to. The government has also identified around 22,000 acres of land along expressways for industrial development, which include areas around Firozabad, Agra, Unnao, Chitrakoot, Mainpuri and Barabanki. “The government launched a ‘Post Covid-19 Accelerated Investment Promotion Policy for Backward Regions 2020’,” Tandon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-got-rs-6700cr-investment-in-6-months-despite-pandemic/articleshow/78961366.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||IPL betting racket busted, 1 held||Kolkata: An IPL betting racket was busted by the Anti Rowdy Squad (ARS) of the detective department at Park Street on Thursday night when the Kolkata Knight Riders and Chennai Super Kings match was underway. This is the fifth such betting racket being busted in the city so far. Cops said that apart from the usual betting on individual game winners, highest scorers and wicket takers, the accused were also betting on KKR’s chance of making it to the last four. The case was recorded on the complaint of Shuvankar Sarkar, sub inspector, ARS, who claimed that the accused — four people have been named in the FIR lodged at Beniapukur police station — had entered into a criminal conspiracy and were “running a cricket betting and gambling racket by using mobiles and other electronic gadgets.” Md Nadim Khan (30), a resident of North Range and one of the accused, was arrested. Two mobiles and other gadgets, including a TV and DVR, were seized by the police. Besides cheating and criminal conspiracy, sections 3 and 4 of West Bengal Gambling and Prize Competition Act were slapped against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ipl-betting-racket-busted-1-held/articleshow/78960449.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Home festivities on Eid Milad-un-Nabi||Nashik: Families celebrated Eid Milad-un-Nabi with zeal and enthusiasm on Friday in Nashik and Malegaon, though the traditional processions on the occasion could not be held due to Covid-19 restrictions. The streets, mosques and dargahs were decked up with floral arches, flags and lighting to celebrate the occasion. Even the route of the ‘Juloos-e-Mohammadi’ (grand procession) from Bagwanpura till Pinjar Ghat was decorated with arches, flags, lighting, along with laser shows. Shahar-e-Khateeb Hafiz Hashimuddin Ashrafi had appealed to the members of the community to recite their prayers at their homes. “It is our duty to jointly fight Covid-19 infection and hence, we asked our members to celebrate the festivities in isolation instead of coming together at public places,” he said. Mehraj Shaikh, a businessman, said they purchased food items, sweets and clothes on Thursday evening and celebrated the festival with family on Friday. The police maintained bandobast in Nashik and Malegaon at the places of religious worship to prevent people from gathering in large numbers. Only ten maulanas were allowed to move around the one-km long procession route in Malegaon. The police escorted the maulanas in order to discourage people from joining the procession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/home-festivities-on-eid-milad-un-nabi/articleshow/78957653.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||107 fined for violating Covid norms||Nashik: The city courts have fined 107 people to the tune of Rs 60,800 on Thursday for not following the Covid norms in place. Police continue to book the citizens for not following the Covid protocols and then take them to the courts for penal action. The erring citizens were booked under various sections of the Bombay Maharashtra Police Act and section 188 of the IPC for not maintaining social distancing in a public place, crowding, not using a mask and spitting in a public place. In the beginning of October, the city police had issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Under this, making rush in markets and spitting in the open are banned, it is also made mandatory to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey had instructed the police personnel to get the erring citizens to the police stations, book them under the relevant sections of the IPC or Bombay Police Act and then take them to the courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/107-fined-for-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/78957645.cms||Santosh Sonawane
October 31, 2020||Nashik||IIT-Bombay team identifies problem with smart road||Nashik: The recent study conducted by a team from IIT-Bombay has found that some patches on the city’s 1.1 km-long maiden smart city road — between Ashok Stambh and Trimbak Naka — are undulated (uneven) and this may cause problems for motorists driving vehicles over the speed of 60km per hour. However, the team has recommended that since there are table tops at five locations and three traffic signals on the busy road, there is no need for any alteration as the speed of the vehicles remain between 30 and 40-km per hour. The team has also recommended that if the smart city body, Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL), wants then a cover of bitumen cand be laid to smoothen the surface of the entire road. But that may lead to potholes during the rainy season. Prakash Thavil, CEO of NMSCDCL, said there are no adverse remarks made by the IIT Bombay in its report. “No improvement needs to be carried out as per IIT Bombay report, but the NMSCDCL shall do all necessary repair work during the defect liability period from the contractor,” he said. This issue was discussed during the smart city meeting held on Thursday. “There are three categories of undulated roads — good, average and poor. The IIT Bombay team has given an average category to the smart road,” he added. According to the study report of IIT Bombay, the left side of the road from Ashok Stambh to Trimbak Naka comes in the category of ‘average’ and ‘good’, while the right side belongs to the average category. There are certain sections/segments that come in the good category, particularly for the inner lane. “Considering the low operating speed on the road, frequent stop due to intersections, table tops and red lights, currently the existing roughness level may be considered acceptable, if not in ‘good’ category for all the lanes,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/iit-bombay-team-identifies-problem-with-smart-road/articleshow/78957662.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu bidda in race for US House of Reps||HYDERABAD: As the United States of America goes to polls on November 3, all eyes will be on Telugu-American Manga Anantatmula, who is running for the House of Representatives from the 11th congressional district in Virginia. She will be contesting as a Republican and is the first Indian-American to contest from the state. “I came to the US because it offers freedom and free market. But this has changed, people are being bullied even for voting for President Trump. There is a limit to the violation of one’s constitutional rights.” She says she wants to fight against the ‘socialist views’ being propagated these days.  Anantatmula grew up in Chennai and completed her graduation in Agra.“Once elected I will fight for the rights of immigrants who have been waiting in the green card pipeline, many of whose children have lost legal status,” said Anantatmula. On being asked about several decisions -- including the H1B ban earlier this year and the increase in wage levels for H1B visas – the Republican candidate said, “When and why these decisions were taken must be considered. With Covid-19, many countries banned travel including India. The US is also facing huge unemployment when American workers must be protected.”  Anantatmula has raised her voice against alleged discrimination against Asians in Ivy League schools and even in high schools. “I was the only Indian fighting against discrimination of Asians in Ivy league institutions and we won lawsuits that have shown that such discrimination exists,” said the activist, who is part of the equal education movement. Hyderabad: Congressional hopeful Manga Anantatmula has supported the Modi government’s stance on Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir as well as supported the Citizenship Amendment Act. She even attacked Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on the issue of Article 370. The Republican continues to travel to India and when she does makes it a point to visit several temples. “ TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-bidda-in-race-for-us-house-of-reps/articleshow/78960460.cms||Uttara Varma
October 31, 2020||India||EC cites code breach, revokes Nath’s star campaigner status||NEW DELHI/BHOPAL: The Election Commission on Friday revoked the status of former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath as Congress’s star campaigner for by-elections in the state, for repeatedly violating the model code with his public utterances and “breaching ethical and dignified behaviour”. The effect of the EC action is that any expenditure on campaigning by Nath will now have to be completely borne by the candidate of the constituency in which he campaigns. Congress said it would move the Supreme Court against the “undemocratic move”. “We are thankful to the EC for not revoking the citizenship of our leader Kamal Nath,” said K K Mishra, who heads the Congress campaign in Gwalior-Chambal region, the home turf of Jyotiraditya Scindia. The EC also passed an order against senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya for calling former CMs Digvijaya Singh and Kamal Nath “chunnu-munnu” and “gaddar”, and alleging corruption in transfers. Rejecting Vijayvargiya’s defence that his statements — made at a rally in Sanwer, Gwalior, on October 14 — were not an attack on aspects of private lives of the duo, the EC advised him not to use such words in public utterances during the model code period. The EC also reprimanded MP minister Mohan Yadav for using “intemperate language transgressing the limits of decency” and barred him from campaigning for a day on October 31. It also issued a notice to BJP candidate Girraj Danotiya for allegedly making objectionable and threatening remarks against Nath. The rap for Nath followed his October 13 comment against MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan at a public rally, in which he had called him a “nautanki ka kalakar” and said “mafia” was his god, apart from labelling “his god” as a “milawat-khor” (adulterator). Just a few days back, the EC had held Nath’s “item” remark against MP minister Imarti Devi to be a violation of its advisory asking political leaders not to make disrespectful statements against women. The EC on Friday said it observed with displeasure that Nath was violating the model code repeatedly and breaching ethical and dignified behaviour. “For repeated violation of the model code and completely disregarding the advisory, the commission revokes the status of leader of political party (star campaigner) with immediate effect,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-cites-code-breach-revokes-naths-star-campaigner-status/articleshow/78962077.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru ranked second in 2-wheeler accidents last year||BENGALURU: The city recorded the second-highest number of accidents involving two-wheelers in the country in 2019. According to a report compiled by the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), Chennai topped the list with 2,669 two-wheeler accidents, followed by Bengaluru (2,197). In terms of fatalities, Bengaluru, with 374 deaths, occupied the third spot after Chennai (514) and Delhi (490). Even smaller cities like Jabalpur, Bhopal, Raipur and Thiruvananthapuram saw a large number of two-wheeler accidents. As per the report, two-wheeler riders accounted for 37% of accident fatalities in 2019, followed by pedestrians (17%) and occupants of light motor vehicles (16%). “Together, two-wheelers riders and pedestrians accounted for 54% of the deaths and are the most vulnerable category, quite in line with global trends,” it said. About 30% of deaths of two-wheeler riders were attributed to helmetless riding. MoRTH may allow only BIS-approved helmetsMoRTH said it is taking several steps to reduce two-wheeler accidents. It has mandated ‘Automatic Headlamp On’ (AHO) in two-wheelers from 2017. This means headlights on all new two-wheelers stay on once the ignition is turned on. It’s also planning to bring two-wheeler helmets under the compulsory regime of BIS certification. This means only BIS-approved and certified helmets will be manufactured and sold in India. The ministry is working on formulating rules for child helmets. Bengaluru has around 60 lakh two-wheelers, the second highest in the country after Delhi (70 lakh). Poor frequency of buses and overcrowding in public transport are forcing many to shift to two-wheelers for a faster and cheaper commute. Two-wheelers are also the first choice for those who prefer solo travel to ensure safety during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, riding without helmet attracts a fine of Rs 1,000 and a three-month suspension of licence. However, the Karnataka government reduced the fine amount to Rs 500 after public outcry. The suspension rule is now being implemented strictly. Experts say two-wheelers are more vulnerable to accidents since the rider and pillion rider are more exposed than those inside four wheelers. Ashish Verma from Transport Systems Engineering cell of Indian Institute of Science (IISc) said: “The main reason for two-wheeler accidents is the driving behaviour. Two-wheeler riders often jump on to footpaths and indulge in zigzag movement when they find space.” He said the two-wheeler number in Bengaluru is high due to traffic congestion. “It’s more convenient for quick shopping, and getting a parking space is easier as compared to a car. Many from low-income groups opt for two-wheelers since public transport costs more to cover the same distance,” said Verma. VS Suresh, a Madras high court advocate who specialises in accident cases, said: “The road condition in Chennai is comparatively better, so bikers resort to speeding and racing. With enforcement largely restricted to core city areas, helmetless riding is rampant on the outskirts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-ranked-second-in-2-wheeler-accidents-last-year/articleshow/78959514.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Second phase of RFID project yet to take off||NEW DELHI: The exercise to have radio frequency ID compliance at all the 124 border points of the capital for winter enforcement has been derailed. In August, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, the nodal agency of the RFID project, had announced that all toll plazas would get hand-held devices for reading RFID chips by November. The infrastructure for the RFID system was also to be installed in the remaining 111 border points by January 2021. However, civic officials have disclosed that these deadlines cannot be met as the project is yet to kick off. “The proposal to spend Rs 36 crore on Phase II of the RFID project has been rejected three times by the SDMC Standing Committee in different meetings in the three months since the deadlines were set,” a corporation official said. The dissolution of Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority has also raised a question mark on the future of the RFID project. An SDMC official said that the matter would have to be taken up afresh by the newly formed air pollution commission and it is likely that real outcomes and efficacy of Phase I — in which 13 border crossings accounting for 85% of the commercial traffic entering the city were made RFID-compliant — will be reviewed. Explaining why there was a need for expanding the RFID system to all border toll plazas, SDMC officials said that the old, polluting vehicles and other commercial vehicles preferred the non-RFID crossing, in the process reducing the gains made at the 13 modern toll areas. “Commercial vehicles older than 10 years, not allowed into Delhi, are slipping in through the non-modernised border points,” one official claimed. “Diversion of this sort is evidenced from the fact that when after the implementation of Phase, traffic at the 13 border points, which earlier saw 85% of all incoming traffic, decreased substantially.” Some of the key Phase II border points with heavy traffic are Noida Major, New Kondli, Loni and Chander Nagar. In a letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, the outgoing EPCA members suggested expediting the RFID toll project expansion by the new air quality commission. “RFID has moved the collection of Environment Compensation Charge from cash to cashless system. The court has directed that this must be implemented across all border points. SDMC must ensure compliance,” Thursday’s letter from Bhure Lal and Sunita Narain said. The EPCA report on the RFID project declared that the gains from Phase 1 were substantial and rewarded the efforts to mitigate pollution. “There is a 95% reduction in the total particulate load from trucks entering from 13 locations compared with 2015. There is 87-94% reduction in NOx loads from light- and heavy-duty vehicles entering from the 13 locations,” the report stated. SDMC officials say that these claims might be cross verified by the new commission before clearing Phase II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/second-phase-of-rfid-project-yet-to-take-off/articleshow/78960509.cms||Paras Singh
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP sets November 30 deadline to fill all potholes||BENGALURU: The BBMP ordered its officials to fill up potholes on all major and ward roads on a war-footing and set a one-month deadline for it. The ultimatum was issued at a meeting held by the BBMP administrator and commissioner on Friday. While November 15 is the deadline to fill all potholes on major roads, those on ward roads have to fixed by November 30. Also, 31 teams are being set up to execute the work. Pointing out that a well-equipped hot mix plant has been established to fill potholes under BBMP’s limits, administrator Gaurav Gupta said hot mix of the right quality was not being produced and potholes were not being filled properly. He asked officials to take required measures to fix the problem. Stating that separate zonewise tenders have been floated for this work, he told officials to keep him informed about the demand for hot mix from zones and the supplies they are getting. He said major roads of 1,300km should be adequately maintained. Road pits, service roads and sidewalks should be repaired. Whitetopping, TenderSURE and Smart City works taken up by the Planning Division should be attended to, he added. Commissioner Manjunath Prasad pulled up officials, wondering why they had failed to fill up potholes though resources were available. While the hot mix plant can produce 50-60 truckloads in 10 hours, only 10 loads are currently being produced daily, he said, adding that production should be increased to ensure that craters on all city roads are filled up and Bengaluru is pothole-free. The chief engineers of all zones should get updated about potholes in their juridiction and head out to fix them after making arrangements, Prasad said. While two teams each will be at work in east, west and south zones of the city, three teams each will execute the job in the other five zones (Yelahanka, Mahadevapura, Bommanahalli, Dasarahalli and RR Nagar). Ten more teams will be tasked with filling potholes on arterial and subterial roads, Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-sets-november-30-deadline-to-fill-all-potholes/articleshow/78959558.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Single window system, GST cell for UP exporters soon||LUCKNOW: To increase exports from UP, especially of products which China has till now held a large share in, the UP export promotion council will be setting up a single window system for exporters to help them resolve their issues and to be able to apply for all necessary clearances from a single point. A separate GST cell will also be set up for them. Minister for MSME and export, Sidharth Nath Singh, said that professionals would be engaged by the export promotion council for smooth functioning of the system. “In 2019-20, UP’s exports were Rs 1.20 lakh crore. The Covid pandemic created some hurdles this year, but in the next three years, we plan on increasing exports from UP to at least Rs 3 lakh crore. We have to see an opportunity in the pandedmic. China’s share of exports to several countries was about 50-60% but now that international relations with China are souring due to the pandemic, we should try and integrate India’s manufacturing with the global supply chain, as mentioned by PM Narendra Modi recently,” Singh said. Singh said there was an increase of 28% in UP’s total exports due to goods promoted under the chief minister’s one district-one product scheme. The export council hired PriceWaterhouseCoopers as a consultant to identify 10 products which can penetrate markets which China is vacating. With details of this study in hand, Singh said, the government will be able to frame a structured policy for the shortlisted goods and ensure better marketing for them. Singh added that the government is also mulling on special concessions, like a massive rebate on containers, to offset the additional expenditure which UP exporters have to bear for transporting their products to ports. A subsidy of more than Rs 35,000 is likely per container to make it viable for UP exporters to transport their goods to ports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/single-window-system-gst-cell-for-up-exporters-soon/articleshow/78961382.cms||Neha Lalchandani
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||More than 13,000 houses damaged in flood across Karnataka||HAVERI: Over 13,500 houses were damaged in the devastation wrought by the flood the state witnessed in August and September. In accordance with the rules of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), the central government has disbursed Rs 35.5 crore in compensation to those who have borne the brunt of the disaster. Incessant rain left a trail of destruction in 22 districts across the state, with more than 3,500 houses being damaged in Belagavi alone – the highest in Karnataka. But all the districts in North Karnataka, with rain continuing even in the early weeks of October, have suffered from the onslaught of heavy showers. Officials in these districts have assessed the extent of the damage and are in the process of drafting reports to be submitted to the government. Victims, the houses of whom have suffered damage, have been divided into three categories: Completely damaged (A), extensively damaged (B) and partially damaged (C). Compensation will be directly credited to the Aadhaar-linked bank accounts of the victims in instalments by the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd. While 903 houses across Karnataka have been completely damaged, 2,350 houses suffered extensive damage while 10,300 have sustained partial damage in the rain that lashed the state in August and September. Haveri additional deputy commissioner S Yogishwar said that, five houses in the district had been completely destroyed, while 311 were heavily damaged and 484 had suffered partial damage. “We are verifying the applications submitted by 534 victims, while those submitted by 935 people have been rejected since they are not eligible to receive compensation from the government,” said Yogishwar, adding that the district administration had received Rs 2.9 crore from the government to undertake rehabilitation measures. Haveri DC Sanjay Shettanavar said that the government had set Rs 5 lakh as the compensation to be paid to those who had lost their houses, while Rs 3 lakh to those the houses of whom had sustained extensive damage and Rs 50,000 to those classified in the ‘C’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/more-than-13k-houses-damaged-in-flood-across-karnataka/articleshow/78959310.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad all set to commence new academic session from mid-Nov||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad is all set to commence the new academic session for the fresh batch of students from mid-November. The university has decided to increase asynchronous learning, adopt 50:50 formula for assessment and conduct flexible exams for this academic year. The task force constituted by the university had sought feedback from students and faculty last month in order to improve online learning. In all, 151 faculty members and 483 integrated and post-graduate students from 11 schools responded. Based on the responses from all the stakeholders, the task force has increased asynchronous (pre-recorded) sessions as faculty members were advised to share some short pre-recorded videos of not more than 20 minutes each (making allowance for minor subject-wise variations) on key concepts or some other specific aspect of the topic being taught. The task force also found that about a third of the faculty were not sharing recordings of the live classes and instructed teachers to do so for students who missed it or want to review the topic. “Additionally, heads and deans of academic units may want to ensure that students have no more than three to four hours of synchronous classes, with breaks in between classes, on any given day,” reads the guidelines issued by the UoH. The university has also conveyed its decision not to insist on mandatory attendance for online classes. “It is advised that faculty be flexible in their administration of tests and exams, which should preferably be conducted asynchronously and with some additional time allotted for students to submit,” stated the guidelines. For evaluation, the task force has suggested academic units must use a 50:50 formula, while not putting undue weight on one single end-semester examination worth as much as 50 marks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-all-set-to-commence-new-academic-session-from-mid-nov/articleshow/78960465.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru DC to industry bodies: Test all employees for Covid||MYSURU: DC Rohini Sindhuri has directed the members of Mysore District Industries’ Association to undertake Covid-19 tests on all employees, saying such measures are a must to contain the infection. Presiding over a meeting of Industries’ Association representatives at the DC’s office here on Thursday, Rohini sought cooperation from all the members to facilitate tests and take necessary preparations. The district administration will conduct free tests for employees working at various firms in and around the city. The DC advised them to give special focus on employees aged 50 years and above, and those having Covid symptoms. Sureshkumar Jain, general secretary (Mysuru region) of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME Council), said that the council and Mysore Industries’ Association led by its president former MLA Vasu, have initiated the process to conduct tests on 2,000 labourers and employees in the first phase. There are over 26,000 major and minor firms, including government-run 15 industrial clusters, and lakhs of employees are working in these organisations. Plans are there to test 200 employees at Glowtronics in Belavadi Industrial Area. Employees wanting to get themselves tested may register their names at www.msmemysore.com, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-dc-to-industry-bodies-test-all-employees-for-covid/articleshow/78959507.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Farmers form company, start e-auction of cardamom||IDUKKI: After Covid-19 pandemic disrupted auctioning and marketing of cardamom, a group of farmers in Idukki district has formed consortiums and started e-auction to ensure better price and reach for their produce. While Vandanmedu Green Gold Cardamom Producer Company (VGCPC) started e-auction on Friday, Vandanmedu Cardamom Growers’ Association will start the online sale in December. In its e-auction on Friday, VGCPC sold 25,700kg of cardamom. The highest price quoted for one kilogram was Rs 2,012, average price was Rs 1,453 and the minimum was Rs 1,302. K S Mathew, director and chairman, VGCPC, said “Earlier, Spices Board was the only authority to conduct auctioning of cardamom. As per new Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, anyone can conduct online sale of their product without licence.” In the e-auctioning, buyers can check the samples that are kept both at C P A Hall, Bodinaykannor, and VGCPC’s office at Vandanmedu. “They can place the bid either by using their own systems or use ours,” Mathew said. Another advantage of the e-auctioning is that farmers will get their payments within three days. In the earlier auctioning system, it will take around 21 days for payments to reach the farmers. “The main cardamom buyers are from Tamil Nadu. After the pandemic, they stopped coming to Idukki and this affected the income of farmers. The e-auction will help in bringing in more buyers and this will make the price competitive,” he said. Before the pandemic, the main auction centres of cardamom were at Puttady in Idukki and Bodinayakanur in Tamil Nadu. The auction centres were closed after the spread of pandemic and when they opened, the average prices quoted were below Rs 1,500 per kg. In August 2019, the highest price for cardamom reached Rs 7,000 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/farmers-form-company-start-e-auction-of-cardamom/articleshow/78959021.cms||Sandeep Thomas
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Greens request public to avoid bursting crackers amid pandemic||MYSURU: Ahead of Diwali, a group of citizens comprising environmentalists and health professionals have launched an anti-cracker campaign in the city. The group, jointly with several welfare organisations, are requesting the public through social media platforms to refrain from bursting crackers on Diwali to prevent air pollution and help people with respiratory problems amid the pandemic. Messages creating awareness on the breathing troubles faced covid patients are being circulated online. “As Covid affects lungs and those who recover require time to cope, people must take an oath to give up firecrackers this Diwali in view of the pandemic,” reads one of the posts Speaking to TOI, Mysuru City Corporation health officer DG Nagaraj said the civic body had been requesting people to celebrate the festival of lights in an eco-friendly way since a few a years. “Due to awareness, the numbers have come down. But this time, there will be a special precaution due to the pandemic. There are a lot of quarantine patients who will be confined to their homes. One of the important factors of comorbidity is asthma or wheezing and the crackers will cause respiratory trouble for people. So people should light candles and diyas to celebrate Diwali instead of bursting crackers,” he said. Nagaraj said that due to bursting crackers, more cases reported of allergic bronchitis, wheezing and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. “We will create awareness through jatha. If hey are insistent on bursting crackers, they may go to an open field away from residential areas. In western countries, they burst crackers in designated open fields to avoid causing trouble for people,” he said. Environmentalist Bhagyalakshmi told TOI that people must completely stop bursting crackers as it will affect the environment and people, especially those with respiratory issues. “Already the Covid has taken the lives of our near and dear ones. Air pollution caused by crackers will affect corona positive persons who have breathing troubles. Instead of bursting crackers, people must light lamps and celebrate,” she said. Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) senior environment officer BM Prakash told TOI the department is planning to hold virtual awareness programmes on the ill effects of bursting crackers. “Bursting crackers causes air pollution and breathing problems to people. As the vaccine for coronavirus is yet to come, it is better to stay safe during this hour of crisis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/greens-request-public-to-avoid-bursting-crackers-amid-pandemic/articleshow/78959604.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Survey finds 27,000+ unaware about their diabetic status||NAGPUR: The first phase of ‘Maze Kutumb, Mazi Jababdari’ (My family, my responsibility) survey in Nagpur district has thrown startling results as 27,490 citizens detected with diabetes were blissfully unaware of their diabetic status. More than 18 lakh citizens in the district were covered for Covid-19, diabetes, hypertension and many other ailments during the first phase. While 1,098 of them were found positive for Covid-19, over 4,000 were detected with hypertension. In Nagpur city, teams of health department visited more than 4.98 lakh households and covered around 11 lakh people while all others were from rural Nagpur. According to the survey team members, those having obesity and family history of diabetes were tested for random blood sugar with the help of glucometer. “Many of those reported with high blood sugar levels were asked to take doctor’s advice immediately,” said a member. According to doctors specialized in diabetes treatment, this is a very common phenomenon. “According to International Diabetes Association estimates, 60% of the total diabetics remain unaware of they having the disorder. In India, 12 to 14% of people in urban areas suffer from diabetes,” said Dr Sunil Gupta. “Even in rural India, 8% of the total population has diabetes and most of them are unaware of it,” he added. Diabetes has proved to be one of the major risk factors in Covid-19 times. Of more than 5,000 deaths that occurred in the region due to Covid-19, about 45% deceased had uncontrolled blood sugar. Vidarbha has reported as many as 48 deaths among younger people (below 25) and almost all of them had diabetes. “After 30 years of age, everyone having family history of diabetes should test blood sugar level regularly. If you don’t have family history, get yourself tested after 40 years of age and regularly afterwards,” said Dr Gupta. According to him, 90% of type 2 diabetes patients are asymptomatic and hence remain undetected for a longer time. “Those who smoke, drink, have obesity and other lifestyle problems must test for blood sugar. Early detection can prevent a lot of complications, and simple changes in lifestyle can bring the disorder under control,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/survey-finds-27k-unaware-about-their-diabetic-status/articleshow/78959039.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 31, 2020||Pune||Pune, amid pandemic, has most organ donors in Maharashtra||PUNE: Data until October 29 shows Pune has had the highest number of organ donations so far in the state. Relatives of 29 people, who were declared brain-dead, agreed to donate organs that went on to benefit 58 patients of end-stage heart, liver, kidney or bowel disease. In fact, families of 15 patients came forward to donate organs during peak curbs in March. Mumbai, which had the highest number of organ donations in 2019 (68 compared to Pune’s 63) is second this year with 26 donations. “Of the 29 donors so far this year in Pune, 15 donated their organs during the peak pandemic phase. In Mumbai, there were six donations during the same period,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator with the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Pune.  There are four ZTCCs in Maharashtra that supervise donations across Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and the Nagpur regions. Nagpur ZTCC recorded just two donations; the Aurangabad unit has seen none. Pune’s number then, experts said, was reassuring. “Motivated citizens, along with an equally motivated set of doctors and counsellors, are the force behind the numbers,” said liver transplant physician and secretary of the Pune region ZTCC, Sheetal Mahajani-Dhadphade. Doctors said organ donation during the pandemic had stood the risk of severe setbacks, but credited families for their resolve. Mandatory swab tests of donors and recipients also stretched the time taken to hand over the deceased back to families — after organ retrieval — by 36 hours. “But the families never complained. Those who agreed to donate organs were people who knew the importance of this programme,” said Surekha Joshi, the transplant coordinator with Ruby Hall Clinic. Sudden changes in norms had also threatened to put a full stop on the programme in March and April. Gokhale said, “But the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation revised guidelines and allowed donations to continue from from the month of May.” She added, “Compared to last year, there has been a sharp drop in numbers. But what’s reassuring is it didn’t all come to a standstill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-amid-pandemic-has-most-organ-donors-in-state/articleshow/78960464.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Nazrul Tirtha rebate for New Town complexes||Kolkata: With no cultural events for the festive season being organised by block committees or resident welfare associations in New Town due to the Covid situation, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has decided to reduce the cost by 50% for the associations to stage non-commercial or cultural events at the open air theatre in Nazrul Tirtha. The open air theatre in Nazrul Tirtha has a capacity of about 170 spectators, but only 50 people will be allowed there an they will have to follow Covid protocols like wearing masks. No cultural functions were organised near the puja pandals this time in New Town and Salt Lake. This has prompted the Hidco to come up with the cost reduction plan that seeks to encourage the resident welfare associations in the township to stage shows at Nazrul Tirtha, according to the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nazrul-tirtha-rebate-for-new-town-complexes/articleshow/78960500.cms||Suman Chakraborti
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Buoyed by Mayawati, BJP to bolster its dalit outreach||LUCKNOW: BSP chief Mayawati’s announcement of overt support to BJP in Vidhan Parishad elections in January next year could potentially allow the saffron party to consolidate its position among Dalits in the aftermath of Hathras incident in which a Dalit girl was allegedly gangraped and murdered. The current political scenario is a fallout of BJP’s deft move to not field a ninth candidate for Rajya Sabha polls and allow BSP candidate Ramji Gautam to sail through despite inadequate numbers. BJP strategists are of the view though Mayawati is an unpredictable politician, her support would be exploited to expedite the party’s Dalit outreach ahead of bypolls and later in 2022 assembly elections. BJP sources said, the party may go into an overdrive to reach out to Dalits till Mayawati doesn’t change her stand. “Considering her mercurial nature, nobody knows whether Mayawati would continue to back BJP or suddenly change tack,” the BJP leader said. “Earlier, BJP supported BSP on three occasions to foist her as chief minister. So, the apparent bonhomie may not be counted as new,” a senior state BJP leader said, while speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity. Already, Mayawati has painted Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi party as anti-Dalit, giving BJP a chance to emerge as a viable option for Dalits, who account for 21% of the electorate in UP. “Mayawati rallied her cadre behind SP to defeat BJP in Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha by-elections in 2018. Now, it is our turn to avenge the loss by defeating SP which is positioning itself to be a key opposition party in the byelections,” a senior BJP leader said. BJP leaders also point to at a relatively weaker BSP, which has been witnessing rebellions in party ranks and this also works in favour of BJP, which would try to galvanize Dalits with OBC and upper castes to carve out a solid vote-bank. State BJP vice-president, Vijay Bahadur Pathak said, BJP has been working among all communities. “That is a known fact, irrespective of which political party is pitted against us,” he said. Political experts said, the political battle is essentially for Dalit and Muslim vote-bank, which has been a deciding factor in Uttar Pradesh. “It was immediately after Mayawati announced support to BJP that Congress sharpened its attack on BSP to make inroads into Dalit vote-bank,” an analyst pointed out. At the same time, SP managed to project BSP-BJP bonhomie to amalgamate its position amongst Muslims, who hold sway in many constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/buoyed-by-maya-bjp-to-bolster-its-dalit-outreach/articleshow/78961395.cms||Pankaj Shah
October 31, 2020||Pune||32% of people with negative reports had antibodies: PCMC sero analysis||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad sero survey report of 5,000 residents, which was released this week, continues to throw up revealing data. Surveyors have now said that 32% of 399 participants who had tested negative for Covid actually had antibodies (IgG) in their blood. And another 86% of 219 citizens, who had positive results, also had antibodies. Experts said the data suggests timing of a test is key. “From the 219 who tested positive via RT-PCR/antigen tests, 86% had antibodies. This suggests the rest, who did not show antibodies, were in the early stages of antibody formation. It takes two to three weeks for antibodies to form,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. On the 32% of 399 who had antibodies despite negative tests, Banerjee said they may have been tested well after their Covid episode. “It shows their RT-PCR/antigen tests were probably done after viral clearance. The IgG antibodies persist for longer. Which is they were picked up by the sero study.” Deepak Gadkari, a former director of the National Institute of Virology, said, “For the correct Covid test, doctors must consider date of onset. But the key point here is that there are more infected people out there than RT-PCR positives. And many might not have even realised they’ve had the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/32-of-people-with-negative-reports-had-antibodies-pcmc-sero-analysis/articleshow/78960496.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||File case in SC, any HC or dist court sitting in city||Nagpur: Now, a litigant or a lawyer can file a case in Supreme Court or any high or district court in India sitting in Nagpur. The cases can also be heard online, thanks to ‘Nyay Kaushal’, India’s first e-resource centre that will be inaugurated by Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde on Saturday.“There is no need to go all the way to Delhi for filing a case in the apex court. Lawyers and litigants can file cases at any of the high or district courts right from the city. ‘Nyay Kaushal’ will provide an easy way to file court matters by utilizing technology. It will save time, avoid travel and exertion, and also save money,” registrar at HC’s Nagpur bench Anju Shende told TOI.Set up at Judicial Officers Training Institute (JOTI) at Civil Lines, the centre would offer four cabins for lawyers for online hearing of cases. “We are also exploring providing this facility at taluka courts where connectivity is not a problem. Only those courts where an online hearing facility has been provided can be access. It will just be like e-hearings under way at present at high court,” Shende said.According to her, with the advent of the Internet, there have been numerous technological innovations and developments penetrating every domain of society. The top court’s e-committee came out with the national policy and action plan for implementation of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the Indian judiciary. “Amid lockdown caused by Covid-19 pandemic, courts in India are experimenting with video conferencing to take up emergency matters. A reactionary approach can at best serve short term needs. A concrete step was the need of the hour to build systems for present and future by leveraging use of technology. Technology can have a wide array of applications in court proceedings and even facilitate end-to-end comprehensive processes,” she said.CJI to open virtual court of transport DeptCJI Sharad Bobde would also inaugurate the State Transport Department’s virtual court on Saturday at 11.30am. It would deal with traffic challan cases from everywhere. “It will be possible for litigants to pay fine and get cases disposed of with a click of button using mobile/computer. This virtual court will be working from Katol. All judges across the country would attend the programme online,” the registrar said. Galaxy of legal luminaries to attend progApart from the CJI, many legal luminaries from across the country would attend the inauguration of e-resource centre either physically or online. The proceedings would be telecast live from HC’s auditorium from 11.30am. The dignitaries include SC judge Bhushan Gavai, HC Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, Justice Ravi Deshpande, Justice Nitin Jamadar, Justice Sunil Shukre and others HC judges at Nagpur bench. SC judge Dhananjay Chandrachud would address the dignitaries online from Delhi while HC Computer Committee chairman Justice Jamadar would make introductory remarks. The live broadcast of the function would be available at — https://youtu.be/oqs_XH_o25Y.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/file-case-in-sc-any-hc-or-dist-court-sitting-in-city/articleshow/78957705.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 31, 2020||Pune||PCB hospital to start OPD service from tomorrow||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board’s Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel General Hospital will resume regular outpatient department (OPD) services for non-Covid patients from November 1 in view of a noticeable slump in Covid-19 infections in the cantonment areas. The hospital had closed the OPD ward in May after it was converted into a dedicated Covid health centre (DCHC). “With only 23 active Covid-19 patients remaining now, we have decided to convert one of our Covid care centres into a 30-bed DCHC and resume regular non-Covid services at the general hospital,” Amit Kumar, the PCB’s chief executive officer, told TOI on Friday. He said that the DCHC will also serve as a centre for collecting throat and nasal swabs for testing. Dr V D Gaikwad, the PCB’s resident medical officer, said, “We have been running only specialised OPDs. With opening of regular OPD we will not only treat all types of patients, but will also be able to carry out surgeries.” At least 500 patients would be attended at the OPD daily. “A team of 12 doctors and about 20 staff members, including nurses, will attend to patients. The team will also attend patients who have developed health issues after recovering from Covid separately,” Gaikwad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-hospital-to-start-opd-service-from-tomorrow/articleshow/78960503.cms||Sandip Dighe
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: From Monday, EV subsidy directly into your account||NEW DELHI: Starting this Monday, the subsidy for buying electric vehicles (EV) will start getting credited directly to the bank accounts of the buyer. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot had earlier launched an EV policy portal for seamless disbursement of incentives to EV buyers. As part of its ambitious EV policy, which was launched by CM Arvind Kejriwal on August 7, the government will provide subsidy up to Rs 30,000 for two-wheelers and up to Rs 1.5 lakh for cars to promote faster adoption of EVs. Gahlot had launched the portal, ev.delhi.gov.in, on October 23 for seamless disbursement of all the demand incentives to the vehicle buyers. Those who have bought an EV on/after August 7 are eligible for subsidy and other incentives. The EV policy portal has been created to provide hassle-free access and Gahlot said some buyers have already received subsidy directly in their bank accounts. “We have already processed three cases on a trial basis since October 23 to test in case there are any problems with the software,” Gahlot told TOI. “By Monday or maximum by Tuesday, we are trying to process around 100 cases and send the subsidy directly to the account,” he said. To claim EV incentive, the buyer will need three documents - sales invoice, Aadhar card and a copy of a cancelled cheque. Each EV dealer has been provided with a dedicated login to the site wherein they can file the claims for demand incentives. The entire approval and disbursement process is online, paperless and will be completed within three days. Gahlot said Delhi government would keep its promise. “Despite these being initial days, we are sticking to our three-day mandate of completing the entire approval and disbursal process,” he added. Gahlot said those who bought EVs between August 7 and October 23 would get the subsidy amount in their bank account very soon. “We are getting processed all the electric vehicle sales that took place between August 7 and October 23 by ensuring that vehicle dealers get back to the purchasers and get Aadhar card, cancelled cheques and other documents required for disbursal of the subsidy. Our target is to complete this process within the next 10 days,” he said. Delhi government has also provided exemption from paying road tax and registration fee to EV buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-monday-ev-subsidy-directly-into-your-account/articleshow/78960552.cms||Sidharatha Roy
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Govt site says dist crossed 1L Covid-19 cases 5 days ago||Nagpur: The district already crossed 1 lakh Covid-19 positive cases five days ago as per data from state government’s public health department (PHD). But the office of District Civil Surgeon (CS) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have kept the figure lower even on Friday. The chances of district’s cases being even more than what public health department is giving out cannot be ruled out.As per data on PHD website, the number of novel coronavirus cases in the district was 1,00,041 (city- 76,154 and rural- 23,887) on October 25. On the same day, district civil surgeon VD Paturkar put district’s cases at 93,646 in daily press release, or 6,395 less than PHD figure.As per NMC, the cases were 72,869 in the city which was 3,285 less than public health department’s data. Similarly, the figure for Nagpur Rural as per CS data was 20,777 or 3,110 less than PHD.PHD takes data of the district from the portal of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). NMC, Zilla Parishad (ZP), government and private-run laboratories all upload cases on ICMR portal. Still, CS and NMC are keeping their figures low.On October 29, the district’s cases were 1,01,341 (city- 77,051 and rural- 24,290) as per PHD website whereas they were 94,899 (city- 73,738 and rural- 21,161) as per CS. The difference thus increased to 6,442.Actually, the cases of the district are even more than that of PHD. As per NMC’s data circulated among officials, the cases were 81,328 in the city on October 29. It means 4,277 more cases compared with PHD and 7,590 more compared with CS. If this data is considered, district’s cases on October 29 will be 1,05,618.Paturkar did not respond to TOI’s call and message.NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma told TOI, “ICMR had uploaded 7,433 cases registered between July and September and left out figures of Dhruv Laboratory on its portal. We had informed about it through a press release on October 21. Some of 7,433 cases are not from city. Therefore, we are verifying it thoroughly and will update data soon,” he said.When it comes to Covid-19 fatalities, the picture is just the reverse. As per PHD data, number of deaths in the district was 2,722 (city- 2,220 and rural- 502) on October 29. The deaths were 3,110 (city- 2,137, rural- 565 and other districts- 408) as per CS data or 388 more than PHD figure.As per NMC, the deaths were 2,412 in the city on October 29. It means 275 more compared with CS and 192 more than PHD figure.Guardian minister Nitin Raut said he will direct the administration to ensure there is no discrepancies in data of the district.A month ago, Raut had directed divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to hold discussion with CS, officials of NMC and ZP and reconcile the data. Since then, the daily and cumulative cases of NMC and CS are the same. But the difference in deaths has continued. The data of PHD continues to vary with both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-site-says-dist-crossed-1l-covid-19-cases-5-days-ago/articleshow/78957729.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Onion auctions resume, traders welcome Centre’s relaxation||Nashik: Agricultural produce market committees (APMCs) across Nashik district, including the one at Lasalgaon, resumed onion auctions after five days on Friday. Around 3,292 quintals of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon alone. The average wholesale onion price rose by Rs 200 to touch Rs 5,500 per quintal here. The onion auctions were stalled between Monday and Thursday as the traders protested against the Centre’s decision to impose stock limits. However, after intervention from NCP chief Sharad Pawar and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, they resumed the auction on Friday. The traders also welcomed the Centre’s decision to give a relaxation of three days for the dispatch of onion stocks from the date of purchase before the imposition of stock limits. APMC officials said the average wholesale onion prices increased marginally due to the drop in supply. “Regular arrival of the new kharif crop is expected to begin after Diwali. The average wholesale onion prices will be in the range of Rs 5,000 and Rs 6,500 per quintal until then,” they said. Supply of onions had also fallen at the Kolhapur APMC. On Friday, only 14,000 kg of onions were auctioned at an average wholesale price of Rs 60 per kg. In Kolhapur, district collector Daulat Desai warned of strict action against traders, wholesalers and retailers found hoarding onions. “The Centre has directed all district administrations to act against onion hoarders. The Centre has set a stock limit of 25 tonne for onion wholesalers and 2 tonne of for retailers,” Desai said. Currently, onions are being sold for more than Rs 80 a kg in the markets. “I have asked the officials to conduct raids to check if traders are storing onions beyond the limit fixed by the Centre. Also, they have to ensure a smooth supply of the produce. If the traders are found violating the norms, action will be taken against them,” he added. — With inputs from Kolhapur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-auctions-resume-traders-welcome-centres-relaxation/articleshow/78957740.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 31, 2020||Pune||Cold chain plan for storage in Maharashtra||PUNE: State health authorities are readying six walk-in coolers, two walk-in freezers, nine regional vaccine stores and 35 district vaccines stores as part of storage facilities for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The walk-in coolers and the walk-in freezers will be ready by December. Health minister Rajesh Topeon Thursday state all district and state authorities have planned storage of vaccines. Maharashtra immunization officer DN Patil said besides the state vaccine store and nine regional vaccine stores, 34 such outlets at the district level, 27 at the corporation level and 3,000 cold chain points should be able to store the vaccines. Health services (Pune region) deputy director Sanjay Deshmukh said the Pune division has storage facility for nearly 15 lakh vials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cold-chain-plan-for-storage-in-maha/articleshow/78960541.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: 1.25 lakh names of Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries in district ready||PUNE: The district administration has prepared a list of around 1.25 lakh frontline workers from 233 government health facilities to identify the priority population likely to receive the first Covid-19 vaccine doses. The administration will include more such responders from around 10,000 private health hubs in the coming week. “We will add more names in the list in the next couple of days. The final list will be submitted to the state government,” Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI. Health workers, nurses and supervisors, medical officers, paramedical staffers, scientists and research staffers, students and support staff, clerical and administrative officers from both the government and private sectors would be among the priority population for the Covid-19 vaccination drive as part of the Centre’s directive . “It is a mammoth exercise and we have readied a huge list. We are focusing on an extensive list, as there was no cut-off in terms of the number of the responders. The state government will take the further call,” he said. State immunization officer DN Patil, who is coordinating the drive, said all districts in Maharashtra were busy collecting data. “We should get the data by next week. The central government has given us a week’s extension for the exercise,” he said. Patil said the Centre was preparing the Covid Vaccine Beneficiaries Management mobile application and data from all districts would be uploaded on it. On Friday, the Centre told the state to constitute committees for coordination and overseeing Covid-19 vaccination drive while ensuring minimal disruptions in other routine healthcare services. Stating that Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span for over a year with multiple groups being included “sequentially starting from healthcare workers”, the health ministry has sought constitution of committees at the state- and district-level to review preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning and strategies for state-specific challenges in terms of geographical terrain and hard-to-reach areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-25-lakh-names-of-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-dist-ready/articleshow/78960539.cms||Nisha Nambiar
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||10,000 more PG medical seats in 5 years, says Niti Aayog||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 crisis has taught many lessons to the health sector in India, and one of them is to ensure enough specialized manpower to deal with public health scenario. Infrastructure can be developed in a short period but it takes years to develop the brains behind machines. So, NITI Aayog has now come up with a projection to end the crisis of specialized doctors in country. The National Board of Education (NBE), which runs the Diplomate of National Board (DNB) courses after MBBS, equivalent to MD/MS, is expected to add 10,000 more PG-level seats in next five years, said Prof Vinod Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog. Dr Paul gave a presentation on ‘Game-changing reforms in Medical Education in India’ recently, where he shared interesting facts about India’s health manpower scenario. According to him, India will achieve an ideal doctor population ratio of 1:1,000 by 2024, but the specialists shortage is to be handled with the NBE diploma courses. “We believe that there is a huge potential in the NBE system. This system covers 6 lakh beds. There are 700 hospitals affiliated with NBE at present. But, we have about 30,000 hospitals in the country in private sector. Imagine, if even half of them join for the academic purpose, how many seats will be unleashed,” said Dr Paul. There were 23,903 PG seats in India in 2014-15. In 2020, they reached 54,094, a 79% increase. Now, the government is eyeing a lakh PG seats by 2024. This means, every MBBS doctor will have enough opportunity to go for specialization after UG degree. Crisis of teachers has been a major problem when it comes to academics. But, the NITI Aayog has suggested allowing visiting faculty to top-up regular staff, and also allowing DNB postgraduates to become teachers to address shortage of teachers. Practicing doctors consider DNB through the NBE as a superior academic degree. “DNB is definitely a superior degree than PG. Standard is so high that merely 5-15% clear the exam. DNB admissions are centralized and there is no scope for any manipulation,” said Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, a senior chest physician. He pointed out that the DNB examination had much more recognition abroad as compared to other PG degrees in medicine from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10k-more-pg-medical-seats-in-5-years-says-niti-aayog/articleshow/78959077.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 31, 2020||Pune||More cases than discharges in PMR after 1-month gap||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday reported 715 new Covid-19 cases, while 694 patients recovered in the same 24-hour window.The region’s daily positive cases outnumbered recoveries after exactly a month. The last time PMR reported more positive cases than recoveries was on September 30. The Pune Municipal Corporation continued to report a higher number of recoveries, while the rural areas and Pimpri Chinchwad reported fewer discharges than positive cases. PMC limits added 284 new patients against 322 recoveries; PCMC areas reported 161 new cases, while 121 patients were discharged; and rural and Cantonment areas added 270 new patients and discharged 251. With this, the total number of recovered patients in the region stood at 3.02 lakh and the overall caseload touched the 3.22 lakh mark. A report issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 29 patients succumbed to the contagion on Friday, pushing the regional toll to 7857. The PMC areas reported 16 deaths, while the rural areas had 12. PCMC limits reported only one death on Friday, as per the report.The report further stated that region’s active caseload dropped to 12,315 — this included 6,074 patients being treated in various hospitals. As many as 7,668 samples were tested in the region on Friday, taking the total number of samples tested here to 14.10 lakh. Of these, 7.34 lakh samples were tested in Pune municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-cases-than-discharges-in-pmr-after-1-month-gap/articleshow/78960546.cms||Sarang Dastane
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana drives in Electric Vehicles policy to charge up state with $4 bn||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Friday unveiled its Electric Vehicles and Energy Storage Systems (EV & ESS) policy offering a slew of incentives for manufacture, purchase and use of electric vehicles (EVs). The new policy to promote electric vehicles offers 100% exemption of road tax and registration fee for the first two lakh electric two-wheelers purchased and registered within the state. The policy also offers similar 100% exemption for other category of vehicles such as 3&4-wheelers as well as electric buses for a certain number of early adopters. The policy, launched by IT and industries minister K T Rama Rao at Telangana Electric Vehicle Summit, aims to attract $4 billion in investments and create 1.2 lakh jobs in the EV sector by 2030. The comprehensive policy is designed to woo domestic and global players in the EV and energy storage segments to make Telangana, especially Hyderabad, a manufacturing and innovation hub. At the policy launch, which was attended by India Inc leaders such as Mahindra & Mahindra MD & CEO Pawan Goenka, Yes Bank chairman Sunil Mehta and Niti Aayog senior officials, the state government also inked MoUs with industry players who committed over Rs 3,200 crore investments in the state. Among major investors were Mytrah Energy that will invest Rs 2,000 crore to manufacture electric buses and Olectra, which will pump in Rs 300 crore, to manufacture electric buses too in the state. As part of the EV policy the government will be focussing on encouraging shared mobility, developing charging infrastructure and manufacturing activities to develop a conducive ecosystem for EV sector in the state. KTR said, “We want to make the city and the state the epicentre of EV adoption and manufacturing.” Rao announced that Telangana was building two EV clusters — Chandanvelly-Sitarampur in Rangareddy district where Mytrah and Olectra will be setting up units and another cluster in Divitipally in Mahabubnagar district. He also announced that the state will announce a mobility cluster, where automobile and technology players will come together, next month. Mahindra & Mahindra’s Pawan Goenka lauded the policy initiative of providing incentive for electric tractors. He said that EVs have a lot of imported content and it was important that the industry focus on local value addition. “We must focus on ‘cell to module to battery’ conversion and must focus on getting motors transmission fully manufactured in India… around 60-70% of value addition to EVs can happen in India even without the cells being manufactured here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-drives-in-ev-policy-to-charge-up-state-with-4-bn/articleshow/78961401.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||56 BJP offices virtually connected in UP||LUCKNOW: To activate its organisational base ahead of 2022 assembly elections, the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party operationalized digital connectivity in at least 56 district level party offices on Friday. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, who inaugurated the facility, said the facility would help party leadership in reaching out to district-level functionaries virtually. The facility was proposed by the party during the tenure of home minister Amit Shah as BJP president. “We are happy to see the facility come up,” Singh said, adding that district-level offices would also be linked with the party’s central offices. He said instructions related to programmes and party activities would be easily passed on to the district-level offices. Singh said during the peak of coronavirus pandemic when all other parties went into their shells, BJP functionaries worked among the people. The facility was proposed to be set up in February earlier this year but was put off due to pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/56-bjp-offices-virtually-connected/articleshow/78961397.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||50% drop in Covid deaths in October as compared to Sept||Nashik: Nashik city recorded around 50% drop in deaths due to Covid-19 in October when compared to the number of deaths in September.The city had reported 247 deaths in September with an average of eight deaths per day. In October, Nashik city recorded 125 Covid deaths, with an average of four deaths per day.The number of deaths recorded in October is the lowest number since June. The city had recorded 95 deaths in June with three Covid deaths per day on average. But since July and August, there has been a rise in Covid deaths with 171 and 215 casualties, respectively. The daily cases reported have also dropped in October as compared to September.  In September, the city had reported 26,021 Covid cases with an average of 867 cases per day. While the city registered 10,029 cases in October with 352 cases on an average per day.NMC officials said the increase in tracing and testing of suspected Covid patients for early detection has led to the rise in recoveries and drop in Covid deaths in the city.“We increased the tracing of high and low-risk contacts of patients up to 30 contacts at least. Moreover, we have also conducted surveys in the containment zones to find suspected patients,” said the officials. “Apart from this, we conducted a survey of comorbid patients three times during the last four months. Initially, we conducted a survey of comorbid patients with the help of an NGO under Nashik mission zero. We also deployed over 600 municipal school teachers to find comorbid patients,” said the NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-drop-in-covid-deaths-in-october-as-compared-to-sept/articleshow/78957779.cms||Tushar Pawar
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Ganga Jamuna residents want objectionable channel shut||Nagpur: Ganika Mahila Shakti Sanghthan, an informal platform of the residents of the red-light area of Ganga Jamuna, have demanded the shutting down of the social media channel on which many objectionable videos are being posted.An explicit video of a woman uploaded by her client around a week ago on the same ‘Ganga Jamuna channel’ has led to lodging of an FIR. Despite the FIR, there was no concrete action which emboldened accused to post a second video of the woman, leaving her in deep anguish.City police chief Amitesh Kumar has also intervened into the case assuring that the objectionable videos would be deleted and channel blocked. Sources from Lakadganj police station also said letters for deleting the videos have been sent to the office of the Zonal DCP for further action. “Soon, the accused would be nabbed,” said an official.The latest case also brought to fore lacunae in the system regarding the responsibility of deleting the videos from social media. Though CP Kumar said there was a nodal officer entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating with the social media platforms for investigation and other purposes, Lakadganj police and cyber cell officials have spent the last two days passing the buck to each other. Hemlata Lohave, project manager, Indian Red Cross Society, said police have promptly registered an offence but the videos and the channel need to be blocked. “The victim is in a poor state of mind after the second video was uploaded despite the FIR. The residents now want the channel to be blocked,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ganga-jamuna-residents-want-objectionable-channel-shut/articleshow/78957771.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Review Vidyagama programme, Karnataka government tells schools||BENGALURU: The education department has asked government teachers and other staff to be present in schools and review progress made by students under the Vidyagama programme next week. Teachers have also been asked to chalk out a learning plan and prepare material for students based on the review findings. The outreach programme, where teachers conducted classes outside school campus in small groups, was halted till October 30 due to fear of the virus spreading among students and teachers. In a circular issued on Thursday, teachers have been asked to guide children through telephone and mass media on content provided through videos on Jnanadeepa YouTube channel, broadcast on Chandan DD channel and Deeksha portal. The circular also asks teaching and non-teaching staff to observe Valmiki Jayanti on October 31 and Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1 in schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/review-vidyagama-programme-state-government-tells-schools/articleshow/78959129.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||PMPML to operate at full capacity from November||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) plans to operate 1,500 buses daily —almost the same capacity as in pre-Covid times — from the first week of November. PMC corporator and PMPML director Shankar Pawar told TOI on Friday that permission would be given to the private contractors to run the buses from November. “We are trying to attain full capacity in terms of the number of buses on the road by the end of the first week of November. PMPML used to run between 1,400 and 1,500 buses daily before the lockdown. We expect around 1,500 buses to run from November 5,” he said. The city transport body currently operates around 900 to 1,000 buses daily. “The number of passengers has increased since the resumption of the services, but it is not satisfactory. We feel that there is a need to run more buses because of the unlocking process,” he said. “There are several routes on which the buses are not plying. With more buses, those routes will be covered and the number of passengers will increase automatically. Shops, hotels and other establishments are now open till late hours, so buses need to start on all routes,” Pawar added. Around 450 PMPML buses are being operated by the private contractors. Currently, close to 2 lakh passenger travel on the buses daily on an average. The number has grown by almost a lakh since the services resumed. However, close to 10 lakh people travelled on the buses daily during the pre-Covid times, Sources in the transport body said a call would be taken after Diwali on allowing passengers to occupy all seats on PMPML buses. “The Covid situation in Pune needs to be studied. We are considering it, but we cannot take any risk,” another PMPML official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-operate-at-full-capacity-from-november/articleshow/78960551.cms||Joy Sengupta
October 31, 2020||Pune||Instalment plan for builders nets Rs 90cr||Pune: An instalment scheme for builders under which they are allowed to pay development charges in a staggered manner has helped the Pune Municipal Corporation mop up Rs90 crore in revenue. “The scheme has been well-received by the beneficiaries and [many] proposals for building permissions have been submitted. We are hoping to generate good revenue from this scheme,” city engineer Prashant Waghmare said. PMC had introduced the scheme in July to revive its flagging revenue collection during the pandemic. Under the scheme, builders of projects that attract development charges of more than Rs50 lakh will be allowed to pay the charges in instalments (see graphic). Payment must be made in the first, 12th and 24th month from the date of approval of the project for three-year instalment plans, and the 36th month as well for a four-year plan. PMC will levy an 8.5% interest on the beneficiaries, and charge an 18% penalty on delayed instalments. A senior civic official said PMC had recovered only Rs40 crore in the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal before the scheme was introduced. “In the four months after the introduction of the scheme, the revenue has more than doubled,” the official said. Around 4,500 building permissions are given annually, earning PMC Rs700 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/instalment-plan-for-builders-nets-rs-90cr/articleshow/78960555.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown shrinks donations, charity works at shrines||Nagpur: With religious places remaining shut due to Covid-19 restrictions, donation boxes have been rendered empty since more than seven months and charity work has come to a standstill.Office-bearers of the Hazrat Baba Tajuddin Trust, the advisory body of Ganesh Temple (Tekdi) and Shree Sai Baba Seva Mandal (Sai Mandir) told TOI that the prolonged lockdown has deprived them of regular donations ranging between Rs70,000 to Rs1 lakh per day and now, they are left with no choice but to prematurely unlock fixed deposits (FDs) to continue with their charity work.L Dhoble, president, advisory panel of Ganesh Temple, popularly known as Ganesh Tekdi Mandir, said that in the coming months, the temple’s balance will become nil if the state government doesn’t allow reopening of religious places.According to Dhoble, before the lockdown, the average donation of the temple was Rs1 lakh per day. It is now zero. With the available funds, the temple can barely survive for three odd months and can only pay staff salaries. “Due to irregularities committed by the previous committee, there was a mess up of nearly Rs6.5 crore,” alleged Dhoble, adding, the temple is now left with gold worth Rs13 crore. Avinash Shegaonkar, secretary of Shree Sai Baba Seva Mandal, said the extended lockdown has badly affected the temple’s charity work. “The average donation of Sai Mandir is between Rs2 crore to Rs2.5 crore. However, with seven months gone, there are no signs from the state government regarding the reopening of religious places. The temple has lost almost Rs1.5 crore,” said Shegaonkar. Despite the odds, the temple is continuing with its charity work like free meals to destitutes and devotees every day. The temple also helped the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to strengthen its Covid-19 treatment at the Imambada Isolation Hospital with a Rs31 lakh donation to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “We have started utilizing funds from our fixed deposits to keep our charity work going. Salaries to the temple staff, bills like electricity, water and property tax have to be paid” added Shegaonkar. Amanullah Khan, executive member of the Hazrat Baba Tajuddin Trust, said the Bada Taj Bagh of Syed Mohammad Baba Tajuddin also known as Tajuddin Baba, too, is reeling under a severe financial crisis. Meals to the poor have been discontinued. According to Khan, the trust used to provide nearly 4000 meals to the destitute twice a day. The number of people given free food on Thursdays and Fridays was approximately 10,000, more than double compared to the other days. The trust is also struggling to pay staff salaries which amount to Rs8 lakh per month. Dragon Palace Buddhist Temple, an important religious place for Buddhism in Kanhan, too, is sailing in the same boat as the others. Former minister and founder of Dragon Palace Sulekha Kumbhare said, “The extended lockdown to keep religious places shut has kept donors at bay. In such a situation, it is difficult to meet committed expenses, including maintenance of such a big monument and staff salaries. This year, we did not organize functions in a big way which actually helped in terms of savings.”Despite the hurdles, Dragon Palace is continuing with its social works like distribution of 1 lakh masks, ration kits and providing jobs to underprivileged women.Barring a few devotees who offer prayers from outside, there is hardly anything to write home about. While many priests have taken a salary cut, hawkers selling puja items and flowers, who line up outside religious places, too, have been hit hard and are waiting for divine intervention to bail them out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-shrinks-donations-charity-works-at-shrines/articleshow/78957788.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Leopard attack claims third child in Pathardi in 15 days||Nashik: A three-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack — the third one since October 15 — on Thursday evening in the Shirpur village of Pathardi taluka in Ahmednagar district. The incident took place around 7.15 pm when the boy was sitting with his mother outside their home. “The leopard suddenly pounced on the boy and dragged him into the nearby forest area, even as the child’s mother cried out for help. We recovered the victim’s mauled body from the forest on Friday morning,” said the local police. This is the third time a leopard has attacked and killed a child in Pathardi since October 15. In the previous incidents, two boys, aged 4 and 8 years, were killed in Madi and Kalwandi villages on October 15 and October 25, respectively. Ahmednagar forest department officials believe the same leopard is involved in all three cases. “The three villages are located within a radius of about 8sqkm. In fact, Mali and Shirpur are just 2km apart. We believe the wild cat is holed up in the nearby forest and are concentrating our search operation in that area,” senior forest officials said. The forest department has not declared the leopard a “man-eater” so far. According to the Pathardi police, nearly 100 personnel, drawn from the forest, revenue and local police departments, have started an intensive search to track the animal. State forest minister Sanjay Rathod has announced a compensation of Rs 15 lakh for the bereaved family of the boy killed on Thursday. The forest department had given compensations to the families of the previous two victims. “The forest department has deployed teams armed with tranquilisers. They are identifying the routes the big cat takes to access the villages,” Ahmednagar collector Rajendra Bhosale told TOI. Forest department teams from Nashik and Jalgaon have also reached Pathardi to assist the local authorities. The collector said 11 cages have been set up and a dozen more would be positioned soon to trap the big cat. Meanwhile, the three incidents have sparked panic among the residents of Pathardi. Local officials said shops are closing down after dusk and people are not venturing out of their homes in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-attack-claims-third-child-in-pathardi-in-15-days/articleshow/78957817.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Worker suffocates to death, 5 others fall unconscious||Chandrapur: A worker died while five others fell unconscious due to suffocation while cleaning an empty chemical tank in Bamni Proteins Ltd on Ballarpur-Ashti road on Friday afternoon.Sources said the 25 feet deep tank had residual vapours of hydrochloric acid when the deceased, identified as Vishal Maulikar (32), and five other workers stepped inside.All six workers fell unconscious inside the tank due to asphyxiation. They were immediately rushed to Ballarpur rural hospital where Maulikar was declared brought dead, said the sources. After the other workers failed to recover after primary treatment, they were rushed to Chandrapur GMCH.There was brief tension at the factory’s gate and Ballarpur rural hospital after fellow workers thronged the spots. Local police ensured the situation remained under control. Ballarpur police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/worker-suffocates-to-death-5-others-fall-unconscious/articleshow/78957799.cms||Mazhar Ali
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP cabinet okays molasses policy; sale to be tagged||LUCKNOW: In a bid to ensure timely payment of their produce to cane growers, the state cabinet on Friday approved the molasses policy to pave way for tagging of sale of ethanol and molasses. The move would allow the state government to keep a close tab on sale of ethanol and passing of its proceeds to farmers. The development comes with the beginning of the new crushing season and ahead of the state government announcement of state advisory price (SAP) to cane growers. As per the cabinet note, the state government would be encouraging ethanol production from B-heavy molasses. The production of ethanol from B-heavy molasses, a by-product of sugar, which is made directly from sugarcane and has more sugar content, has already increased by 10 times since 2018-19. At present, as many as 26 sugar mills are producing ethanol from B-heavy molasses. The state government is also promoting ethanol production from cane juice, the cabinet note said. This would allow the state government to address the problem of sugar glut and fall in prices of the raw sugar. The production of ethanol from B heavy molasses is also aimed to improve the quality of country liquor which is consumed by the low income group. The cabinet said that it was necessary to make quality country liquor available at affordable prices to this section of society. “In the absence of which there is a possibility of loss of human life,” the cabinet note noted. The revenue from country liquor is significant which makes it necessary for the state government to ensure availability of molasses to all the country liquor making distilleries. In 2020-21, the estimated molasses production is expected to be more than 530 lakh quintals. The estimated requirement of molasses for country liquor is more than 96 lakh quintals. The cabinet approved reservation of 18% of molasses for production of country liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cabinet-okays-molasses-policy-sale-to-be-tagged/articleshow/78961403.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why bad air needs to be fought on several fronts||NEW DELHI: Focusing on a single sector to improve air pollution in Delhi may not yield significant results. A study done by IIT-Kanpur in 2015 has shown that transport, biomass burning and industries are the biggest sources of pollution. A source apportionment study done by The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri) in 2018 has provided fresh data to work on the sources of pollution. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, things are a bit complicated because Teri’s study highlights that only 36% of pollution in Delhi is its own doing, with 64% coming from NCR states and further north. The IIT-Kanpur study identified biomass burning (17-26%) as the primary source of PM2.5 pollution in winter, followed closely by vehicles (20-25%). However, it also stated that secondary particles (25-30%) made up a significant chunk of PM2.5 in winter. “The winter sources include municipal solid waste burning (8-9%) and, to a lesser extent, soil and road dust. It is noteworthy that in winter the major sources for PM10 and PM2.5 are generally the same,” it added. Teri’s study identified industries (30%), including thermal power plants, as the biggest source of PM2.5 pollution in winters, followed closely by vehicles (28%). Delhi’s own contribution was just 36% in winter and 34% was from NCR towns. The remaining 30% came from upwind regions outside the NCR, including transportation of dust from the Middle-East. Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) in a March 2019 study titled “What is Polluting Delhi’s Air”, which included a 2010 CPCB study and a 2018 analysis by SAFAR, said there were variations in emission inventories for Delhi, primarily based on how sampling was done. “The variations are due to several factors, including domain area, number of sampling stations, time period, season, quality of surveys, emission factors, assumptions, and data on emission abatement technologies and efficiency of control,” the CEEW analysis said. However, it identified the major source of PM2.5 to be the transport sector, with its variation in inventories ranging from 17.9% to 39.2%. “This is due to the differing methodologies used, including number of survey points, estimated traffic, vehicle fleet composition, fuel consumption and emission factor. The SAFAR study included data for tourist vehicles in tourist places, while Teri and IIT-Kanpur surveyed parking lots to assess the transport sector’s contribution. CPCB’s study surveyed petrol pumps, bus terminals, taxi stands, and parking lots,” CEEW stated. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, CSE executive director (research and advocacy), said each source apportionment study had a different methodology, but they highlighted the need for a multi-sectoral approach. “You need sustained efforts across each sector. Over time, the sectoral contribution may change and it will also depend on how each study is carried out,” she added. Delhi is currently awaiting the results of a real-time source apportionment study in collaboration with Washington University, which aims to produce results each month on the changing sources of pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-bad-air-needs-to-be-fought-on-several-fronts/articleshow/78960595.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Least impact of Covid lockdown on UP agricultural sector||LUCKNOW: The farm sector of the state showed least impact of Covid-19 in the first quarter of this fiscal year when Covid-induced lockdown was most stringent. As per the report of the State Planning Institute of the planning department, the primary sector comprising agriculture and allied sectors showed a decline of 4.5%. Agriculture and livestock, a part of the primary sector, in fact showed a positive growth of 1.6% in the same period. The overall GSDP contraction was -22.5% between April and June this year when the country was under total lockdown. In the same period, India’s GDP shrunk by -23.9%. The contraction was maximum -42.9% in the secondary sector comprising mainly manufacturing and construction while the tertiary sector involving service industries shrunk by -22.8%. The minimum impact of the lockdown on agriculture was due to the government’s resolve to let farm activities continue, say experts. The harvesting of rabi crops was done without any hindrance and the arrival of migrant labourers from outside in fact gave an impetus to it, they say. In the second quarter of this fiscal, the agriculture sector continues to show positive growth, they say, adding “besides, the revenue recovery has been higher than previous year in both August and September.” “Although expected, but -22.5% contraction in the GSDP is unprecedented. It comes out as a double whammy as the economy was already slowing down in FY19-20 wherin it recorded a low growth rate of 4.4%. Although the economy is recovering, it would take some time before it regains growth momentum. The task is cut out for the government to vigorously pursue growth enhancing policies,” says city-based economist Yashbir Tyagi. Among various sub-sectors, manufacturing showed a -40.1% decline, transport -67% and hospitality 45.2%. “The unprecedented loss in the growth is obviously due to the complete lockdown in the state to contain the spread of the pandemic, but it has done a huge damage to the economy which was already struggling,” says a government official, adding “although there are no figures available, but big contraction in GSDP means major loss of jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/least-impact-of-covid-lockdown-on-up-agri-sector/articleshow/78961405.cms||Subhash Mishra
October 31, 2020||Pune||Girl fakes abduction to skirt mom’s scolding||Pune: A 17-year-old girl cooked up a story of abduction to evade scolding from her mother for leaving home without permission. An investigation of the Bund Garden police following the arrest of a man (22) on Thursday on the charge of abducting the girl with the promise of marriage revealed it. A magisterial court on Friday sent the man in police remand till November 2, though. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone (II), Suraj Patil told TOI, “Our investigation revealed that the girl and the boy were having an affair.” On Thursday, the girl’s mother from Tadiwala Road lodged an FIR accusing the man of abducting her daughter on October 25 and keeping her confined to his residence at Kedgaon, Chaufula, in Daund taluka. The girl told her mother that her two friends had taken her to Hadapsar and handed her over to the suspect. Assistant inspector Amol Kale of the Bund Garden police said, “Our probe revealed that the girl had called the boy to her residence and accompanied him on her own. The questioning of her two friends revealed that they had not taken her to Hadapsar. The girl finally admitted that she had misled her mother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/girl-fakes-abduction-to-skirt-moms-scolding/articleshow/78960571.cms||Asseem Shaikh
October 31, 2020||Pune||Renew key licence without delay fine||Pune: This year, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) won’t impose penalty on commercial establishments that seek mandatory renewal of health licences. The waiver has been provided since many business owners could not visit civic offices for the annual renewal of permissions due to the pandemic. The move is expected to help hotels, restaurants, ice factories and marriage halls. The licenses are compulsory for businesses dealing with food. The owners may lose their trade licence, if they fail to comply with health permit norms. A proposal regarding the waiver of penalty was tabled before the standing committee that approved it. “The approval will help traders and business establishments suffering due to the pandemic. Traders will get some relief,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of PMC’s standing committee. According to PMC officials, the establishments are given licenses to ensure that they follow standard practices for cleanliness. All food joints and restaurants, including high-end hotels, need to get the license. A civic official said that charges vary for different types of establishments. They are based on the size of establishment and type of services provided. The fee is charged on square-foot basis and may range from a few thousand rupees to a couple of lakhs. As per PMC data, around 1,900 establishments pay Rs1.30 crore to get the license. The civic body has mopped up only Rs29 lakh for the health licences this year. “The move aims to improve revenue collection. The waiver is only till December-end. The establishment, which have not paid the renewal fee, should do so at the earliest. Those paying the charges after the December 31 will have to pay penalty,” said Manisha Naik, senior official of PMC’s health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/renew-key-licence-without-delay-fine/articleshow/78960559.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Councillors fared worse work-wise than last year||NEW DELHI: The overall performance of the city’s municipal councillors was worse than last year owing to multiple factors. This was revealed by the Praja Foundation report card for 2020, which was released on Friday. The conclusion was drawn on the basis of declining attendance and the number and quality of questions raised by councillors in meetings. The participation of councillors in canvassing and political events during state and Union elections in 2019 also diverted them from their deliberative responsibilities. While the report card included 264 councillors in the three municipalities, three mayors, four councillors now elected as legislators, and one deceased were not considered in the survey. The report was from April 2019 to March 2020.It highlighted that the councillors could not participate in the policy making process of the state or central governments, which was unfortunate. “The councillors work with and for people at the ground level. They are aware about every issue, but still have no say in formulating policies, which is disappointing,” said Yogesh Mishra, head, research and data, Praja Foundation. Mishra added, “While the experience of the pandemic calls for empowerment and greater decision-making powers to councillors, it is also a fact that they hold greater responsibilities in highlighting their constituents’ demands with the government, both during crises and otherwise. This year, Praja reworked its matrix to focus mainly upon the deliberative performance of councillors, which is the most important responsibility of any elected representative.” This year, councillors were judged on their education qualification, attendance in the general body and committee meetings, number of questions asked, importance of and quality of questions, usage of area development fund and criminal record. “We didn’t include citizens’ perception in the report because quality of life and deliberative works are directly related to it,” Mishra said. It was observed that in March, when the pandemic hit the city, the councillors and the corporations took zero efforts to continue holding meetings and raising public issues using technology. “The attendance score in north corporation fell from 75.3% in 2017-18 to 66.4% in 2019-20 and in SDMC from 75.1% to 66.6%. The highest fall was in EDMC from 81.8% to 71.3%,” said Milind Mhaske, director, Praja Foundation. EDMC mayor Nirman Jain said, “The survey was done without our knowledge. I cannot comment on the declining attendance.” The questions raised by councillors fell by 29% from 18,128 in 2017-18 to 12,879 in 2019-20. The highest fall of 35% was in north corporation, followed by SDMC (27%) and EDMC (16%). “While seven councillors asked zero questions, an EDMC councillor didn’t raise a single question in the entire term since 2017,” said Mhaske. MC Verma, director, IC Centre for Governance, said, “As 2019-20 was an election year, the performance of councillors fell in all three corporations. They were diverted and engaged more in canvassing rather than resolving issues of residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/councillors-fared-worse-work-wise-than-last-year/articleshow/78960665.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||Call for 3rd-party contractor for highway maintenance||PUNE: Frequent commuters sought appointment of a third-party contractor for the maintenance of the Pune-Satara highway, after 57 accidents caused 23 deaths on the treacherous stretch from April to September. Commuters claimed that the road condition had deteriorated during and after monsoon, leading to frequent tyre bursts and accidents. Pavanjit Mane, a city-based IT professional spearheading the movement for the completion of the highway, said, “Potholes along the highway have become deeper. No remedial action has been taken so far. The incomplete stretches have remained untouched. The bad patches catch commuters by surprise and often lead to tyre bursts. If Reliance Infra cannot complete the project, a third-party contractor must be appointed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to maintain the road, if not for completing the project.” TimesViewThe National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) should immediately take steps to plug the deadly potholes on Pune-Satara highway. It should also take initiatives to fast-track the project and ensure its completion before this financial year ends. If the work remains pending beyond the revised deadline and the highway continues to be a death trap, the authorities should consider suspension of toll collection on the stretch.SD Chitnis, the general manager of the NHAI, said, “Reliance Infra began the maintenance work earlier this week. Work was undertaken at Khed Shivapur and the Satara end of the highway on Friday. The work along the other stretches is set to begin on Saturday. The authorities at Reliance Infra have also planned to finish requisite work on incomplete patches by March 2021.” A source in the know of developments related to the project said works amounting to over Rs130 crore were pending. “A third-party contractor can be hired to complete the work if Reliance Infra cannot finish the project,” the source said. “Union minister for road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari and several others intervened to get the work done. But the project, slated for completion in 2013, continues to remain incomplete. Reliance Infra had assured the collectors of both the districts that the project would be completed by May this year, but that deadline has been missed too,” a commuter said. Pramod Deshmukh, a driver from Pune, said, “We had a bumpy ride along the stretch last week. Besides, the infrastructure is very poor. The street lamps installed are defunct, there are no sign boards and diversions are not marked. These problems have been there for years now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/call-for-3rd-party-contractor-for-highway-maintenance/articleshow/78960629.cms||Rujuta Parekh
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Tata engineers may be roped in for Ayodhya temple||AYODHYA: Engineers of Tata Group participated for the first time in a crucial meeting of Ram Temple Construction Committee in Ayodhya on Friday along with officials of Larsen & Toubro — the company assigned to build the temple. The presence of Tata engineers at the meet chaired by panel chairman Nripendra Mishra, threw open the possibility that their expertise may also be sought in temple construction, said top sources in the Temple Trust. The meeting was held at Faizabad Circuit House. The testing of foundation pillars is continuing at the Ramjanmabhoomi and the report from experts of IIT-Madras is still awaited, Trust member Dr Anil Mishra told TOI. In September, an IIT team had collected samples of soil and concrete from the site for tests. “We are also waiting for the report from IIT-Madras on the strength of three pillars placed at the foundation. We will embark on the next phases of construction after the report gives a go-ahead,” said Mishra. At the Circuit House meeting on Friday, construction committee chairman Nripendra Mishra discussed the progress of temple construction and delved into the finer points of aesthetics and durability. Opinions were sought from various experts at the meeting on ways to fortify the foundation that the temple can weather calamities and stand tall for 1,000 years, said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tata-engrs-may-be-roped-in-for-ayodhya-temple/articleshow/78961408.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Covid cancels All Souls Day visit as cemeteries to remain closed||Nagpur: To avoid violation of social distancing norms, Christian cemeteries will remain closed on November 2 when thousands visit to pay homage to the departed on the occasion of All Souls Day. Though it’s technically not a place of worship, which have remain closed as per the state government’s order, the committee which handles the cemetery’s administration says the surge in number of people gathering at the same place can be a major health risk.In Nagpur, both the protestant and catholic cemeteries shall remain closed.President of Nagpur’s Protestant Indian Christian Indora Cemetery Committee, Pastor Ganesh Barve said local authorities too have refused permission. “We had checked with the police as well. But they have informed us about the current ban on religious gatherings, which continues to remain in effect. Since the applicable guidelines do not permit it, there is no question of any kind of gathering at the cemetery,” said Barve.He clarified that while entry is barred for general public, there won’t be any issue related to burials. “If any burial is scheduled, that will go on unhindered. Our concern is simply for complying with government orders. Police too will be present outside for security purpose,” said Barve.The catholic community too is following suit. Fr Anthony D’Souza, convener of the graveyard committee under the Archdiocese of Nagpur, said “The Archbishop will be informing all community members through a video message about the decision to keep cemeteries closed. Local authorities have also sent us a letter regarding this and we will comply with the same.”Rev Devashish Dubey of Full Gospel Church said there is a possibility that some community members might go on their own. “Cemetery authorities used to organize prayer and worship from 4pm onwards on All Souls Day, but that is definitely not happening this year. But then, maybe some individuals will try to visit of their own initiative,” said Dubey.Some community members feel that permission should have been sought using a social distancing plan. Vandana Benjamin, women’s wing president of Alpha Omega Christian Mahasangh, said, “Cemetery authorities should have chalked out a plan for letting only 50 people in at a time, with body temperature checks. It would definitely require some planning and volunteers, but it could have been done.”Manish Swami, secretary of Mecosabagh Christian Welfare Association, said the only solution is to visit on some other day. “While dates are important, we also have to understand the current Covid-19 situation. Crowding is dangerous and will harm our community members only. If instead of November 2 we visit the grave on November 30, it will not make any difference.”Covid burials now being allowed at Jaripatka cemeteriesAfter the initial reluctance to bury Covid positive tested deceased, burials have resumed at the Jaripatka Christian cemetery. When the pandemic was its peak, the committee in-charge of the graveyard said burials were not happening due to resistance from nearby residents, caretakers and even some community members. President of the committee, Pastor Ganesh Barve, said “Now, burials have started. For Covid positive bodies, a minimum of six feet deep pit is being dug. Also all those participating in the funeral service are complying with safety guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cancels-all-souls-day-visit-as-cemeteries-to-remain-closed/articleshow/78957874.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parties flouted SC order, many candidates have criminal cases: ADR||Ahmedabad: Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) has demanded that action should be taken against political parties for flouting Supreme Court orders by choosing candidates who have criminal cases pending against them. Earlier this year, the SC had said that ability to win cannot be the criterion for choosing candidates. The Supreme Court had instructed political parties to give reasons for selection of candidates with criminal records and why other individuals without criminal antecedents could not be selected as candidates. Subsequently, the Election Commission of India (ECI) had asked all state units to follow the SC guidelines. “We demand that the chief election officer should take up the matter with the ECI. The affidavits clearly reflect that political parties have not shown any willingness in getting themselves regulated. They do not appear to be taking the SC order seriously,” said Pankti Jog, state coordinator, ADR. The analysis by ADR shows that one Bharatiya Tribal Party candidate, two BJP and four independent candidates have serious criminal cases against themselves. Criteria for serious offences include those with maximum punishment of five years, non-bailable offences, offences comprising assault, murder, kidnap, rape, crimes against women, crimes under PCA, those related to loss to exchequer and the like.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parties-flouted-sc-order-many-candidates-have-criminal-cases-adr/articleshow/78960616.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Man killed in accident near Sinnar Phata||Nashik: A 49-year-old man was killed near Sinnar Phata at Eklahara T-point along the Nashik-Pune highway after he was run over by a container truck. The deceased has been identified as Subhash Patil (49), a resident of Panchak, Jail Road. Police said Patil was riding his scooter towards Nashik Road from the Sinnar Phata side at around 10.20 pm when a container truck driven by an unidentified person ran him over from behind. Patil was killed on the spot. The accidents brings to fore the need of road widening near Sinnar Phata, which has been pending for the past four years. Police said the road widening work has now been taken up and it will be completed soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-killed-in-accident-near-sinnar-phata/articleshow/78957867.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Pune||Probe on in abandoned babies’ cases||Pune: The Saswad police are scrutinising CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the duo trying to bury a two-day-old infant in a farm at Ambodi village in Purandar taluka on Wednesday. Inspector Dagdu Hake from the Saswad police said, “We have obtained CCTV footage from different spots in Saswad and working on some clues. We shall soon arrest the duo.” On the same day, a newborn baby girl was found abandoned at Kalewadi in Wakad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/probe-on-in-abandoned-babies-cases/articleshow/78960615.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district reports 344 Covid-19 cases||NASHIK: The district reported 344 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 146 from Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 93,443. Two of the four people who succumbed to the infection in the district were from Nashik city. The death toll stands at 1,667 in the district, including 865 in Nashik city. As many as 650 patients were discharged from across the district on Friday, of which 159 patients are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-reports-344-cases/articleshow/78957906.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||Republic yet to provide info on show against Mumbai police: Cops||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police said on Friday that Republic TV has not provided information sought as part of its probe into a show aired by the channel which allegedly incited disaffection against the city force. The N M Joshi Marg police on October 23 registered an offence under Section 3 (1) of the Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922, a Central act, along with IPC section 500 (punishment for defamation ) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of a common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Republic TV’s executive editor Niranjan Narayanswamy, deputy editor Shawan Sen, anchor Shivani Gupta and reporter Sagarika Mitra were among those named accused. Police had issued a notice to the channel under section 91 of Code of Criminal Procedure to investigate claims made by its employees during questioning earlier. The notice was sent on Thursday seeking details, but no response has been received from Republic media, police said. Read AlsoMumbai police SIT to record statements of Republic TV’s investors todayThe Special Investigation Team probing the TRP manipulation scam will record the statements of five investors of Republic TV on Saturday. Since Friday was a holiday, police have asked them to appear on Saturday, an officer said. Chief financial officer of Republic TV Shiva Sundharam on FridayCrPC section 91 pertains to ‘Process to compel the production of things’ where a police officer issues summons to produce a document or thing for the purpose of investigation. “During investigation, Gupta said she had read out a news report put out by the iNews software through the output shift in-charge and on the teleprompter by the channel’s output desk. This information, besides other details shared by the co-accused, needs to be verified in order to determine liability. We have sent a notice to the management of Republic Media on Thursday asking for the information under section 91 of CrPC. Obtaining this information is important for the probe. The media network has not responded so far,” said senior inspector Pandit Thorat in a signed press statement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-yet-to-provide-info-on-show-against-mum-police-cops/articleshow/78962123.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid concerns rise as bypoll campaigning hits peak in Bengaluru's RR Nagar||BENGALURU: Concerns are being raised over a possible meteoric rise in infection in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, where there has been total disregard for Covid-19 safety protocols at campaign meetings and rallies ahead of the November 3 assembly byelection. Cases in Bengaluru have been declining, but BBMP and RR Nagar zonal Covid management officials fear all the hard work could be undone since there has been zero physical distancing and none or improper use of masks at political rallies. And crowds have only swelled with Sandalwood stars joining campaigns. "Currently, cases are only increasing in peripheral zones, but the scenario in RR Nagar is a big concern," BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said. The zone reported 26,642 cases from July 1 to October 28, but nearly 10% of the total cases reported in Bengaluru on Thursday were from the zone. Dr R Vishal, RR Nagar zonal coordinator for Covid-19 management, said spread of the virus can be checked only with increased testing. "There have been violations of Covid safety rules. If there are superspreaders, control becomes difficult," said Dr Vishal, who is also Covid management officer for elections. The zone has been conducting close to 4,800 tests a day and the positivity rate is only about 3%, but officials fear a surge. Authorities say areas such as Bangarappa Nagar and Nandini Layout, which are dotted with slums, are most vulnerable. "Testing has to increase in these areas," Dr Vishal said, adding that the reluctance to follow precautions is only growing. From October 23 to 28, RR Nagar registered 538 cases of violation of mask rule and collected fines of Rs 1.3 lakh. On October 28 alone, 177 mask rule violation cases were filed. The zone has 12 wards with a marshal each to enforce safety rules. Medical officers are also running into challenges in getting people tested. For every positive case, the zone has seen 5.5 primary contacts and 5 secondary contacts, all of whom must undergo tests. "Since many work for political parties, they fear 14-day isolation if positive," an official said. "They say they will undergo tests after the election is over, but by then they could infect many others."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-concerns-rise-as-bypoll-campaigning-hits-peak-in-rr-nagar/articleshow/78959220.cms||Sunitha Rao R
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body officials told to be present in office for public dealing||LUDHIANA: Taking a serious note of the complaints of poor quality of development works, Ludhiana municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal on Friday instructed the civic body officials to be present in the office between 9am and 11am for public dealing and after that go for field visits where such works are going on. At a meeting with zonal commissioners and other officials of the municipal corporation, Sabharwal also warned that the official concerned would be held responsible in case of any shortcoming in a development work. He said these steps are being taken to ensure proper monitoring of the ongoing works in the city. The commissioner said he has also come to know that officials remain absent from their seats during the public dealing hours, which creates problems for the public when they come with their concerns. Asking them to be present in their seats from 9am to 11am, he said after 11am, the engineer level officials would go out to monitor the ongoing works. The timings have been fixed so that they do not give excuses like they were busy with meetings. The commissioner also asked the officials to certify the quality of works at different stages. For example, when a work is completed 30, 70 or 100%, the officials would certify that it has been done as per the norms and set standards. These certificates would be submitted to the commissioner’s office and if at the time of inspection, any shortcoming is found, the official concerned would face action. The commissioner has also made the zonal commissioners responsible for review of the ongoing works and every Wednesday they will review the ongoing works after 5pm and submit reports to the commissioner. They have also been asked to monitor the Swachhta Survekshan works. Suvidha Centres open on Saturday As it is the last date for depositing property tax dues of previous years with 10% penalty, the MC will keep Suvidha Centres open for the public on Saturday. Residents can deposit their arrears till 3pm at the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-officials-told-to-be-present-in-office-for-public-dealing/articleshow/78954775.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Active cases in UP down by 64% since peak||LUCKNOW: The numbers of active Covid-19 cases in the state have declined by over 64% since the peak reported on September 17. As on date, as many as 24,431 active patients are undergoing battling with coronavirus in the state. Of these 11,278 are under home isolation. Health officials stated that the number of recovered patients reached 4.48 lakh which has taken the state’s recovery rate to 93.5% which is one of the highest in the country. However, experts warned against callous attitude which can reverse the progress made over the past seven weeks. Citing an example of Gautam Budh Nagar, officials said that over the past one week, the number of cases being reported in the NCR district have recorded a steady surge. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that increased public activity during the festive season could make it easy for the coronavirus which spreads from one human to another. “Covid-19 prevention protocol is the only available vaccine against the pandemic virus at the moment and it is the duty of every person to check the spread,” he said. Meanwhile, state’s Covid-19 tally crossed 4.80 lakh with the addition of 2,237 new cases. The state also recorded 24 deaths in past 24 hours taking the toll to 7,007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-cases-in-up-down-by-64-since-peak/articleshow/78961412.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Campaigning ends for second phase of Jaipur civic polls||JAIPUR: Last day of campaigning in Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Greater was filled with election rallies and big leaders’ roadshows. The candidates campaigned with their supporters and requested people to come out and vote on November 1. MLA from Sanganer constituency Ashok Lahoty and former minister Vasudev Devnani were part of the door-to-door campaigning for candidate Bharti Lakhyani. BJP workers went door-to-door, meeting people and chanted slogans. Bharti Lakhyani said that BJP is contesting the election together and has conveyed its message to the people. Rakhi Rathore organised a rally in ward no 61. “Our biggest challenge is to convince people to come out and vote. We have requested everyone to vote and will be providing gloves on our table on polling stations to people for their protection,” said Rakhi. Sushil Sharma, an independent candidate from Murlipura said that after giving a speech at Murlipura Scheme Circle he distributed pamphlets to people that mentioned the polling station address and room no. “Looking at the good turnout in the Heritage elections, I am hopeful that people will vote on November 1. We have distributed the pamphlets that have a ward map informing people about the address of polling booth and room no,” said Sharma. In many areas, candidates have planned to appoint a few people in every lane who will ask people to vote in the elections. Maan Pandit, contesting from ward no 64 said, “Two people of our party from every lane will go door-to-door, convincing people to vote. We will meet people in parks and community halls to motivate them to vote. Our target is to get 80% voters out of their house, for which workers will remain in the colony till evening.” On October 29, in JMC Heritage elections voting percentage was 57.82%. Mostly, aged people and people suffering from any ailment like diabetes avoided coming out of the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/campaigning-ends-for-second-phase-of-civic-polls/articleshow/78960675.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Unemployment main poll plank: Migrants from Bihar||LUDHIANA: Migrant workers from Bihar, who are unable to visit their native place to cast their votes, say the main poll plank this time is unemployment due to which many of them have been forced to live in other states. Mithlesh Yadav, 37, who works at a hosiery unit in Ludhiana and belongs to Mauji village, said, “I have been living in Mundiyan Khurd for the past 15 years with my mother, wife and children. My mother Phool Kumari Devi and wife Mala Devi are voters of Hassanpur assembly seat. In the last elections, we were there and cast our votes, but this time we have not been able to go because of unavailability of trains due to farmers’ stir. For us and many here, unemployment remains the main issue in the elections. If there were jobs in our native state, we would not have come here for work. I want Bihar to have adequate jobs so that when my son grows up he can live there and not struggle like me.” Many other voters said members of every second household in Bihar have to go out for work. “Unemployment is the main issue in the elections, as it is the prime cause of migration. We have to go to other states for work and what is more painful is that we are turned away by some states that consider us outsiders. The elected government must think of ways to stop migration,” said 25-year-old Raj Kumar Sahni, a voter from Mahnar in Vaishali district that is going to polls on November 3. He runs a shop in Jeevan Nagar here. “Besides there are issues like women’s security, education, healthcare, and sports facilities,” said Raj Kumar, who has 10 voters in his family. He added that he had returned about a month ago and wanted to go with family to vote but because of ongoing farmers’ agitation he could not. However, there are many voters who said Bihar has changed for the better in the 15 years of Nitish Kumar’s rule. “There was a time when there was so much insecurity that in our street, no one would buy a vehicle as then he would be asked to give money to extortionists. Now there are 30 cars in our street. In the past 15 years, things have changed. Colleges have opened, development is visible. Unemployment is an issue, but not a big one,” said Manoj Kumar Gupta, who belongs to Simri Bakhtiyarpur village and worked as a manager in a company in Ludhiana before losing his job during lockdown. “I along with my parents and wife did vote in the past elections, but will not be able to go there this time,” he said. However, there are some voters here who are going to cast their votes in the elections. “My wife Shiramati Devi and I have votes there. Since I have a vehicle, I will drive to my native place to cast my vote on November 3,” said 40-year-old Majister Yadav, a building contractor who has been living in Choti Bhamiyan for the past 20 years and belongs to Balsari area of Gopalganj in Bihar. “For us, unemployment and corruption are issues that will decide the fate of candidates. In my extended family, my five brothers and two nephews are jobless and have to do odd jobs for survival. If there were jobs in our native state, we would not have come this far to work,” he added. ‘Vote on caste’ Political worker Shamsher Alam, who belongs to Samastipur and lives in the city, said in Bihar people vote on the basis of caste. He said of the around six to seven lakh migrants in Ludhiana district, about five lakh have votes in Bihar, but they would not be able to vote this time as trains were not running.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unemployment-main-poll-plank-migrants-from-bihar/articleshow/78954785.cms||Shariq Majeed
October 31, 2020||Varanasi||DLW to be now known as Banaras Locomotive Works||VARANASI: The Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW), a premier locomotive manufacturing unit of Indian Railways in Varanasi, will now be known as Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW), as a gazette notification in this regard was made on Wednesday. The notification of the Ministry of Railways dated October 27 says that the Central government has decided to change the name of ‘Diesel Locomotive Works’, Varanasi to ‘Banaras Locomotive Works’. The change will come into force with immediate effect. However, the DLW authorities are yet to receive the official intimation in this regard. According to them, it will take some time to change the name in the records and signages. “We are waiting for the official order,” said DLW spokesperson Ashok Kumar. The change in nomenclature came after the DLW switched over from the production of diesel locomotives to electric locomotives as a part of efforts to completely electrify the broad-gauge network in the country. However, the DLW still produces the diesel locomotives, but only on the demand of non-railway customers, said Kumar. According to him, the DLW started the production of electric locomotives in 2017. The DLW manufactured 310 locomotives (including 272 electric locos and 4conversion locos) in the financial year 2019-20 against the target of 306. It registered a record production of electric locomotives in July 2020. According to the records, a total of 31 electric locomotives were produced in the month of July. In the recent past, the DLW manufactured a 6,000 HorsePower (HP) electric engine in a week in May this year after a 48-day shutdown of the workshops due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It was the first electric engine produced by the unit in the 2020-21 financial year. And since then the unit has produced 127 electric rail engines so far in this financial year, said Kumar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in February 2019, had flagged off a diesel-to-electric converted locomotive, the first of its kind in the world. The 10,000 HP locomotive was manufactured by combining two old diesel engines to form a high horsepower electric locomotive. Later, the DLW manufactured a 12,000-HP electric locomotive by combining two diesel locos, a first of its kind in the world, in January this year. This freight engine was designed for 105-km/hour speed and weighs 252 tons. It is equipped with a three-phase induction motor, four power converters and regenerative as well as pneumatic braking system. The DLW achieved this challenging task with the help of engineers from Research Designs and Standards Organisation and Chiitaranjan Locomotive Works. The first President of India Dr Rajendra Prasad had laid the foundation stone of the unit on April 23, 1956, and the DLW came into existence in 1961. According to the records, the first broad gauge locomotive was released by Lal Bahadur Shastri in January 1964 before he became the prime minister. For the first time, the DLW exported locomotives to Tanzania in January 1976, while it rolled out the 1000th locomotive in March 1977. The DLW received the International Railway Industry Standard (IRIS) certification from UNIFE, an association of Europe’s rail supply companies active in the design, manufacture, maintenance and refurbishment of rail transport systems, subsystems and related equipment in February this year. The IRIS is an internationally recognised management system standard specific to the railway industry. The DLW has become the first locomotive manufacturing unit in the country to get such a certification based on ISO/TS 22163:2017 for rolling stock design, development and manufacture of locomotives. Earlier, the Manduadih railway station was renamed as Banaras on September 16 with the approval of the Governor after the union home ministry had given NOC to the proposal of renaming Manduadih railway station as Banaras railway station by the Yogi Adityanath government. Before it, the neighbouring Chandauli district had witnessed renaming of Mughalsarai township and railway station as Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Nagar and PDDU Junction in 2017 and 2018 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dlw-to-be-now-known-as-banaras-locomotive-works/articleshow/78959216.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi travels on maiden seaplane flight from Kevadia to Sabarmati||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday, India's first seaplane service took off from Kevadia in Narmada district, the home to the world's tallest statue- Statue of Unity (SoU) to Ahmedabad. Prime Minister Narendra Modi boarded the flight from SoU to the Sabarmati Riverfront in the seaplane. #Gujarat: PM Narendra Modi travels on maiden seaplane flight from Kevadia to #Sabarmati https://t.co/yHvNWOO0tt— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1604129647000The service is expected to give a big boost to the state's tourism as well as Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) – UDAN. The service will be inaugurated marking the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.Online bookings for the seaplane services began late on Friday night. “The service will officially start operations from Sunday, November 1. If there is a constraint in online bookings, people can purchase tickets from the ticket window at the waterdrome at Ahmedabad as well as Kevadia. Due to security reasons during the PM’s movement, the same may not however, be opened on Saturday,” said a well-placed source. A slash in the seaplane fare was recently announced and now, travellers will be able to book the ticket for as low as Rs 1,500 per person. “The fare has been decided under RCS-UDAN rates and a certain quota of seats on each flight will be allotted at the lower price bracket. For the remaining, fares will be upto Rs 4,800 per person,” said the source. Watch PM Narendra Modi inaugurates India's first seaplane service in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-modi-to-fly-on-maiden-flight-of-indias-first-seaplane-service/articleshow/78960681.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Health dept plans to phase out Covid-19 care centres||Coimbatore: The Covid-19 tally surged past the 43,000-mark on Friday, when the district recorded 228 new cases, even as the health department prepares to gradually phase out a few Covid care centres in the city.While the district has reported 43,008 Covid-19 cases so far, the number of active cases has come down to 2,411 with 557 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day. A total of 40,041 patients have recovered from the virus infection, taking the recovery to a new high of 93.1%.The toll, meanwhile, rose to 556 with the state including three more deaths that occurred in the district in the past two days in the bulletin. One of the deceased was an 87-year-old man, who died of Covid-induced pneumonia four days after hospitalization on Thursday afternoon. The remaining two - a 59-year diabetic man and a 67-year-old hypertensive man - died on Wednesday after three and 12 days of hospitalization, respectively.With the number of active cases dropping below the 2,500-mark, health officers have asked the primary health centres and corporation triage centres not to admit new patients to the Covid care centres at Suguna Kalyana Mandapam at Kalapatti, Pollachi government girls’ school and Sasurie college at Annur.A health department official said, “Since beds are available at the Codissia Covid care centre and government hospitals in the city and Pollachi, we have decided to slowly phase out a few Covid care centres. This way, we can save on our expenses and staff resources.”While Suguna Kalyana Mandapam management has not received any communication on returning their hall, a little over a week ago, the city corporation had removed all the cots from a hall at the Adithya Convention Centre. “We have kept Adithya Convention Centre on hold to be used in case of any emergency. We will watch the trend for the next two weeks and if there are no spikes, we may reduce the number of centres,” confirmed the city health officer, Dr Raja.The move has brought cheers to the management of wedding halls, which were taken over to treat Covid-19 patients. “While posh weddings do not happen, we get inquiries and bookings for small functions, which would fetch us some income. The government don’t pay us any rent for using our halls and it has hurt us financially,” said a wedding hall owner at Kuniyamuthur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-dept-plans-to-phase-out-covid-19-care-centres/articleshow/78960699.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Blood donation camps to mark Eid||Aurangabad: Over 600 units of blood was collected during blood donation camps organised by the youth wing of social group Jamat-e-Islami-Hind on Friday. Organised on the occasion of Eid Milad-un- Nabi, one camp each was held at Younus colony, Paithan Gate, Lal Masjid at Town hall and Gayatri complex at Chikalthana. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/blood-donation-camps-to-mark-eid/articleshow/78957953.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh hits 96% recovery rate as daily cases dip||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 2,886 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,20,565. The toll increased to 6,676 as 17 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 3,623 Covid-19 patients were declared cured. There are currently 25,514 active cases with 7,88,375 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. Andhra Pradesh is the first state to achieve 96% recovery rate, a basic metric used to track the improving conditions after May 2020. Kerala, which once claimed to have flattened the curve, was the only state to witness more than 96% recovery rate before AP in May but it has seen a spurt in the case numbers in recent months. The national average recovery rate stood at 91.5% as of Friday. The recovery was almost 99% in Nellore district. East Godavari, the disease epicentre of the state, also achieved a recovery rate of more than 95 per cent. West Godavari district reported 493 cases, followed by Krishna (448) and East Godavari (405). There has been a steady increase in the case numbers in Guntur district in recent days. Four districts recorded less than 100 cases on Friday with Kurnool reporting a low of 36 cases. Of the 17 deaths registered in the last 24 hours, three are from Krishna, two each from Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and Kadapa districts, and one each from East Godavari, Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 84,401 samples on Friday, with 2,886 samples returning positive for a case positivity rate of 3.4 per cent. The state has so far conducted 79.46 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 10.3 per cent, while the mortality rate stands at 0.81 per cent. Andhra Pradesh is the first state to achieve a 96% recovery rate. The state has so far conducted 79.46 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 10.3 per cent, while the mortality rate stands at 0.81 per cent||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-hits-96-recovery-rate-as-daily-cases-dip/articleshow/78957948.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Free corona test in UP for thalassemia, hemophilia patients||LUCKNOW: In a major relief to thalassemia and haemophilia patients, the UP government has announced that no charges would be taken from them and their attendants for Covid-19 testing. In another decision, the government reduced the cost of Covid-19 testing for cancer patients and those requiring regular dialysis to Rs 300 from existing Rs 1,500. For patients of all other illnesses, the cost of Covid-19 testing was fixed at Rs 600. “These patient groups need to visit the hospitals frequently for follow-ups and continuity of treatment. Since Covid-19 testing is mandatory, they end up shelling a lot of money. Understanding their problem, the government has come up with the new rates,” said Dr Rajneesh Dube, additional chief secretary, medical education. Once a formal order is issued the decision would apply on medical institutions and colleges like Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, King George’s Medical University, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and so on. Till now patients had to shell out Rs 1,500 at these centres for Covid-19 testing. The revised rates are 80% less for cancer and dialysis patients and 60% less for all other patients. Officials at the state medical education directorate stated that the order did not cover private pathologies where the government had fixed a rate of Rs 1600 for the same test. Patients expressed happiness over the decision hoping that it was implemented at the earliest. “I need to undergo Covid-19 testing at least 2-3 times a month for my radiotherapy sessions. An 80% saving is a big amount,” said Reeta Singh who has undergone a breast cancer surgery at SGPGI. Officials at the medical institutes said that there was lack of clarity on whether the revised rates would be applicable to attendants too. They hoped that the ambiguity would be cleared once the official order is issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/free-corona-test-in-up-for-thalassemia-hemophilia-patients/articleshow/78961415.cms||Shailvee Sharda
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Uncontrolled traffic points saw 18 accidents in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: According to the report of the Union ministry of road transport and highways, in 2019 as many as 18 accidents were caused at uncontrolled traffic points in Ludhiana. The uncontrolled traffic points are the ones without traffic signals, manual police control or a stop sign. In this category, Ludhiana is ranked 46th among the country’s 50 cities with a million-plus population. In the report, the ministry has classified accidents according to the types of traffic control system. In the 18 accidents at uncontrolled traffic points, 11 people had lost their lives. The fatalities count put Ludhiana at 42nd rank in the list. Besides, six people were grievously injured and one got minor injuries in these accidents. The report stated that no accident was caused in Ludhiana at traffic signals, flash night signals or blinkers, police-controlled points or those with stop signs. With 14 accidents under this category, Amritsar is ranked 48th. It is positioned 46th in fatalities count, with four deaths. In the category of ‘other’, 535 accidents took place in Ludhiana in which 253 people lost their lives and 282 were injured – 267 grievously and 15 with minor injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/uncontrolled-traffic-points-saw-18-accidents-in-ludhiana/articleshow/78954803.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||2 succumb, 65 test Covid positive in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 65 tested positive on Friday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 56-year-old man of Basant Avenue, Dhandran Road, who died at a city hospital; and a 60-year-old man of Lohatbaddi village in Raikot, who had diabetes. The day also saw three from outside the district succumbing to the virus and 11 testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has increased to 835 and that of outsiders to 320. To date, 3,87,916 persons have been tested. Of the 65 positive cases, 24 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), four positive cases’ contacts, 25 from OPD, one healthcare worker, nine through tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection case and one preoperative case. The district case count now stands at 20,249 and that of outsiders at 2,748. So far, 19,168 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.66% of the total cases. There are 243 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 804. On Friday, 62 people were quarantined and 2,770 samples were collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones installed at CMCH. Ten patients, including four Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-succumb-65-test-positive/articleshow/78954795.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolhapur||State approves Rs 10 crore for Kolhapur airport’s extension||KOLHAPUR: The state government has approved Rs 10 crore for acquiring 64 acre land for extension of Kolhapur airport. So far, around 700 acre land has been made available to the airport authority for development of the airstrip and other service buildings surrounding the airport. Currently, flight service to Mumbai is operational and soon flights for Bengaluru are likely to resume. The facilities for night landing of planes are being developed on the existing area. However, to make more landings possible, there airstrip needs to be extended. Satej Patil, district guardian minister, said, “The order to transfer the funds to the airport authority has been issued. Now, there will be more land acquisition. I am hopeful that once the airstrip is extended and the facilities of night landing is completed, the service providers will start air service to the big cities like Delhi, Ahmedabad and important tourist states like Goa.” Now, the district administration will appoint a land survey and land acquisition officer. The primary survey was completed last year and several obstructions had been observed. For instance, Kolhapur-Hupari road forms part of the planned extension. District collector Daulat Desai has suggested to take the road underground. A senior official said that the land acquisition officer will have to ensure that the locals residing there are rehabilited, other constructions are removed and ensure all those who will loose their farm lands are compensated as per the most recent directions of the central government. So far, Rs 275 crore has been spent on the development of the airport through central and state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-approves-rs-10-crore-for-kolhapur-airports-extension/articleshow/78960682.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure farmers sell their produce at MSP, says UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to ensure that farmers are able to sell their produce at the minimum support price and that their crops are protected from stray cattle. To this end, officials have been directed to remove all stray cattle from roads and take them to cow shelters where they are looked after properly. On Friday, the CM said that development of farmers and the people of the state is a prime concern of the government. He has directed the agriculture produce commissioner to ensure that farmers are being able to sell their produce at MSP and that common people are able to get essential food items at the right price. He said that all steps should be taken to ensure that pulses and vegetables are available at the right price in the market and strict action should be taken against hoarders. Currently, purchase of paddy and corn is taking place in the state. In light of that, the CM said that farmers should be getting MSP for their produce. Middlemen should not be allowed to take advantage of farmers. He also said that peanut farmers in Bundelkhand should be able to get the right price for their produce. Meanwhile, Yogi also directed the principal secretary (animal husbandry) to get the chief veterinary officers to inspect all private and government-managed cow shelters. He has also asked all district magistrates to carry out regular monitoring of this work. The CM said that necessary arrangements should be made at cow shelters to ensure that animals are safe during winter. Sufficient fodder should be ensured and the animals should get a health check-up regularly. Where stray cattle has been provided with shelter, it should also be ensured that farmers do not face any crop loss. For this, officials should ensure that there are no stray cattle on the roads so that they do not destroy standing crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-farmers-sell-their-produce-at-msp-says-yogi/articleshow/78961437.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nashik||Healthcare centres start OPDs to treat cured Covid patients||Nashik/Aurangabad: Many healthcare facilities in the state have started post Covid-19 out-patient departments (OPD) to handle recovered patients coming back with lingering complaints.In Jalgaon district, an OPD has been started at Jalgaon Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and at 14 dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC). In Ahmednagar district, the OPDs have been started at 11 DCHCs.The post Covid-19 care OPDs are especially for those people who complain about exertion, breathlessness, uneasiness and other symptoms despite being discharged after recovery from the viral disease.In Jalgaon, doctors said they were getting around 15 to 20 patients per day.“Since they have come out of the infection, weakness is likely to remain for around two months. Most physicians are, therefore, recommending some dietary habits as well as tablets such as aspirin to help them,” an health officer said.In Ahmednagar district, the post Covid-19 OPDs have been attached to the DCHCs across the district and none of the centres have been closed so far. “We have kept the facilities open with whatever strength we have. Our OPDs in the DCHCs are receiving less than 10 patients on a daily basis,” a senior officer said.In Aurangabad, the district civil hospital at Chikalthana has decided to start a special OPD from early next month to assist citizens in post-Covid recovery. District civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni on Friday said that a separate OPD for medicine and paediatrics would be started by the first half of November. The GMCH Aurangabad had also started post-Covid OPD around a week ago. Shrikant Deshmukh, one of the panellist doctors for Covid care at the Dr Hedegewar Hospital in the city, said that said that protein-rich diet and regular exercise could help people overcoming various health issues along with proper medical care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/healthcare-centres-start-opds-to-treat-cured-covid-patients/articleshow/78960729.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Stray dogs sterilization project gets halted once again||LUDHIANA: Since lockdown the stray dogs sterilization project launched by the civic body has failed to come back on track as in the past six months the project work has been halted thrice. Earlier, due to lockdown, the MC officials had asked the company to stop catching dogs and then due to exodus of labourers to their native places the project work was stopped. Now, again labourers had left work and even after the passing of more than a month officials could not resume the work. The sterilization of stray dogs project was started in 2015 and since then almost 44,035 dogs had been sterilized, whereas this year up to July only 2,645 dogs had been sterilized by the firm. The project could not pick up pace this year and in December the agreement with this firm would also end. The officials though are claiming to begin the process to hire a new firm but after the work got stopped the complaints regarding stray dogs menace has also increased. BJP councillor from ward number 85 Sunita Rani said, “There are so many dogs in the locality and I made several complaints to the officials concerned, but to no respite. She said people were actually perturbed with nuisance of stray dogs and there were regular complaints. Meanwhile, a resident of Haibowal, Shruti Jain, said some 15 days back a stray dog had attacked a three-year-old boy when he was playing outside his house. She said he had received injuries on his arms and even head, but luckily, he recovered. She said since then there is a sense of fear among the kids. She rued that there was a requirement of a permanent solution to the problem because only sterilization could not stop dogs from attacking people as it would only control their population. Senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said, “The company which is doing the sterilization project for the MC brings labour from Indore, but as of now they could not arrange it for the task, so work is not being undertaken for sometime.” He said repeated complaints are coming from people about stray dogs, but they are helpless. He said he had recommended a penalty against the company for hampering the project work and also a process to float fresh tenders had already been started because in December the present agreement was ending. To be taken as box—dogs sterilized in past three years 2018—9740 2019—11110 2020—2645 (till July)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stray-dogs-sterilization-project-gets-halted-once-again/articleshow/78955754.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: As Covid fear runs high, cracker trade fizzles out||VISAKHAPATNAM: Diwali may be round the corner, but firecracker traders in Vizag city have little to cheer about this year. Traders have cut down on the number of firecracker stalls that come up in the city around this time and decreased the quantity of crackers procured from Tamil Nadu in keeping with safety protocols for Covid-19. Retail dealers in the city claim that sales are likely to plummet anywhere between 30 to 50% this season. While the number of cases are falling, locals continue to be cautious and will be unwilling to spend on firecrackers for Diwali, dealers said. Speaking to TOI, president of Star Fire Merchants’ Welfare Society, Sayyed Siraj said in 2019 they had set up over 180 firecracker stalls on the grounds of Andhra University (AU). Business was brisk last year, he said, adding that this year the number of stalls will not be more than 100 at Andhra University. Nor are traders, who anticipate a lukewarm response from the public, interested in setting up more stalls. Small and petty businessmen, in particular, are scared of investing in the business this season, Siraj said. Another firecracker trader Tagore said between 300 to 350 stalls selling crackers come up in the city during Diwali. That number may hover between 150 to 180 this year, he anticipated, not only due to Covid-19 but the associated loss of revenue and salary cuts sustained by many. Given the lukewarm demand, many traders said they have decided to order a smaller quantity of firecrackers from manufacturers in Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu. On an average year, a trader would place an order amounting to at least Rs 2 to Rs 2.5 lakh. This has come down to half this year, with order values not going beyond Rs 1 to Rs 1.2 lakh. “Some rich families used to place bulk orders a few weeks before Diwali, but we have not received such orders this time,” they rued. Meanwhile, officials of the police and fire departments have started the process of issuing temporary licences to firecracker traders in the city. Unlike previous years, traders may begin sale of crackers at least a week ahead of Diwali to maintain social distancing norms. In spite of the pandemic, some traders have taken a novel approach to the sale of firecrackers. “Due to growing concerns of environmental pollution during Diwali, we are also procuring innovative products such as green crackers from Sivakasi. These firecrackers will produce a dazzling effect of light, rather than sound,” a trader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-covid-fear-runs-high-cracker-trade-fizzles-out/articleshow/78957978.cms||Nalla.Babu
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: As bypolls near, lawmakers themselves throw norms to the wind||BENGALURU: With campaigning in RR Nagar and Sira reaching a crescendo, there is nothing to suggest the bypolls are being conducted amidst a raging pandemic. Top political functionaries, candidates and thousands of party cadre – across the three major parties of the ruling BJP, Congress and JD(S) – are violating rules on social distancing and wearing masks with impunity, while partaking in rallies. This has hardly inspired confidence in those watching the proceedings on the sidelines or on television. On Friday, the penultimate day of open canvassing, the situation went up a few notches. When Sandalwood star Darshan canvassed for BJP candidate N Munirathna there was little regard for safety measures, while the scene was no different when chief minister BS Yediyurappa, whose government framed the rules, hit the campaign trail. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said he has asked his staff to monitor the situation and promised action against those violating Election Commission norms. "The only complaint I’ve received is with regard to electioneering by actor Darshan. The crowd is said to have violated safety norms. We will look into all complaints and scan footage of rallies for violations," Prasad said. Prasad said BBMP will register cases against candidates, parties and leaders who are responsible for specific safety violations. "I have instructed officials to book cases under the Disaster Management Act," he said. The civic agency also decided to deploy two additional marshals in every ward in RR Nagar assembly segment to enforce norms. Nandini Devi, returning officer in Sira, said she has received about seven complaints so far. "For complaints related to Sira town, we alert the CMC and in rural areas the executive officer of panchayats. It is their responsibility to collect fines," Devi said. The Election Commission has said it is aware of the problem and cases are being booked against offenders. "We are making efforts to sensitise people on safety norms and are warning them," said chief electoral officer (CEO) Sanjiv Kumar. "However, wherever there is a violation we have asked officials concerned to book cases under both electoral laws and the Disaster Management Act." However, till date, there have been no reports of cases booked or action initiated by either the EC or the state administration. Violation of safety norms entails one year imprisonment or fine or both under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal proceedings under section 188 of IPC. These are part of the guidelines issued by the health department for the purpose of conducting elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/as-bypolls-near-lawmakers-themselves-throw-norms-to-the-wind/articleshow/78959295.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Prayers, charity mark Milad un-Nabi celebrations in city||Coimbatore: The city on Friday witnessed muted celebrations of Milad un-Nabi, the birth anniversary of prophet Muhammed. Usually, precessions by students of madrassas across the city, competitions for them and conferences to educate the public about the teachings of the prophet would mark the occasion. M Abdul Hakkim, secretary, Jamaat e Islmai Hind, said, “But this year, we didn’t conduct any such events because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Instead, we organized ‘zoom’ meetings to deliver a lecture on the prophet and his teachings. This was in addition to the speeches at the mosques.” He said they had conducted special prayers at the mosques for a week to mark the occasion and distributed food to the needy on Thursday evening. “To control the crowd, some mosques conducted prayers separately for men, women and children, while others asked the women and children to pray at their houses.” Hakkim recalled many organizations used to come together and distribute food and pulses to the public every year on the occasion of Milad un-Nabi, Navarathri and Diwali to nurture communal harmony. “This year, we decided to limit it to just one time. We, along with organizations like Gandhi Ashram, would distribute rice and pulses to the elderly and HIV people on Saturday.” A Abdul Jabber, general secretary, Coimbatore district united Jamaath, said unlike the previous years they had not organized competitions for the students of madrassas this time. “We limited the celebrations to prayers. We had advised people not to crowd the mosques and to pray at their houses itself.” Several Muslim organizations, however, distributed food to the people in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prayers-charity-mark-milad-un-nabi-celebrations-in-city/articleshow/78960755.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||124 gram gold stolen from house in Padegaon||Aurangabad: The house of an ex-serviceman in Gulmohar Colony area was broken into on Thursday and burglars managed to get their hands on 124 gram gold and some cash. According to Cantonment police, where the case has been registered, the 57-year-old former defence force member had bought the golden ornaments for his daughter’s marriage. The incident took place when the complainant, Suryakant Jadhav, had gone to the Soldier Welfare Board’s office, while other members of his family had gone to attend a wedding. “Some people claimed that two courier delivery boys had come to Gulmohar colony area of Padegaon in the afternoon. The suspects had covered their faces with masks,” a police officer said. “The suspects entered Jadhav’s home and broke open the lock of the main door before laying hands on all the valuables. The incident came to light at 4 pm, when the family returned home,” he added. Registering an offence, Cantonment police have launched a manhunt for unidentified suspects posing as courier delivery boys. Police even pressed a sniffer dog squad apart from forensic experts for getting clues about the suspects, but in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/124-gram-gold-stolen-from-house-in-padegaon/articleshow/78960691.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Covid norms thrown to wind in Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Campaigning for Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (South) concluded on Friday evening with candidates making last ditch efforts to woo the voters of their respective wards. Polling for 80 wards of the South zone will take place on November 1.Most of the candidates exhibited their might by holding road shows of vehicles attempting to cover the entire ward before canvassing came to an end.These road shows, however, violated both traffic rules and Covid-19 guidelines with the candidates and their supporters hardly wearing masks and keeping social distancing.Over 3.39 lakh voters across these 80 wards will decide the fate of 312 candidates, while the administration has put in adequate arrangements in adherence to the Covid guidelines.Both Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat from BJP and Vaibhav Gehlot, son of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, walked from ward-to-ward to campaign for their respective candidates.Shekhawat, who played a crucial role in the municipal elections of Jodhpur right from selection of the candidates to taking charge of the campaigning, did not hesitate to liken the absence of Gehlot in both campaigning and polling to acceptance of defeat by Congress.“Gehlot did not come this time because he has accepted the rout of his party in the election. He had paid regular visits during the last election,” Shekhawat said. On the other hand, Vaibhav, who arrived in Jodhpur three days in advance to the first phase of polling for North zone, has been campaigning for party candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-norms-thrown-to-wind-in-jodhpur/articleshow/78960717.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana harsh on its women folk, Patiala harshest: NCRB||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana Commissionerate of Police (CP) recorded a high number of cases of assault on woman with intent to outrage her modesty and sexual harassment in 2019, placing it at number two position in Punjab, shows an official data. According to the data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for that last year, total 72 cases of assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty and sexual harassment were reported in the city, whereas the number of such cases across Punjab was 944. The NCRB data placed Patiala at number one with 80 cases, while Sangrur and Bathinda were at third and fourth positions with 55 and 52 cases, respectively. Of the 72 cases registered in Ludhiana, maximum 26 were of sexual harassment, followed by 23 of assault on women (354 IPC), 13 of assault or criminal force on women with intent to disrobe (354-B), nine cases of stalking (354-D) and one of voyeurism. In case of Sangrur, maximum 30 cases were of sexual harassment, 19 of stalking, five of assault or criminal force on women with intent to disrobe and one case of voyeurism. Bathinda had recorded 19 cases of assault on women, 14 of sexual harassment, 11 of stalking and eight of assault or criminal force on women with intent to disrobe. Patiala had seen maximum 48 cases are of assault on woman, 14 of sexual harassment, 13 of stalking and five of assault or criminal force on women with intent to disrobe. The other districts recording substantial numbers of such cases were Gurdaspur 16, Fazilka 15, and Bathinda and Jalandhar CP 14 each — equal to those in Patiala. As per the report, total 222 cases of sexual harassment were reported in the state in 2019. However, no cases of sexual harassment were reported at workplace or office premises or in public transport in Ludhiana or even in the shelter homes for women and children in 2019. All these 26 cases were reported at other places and similar was the case with Sangrur and Patiala as well. However, in Bathinda, three cases of sexual harassment were reported in public transport and 11 at other places. In 2017, total 16 cases of sexual harassment were reported under the Ludhiana CP, which increased to 31 in 2018 and came down to 26 cases in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-harsh-on-its-womenfolk-patiala-harshest-ncrb/articleshow/78954812.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Irwin Road unlikely to open to traffic until 2021||MYSURU: The wait among commuters for the reopening of Irwin Road, closed for traffic since mid-June when work on widening of the thoroughfare commenced, has now gotten longer. The arterial road is unlikely to be opened to vehicular movement before 2021. Owners of property on the thoroughfare having knocked on the doors of the court, the legal battle has stalled the completion of the project, and work is unlikely to be finished till the said problem is resolved. Mysuru assistant commissioner of police (traffic) SN Sandesh Kumar confirmed that vehicles would continue to be diverted away from Irwin Road till December. “Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials have informed us that work on the road has been delayed. The authorities had, in June, sought three months for the completion of the project, and they have appealed to us to ensure prohibition of vehicular movement on the road for another three months,” Kumar said. The 1.8-km long Irwin Road connects the eastern parts of the city with its western pockets. The prolonged closure of the thoroughfare has understandably upset motorists, who are forced to take long detours, often having to travel through narrow alleys and bylanes in residential localities to reach their destination. Widening of Irwin Road was a project mooted by the civic authorities in order to ease congestion at what is a notorious bottleneck. Although work on widening of the road commenced in 2016, the project is still more than a couple of months away from completion. The road has been sufficiently widened from the Railway Station to Visvesvaraya Circle, and from Nehru Circle to the KSRTC Bus Stand. However, the stretch right in the middle of the road is yet to be widened owing to the legal dispute. Development officer for zone-4 of MCC C Manjunath said that the administration of the masjid on the road, and the many owners of an ancestral property in the middle of the thoroughfare had locked the civic agency in a legal battle, thus delaying widening of Irwin Road. “We are hopeful of the disputes being settled soon. In the meanwhile, MCC, water board and Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) will lay the power cables, underground drainage pipes and water lines,” Manjunath said. Irwin Road is being widened into a 60-foot road with four lanes, comprising a median, a pavement and box drainage network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/irwin-road-unlikely-to-open-to-traffic-until-2021/articleshow/78959649.cms||Lawrence Milton
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 239 vehicles, 213 phones handed back to owners||LUDHIANA: As many as 239 vehicles and 213 mobile phones and Rs 6,74,750 were handed over to their owners as part of the ‘supurdari’ conducted on Friday. Now, the rest of the vehicles and mobile phones will be auctioned on November 3 by the Ludhiana police. According to the city police, the commodities handed over to their owners were worth Rs 4 crore. The cops also stated that the Ludhiana police would continue organising such camps and the next camp would be organised on November 21. On Friday morning, a camp was organised by the Ludhiana commissionerate at Government College for Girls with regard to the things confiscated by the police under different cases and these included vehicles, mobile phones, cash and other items. The police had also contacted their owners for the same. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said that on Friday as many as 239 vehicles, including 42 four-wheelers, 9 three-wheelers and 188 two-wheelers were handed over to their owners, besides 213 mobile phones. Further, the police also handed over Rs 6,74,750 seized in various operations to the persons concerned. Agarwal added that there were a total 2,200 such vehicles whose owners could not be traced or those who were unwilling to get their vehicles back. Therefore, auction of these vehicles will be organised on November 3 at. Similarly, owners of some mobile phones have not been traced and those will also be auctioned on the same day. The CP said, “We were planning this for quite some time to decongest the police stations by handing over the confiscated items to their owners. We will continue this drive in future as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/239-vehicles-213-phones-handed-back-to-owners/articleshow/78955769.cms||Payal Dhawan
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Civic bypolls: Development is on voters’ mind in Kota||KOTA: Despite being the stronghold of BJP, with minimum minority population and majority of people being educated, economically sound, and with influence of local MP and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the ongoing developmental works worth corers of rupees in Kota South seem to be giving a stronger edge to Congress against its nearest rival BJP in 80 wards of Kota South, where the polling campaign ended on Friday evening, ahead of polling on Sunday. Meanwhile, roads, narrow lanes in colonies of Kota South witnessed the election campaign at its peak with rallies, road shows, public addresses on the concluding day of poll campaign on Friday, however absence of senior influential leaders from both Congress and BJP clicked the local sentiments adversely. MP and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla holds influence in almost every household in Kota South as a large number of party workers, who had expressed anger and dissatisfaction over tickets, eventually came to terms with the party. However, some of them were expelled for six years. The developmental works in Kota South under the present Congress rule, are crushing the voters’ trust in BJP as hardly any significant development work was carried out in Kota during BJP municipal board and rule in state. Now BJP workers, in order to misguide the voters, are asking to compare developmental works in Kota North, represented by Shanti Dhariwal in state assembly and Kota South by BJP MLA Sandeep Sharma, who is close to Om Birla, and to see Om Birla, not the party candidate in the ward, said a party worker from Kota South. To attract minority voters, BJP fielded six Muslim candidates in Kota South while the Congress 11. However, the total number of Muslim candidates stands at 43, while independent candidates’ number at 118.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/development-is-on-voters-mind-in-kota/articleshow/78960757.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Cong MLA to complain to SEC about electoral ink||Jaipur: Congress leader and chief whip Mahesh Joshi on Thursday said he will register a complaint with the state election commission (SEC), raising questions over the quality of the electoral ink applied on the fingers of the voters during municipal elections in Jaipur. He claimed the ink got erased immediately after applying it to the fingers of some people. “The electoral ink which was applied to my finger got erased overnight. If the state election commission doesn’t take suo motu cognizance of the matter, we will raise the matter with them. It is a very serious matter,” said Joshi, whose polling booth falls under ward no 36 (Civil Line constituency). “I checked in other areas as well, the electoral ink was perfectly fine there. It seemed more like the ink used in rubber stamp,” he added. Meanwhile, state election commissioner P S Mehra on Friday reviewed preparedness for elections to be conducted in the remaining there municipal corporations on November 1. The corporations are Jaipur Greater, Jodhpur South and Kota South.The commissioner discussed in detail with officials about the security arrangements at the polling booths and counting centres and gave instructions with regard to maintaining Covid-19 protocol during the elections and counting of votes. Mehra also directed to take action against those candidates and their supporters who deface city walls and public property by pasting posters, banners and stickers on them. He said, if a candidate takes out a rally, action should be taken as per norms as election campaigning got over on Friday evening. Amid the pandemic in the state, 60.42 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the first phase of elections to three municipal corporations — Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North and Kota North — for the post of 250 councillors on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mla-to-complain-to-sec-about-electoral-ink/articleshow/78960763.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Need to create e-resources on a war footing across the country: Bobde||Nagpur: Expressing confidence that the e-resource centre in the city would pave the way for a movement and radiate across the country, Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde stressed on creating such facilities on a war footing.Speaking at the inauguration of India’s first such centre, ‘Nyay Kaushal’, at the Judicial Officers’ Training Institute (JOTI), the CJI said such centres were the need of the hour to avoid creeping in of inequality among those who lack or can’t afford online technology. Supreme Court judge Bhushan Gavai, Bombay High Court Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, administrative judge at Nagpur bench Ravi Deshpande, senior judge Sunil Shukre and computer committee chairman justice Nitin Jamadar shared the dais.Terming the occasion as “very significant” in the history of the Indian judiciary, justice Bobde said the e-resource centre was flagged off from Nagpur because the city has the monument Zero Mile, which is the centre of the country. “The centre is meant to be a step in the direction towards mitigating problems. It’s connected to the Supreme Court, all high courts and all subordinate courts, including tribunals in India. It’s for senior judges and lawyers and even for me. It’s amazing to imagine that a place like Katol is connected to the entire country. Now, one can file a case in any court in India from the city. There is no need to travel all the way to Delhi for filing a case in the SC,” said Bobde.Pointing out that the switch to the virtual platform had resulted in dependency on technology for accessing justice, Bobde said it also led to creation of obvious distinction between those who can afford it and those that can’t. This created unintended inequality. “I was informed by the chairman of the Bar Council of India (BCI) that some lawyers suffered financially to such an extent that they had to switch to selling vegetables. There were reports that some wanted to end their careers and some their lives. We must ensure that this technology is available everywhere,” said Bobde.On his favourite topic of using artificial intelligence (AI) in the judiciary, the CJI said a lot of progress was made in this field. “Now, we can find anything within a few seconds, right from case papers comprising 20,000 pages. Ask any question like what was the blood group of the deceased and accused and AI will help you find it in five seconds as it can read one million characters per second. However, AI’s use is possible only if cases are filed through e-filing. This (AI) is going to change the way litigation is filed and the functioning of the judiciary. We must ensure that AI is used for this purpose,” summed up Bobde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/need-to-create-e-resources-on-a-war-footing-across-the-country-bobde/articleshow/78968878.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 31, 2020||---||Bihar assembly elections: Tejashwi pinches NDA govt with rising prices||PATNA: Mahagathbandhan CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday turned his focus on the issue of skyrocketing onion and potato prices in his rallies, including in Hassanpur, where he campaigned for his elder brother Tej Pratap. Both Yadav scions are going to the hustings in the second phase, polling for which will be held on November 3. In a rustic jibe, reminiscent of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Tejashwi targeted BJP leaders who used to protest against price rise when in opposition. “They used to sing the song Mahangai dayen khaye jaat hai. The same dayen (witch) has become their bhojai (sister-in-law) now. Currently, onions have hit a century and potatoes have reached half a century,” he said. He also did not lose sight of his pet youth-related issues of unemployment, migration as he lashed out at chief minister Nitish Kumar in his 16 rallies at Samastipur, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Saran districts. He told the crowd that his father also often did 16 public meets in a day. Tejashwi in all his rallies said the agenda for the election was health, employment, education and irrigation. “Nitish Kumar has done nothing in these fields. Corruption has increased further at every level.” Sharing the stage with Tej Pratap at Hasanpur in Samastipur, he sought votes for his elder brother and promised to make Hasanpur a district, along with setting up a medical college, engineering college, a stadium and good network of roads. Famous for his rustic style, Tej Pratap blew a conch saying it was the beginning of the Mahabharat battle. He said his Arjun (Tejashwi) has come and both the brothers will defeat their enemies. Praising the work of his elder sibling when the latter was the state health minister and as an MLA from Mahua, Tejashwi said, “That time I was also holding the portfolio of road minister and Rs 900 crore road work was done in Mahua. Right now he was telling me of the dilapidated condition of roads in Hasanpur. If you give me a chance, I will fulfil all your demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/tejashwi-pinches-nda-govt-with-rising-prices/articleshow/78960814.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Centre to devise policies to boost exports in 5 sectors in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The central government has initiated the process of identifying five potential export sectors in Ludhiana after which the sector specific policies are likely to be introduced for businessmen and exports can get a boost. An interaction in this regard was organised between prominent city businessmen and officials from the ministry of commerce, government of India on in which deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, Varinder Sharma too was present, along with other senior officials from the state government. Giving more information, Sharma said, “The ministry of commerce, government of India, on Friday organised a programme with city businessmen in which senior officials from the ministry and the state government were also present. The agenda of the meeting was to take inputs from the city businessmen to help the central government in identifying core export sectors from Ludhiana. The meeting was held in a very cordial environment and leading businessmen from major sectors, including hosiery, hand tools, textiles and farm machinery, etc. were present in the meeting. During the meeting textile and garment manufacturers expressed great concern over the ongoing ‘rail roko andolan’ and said that they were being penalised by their buyers for not being able to supply goods on time.” Sharma also said, “The state government is doing its best to create a conducive environment for businesses in the state, especially Ludhiana. In due course of time Ludhiana industry will get huge benefits as a textile park at Koom Kalan will be set up by the state government. Already, we are in talks with the central government for this mega project. Besides this, several other projects too are going on in and around Ludhiana for the benefit of the industry.” According to Harish Dua, president of the Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, “On Friday, a meeting was called by the officials of Centre and state government for identifying the core manufacturing sectors in Ludhiana, which can be promoted by the government of India. During the meeting, we gave an in-depth analysis of the garment and hosiery sector and what measures can be taken by the Centre and state to uplift our sector, which currently is passing through a very bad phase due to coronavirus, lockdown and now the ‘rail roko andolan’.” Darshan Dawar, president of the Knitwear Club, said, “During the meeting, we were asked by the officials about how can the exports of garments be boosted from Ludhiana. We have given only one suggestion, which if implemented, can reap huge benefits for industrialists, state and central governments as well. We have suggested that as it is not possible for small manufacturers to go overseas to fetch orders, the governments should devise a way, wherein foreign buyers can come to Ludhiana factories for making purchases and the expenditure incurred in this process can be shared by governments and business associations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/centre-to-devise-policies-to-boost-exports-in-5-sectors/articleshow/78955789.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman sets husband on fire, arrested||VIJAYAWADA: In a murder attempt, the son of Machilipatnam market yard chairman Sheik Achaba was allegedly set ablaze by his wife at their residence on Thursday midnight. The victim was identified as Khadar Baasha (28). According to Inaguduru circle inspector Srinivas, the incident happened at around midnight when Baasha’s wife Nazia confronted him over his extramarital relationship with her sister. In a fit of rage, Nazia splashed kerosene on Baasha’s face and set him ablaze, causing severe burns. “Baasha and Nazia have four children. Recently, he entered into a relationship with his wife’s sister and there are claims that he was married to her as well,” Srinivas told TOI. Police said Baasha had moved in with his sister-in-law at a separate residence. Angered by the development, Nazia confronted Baasha several times but attempted to set him ablaze after learning he had allegedly entered into a second marriage. Though locals managed to douse the flames, police said Baasha had suffered 40% burns. The injured was taken to Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH). Nazia was arrested and a case under section 307 of IPC (attempt to murder) registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-sets-husband-on-fire-arrested/articleshow/78958034.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||41 Gujjar netas oppose Kirori Singh Bainsla’s move to launch stir, to meet Rajasthan government||JAIPUR: The Gujjar community broke into two factions as Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti convenor Kirori Singh Bainsla on Friday decided to launch a statewide agitation in support of MBC reservation and other demands from November 1. Opposing Bainsla’s stance to hold an agitation, a group of 41 Gujjar representatives on Friday decided to have a dialogue with the state government’s ministerial sub-committee on the pending issues of community.  Meanwhile, keeping the Gujjar agitation in mind, Jaipur divisional commissioner Somanth Mishra has issued an order to suspend internet services in Jaipur district’s Kotputli, Paota, Shahpura, Viratnagar and Jamwaramgarh areas from October 30 to November 1. Bainsla appealed to the community to reach Pilupura (Bayana), Bharatpur, in large numbers on Sunday. “We will launch an agitation on November 1. It’s okay if they (41 leaders) want to try their luck by having a dialogue with the government. We have tried our level best. Until Mr Gehlot (CM Ashok Gehlot) fulfils are demands, we will continue to sit on the tracks. There is zero trust factor,” said Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla. CM Ashok Gehlot on Friday reviewed the law and order situation in the state and Bharatpur in view of Gujjar agitation. He spoke with DGP (additional charge) M L Lather and other police officials to take stock of the situation. State government has also sought Central forces to maintain law and order during the agitation. Citing high court’s order and Rajasthan epidemics diseases act, the state government said the agitation was in violation of this. Around 25 RAS officers have been assigned duties in Bharatpur, Dholpur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur and Bundi. Internet was suspended in the Gujjar-dominated areas in Bharatpur at 12 midnight on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/41-gujjar-netas-oppose-bainslas-move-to-launch-stir-to-meet-govt/articleshow/78960809.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Smart city buses to roll out in Aurangabad from November 5||AURANGABAD: The smart city buses are set to roll out on the streets in phases from November 5 after a gap of seven months. Prashant Bhusari, chief operations manager of the smart city bus division, said, “In the first phase, 30 buses will ply on nine routes. We have also introduced four new routes which will ferry passengers to areas outside the city and will be incorporated based on the response received in phase 1.” The buses will run from Cidco to railway station via TV Centre, Aurangapura to Waluj, Aurangapura to Shivajinagar, Cidco to Jogeshwari, Chikalthana to Ranjangaon, Central bus stand (CBS) to Phulambri, Bidkin, Karmad and Verul in the first phase. While 26 more buses will be introduced in the second phase, 28 buses have been planned for the third phase. The vehicle tracking application has been launched through which passengers can get access to the entire time table, the location of the smart city buses and their estimated time of arrival at each bus stop. The e-ticketing system will ensure fast, contactless and hassle free ticketing and the smart travel cards will allow passengers to avail various concessions. Smart city CEO Astik Kumar Pandey and deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam said that starting from November 5, citizens should expect services on new routes covering the industrial corridors of Aurangabad with optimal frequency (Shendra to Ellora; Bidkin to Phulambri).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/smart-city-buses-to-roll-out-in-aurangabad-from-nov-5/articleshow/78960801.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar assembly elections: Tejashwi pinches NDA govt with rising prices||PATNA: Mahagathbandhan CM candidate Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday turned his focus on the issue of skyrocketing onion and potato prices in his rallies, including in Hassanpur, where he campaigned for his elder brother Tej Pratap. Both Yadav scions are going to the hustings in the second phase, polling for which will be held on November 3. In a rustic jibe, reminiscent of his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Tejashwi targeted BJP leaders who used to protest against price rise when in opposition. “They used to sing the song Mahangai dayen khaye jaat hai. The same dayen (witch) has become their bhojai (sister-in-law) now. Currently, onions have hit a century and potatoes have reached half a century,” he said. He also did not lose sight of his pet youth-related issues of unemployment, migration as he lashed out at chief minister Nitish Kumar in his 16 rallies at Samastipur, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Saran districts. He told the crowd that his father also often did 16 public meets in a day. Tejashwi in all his rallies said the agenda for the election was health, employment, education and irrigation. “Nitish Kumar has done nothing in these fields. Corruption has increased further at every level.” Sharing the stage with Tej Pratap at Hasanpur in Samastipur, he sought votes for his elder brother and promised to make Hasanpur a district, along with setting up a medical college, engineering college, a stadium and good network of roads. Famous for his rustic style, Tej Pratap blew a conch saying it was the beginning of the Mahabharat battle. He said his Arjun (Tejashwi) has come and both the brothers will defeat their enemies. Praising the work of his elder sibling when the latter was the state health minister and as an MLA from Mahua, Tejashwi said, “That time I was also holding the portfolio of road minister and Rs 900 crore road work was done in Mahua. Right now he was telling me of the dilapidated condition of roads in Hasanpur. If you give me a chance, I will fulfil all your demands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-pinches-nda-govt-with-rising-prices/articleshow/78963055.cms||Sheezan Nezami
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Savadu soil: Madras HC seeks details of licences given||MADURAI: The Madras high court has sought a response from the state government on the number of licences granted for quarrying savadu soil in patta land parcels at R S Mangalam locality in Ramanathapuram district in the past five years. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Balamurugan, challenging the order of the district collector who had granted permission to a man to remove excess sand while levelling his agricultural land for the purpose of doing agriculture. The petitioner stated that under the guise of removing excess sand from his patta land, the man had also illegally excavated sand from the Kottaikarai river. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi had appointed P Ganapathi Subramanian as advocate commissioner to ascertain the facts. The court also directed him to carry out an inspection and submit a report on the following aspects: Whether sand is being taken away by the man under the guise of quarrying the excess sand from his patta land and nature of the sand which is being excavated. Details were also sought on the depth of the land due to excavation of sand, whether the man under the guise of taking excess sand, is taking river sand from the Kottakarai river and the distance between the Kottaikarai river and the land where sand is excavated. The judges said that with regard to the nature of the sand, the advocate commissioner shall take the sample of the sand/soil, which is being quarried from the land and get it analysed by a qualified person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/savadu-soil-hc-seeks-details-of-licences-given/articleshow/78961447.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Students from outside Karnataka wary as colleges set to reopen campuses||BENGALURU: Students from outside Karnataka are on the edge as college managements are yet to inform them if they have to attend regular classes once campuses reopen on November 17. The state government had announced regular classes can resume from November 17, although colleges have to offer both online and regular classes. Students are free to choose their mode of learning. However, there’s still no clarity on how colleges plan to implement these learning modes and whether all students will have to be present on campus. This has left students in a quandary. “The prices of train and airline tickets are high and many of us cannot afford it,” said a student from Manipur. “We are afraid to pre-book tickets and plan travel because nothing is certain at this point. The last time around, our college issued a notice saying they would reopen by September and a lot of my friends booked tickets only to cancel them later.” Travel is only a small part of the problem. Students who stay as paying guests have to find accommodation and pay security deposits. “Many of us vacated our old PGs since they asked us to pay rent to keep our belongings there. We all went back home when campuses shut in March. Now, we have to either approach them again or find a new place. Many of them are unwilling to wait and they want us to pay a security deposit right away,” said a student from the north east. Students too are wary of staying in PGs due to safety concerns. “In college hostels, the management takes responsibility for safety precautions, but there are no such guarantees in PGs. I don’t have a guardian in Bengaluru. If I fall ill, I will have to be admitted in hospital and I will not have any support,” said a mass communication student, who is currently in Patna, his hometown. Students also fear their stay in the city will be far more expensive this time. “Before we could manage with food from the streets and other cheap alternatives, but now that is not possible as we have to look at hygiene. I’m worried the cost of living will go up and my parents will not be able to afford it,” said a third semester student who is also awaiting instructions from the college. The students hope they will get the option of blended learning that has been promised by the government.  Meanwhile, students from St Joseph’s College are in a dilemma as the management has announced regular exams from November 17. “They conducted final year exams online and the government has instructed colleges to have a blend of online and offline modes of learning, so the option of only offline exams is unfair. It has inconvenienced many students,” said a student. However, college authorities say they have given students the option of appearing for exams as fresh candidates at a later time if they do not want to sit for exams now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/non-karnataka-students-wary-as-colleges-set-to-reopen-campuses/articleshow/78959361.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Three killed in road accident in Nagaur||Jaipur: Three persons were killed and one other injured in a road accident in Nagaur on Thursday late night when their vehicle collided with a pickup truck. The trio died on the spot while the injured is undergoing treatment. The bodies were handed over to the families after postmortem on Friday. The deceased were identified as Gautam Nayak (35), Sagir Khan (40) and Laxman Singh (45). They all hailed from Nagaur. The accident happened around midnight on Thursday. Ganesh Ram, SHO, Rol police station said, “The pickup vehicle was crossing the road after getting out from an eatery, when the car in which the victims were travelling hit the back potion of the pickup. Due to this, the car driver lost control and collided with a parked truck.” The officials claimed that the car was completely destroyed due to which three persons died on the spot. “When we were informed about the accident, we immediately reached the spot and started the rescue operation. It was very difficult to separate the two vehicles and fortunately we were able to rescue one person,” added the official. The injured person is undergoing treatment and is said to be in a stable condition. Elaborating on the cause of accident, the SHO said, “Firstly, the victims’ car was at a high speed probably as the roads are empty at that time because of which the driver could not apply brakes in time. Also the pickup vehicle driver also did not check the road before crossing it. The accident happened largely due to overspeeding and not paying attention on the road.” With winters approaching, cases of accidents are likely to rise in state, though officials claimed that they were taking necessary measures to prevent it. Last week four persons were killed after the driver of the SUV in which they were travelling lost control and hit a roadside tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-killed-in-road-accident-in-nagaur/articleshow/78960806.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Generic drugs to be sold at low prices||Hyderabad: The state health department will sell branded generic medicines labelled as ‘Telangana Government Supply’ in specific state-owned pharmacies at government hospitals at low prices. The Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC) supplies around 600 different types of medicines to all government hospitals at a cost of Rs 200 crore. Of these, around 300 medicines are for use during emergencies. As the prices of these drugs are finalised through global tenders, the rates are high. Though there are 168 pharma companies in the city, only 10 companies supply the drugs to TSMSIDC. Sources said that the state government is planning to hold a meeting with the pharma companies and producers of generic medicines. They said that the reason behind several firms not selling drugs to government agencies are stringent rules and the fear of being blacklisted. The idea behind the state’s move is to reduce the margins kept by retailers and other agencies. “If we begin the supply at the generic drug stores, the overhead cost of at least 30% drugs will be cut when they are sold to public,” MD, TSMSIDC, Chandrasekhar Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/generic-drugs-to-be-sold-at-low-prices/articleshow/78959303.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||T steps up mask campaign with Raja & Rani tag line||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday cautioned people to wear masks in public places and at work to help contain the spread of Covid-19, even as the state reported 1,531 new positive cases and six deaths. “We are running the campaign of mask Raja and mask Rani, meaning those who wear masks are kings and queens, while other people are vulnerable to the infection,” Dr Srinivasa Rao, director of the health department, said. “The state did well in checking the number of cases after Vinayak Chaturthi, and now the same should be continued till the festive season ends. People have to wear masks to save themselves and others,” he added. Most people have stopped using masks outside and health experts say this could lead to a huge spike in cases. The overall novel coronavirus caseload rose to 2, 37,187, while the overall toll stood at 1,330 with the new deaths. So far, 2,17, 401 people have recovered from the virus and the Covid- 19 details released by the health department showed that another 1,048 people have recovered in the last 24 hours. The state has 18, 456 active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals. Telangana now has a recovery rate of about 92 per cent, against the national recovery rate of 91 per cent. Apart from GHMC, which reported 293 cases, Medchal-Malkajgiri (120) and Rangareddy (114) have cases above 100.Bhadradri-Kothagudem (96) and three districts of Narayanpet (3), Asifabad (9) and Jogulamba Gadwal (6) have cases below 10.A total of 42, 790 samples were tested, taking the total number of tested samples to 4240748. The results of 1,037 samples are awaited. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stands at 0.56 per cent, much better than the national CFR of 1.5 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-steps-up-mask-campaign-with-raja-rani-tag-line/articleshow/78959341.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Midday meal rice found damaged at govt schools||Hyderabad: Several quintals of food grains meant for cooking midday meals for government school students in various districts damaged owing to lack of proper storage facilities. While district officials are clueless on the extent of the damage, senior authorities have sought a report and suggested additional measures to preserve the rice. Teachers, who started going to schools since September after online classes started for the new academic year 2020-21, detected that the food grains were damaged either partially or fully in some of the schools. The schools were closed abruptly in March this year due to Covid-19 lockdown even as the previous supply of food grains had already been sent to nearly 30,000 schools in the state. For example, in Medak district, 163 quintals of rice was stocked up to March. Headmasters who examined the rice found that 114 quintals was in good condition and the rest of the 49 quintals had either got fully or partially damaged because of insects. “From the storage room, we have brought the rice and kept them in other classrooms and on the benches after getting it cleaned,” DEO Ramesh Kumar told TOI. Adilabad DEO Ravinder Reddy said the school headmasters used preservatives like neem in the rice. “We put in safeguards, but there could still be a small percentage of rice which could have got damaged,” he said. As many 1.91 lakh students in 27,900 schools – government, aided, local bodies and other centres — are eligible for the midday meals. When contacted, additional director in the school education department A Satyanarayana Reddy said all the districts had been alerted to check the extent of damage and report back. “We have also asked them to take additional measures to preserve the rice,” he told TOI. He explained that only the supplies that were meant for the month of March had been delivered and since the schools were closed midway due to the pandemic, only food grains meant for consumption for the rest of the month had remained. “We have not got the final figures but only a small percentage of the food grains could have suffered damage,” he said. Schools are also beset with storage problems. The supplies, based on the number of students in each school, are made by the district supply officer (DSO) every month. There were no supplies since April because of the lockdown. Some DEOs reportedly told the DSOs that the rice should be taken away and stored by them until the next time it is delivered to them. But, the DSOs told the schools to store the stocks themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/midday-meal-rice-found-damaged-at-govt-schools/articleshow/78959362.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Bathroom built with recycled plastic bottles in Tuticorin||Tuticorin: The Tuticorin Corporation has built a bathroom with 1,700 recycled plastic water bottles for its sanitary workers at Perumalpuram micro compost centre in the city. The bottles were collected from three Covid-19 quarantine centres.“Bottles of uniform shape and size were segregated from the pile of empty bottles. They were properly washed and disinfected before we filled them with sand from seashore to use them for constructing a bathroom,” corporation commissioner V P Jayaseelan said.Five sanitary workers filled the bottles with sand and closed the lids with adhesives to avoid spilling. Construction of the structure began three weeks ago and was completed with the help of only two workers.“The cost involved is also less than half of what it would have cost to build the same with bricks,” sanitary officer for corporation’s west zone G Stalin Packianathan said.A brick structure would have cost Rs 1 lakh but the bottle bathroom has cost only around Rs 40,000. The structure awaits painting and flooring work before it can be opened for use. The bathroom with heater will be used by the workers to freshen up before returning home after work.Calling it a pilot project, corporation officials said they would check for its stability with experts and take a call on establishing more such structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bathroom-built-with-recycled-plastic-bottles-in-tuticorin/articleshow/78961450.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Railways dismisses rumours on start of some goods trains||LUDHIANA: Dismissing the rumours that some goods trains might be resumed to and fro from Punjab, the railways on Thursday clarified that there is no such plan as of now to start operations. The development has increased the fear among businessmen, who have been pleading before farmer organisations and the government to end the ‘rail roko andolan’ and resume train service at the earliest. In the latest development, Ludhiana industrialists have issued a warning to both state and central governments that if the train operations do not start by next week, then about 90% of factories will have to shut down operations completely in Ludhiana alone due to shortage of raw material. Meanwhile, additional divisional railway manager (ADRM), Ferozepur, Sukhwinder Singh said, “Same status quo on running of trains on Friday. We don’t have any orders for running of trains, but we are ready for it as soon as the issue is sorted out.” Giving more information, Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), said, “Farmers have been protesting against the farm laws and have blocked the rail tracks at several spots, thereby leading to a complete halt of inbound and outbound trains in Punjab. This has led to disruptions in the the supply chain and industry has been hit the most as due to non-operation of goods and container trains, there has been no supply of raw material into Punjab from India and abroad and the same applies for supply of finished products to other parts of the country and world.” Kular added that, “The biggest jolt to our industry has been the severe shortage of raw material, especially steel, in Punjab. The major plants manufacturing secondary form of steel like Aarti Steels, Avon Steels, Hero Steels, Avon Ispat & Power, which are based in Ludhiana, have closed operations as there is no raw material with them due to non-operation of trains. If this situation continues it will result in closure of 90% units in Ludhiana which are dependant on these manufacturers for supplies. It is our request to the government that it should immediately resolve the dispute with the farmers, so that normalcy could be restored.” According to Baldev Singh Amar, leading agriculture and engineering product manufacturer, “Non-movement of trains has affected the imports and exports very badly as there are piles of containers stuck up at ports and total import-export has come to a standstill, causing huge losses to trade and industry. The government should at least arrange the movement of trains, so that the stuck-up goods may reach destinations. There are containers loaded with both raw material and finished goods, which is causing two-way problem as we are neither getting raw material for production, nor we are able to supply our finished products.” According to Rajiv Jain, bicycle parts manufacturer, “After demonetization, GST and lockdown, rail roko is the biggest problem being faced by us. Break in the supply chain for raw material, especially steel, is affecting Ludhiana’s industry very badly. Both Centre and the state governments should remember that if this crisis of ‘rail roko andolan’ is not resolved, not only will factories shut down, but the revenue of governments will take a record hit. Therefore, it’s in best interest of the state and country and economy to end this problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-dismisses-rumours-on-start-of-some-goods-trains/articleshow/78955824.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||4 held, 46 red sanders logs seized in Andhra's Chittoor district||TIRUPATI: Red sanders anti-smuggling task force arrested four Tamil Nadu-based woodcutters and seized 46 red sanders logs during a combing operation inside the Seshachalam forests near Talakona in Chittoor district on Friday. Two teams of task force personnel undertook combing operations near Nerabailu and Talakona on Friday morning. The teams spotted a group of about 50 people carrying red sanders logs. They tried to abandon the logs and abscond but the cops arrested four woodcutters identified as Venkata Raman (32), Settu Kumaran (20), Babu Kalai Arasan (26) and Annamalai Ramasamy (33).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4-held-46-red-sanders-logs-seized/articleshow/78958078.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||Man duped of Rs 2.3L by online fraudsters||Aurangabad: A 53-year-old teacher from Jalna district was cheated of Rs 2.3 lakh in September and October by conmen who who dupe gullible people by creating dummy websites. An offence in this regard was registered with the Taluka police station. Police have arrested five suspects identified as Ganeshkumar Kewat (24), Umesh Gaur (23), Shrikant Meena (22), Mansingh Gujar (21) and Honey Totla (23), all of them hailing Mandsaur and Jawad districts of Madhya Pradesh. Inspector Sanjay Lohkare said that the police have successfully froze their bank accounts containing Rs 5 lakh, two personal computers, one laptop, couple of wi-fi routers, a dozen mobile phones, 15 debit cards, cheque books of eight different banks, 22 used mobile numbers and a car used by the suspects. Assistant inspector Sambhaji Wadate said that the suspects floated some websites including www.moneygrowthsolution.com and www.redinvestore.com. Through these websites, they would contact people claiming to be representatives of a private investment firm. According to police, the suspects would claim of giving returns of up to Rs 40,000 per month on investment of Rs 2.50 lakh. Falling prey to the trap, the teacher was cheated of his money, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-duped-of-rs-2-3l-by-online-fraudsters/articleshow/78960844.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Awareness meet on meter installation||Guntur: In a proactive move to win over farmers, officials of Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) have started holding awareness meetings to clear apprehensions about the installation of meters to agriculture pump sets. Special teams comprising senior officials assured farmers that free power supply will continue even after installation of meters. CPDCL chairman and managing director (CMD) J Padma Janardhan Reddy visited some agriculture fields in Tenali division on Friday and interacted with farmers. Reddy explained to farmers the advantages of installing meters for agriculture pump sets and said the government would directly pay the bill amount to farmers under YSR Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme for power supply. The same amount would be transferred to the respective discom units which would not result in any burden to farmers, Reddy said. “This is a pro-farmer government and there is no truth in the speculation that meters are being proposed only to remove free power supply. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has readied plans to continue free power for agriculture sector for next 30 years,” he said. Reddy added installation of meters would help discoms assess the load in a particular area and provide new transformers. The meters will also give accurate information about consumption and help take measures to provide quality supply. Feeders trip frequently in the absence of technical information, Reddy said, resulting in disruption in power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/awareness-meet-on-meter-installation/articleshow/78958061.cms||Samdani MN
October 31, 2020||Aurangabad||HC cancels Latur dy mayor’s membership to civic panel||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has cancelled the standing committee membership of deputy mayor of Latur municipal Corporation (LMC) Chandrakant Birajdar.Birajdar was elected as a corporator from the BJP and appointed a member of the standing committee in April, 2019. He resigned from the post of member of the standing committee on May 28, 2019, citing his inability to devote time to the working of the civic panel. During the elections for the LMC’s mayor post in November 2019, Birajdar voted against the party whip issued by the BJP and voted in favour of the Congress candidate, who won and went on to become the current mayor of Latur. Subsequently, Birajdar was elected deputy mayor of LMC. After the elections, Birajdar addressed a letter to the corporation on December 11, 2019, claiming that his resignation from the standing committee had not been formally acted upon and therefore, he still was a member of the standing committee. On January 20, the LMC passed a resolution stating that Birajdar’s membership to the standing committee was still valid. Deepak Mathpati, who happened to be the chairman of the standing committee, approached the high court through lawyer Amit Yadkikar challenging Birajdar’s membership. Yadkikar said that the high court has observed that the resignation tendered by Birajdar was undisputed and duly acted upon by all the parties and that he ceased to be a member of the standing committee with effect from the date of his resignation i.e. May 28, 2019. Calling the resolution passed by the LMC confirming Birajdar’s membership to the standing committee as “unwarranted”, the division bench comprising Justices S V Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni stated that “the general body, in passing the resolution dated January 20, 2020, has arrogated unto itself the power not bestowed by the statute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-cancels-latur-dy-mayors-membership-to-civic-panel/articleshow/78960835.cms||Mohammed Akhef
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Madurai corpn’s translocated trees growing well in Theni||Madurai: In all, 484 of the 500 trees, which were translocated by Madurai corporation at Pannaipatti water treatment plant premises in Theni district a year ago, are growing well. The trees were translocated to a land adjacent to the prior location in the same premises as corporation planned to construct an additional water treatment plant on the land.Officials from the corporation said that the civic body owns 23 acres of land in Pannaipatti village in Theni district. There are two water treatment plants for Vaigai drinking water schemes package I and II in 12 acre land. In the remaining 11 acres of land, trees such as mango, jamun, sapodilla, guava, neem, teak and gooseberry were planted 18 years ago.As the corporation was required to build another drinking water treatment plant at a cost of for Rs 1,295 crore last year, which involves drawing of an additional 125 MLD of water from Mullaperiyar dam, around 500 trees in 5 acres of land were supposed to be cut. However, the corporation commissioner S Visakan had directed the officials to translocate them instead.“We roped in experienced people and they were shifted after following all due process like pruning and lifting the trees without cutting its crucial roots,” said an official.Total 180 mango trees, 116 sapodilla, 82 gooseberry, 59 jamun, 31 neem, 11 guava and five teak trees sprung back to life. The official added that as per the instruction from the commissioner, trees are not cut down for development projects. The trees, which were translocated at Anna Maaligai building for a road project and Vellaikkal dumping yard, have also sprung back to life, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-corpns-translocated-trees-growing-well-in-theni/articleshow/78961451.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PM Narendra Modi recalls bonding with Keshubhai Patel, Kanodia brothers||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday visited the house of chief minister Keshubhai Patel and offered his condolences to the family members of the departed leader.  Keshubhai, who was the state's first BJP president, died at the age of 92, on October 29.  After the PM’s visit, Keshubhai’s daughter Sonal Desai said, “Narendrabhai remembered his long association with my father. He is like an elderly family member. When my father was unwell, he regularly called up and inquired about his health. It encourages us that he personally visited our home amid his busy schedule to share our grief. Even when my father got infected with coronavirus, he used to call and ask about his health.” Later, the PM also visited the family of Kanodia brothers, the Gujarati singing superstar brothers, who passed away in a span of just three days this week. Naresh Kanodia’s son Hitu Kanodia said, “We are overwhelmed by the PM’s concern for our family. He visited our house and offered his condolences. The PM said that both brothers have become immortal in the memories of Gujaratis. This is very true. My father and uncle had a special bonding with the PM and a high regard for him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/modi-recalls-bonding-with-keshubhai-kanodia-brothers/articleshow/78960841.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Plea in Madras HC to set up siddha dispensaries in temples in state||MADURAI: The Madras high court has sought response from the state government in a plea which sought to establish siddha dispensaries at temples in the state. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the response while hearing a petition filed by a siddha practitioner Jeyavenkatesh who is the managing trustee of Indian Medicine Welfare Trust based at Madurai. The petitioner said that the state government had passed a GO dated February 10, 1970 for establishing siddha dispensaries and appointing doctors at the temples which have an annual income of Rs 1 lakh. As per information obtained through RTI, he found out that pursuant to the GO, siddha practitioners were appointed at six temples and no steps were taken to make further appointments at other temples in the state. Jeyavenkatesh said the state government had passed the GO by taking into consideration the importance of the siddha medicine. Though he submitted a representation to the authorities concerned, no steps were taken, so he moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-set-up-siddha-dispensaries-in-temples-in-state/articleshow/78961448.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Pandemic fails to dampen Thevar jayanthi festivities||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy CM O Panneerselvam, DMK president M K Stalin, ministers and the general public paid tributes to Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar at the Goripalayam junction on Friday as part of the Thevar Jayanthi celebrations. The pandemic did not seem to have had any impact on the annual celebration as the entire region was decorated and thronged by crowds. Folk artists, dancers and musicians were in action as leaders of political parties vied with each other to pay their respects. A small event on a red carpet in which the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues participated was held at the pedestal of the statue, before Palaniswami went up and garlanded the statue. Stalin came next with his functionaries and paid tributes. Both of them later proceeded to Thevar’s native village Pasumpon where they offered floral tributes.AMMK deputy general secretary T T V Dhinakaran, BJP state president L Murugan, Congress members, leaders of community organisations and public visited the memorial amid tight security. About 8,000 police personnel were deployed in the three-tier security arrangement. MDMK leader Vaiko, who is regular to the memorial and has visited it 44 times for the Thevar Jayanthi was conspicuously absent, which was attributed to his health conditions.Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar is regarded as a deity by the Mukulathor community, a cluster community comprising kallar, maravar and agamudaiyars. Political parties vie to pay tributes to him as the community members form a majority in southern Tamil Nadu.Thevar, who was instrumental in bringing about many social reforms, was a socialist and the national party chairman of All India Forward Bloc (AIFB) formed by Nethaji Subash Chandra Bose. It was the Criminal Tribes Act (CTA), enacted by the British in 1920 against the Mukulathor community, which saw Thevar mobilising the people and launching protests that became a major milestone in his career. He was instrumental in getting the act repealed after continuous efforts in 1946.People of the Mukulathor community still make offerings, as is done for deities in temples, to the statue of Thevar installed at the busy Goripalayam junction in Madurai, among other places on his jayanthi and gurupooja celebrations. They cook pongal in the middle of the road and make offerings — abhishekams with milk is a common sight.It was late chief minister M Karunanidhi who installed the larger-than-life statue at Goripalayam junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pandemic-fails-to-dampen-thevar-jayanthi-festivities/articleshow/78961453.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||As cases fall, disinfection business takes a beating in Hubballi-Dharwad||HUBBALLI: While the pandemic severely impacted many services, it also opened up new opportunities for lesser-known businesses. One of them is the disinfecting service which registered brisk business when the infection was its peak. But, now it’s waning as people are no longer that keen on disinfecting their houses or offices. One reason is that lives returning to normalcy in the unlock phase, most people are not following standard operating procedures to curb the spread of the coronavirus. In fact, some are now considering it just like any other flu. Nagesh Pawar, a science graduate who entered the disinfecting business, said he hoped for good returns. Early on, he got many clients, especially after the government allowed Covid-infected patients to remain in home isolation. He spread the word about the business by posting pamphlets in many areas. “My workers used to earn a good income even though PPE kits were costly. As days went by, the business started nose-diving. Now, we’re not getting any orders. Very few people ask for the service. I have a few customers like banks, offices and gyms who ask for regular disinfection,” he said. Another disinfection service provider in Shreya Nagar, who was around even before the pandemic struck, said earlier there was less demand for disinfection and they would take up other jobs like maintaining gardens, cleaning water tanks and pest control. “In April, we started getting more orders for disinfection. But, the demand is slowly dwindling. Some amateurs entered the business but did not survive,” said the proprietor on condition of anonymity. The disinfectant charges range from Rs 4,600 for a 2BHK house if the inmates test positive and Rs 3,600 otherwise, said a service provider. Many said this business is not profitable any more and exploring other opportunities for survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/as-cases-fall-disinfection-business-takes-a-beating-in-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/78959396.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||Amethi village head’s hubby dies of burns||LUCKNOW: The husband of a Dalit village pradhan in Amethi suffered severe burns and died on way to hospital late Thursday in Bandoiya village under Munshiganj police station. In his dying declaration, the victim, Arjun Kori, accused his aides-turned-rivals of kidnapping him, dousing him with inflammables and setting him ablaze. Three men and a minor were arrested and efforts are underway to nab others, said police. Amethi MP Smriti Irani expressed shock over the incident and said the guilty will be brought to justice. Kori’s wife and Bandoiya village pradhan, Chhotka, stated in her FIR that around 6 pm on Thursday, Arjun went to buy vegetables and then did not return home. She informed the inspector of Munshiganj police station that her husband was missing. Around 11.30 pm, police asked her to visit Bhetua community health centre, where he was being treated for burns. In his dying declaration before his wife, doctor and other officials, Kori stated Rajesh Mishra, Krishna Tiwari, Ashutosh, Ravishankar, Santosh Kumar Tiwari abducted him and pressurized him to cough up money and later torched him. After the accused fled, villagers informed UP-112 and Kori was rushed to a local health centre. Superintendent of police, Amethi, Dinesh Singh told TOI that Kori died while being taken to Lucknow Trauma Centre. Three accused, including a minor named by the victim have been arrested. Two others not associated with the crime have also been named and they would be questioned, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amethi-village-heads-hubby-dies-of-burns/articleshow/78961457.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Panchayat prez wins 84-day Covid battle in MCH||Madurai: When M Manikandan stepped out of the Sivaganga medical college hospital on Thursday, on the 84th day of his admission to treat Covid-19, it was not just he who had everything to be proud of, but the doctors and nurses too. The 57-year-old president of Nallukottai panchayat in Sivaganga union was admitted to the hospital on August 6 with 80% of lung capacity lost, making the doctors circumspect about his chances of survival.MCH dean Dr A Rethinavel told TOI that treating Manikandan proved to be a challenge as his condition was serious. A team of doctors, under the guidance of the dean, including Dr Sheela, Dr Beermohamed, Dr Sundaram, Dr Renuka, and Dr Vairavarajan among others, and a team of nurses monitored him constantly.They kept him on continuous positive airway pressure therapy (CPAP) for 20 days and then treated him with high flow nasal oxygen therapy for another 40 days, when 60 litres of oxygen was pumped in every minute to maintain his vital organs. Subsequently, he was given oxygen to help him breath, and his condition improved gradually.Dr Rethinavel said they had seen about 60 to 80 patients with 80% lung involvement due to Covid-19 in their hospital in the last six months, and all except Manikandan had succumbed. ``The level of infection resulted in only 20% of his lungs having the capacity to draw in oxygen and circulate it, and there were times when we thought we had lost him,’’ he said.Speaking to reporters, Manikandan said he is grateful to the doctors, nurses, sweepers and even the security guards. ``I am including all of them, because, I have interacted with all of them during my long stay. I was always confident that I could recover only in the government hospital. I have been told that my treatment cost would have exceeded Rs 45 lakh had I got admitted to a private hospital, where my chances of revival also may have been low,’’ he said. Manikandan is now able to walk short distances normally, and has returned to his normal diet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/panchayat-prez-wins-84-day-covid-battle-in-mch/articleshow/78961455.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Two drown in Noyyal river||Coimbatore: Two people drowned in the Noyyal near the Chithirai Chavadi check dam on Friday. The deceased were identified as N Tamilselvan, 31, and his friend B Prabhakaran, 29, from Indira Nagar at Pappanaickenpudur here. Tamilselvan was working in a private hospital at Ramanathapuram in the city and Prabhakaran was working in a private firm. “The duo had reached the dam on a scooter at 5.45pm to celebrate Tamilselvan's birthday. They parked the scooter near the river bund and took photographs. Tamilselvan, who was standing on the bund while posing for photographs, fell into the water. Prabhakaran jumped into the water to save his friend. Both of them drowned,” a police officer said. Locals informed the Thondamuthur police station. Fire and rescue services personnel rushed to the spot and launched a search. Firemen retrieved the bodies from the river with the help of locals. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-drown-in-noyyal-river/articleshow/78960861.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||CISF SI commits suicide in Rajasthan's Behror||JAIPUR: A sub-inspector committed suicide at CISF centre in Behror on Friday morning by hanging himself. The deceased was identified as 45-year-old Dalbir Singh. Police found no suicide note. Behror SHO Vinod Sankhla said, “The deceased had returned from leave two weeks ago and according to the guidelines, he was quarantined. Friday was supposed to be the last day of quarantine, but instead he killed himself.” The reason behind the suicide is yet to be determined and the official added, “Preliminary investigation suggest that possibly the victim was under stress due to some family matter. However, we found no suicide note because of which it is difficult to ascertain the reason behind the SI taking his own life.” The SI hailed from Delhi and his family reached Behror by afternoon. The deceased’s body was handed over to them after post-mortem. “He had not shared anything with his colleagues and the night before his death, he had eaten dinner properly. When he did not show up for breakfast, his room was checked and he was found hanging,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cisf-si-commits-suicide-in-behror/articleshow/78960847.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Mine worker killed in roof collapse||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old Singareni Collieries mine worker died in a mishap in Godavarikhani when the roof of a coal mine collapsed while he was at work. The body of the deceased, Rapolu Naveen Kumar, was retrieved on Friday after an operation that was carried out through the night. Naveen had reported for the first shift after Dasara vacation and the mishap happened just a couple of hours before the shift was to end on Thursday. Two other workers managed to come out safely but a slab, said to be the roof of a coal mine, fell on Naveen. The rescue team undertook operations with workers hoping that they would find Naveen safe but they could only retrieve his body. The workers’ associations demanded that the management pay Rs 1 crore compensation to Naveen’s family. According to official sources, the mishap took place at 3.20 pm at the Vakilpally mine. The accident occurred while coal was being loaded at the 41D/66 L junction point. “The entire roof collapsed.When there appeared to be no way out of the situation, I noticed that there was a small hole and I instantly decided that I should use it if that could help me escape from the spot,” Kalaveni Sathish, one of the workers who had managed to escape, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mine-worker-killed-in-roof-collapse/articleshow/78959383.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Crane hits Pamban rly bridge, train short-terminated||Ramanathapuram: A crane used for the construction of the new Pamban railway bridge hit the century-old existing railway bridge that connects Mandapam with Rameswaram, on Thursday night. This resulted in the short termination of the Chennai to Rameswaram special express train at Mandapam on Friday.Two floating cranes fitted to vessels engaged in the construction of the new bridge were anchored close to the Pamban railway bridge. Heavy winds and rough sea drifted the float and a crane towards the bridge. The crane hit the span close to the two leaves that are opened to give way to ships.The other crane too was drifted close to the bridge. The two cranes were towed away from the Pamban bridge, and the damage was inspected.Railway officials said the damage was not major but the train, which was supposed to reach Rameswaram at 4.25am, was short-terminated at Mandapam at 3.30am. Passengers heading to Rameswaram were transported in buses. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crane-hits-pamban-rly-bridge-train-short-terminated/articleshow/78961459.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Carpenter arrested for murder attempt on lover||HYDERABAD: The Yellandu police arrested a 23-year-old carpenter for attempting to kill his 17-year-old lover when the latter insisted on marriage. Police nabbed the accused while he was trying to flee from the crime spot. The victim was shifted to Khammam hospital and her condition is said to be stable. The accused, Sandeep, from Satyanarayanapuram in Yellandu town, has been in a relationship with the teen, who works at a photo studio, for the past one year. The girl, who lives with her grandmother in Yellandu, was urging Sandeep to marry her. “Sandeep is not interested in marrying her. On Thursday night, Sandeep called her to an isolated area near the rivulet in Satyanarayanapuram. An argument broke out between the two and in a fit of rage, Sandeep stabbed the girl multiple times and injured her throat, ribs and hands,” Yellandu CI B Ramesh said. After the assault, Sandeep abandoned the victim and began running towards his house. However, a police patrolling team spotted him and stopped him. “Our team saw his blood-stained hands and we immediately searched the area and located the injured girl. She was rushed to a hospital in Khammam. Her condition is stable,” the inspector said. A case was registered against the accused under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and under POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/carpenter-arrested-for-murder-attempt-on-lover/articleshow/78959382.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra govt confident of getting environmental clearance for Rayalaseema project||AMARAVATI: The state government is not unduly perturbed over the National Green Tribunal’s directive to not go ahead with the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) as it is confident of getting environmental clearance from the Centre. In fact, the government is keen to go ahead with the technical process of the project even before getting EC. Sources said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the irrigation department to explore all options to commence the work as the government tries to secure all permissions. He is believed to have asked officials to study the case of Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) initiated by the Telangana government without an EC and DPR. The irrigation department is also hopeful of getting the EC early as the experts committee of the environmental ministry, after studying the issue, has already said that there’s no need to secure the EC. The ministry of environment and forests too filed an affidavit in the NGT, stating that RLIP does not fall in any category that mandates taking prior environmental clearance. NGT’s southern bench initially declined to grant stay on the RLIP work and directed the Centre to constitute an expert committee to study the EC issue. Later, NGT denounced the expert committee’s observation. The expert committee, which comprised 10 members from different fields, had backed the AP government’s argument. “Since the Union ministry of environment and forests has backed our argument, it might not be a big issue for us to get even a fresh clearance. We will file a suitable application and get it processed,” said a senior irrigation department official. Sources said the state government need not wait to launch the work till the submission of the DPR to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), as per the instructions of the Union Jal Shakti ministry, and can go ahead with the work and submit the DPR for clearance. “Telangana government had raised a frivolous complaint on RLIP as we have been repeatedly saying that we will not draw even a drop of additional water from our quota from Krishna. Since the entire water releases are being monitored by the KRMB, where is the question of drawing additional waters even if we fit equipment to draw three tmc per day?” asked a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-confident-of-getting-ec-for-rseema-project/articleshow/78958111.cms||Samdani MN
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||Cracks on Dharwad-Goa Road worry Gayathripuram residents||DHARWAD: Panic has gripped the residents of Gayatripuram after cracks appeared on the Dharwad-Goa Road along Kelgeri Lake. The road provides connectivity to residents of Gayathripuram Extension to the rest of Dharwad city. A low-lying area near the Kelgeri Lake, Gayathripuram has witnessed rapid growth in the recent few years with several houses mushrooming in the locality. The Dharwad-Goa Road runs along the bund of the lake. Incessant rain has resulted in the Kelgeri Lake overflowing, and water is seeping underneath the Dharwad-Goa Road, weakening it. The underlying cause is the damage sustained by the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, which is reportedly leaking. Regular movement of heavy vehicles has resulted in the erosion of the soil holding the road together. Consequently, cracks have appeared on the road, and alarmed at the sight, residents erected a warning sign. They have also painted those spots where cracks have developed on the road to serve as a warning to motorists. Residents said that, despite repeated calls to the water board, no official had visited the spot to inspect the damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cracks-on-dharwad-goa-road-worry-gayathripuram-residents/articleshow/78959366.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Residents show how to recycle wet waste into organic manure||Madurai: Members of Royal Garden Residents Welfare Association have successfully converted household wet waste into organic manure as they are able to churn around 90kg of manure once in 15 days. While many hand the manure over the civic body, a section of them make use of it for terrace garden farming.Madurai corporation had distributed buckets to process household wet waste like food leftovers, vegetable peels and fruits in mid-September. Of the 160 houses, more than half of them make use of the waste in the best way possible, while others are unable to follow it due to various reasons. The corporation had roped in Waste Cart, an NGO, to guide the residents for the first three months.Secretary of the residents’ welfare association S Malaisamy said that he has been maintaining a terrace garden for a while now. Ever since, he has started converting wet waste into organic manure and stopped using other manures. “I am now using the manure produced at my house. So far, I have produced 10kg of manure. The vegetables grow better when this organic manure is used. Tomato, brinjal, broad beans, mint and even jasmine grows better now,” he said.V Sivakumar of Waste Cart said that they have so far collected 170kg of manure from houses where they are not making use of it. “At least 20% of the houses use the manure for gardening. If all the residents start following it, there will be no need for door-to-door collection every day. Dry waste can be collected once a week. The other good thing about the initiative is segregation. When dry and wet wastes are segregated properly, the dry waste can be turned into a wealth by selling it off,” he said.Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan said that it was started as a pilot project and they wanted to see the results before implementing it in other residents’ welfare associations. “We always wanted it to be implemented in as many places as possible. Cooperation from people is more important in this initiative. We are willing to take it forward to other residents welfare associations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-show-how-to-recycle-wet-waste-into-organic-manure/articleshow/78961467.cms||V Devanathan
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Police inspector offers to pay rent of aged couple||Coimbatore: In a kind gesture, a police officer with the E1 Singanallur police station has offered to pay the house rent of an aged couple living in the neighbourhood. Starved and desperate, 85-year-old Kandhasamy and 70-year-old Subbalakshmi had approached the Singanallur police in March after they could not reach their son, who was supporting them. Cops introduced them to Aathma Trust, which immediately bought them some groceries and a gas cylinder. It continued to support them every month since then. On Thursday afternoon, the trust handed them over groceries and rice for two months to the couple through the Singanallur police. When they handed over the groceries, station inspector Rajkumar immediately stepped forward and said he would bear the couple’s monthly rent of Rs 1,000 from this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-inspector-offers-to-pay-rent-of-aged-couple/articleshow/78960866.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||India||Mumbai police SIT to record statements of Republic TV’s investors today||The Special Investigation Team probing the TRP manipulation scam will record the statements of five investors of Republic TV on Saturday. Since Friday was a holiday, police have asked them to appear on Saturday, an officer said. Chief financial officer of Republic TV Shiva Sundharam on Friday submitted documents the police had sought from the channel. On October 23, the SIT had asked him to submit income tax returns, ledger details and balance sheet of ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, which operates Republic TV. SIT is probing the role of six channels—Republic TV, News Nation, Box Cinema, Fakt Marathi, Maha Movie and Wow—for allegedly inflating TRP figures by hiring middlemen to pay households to keep these channels on. In a related development, Hansa Group in a press release denied any illegal transaction between group company Hansa Vision and Republic channel. “On the specific request of Hansa Vision, its statutory Auditor Guru & Ram LLP has certified the accounts and certified the normal routine business transactions entered by Hansa Vision & ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and that there are no other transactions with them,’’ the release said.Industry body Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC) had hired Hansa Research to install bar-o-meters in the homes of select audiences to track viewing patterns. A police officer on Friday reiterated that under general business ethics and guidelines issued by the Union government, Hansa Research or its associate companies cannot engage in business with any TV channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-police-sit-to-record-statements-of-republic-tvs-investors-today/articleshow/78962193.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Bookings dry up, cruise tourism industry faces bleak season||MANGALURU: Usually at this time of the year, there is an air of expectation around Kudla port as it gears up to receive luxury cruise ships that bring thousands of foreign tourists. However, due to the global pandemic, cruise tourism has taken a hit and stakeholders say ships are unlikely to call at Mangaluru this season. Cruise tourism at Kudla in Mangaluru usually begins in November and goes on till April. About three dozen luxury cruise ships call during the period. The business generates crores in revenue for the city and employment opportunities for the local community. Rental taxi and bus firms, local guides, students, caterers and local tourism hotspots all benefit. “A few days ago I received a query from a cruise company that wanted to dock here on December 3, but they cancelled the trip this morning,” said Eulalia D’Souza of Lia Travels and Tours, Bejai. “We have no bookings at all this season.” Eulalia has been in the travel and tourism industry for the past 22 years and usually handles about 16 luxury cruise ships every year. She said that pandemic has dealt a major blow to the sector. “A majority of those who travel in these luxury liners are seniors, who save for years for these trips,” she said. “But they do not want to risk it with a pandemic around. Cruise tourism may pick up only next year.” William D’Souza, managing director, Globe Travels, said last minute cancellations have led to huge losses. “We have no bookings this year,” he said. “Even domestic tourism is not as expected due to several restrictions.” The last cruise ship bound for Mangaluru this year sailed in the first week of March, but it turned back due to virus fears. Luxury liners carry anywhere between 200 and 2,500 passengers and they halt for a day in Mangaluru. “A cruise ship with 2,500 passengers generates about Rs 50 lakh revenue within a few hours,” said Eulalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bookings-dry-up-cruise-tourism-industry-faces-bleak-season/articleshow/78959450.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
October 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh home minister calls for strict action against drug peddlers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita said on Friday that the government will take strict action against peddlers of ganja and sedative drugs. She added that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is planning to bring changes to sedative drug control rules soon. The home minister further said that three more forensic laboratories will come up in the state and around 6,500 cops will be recruited soon. The home minister was speaking to the media after inaugurating the model police station at Narsipatnam. Sucharita appealed to the public to cooperate with the police who are striving hard to control the ganja and sedative drug menace. People should feel that it is their social responsibility to extend a helping hand to the police. The home minister further said that there will be no discrimination on the basis of caste, religion or region in controlling crime rate. Speaking on the government’s efforts at ensuring safety of women, she said, “The government has announced this year as the ‘women protection year’ and set up Cyber Mitra and Mahila Mitra along with 18 Disha police stations.” Home minister Sucharita further said that the government is planning better welfare measures for cops. In such an effort, weekly offs have been sanction to the AP police. She further announced that the government will set up a woman police station in Narsipatnam. Narsipatnam MLA P Uma Sankar Ganesh requested the home minister to set up a separate system centred at Narsipatnam to address ganja cultivation and smuggling as Narsipatnam has become a hub for ganja-related issues. Tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, who was present at the inauguration, lauded police efforts to safeguard the public during the lockdown. He further said that facilities in model police stations are at part with corporate offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/home-minister-calls-for-strict-action-against-drug-peddlers/articleshow/78958173.cms||Siva G
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Madurai Kamaraj University invites applications for controller of exams||MADURAI: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has invited applications for various posts, including controller of examinations and director of directorate of distance education. The last date for applying is November 20. An official notification was issued on the university website by registrar (in-charge), V S Vasantha. Applications have been invited for four posts - controller of examinations, dean (College Development Council), director of directorate of distance education and additional controller of examinations. Candidates who fulfil the qualifications for the respective posts can submit their applications. Appointments for all four posts is on a tenure basis for a period of three years, such that the appointment is initially for a period of one year and will be extended year by year. Applications can be downloaded from the official website of MKU at https://mkuniversity.ac.in/new/. All applicants must submit the applications, along with required documents, addressing it to the registrar. If the candidate does not meet the required qualifications/criteria or if the application is incomplete, the candidate’s application will be rejected. The completed applications must be submitted to the registrar on or before 5.45pm on November 20. Due process will then be followed by the syndicate to fill the posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-invites-applications-for-controller-of-exams/articleshow/78961487.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||1 death takes virus toll in Nilgiris to 39||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged 33 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the count to 6,89, of which 253 are active cases. At least 26 patients were discharged on the day. With this, 6,297 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district. A 62-year-old man from Yellanhalli near Ooty, meanwhile, succumbed to the virus at a private hospital in Coimbatore, taking the toll to 39. Of the 33 new cases, only two cases were reported from Ooty. The remaining cases were reported from rural areas. Five of the positive cases had travel history to other districts. The rest were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases, according to a health official. The active cases are being treated at various health facilities. While eight patients are admitted to the ESI Hospital and CMCH in Coimbatore, 31 people are in home quarantine. The remaining cases are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and the Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-death-takes-virus-toll-in-nilgiris-to-39/articleshow/78960939.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Four killed in road accident||Coimbatore: Four people were killed in a road accident involving a car, a truck and a two-wheeler on Dharapuram-Kangeyam road in Tirupur district on Friday. The deceased were identified as Halesh, 38, Paramesh, 42, and Mohanaji, 29, all business partners from Karnataka, and Balan, 42, of Moolapalayam in Erode district. Police said Balan and his wife Kalaivani, 37, were travelling on a motorcycle to Moolapalayam from Dharapuram. When they neared a petrol bunk on Dharapuram-Kangeyam road around 8am, a speeding car coming from the opposite direction lost control and hit the motorcycle and a truck that was heading to Erode. Balan died on the spot while his wife suffered serious injuries. The three businessmen, who were travelling in the car and its driver Afsal Ali suffered severe injuries. The businessmen later died in hospital without responding to the treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/78960904.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Minister: Reconsider Shanmugam Subbiah posting if charges are true||TUTICORIN: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju told reporters that there was a possibility that the Centre was not aware of the charges against Shanmugam Subbiah, who has been appointed as one of the board members of AIIMS, Madurai. The minister, who took part in the Thevar Jayanthi by garlanding the freedom fighter’s statue near the traveller’s bungalow at Kovilpatti, was responding to reporters’ questions about the controversial appointment. Dr Subbiah was in the news recently for harassing his woman neighbour in Chennai by throwing garbage and urinating at her doorstep.  Stating that appointment to the board was fully under the control of the Centre, the minister added that it should be reconsidered if the charges were true. Kadambur Raju also said that the competition in Tamil Nadu will be only between AIADMK and DMK and they were not bothered about any other party including those founded by actors. Unlike MGR who established AIADMK, no other actor can establish a strong political party. “Actors Sivaji Ganesan, T Rajendran, K Bhagyaraj, S S Rajendran, Vijayakanth and Kamal Hassan started political parties. But MGR established a place in the hearts of the people by making AIADMK a people’s movement,” he said. MGR and Jayalalithaa were life-time chief ministers by remaining in power till their last breath, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/min-reconsider-subbiah-posting-if-charges-are-true/articleshow/78961483.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||MSU approves add-on courses to encourage skill development||TIRUNELVELI: The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU), Tirunelveli, has approved add-on diploma and certificate courses for extra credits. The decision to give approval was taken at the 51st standing committee on academic affairs (SCAA) meeting held on Thursday. “Various departments are offering add-on certificate and diploma courses and there are also courses in vocational education. Students have the option of going for these courses and earn extra credits. In addition, in case of integrated programmes for sixth semester students, internship for six months has also been proposed. The aim is to promote skill development,” vice-chancellor (VC) K Pitchumani told TOI. A Rs 10.2 crore proposal for the Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence (PURSE) programme under the department of science and technology, was also submitted. For the first time, a community radio is also set to be established soon at the campus. “All approvals for setting up of the community radio has already been received. The first phase of procuring equipment is under way. We can broadcast for a 15km radius. Social welfare activities for people in the community and education programmes for students can be done,” said Pitchumani. During the meeting, the VC pointed out that the university has been successfully running programmes on the Study Webs of Active-Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (SWAYAM), a government-run massive open online course (MOOC) platform for the past three years, and it could be encouraged to be taken up at the university as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msu-approves-add-on-courses-to-encourage-skill-dvpt/articleshow/78961488.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Activists hail 7.5% NEET quota for govt school students||MADURAI: Social welfare and education activists and teachers on Friday welcomed Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit’s decision to give his assent to a Bill for reservation of 7.5% quota in medical seats for government school students. However, activists said that this was just a first step towards ensuring even those from poor sections of society get the opportunity to pursue medical studies. “The implementation of the quota will greatly benefit those from poor sections by opening up opportunities. The initiative taken by the Tamil Nadu government for welfare of students is appreciable. State agencies and institutions need to be recognised and developed,” said Dr R Murali, state secretary of Save Higher Education Movement. Notably, the governor’s granting of assent to the Bill comes only a day after a government order (GO) for the reservation of the 7.5% quota for government school students was issued. Activists said that it highlights the need for greater freedom for states and for education to be a state subject. The Students’ Federation of India (SFI), which had been holding protests over various issues in NEET, also welcomed the move. “The passing of the GO showed the intention of the state government to work for the benefit of students. This quota can fulfil medical aspirations of at least some of the poor students. However, our demand is that the government take a stand on banning NEET completely,” said S Vel Deva, Madurai district secretary, SFI. Teachers also welcomed the move stating that it presents an opportunity for many government school students to prepare more confidently for NEET without relying much on private coaching. They feel it would give a boost to the efforts already taken by schools and district authorities to provide quality learning facilities for students. “This year, especially due to Covid-19 pandemic, government school students were not able to perform that well in NEET. With this new quota, at least some students who underwent free NEET coaching would be able to get a seat. It can motivate more students to take up government NEET coaching,” said a teacher and co-ordinator for government NEET coaching in Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/activists-hail-7-5-neet-quota-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/78961489.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Baby found abandoned near hospital||Warangal: A newborn girl was found abandoned by unidentified persons at the main gate of MGM Hospital in the wee hours of Friday. The security staff found the infant and informed the officials who in turn contacted the police. The baby has been admitted to the children’s ward and her condition is said to be stable. The baby weighs around 2.39 kg. The Matwada police have registered a case and are trying to trace the parents of the baby. “We are analysing the CCTV footage collected from the hospital,” said SI Srinivas Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baby-found-abandoned-near-hospital/articleshow/78959445.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
October 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cycle rentals fall, corporation makes plans to keep wheels rolling||CHENNAI:  At a time when cycle rentals are going up across the world, rentals have gone down in Chennai from 600 to 700 before March to 45 now. The number of parking stations and cycles made available has been reduced as people are not using metro rail and suburban trains like before. China has witnessed a 187% increase in bike sharing, while Chicago and New York have seen a spike of over 50% in cycle rides post-Covid. Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner, works, Greater Chennai Corporation, said they will change their strategy to attract more rentals. “From last-mile connectivity, we will focus on providing more parking stations in neighborhoods and around apartment complexes as our surveys have indicated that more people cycle in the city for recreation and exercise than for other purposes,” he said. Dharmin Dontamsetti, managing director of SmartBike Mobility, a company that is in charge of the cycle sharing system in the city, said they are all set to introduce next generation bikes and battery operated e-bikes in the city next month. “These bikes will be a safe commuting option for those who normally travel in crowded metros and buses as cycling is social distancing compliant. We are first launching it in Chennai and we hope more people will try it.” “The civic body is all set to come up with a pop-up cycle lane along Kamarajar Salai that will go along Marina beach and connect to Sardar Patel Road and Anna Salai. The traffic police are already testing the route near Marina. Apart from this, we will set up several exclusive cycling tracks along 100km of road under mega street project,” said Raj Cherubal, CEO, Chennai Smart City Ltd. A V Venugopal, senior research associate, ITDP India, said the corporation has to provide more parking stations at strategic locations. “Also, more promotional activities and awareness through social media will help in people choosing cycling as an option. Post Covid, residents have been using many areas for walking and cycling in the morning. Such areas should be tapped by the civic body and infrastructure for cyclists must be created,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cycle-rentals-fall-corpn-makes-plans-to-keep-wheels-rolling/articleshow/78959459.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Rythu vedikas Telangana’s answer to Centre’s agri laws; farmers to advise on rates||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is planning to use the rythu vedikas for marketing agriculture produce. The ruling TRS, which is opposing the new farm laws of the Centre, believes it can win the hearts of the farmers through the move. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi is harping on the new farm laws which enable the farmers to directly interact with sellers and sell their produce anywhere, state agriculture officials said the government wants to strike a bond with farmers and rythu vedikas will be the right forum for that. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said the vedikas would emerge as fora for all agriculture-related discussion among farmers. “Members of Rythu Bandhu Samithis will play an active role in giving market-related advisory to the farmers in various clusters,” he told TOI. In what could be seen as a counter to the new farm laws, farmers who are part of Rythu Bandhu Samithis would advise other agriculturists on the market rates and linkages. “Currently, we are working out the modalities of the vedikas and will come up with detailed guidelines soon,” the minister said. The agriculture department, which is being revamped, will have an IAS officer to look after the separate market research wing which is being created. This wing will pass on information on market rates and opportunities for farmers to sell their produce. While chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is opening the first rythu vedika in Jangaon on Saturday, officials said 2,610 such vedikas would come up across the state. The government has set apart Rs 350 crore for this. KCR instructed the officials to complete all the vedikas as soon as possible so that his regulatory farming plan could be implemented effectively, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rythu-vedikas-ts-answer-to-centres-agri-laws-farmers-to-advise-on-rates/articleshow/78959455.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
October 31, 2020||Salem||Portico ceiling of med college hosp collapses||Namakkal: The portico ceiling of the under-construction government medical college and hospital building in Namakkal caved in on Friday. Since the ceiling collapsed in the wee hours, none of the workers were injured, but has sparked criticism from political parties and raised questions over the quality of the construction. The state government was swift to deny allegations of substandard work and maintained the construction was world class. State power minister P Thangamani who visited the spot told reporters that the roof did not cave in by accident, but the workers had brought it down to build it anew since the steel roads used for concrete were not welded properly. “Officials noticed that the weld was not proper. So, they decided to bring it down and rebuild it better. The ceiling did not collapse on its own, it was brought down by the builder for reconstruction,’’ he said. “Opposition parties are raising questions over quality of government buildings to gain political mileage,’’ he said. The construction of Namakkal government medical college and hospital at a cost of Rs 336 crore began seven months back in the presence of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and a host of other ministers in a grand function. During the event, Thangamani said that the government hospital will be better than even private super-specialty hospitals. The work was progressing on a speedy pace and scores of guest workers were busy building the massive structure round-the -clock. Post Covid, officials were fast tracking the work to complete the building before the assembly elections next year. The ceiling caved in around 6am when no workers were there at the vicinity. Collector K Meghraj who rushed to the spot said that three poles erected to support the concrete ceiling were not aligned well. “So, the engineers were taking steps to remove them. It was in that process it caved in. No one were injured,’’ he told reporters. Work to remove the debris commenced immediately and steps to reconstruct the ceiling started. Namakkal MP O K Chinraj came down heavily on the state government alleging that it was because of substandard construction that the ceiling caved in. Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan also tweeted criticizing the quality of construction work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/portico-ceiling-of-med-college-hosp-collapses/articleshow/78960949.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Now, for some Covid-themed meme fest||CHENNAI: At a time when he was overcome by the coronavirus scare, Barath Rajendran found something that gave him a moment to drop the fear and laugh – a meme created out of a Rajinikanth song from the film ‘Muthu’ that read ‘Corona Corona ena konnudadha veena’, roughly translating to ‘Corona, please do not kill me!’ “Apart from the humour, these memes also helped create a sense of belonging that I am not alone in this,” says the 20-year-old student of Sri Venkateshwara College of Engineering. Covid memes created during the pandemic have provided some much-needed comic relief for many netizens. Apart from the popular #covidmemes that has content from across the country, there are city-based meme pages on social media that cater to the local audience. Topical memes on a grim subject have the ability to create a sense of temporary relief, even if momentary, says Dr Lakshmi T K, Manapakkam-based counselling psychotherapist. “Funny memes on Covid-19 can relatively reduce fear, anxiety, and stress,” she says. Ganesh Marees, the admin of one such meme page Vadai Poche, believes creators have a responsibility to spread awareness and positivity during a tough period such as this. “There is a lot of negativity around us, both online and offline. I deliberately choose to entertain and inform my followers without making memes that are derogatory or pessimistic,” says the 34-year-old resident of Nanganallur. Rajkumar M, a meme creator and software engineer from Tambaram, says although a good number of people enjoy Covid memes, there is also a small section that gets offended. “The ones who respond positively are usually the younger audience,” says the 30-year-old, whose Facebook meme page, Kaatupoochi, has more than five lakh followers. Most of Rajkumar’s memes focus on the challenges of working from home. While corona-themed memes can be funny, they are also a powerful medium of communication as they deliver messages concisely and effectively, believes Eugene DG, an assistant professor of visual communication in a city-based college. The primary aspect of memes is intertextuality, where popular culture and trending political events are combined to cater to the local audience. “This form of communication is not new. However, the structure of memes doing rounds on the internet is novel and attractive,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-for-some-covid-themed-meme-fest/articleshow/78959425.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
October 31, 2020||---||Opposition has neither experience nor ability to work for people: Nitish Kumar||GOGRI (KHAGARIA)/SITAMARHI: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said the opposition leaders were spreading lies about him. Addressing election meetings at Gogri in favour of JD(U) candidates from Parbatta in Khagaria and Belsand and Runnisaidpur in Sitamarhi district, Nitish said, “They (opposition) neither want to provide any job nor has any work experience. Under their (RJD) rule, when the husband was arrested, the wife took over but did nothing for women empowerment.” The CM enlisted the works done for women empowerment in his regime. “For long, women empowerment had been ignored in the state. But there is no future without women empowerment. People worship women as goddesses but don’t think much about their welfare. We have worked for their uplift. We provided them reservations, gave bicycles to the girl students to go to schools. And women have played an important role in the development of Bihar that we see today,” he said. Recalling various welfare schemes implemented by the state government, Nitish mentioned the works done for better roads, proper healthcare facilities, sanitation, education, Jeevika programme, Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan, women’s representation in panchayats and urban local bodies, provision of electricity supply and tap water to every household in the state, among others. Making a scathing attack on the 15-year rule of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, Nitish reminded people of the ‘jungle raj' during the pati-patni regime, which was known for worst law and order in the state. He said his government established rule of law in the state. Nitish appealed to the people to vote for the NDA if they want more development of the state. “Every village will be provided with solar light if people voted the NDA to power again,” he promised, saying all round development has always been his top priority. Nitish also addressed an election rally at the Koshi College in Khagaria in support of sitting JD(U) MLA Poonam Devi Yadav, who is seeking third consecutive term. The CM said Sitamarhi district has an engineering college and soon a medical and a nursing college would come up. There shall be a veterinary hospital and shelter homes for the old persons as well. Foundation has been laid for Sitamarhi medical college and work is going on, Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/oppn-has-neither-experience-nor-ability-to-work-for-people-nitish/articleshow/78960973.cms||N P Thakur
October 31, 2020||Chennai||Few takers, 163 engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu face a crisis||CHENNAI: The drop in engineering admissions may leave one-third of engineering colleges in the state fighting for survival in 2020-21. Of 461 colleges that took part in the online engineering counselling this year, 163 filled less than 20% seats, and 103 of them not even 10%. Many of these colleges may not now be able to meet their expenses towards staff salary, electricity bill and maintenance. A college needs more than 60% admissions to break even; only 100 colleges have crossed this mark. Some 50-100 engineering colleges may shut this year, which is more than the number that did over the last three years, according to education experts. From 507 engineering colleges in 2018-19, the number has come down to 461 in 2020-21.  Experts asked the state government and Anna University to take measures to save students and faculty members in these colleges. "If colleges have fewer than 200 admissions, it may not be viable for them to hire good faculty members. They cannot upgrade labs and other infrastructure. It will affect their placements, which result in poor admissions," said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. P Selvaraj, secretary of Consortium of Self-Financing Professional, Arts and Science Colleges, said, "Colleges need at least 50% admissions in a year to meet all the expenses. If the state government allowed the engineering colleges to start arts and science colleges to use the existing infrastructure, many colleges may survive. Otherwise, the situation looks very grim." He urged the government to allow private engineering colleges to admit students without counselling since there are fewer students and more seats. "They can conduct counselling for enrolling students to government and government-aided colleges," he said. The manpower requirement of engineers has not been done properly and the mismatch of demand and supply resulted in the present problem. It is a very tricky situation and colleges with poor admissions may not able to pay salary to their faculty members," said MK Surappa, vice-chancellor of Anna University. He further said that the Covid-19 crisis has compounded the problem for engineering colleges which already facing poor admission trend due to lack of job opportunities for engineers in various industries. "There needs to be a larger consultation among industry bodies, regulatory authorities like AICTE, colleges and higher education department to find a solution to the issue," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/few-takers-163-engg-colleges-in-tn-face-a-crisis/articleshow/78959464.cms||A Ragu Raman
October 31, 2020||Patna||Opposition has neither experience nor ability to work for people: Nitish Kumar||GOGRI (KHAGARIA)/SITAMARHI: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said the opposition leaders were spreading lies about him. Addressing election meetings at Gogri in favour of JD(U) candidates from Parbatta in Khagaria and Belsand and Runnisaidpur in Sitamarhi district, Nitish said, “They (opposition) neither want to provide any job nor has any work experience. Under their (RJD) rule, when the husband was arrested, the wife took over but did nothing for women empowerment.” The CM enlisted the works done for women empowerment in his regime. “For long, women empowerment had been ignored in the state. But there is no future without women empowerment. People worship women as goddesses but don’t think much about their welfare. We have worked for their uplift. We provided them reservations, gave bicycles to the girl students to go to schools. And women have played an important role in the development of Bihar that we see today,” he said. Recalling various welfare schemes implemented by the state government, Nitish mentioned the works done for better roads, proper healthcare facilities, sanitation, education, Jeevika programme, Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan, women’s representation in panchayats and urban local bodies, provision of electricity supply and tap water to every household in the state, among others. Making a scathing attack on the 15-year rule of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, Nitish reminded people of the ‘jungle raj' during the pati-patni regime, which was known for worst law and order in the state. He said his government established rule of law in the state. Nitish appealed to the people to vote for the NDA if they want more development of the state. “Every village will be provided with solar light if people voted the NDA to power again,” he promised, saying all round development has always been his top priority. Nitish also addressed an election rally at the Koshi College in Khagaria in support of sitting JD(U) MLA Poonam Devi Yadav, who is seeking third consecutive term. The CM said Sitamarhi district has an engineering college and soon a medical and a nursing college would come up. There shall be a veterinary hospital and shelter homes for the old persons as well. Foundation has been laid for Sitamarhi medical college and work is going on, Nitish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-has-neither-experience-nor-ability-to-work-for-people-nitish/articleshow/78963135.cms||N P Thakur
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Mom poisons 17-month-old girl to death||Coimbatore: A 17-month-old girl died after her mother fed her cow dung powder, a poisonous substance, at Periyayepalayam in Tirupur district on Thursday. The 24-year-old woman and her eldest daughter, who also consumed the poison, are undergoing treatment. Police identified the victim as Ananya, daughter of Sathish of Ambedkar Nagar at Periyayepalayam. “Her mother S Sathya was battling clinical depression after a relative passed away. Sathish, a construction worker, was away most of the time for work. On Thursday evening, when they were alone, Sathya mixed cow dung powder with water and gave it to her daughters before consuming it. A relative, who was staying close by, found an unconscious Ananya, and Sathya and Dharsanya struggling for life. Though they were rushed to a private hospital at Thirumuruganpoondi, Ananya died on the way to the hospital,” a police officer said. Police have registered a case against Sathya under sections 302 (murder) and 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mom-poisons-17-month-old-girl-to-death/articleshow/78960972.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Start ‘comorbidity clinics’ to save at-risk people, say experts||PUNE: Experts from the district Covid-19 task force have now suggested the setting up of ‘comorbidity clinics’ and sustained surveillance systems to prevent deaths among at-risk individuals if there’s a second infection wave in the region. The experts said the clinics, similar to flu or fever units, will pick up warning signs from the community and stop symptoms among the at-risk from spiralling. Older Covid-19 patients, especially those above 65 with underlying conditions, have had higher ICU admission and mortality rates. The experts said such high-risk individuals should be taking all necessary precautions to avoid SARS-CoV-2 infection as they usually have the worst prognosis. “The comorbidity clinics are part of the preparedness plan for the second wave. The objective is to prevent deaths among people in high-risk categories,” said senior public health expert Subhash Salunke, technical advisor on Covid-19 to the state government and the district administration.  In August, the district administration had focussed on surveying comorbid patients and senior citizens across the city to cut Covid’s Case Fatality Ratio (CFR). During the surveys, nearly 20,000 people with comorbidities were asked to take Covid tests; 922 turned out to be positive. Officials said the surveys helped reduce the CFR by identifying patients on time. Early detection often leads to swifter care. “People with comorbidities have the potential to contribute to higher fatality numbers. So, this is an evidence-based step to reduce Covid-19 deaths,” said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. Experts said people with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and other chronic conditions of the lung, liver, and kidneys need to be followed up closely if they go on to develop influenza-like illness (ILI). Similarly, cancer patients on chemotherapy, smokers, transplant recipients and patients being administered steroids chronically also face an increased risk of severe Covid-19 infection, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/start-comorbidity-clinics-to-save-at-risk-people-experts/articleshow/79089968.cms||Umesh Isalkar
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Buses set to run with full seating capacity in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Inter-state bus terminals (ISBTs) in the capital are likely to reopen from next week. The present cap of 20 passengers in public transport buses is also likely to be relaxed to allow buses to run with full seating capacity. Sources in Delhi government said that lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, the chairman of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), has approved the proposal to allow buses to run with full seating capacity. DDMA has already allowed ISBTs to reopen and the standard operating procedure for resumption of services is expected to be finalised on Saturday. In a recent meeting of the DDMA, transport minister Kailash Gahlot had said that the restrictions on the number of passengers allowed in public transport buses should be reviewed. At present, only 20 passengers are allowed in each bus at any given time to ensure social distancing, leading to crowds at bus stops during peak hours and long waiting periods for commuters. Delhi government had proposed allowing buses to operate at full seating capacity, but no standing passengers. AC buses in Delhi can seat 35 passengers and non-AC buses that have a bigger seating capacity of 41 people. “We had increased the number of bus trips to help provide transportation to as many commuters as possible but with the cap of 20 passengers, there would naturally be a shortage when the combined Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and Cluster Scheme fleet is just 6,598 buses on roads,” a Delhi government official said. “Running more trips with fewer passengers is also resulting in revenue loss as it is difficult to even recover the operational cost,” he said. The three ISBTs of Delhi, located at Kashmere Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan, which are likely to reopen next week, have been closed for seven months. The closure of the terminals had resulted in a spike in the number of private buses ferrying passengers illegally, despite regular crackdowns by the transport department. When the ISBTs reopen, passengers are going to see new safety measures like all-night bus operations, fewer buses, staggered timings, thermal screening, entry through online booking, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buses-set-to-run-with-full-seating-capacity/articleshow/78959510.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Tadpoles crawl out of Race Course taps||Coimbatore: Residents of the Race Course housing unit were shocked at the number of tadpoles found in the drinking water that was supplied through public taps on Friday. They said while they had been spotting tadpoles in the water for the past 20 days, the number of had increased now. Gomathi, a resident, said, “When we received the drinking water in the morning, we had covered the tap with a white cloth to filter solid particles, including sand grains. After some time, the force of water reduced drastically. We removed the cloth and found tadpoles in it.” More than 50 families of the housing unit are affected. Drinking water is supplied to them once in four to five days through six water taps in their section. Another resident, Soundarya, said, “About 10 days ago, my neighbours had informed me about the presence of tadpoles in the drinking water. But I did not notice anything while collecting water. A few days later, when a pot was almost empty, we found tadpoles at its bottom. We then emptied all other pots and purchased water.” She said she had stopped collecting water from their section of the housing unit and was planning to collect water from one of her relatives’ houses. “We have been residing here for the past 20 years. The colour of the water would change slightly whenever it rains, but after a few minutes into the supply it would become normal. We have never seen anything like this,” Soundarya said. Pointing out that the drinking water is stored in a sump before being supplied through the public taps in their section of the housing unit, Gomathi said the sump was cleaned almost a year ago. “The source of tadpoles might be the sump.” When contacted, a city corporation official said they had received a complaint in this regard and would address the same at the earliest. “While carrying out the model road project at Race Course, workers had accidently broken a drinking water pipeline, which is yet to be fixed. Tadpoles would have originated either from there or at the sump,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tadpoles-crawl-out-of-race-course-taps/articleshow/78960975.cms||Nivedha Selvam
October 31, 2020||Agra||IMA assures Kafeel Khan of considering plea to revoke suspension||AGRA: Paediatrician Dr Kafeel Khan, who was recently absolved of charges under the National Security Act (NSA), has written a letter to several medical bodies, including Indian Medical Association (IMA), to help him in revocation of his suspension. The medical body has, in fact, assured him that it would consider his plea. Khan said that despite getting a clean chit from the court and there being no evidence of medical negligence or corruption found against him in the nine probes conducted by the government, he remains suspended for the third year now. However, other doctors accused in the BRD oxygen tragedy had been reinstated. Confirming having received Khan’s letter, IMA secretary general RV Asokan told TOI on Friday that the association had written a letter to the Prime Minister last year, too, in this regard as this is a matter of profession. “As the matter is connected to the state government, we have asked our state body to take a call and approach the UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his reinstatement as he has been acquitted from all the charges,” Asokan said. In his letter, Khan said, “Even though the Supreme Court of India says that suspension should not be more than 90 days, I have been under suspension for 1,155 days since August 22 after the BRD oxygen tragedy.” Even after being absolved of the charges, the state government initiated another inquiry and suspended him again. “I was suspended for a second time. But, my earlier suspension was not revoked. How could someone be suspended twice?” he asked. Khan claimed that despite writing 25 letters to the UP government requesting them to allow him to work as a "corona warrior in this hour of crisis", they are not paying heed to his request. “They are neither revoking my suspension nor relieving me from my job,” he said, adding that they have been creating administrative hurdles whenever he has tried to serve the country voluntarily. “I was not allowed to visit Kerala in 2018 during the Nipah virus outbreak by the UP government. They issued a notice to me that I could not serve in another state as I was still associated with the government,” Khan said. Not only this, last year when Congress MLA Arif Masood from Madhya Pradesh offered him a job on behalf of the party's MP unit, NOC was allegedly not issued to him by the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ima-assures-kafeel-of-considering-plea-to-revoke-suspension/articleshow/78958207.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
October 31, 2020||Agra||UP govt plans big Valmiki celebrations||AGRA: In an apparent damage control exercise after the Hathras gangrapeand murder, the Yogi Adityanath government has decided to placate the Valmiki community by celebrating the Valmiki Jayanti in a big way. The Valmiki Jayanti, to be celebrated on October 31, will be marked with various events, including the continuous recital of Ramayana at all places and temples associated with the sage on Saturday. In this regard, a circular was issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari to all district magistrates, except the ones where the assembly by-elections are being held. Agra additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “Following the state government's orders, required arrangements have been made for celebrating Valmiki Jayanti on Saturday. The lighting of lamps (deepdan) as well as the continuous recital of the Valmiki Ramayana for 8, 12 or 24 hours will take place. Similar other cultural events will be organized at all places and temples related to Maharishi Valmiki.” Explaining this, social scientist andexpert on Dalit issues, professor Badri Narayan, said, “This may be seen as an attempt to satisfy the cultural desires of the Valmiki community. It will certainly help the ruling party heal the wounds caused to the caste dignity of the Valmiki community by the Hathras rape and murder.” The community expressed its displeasure with the state government over the increasing number of incidents of attacks on Dalits. People of Valimiki community had staged protest against the state government after the alleged gangrape and murder of a Valmiki community girl in Hathras. A major controversy was created when more than 200 Valmiki families allegedly converted to Buddhism in Ghaziabad recently. The state government had lodged an FIR in the matter on the complaint of one Monu Valmiki who alleged that there was no truth in the conversion claims. Talking to TOI, Dalit ideologue Chandra Bhan Prasad said, “The youths of the Valmiki community with smartphones in their hands have come out from the hold of the Hindutva forces. Earlier,Valmikis were considered only a Dalit sub-group solidly standing behind the BJP. But the response of the state government in Hathras case and other recent incidents has made Valmiki youths part ways with the saffron party. The plan to organize the Valmiki Jayanti in a big way is proof that BJP is realising that the community has gone out of their hands. This will certainly reflect in upcoming election results as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/following-hathras-protests-by-dalits-across-state-up-govt-plans-big-celebrations-on-valmiki-jayanti-today/articleshow/78958217.cms||Deepak Lavania
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||CM to inaugurate first vedika today||Hyderabad: The Telangana government has taken up construction of 2,600 rythu vedikas across the state, the first of which will be launched by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Kodakandla mandal headquarter in Jangaon district on Saturday. The rythu vedikas are being constructed in all the agriculture extension officers clusters in the state. The state government said that rythu vedikas is a first of its kind project in India, where a platform is being created to motivate and stabilize the farmers in attaining higher returns and making the farmers “Rythee Raju”. “It will also help the state government to know ground level problems and difficulties faced by the farmers and to formulate new strategies and upgrading the existing system to make agriculture more profitable and sustainable. It will facilitate regulation of farming and to make it remunerative, based on the global market intelligence,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) said. The Rythu Bandhu Samithi officials said rythu vedika would serve as a platform to create awareness among the farmers about the welfare schemes taken up by the government, subsidies available etc and the facilitation centres can be used as skill imparting centres by the agriculture and allied departments. With each rythu vedika work shed costing Rs 22 lakh (a share of Rs 12 lakh from the agriculture department and Rs 10 lakh from MNREGS funds), the construction is taken up under the supervision and monitoring of the district collectors as per the design provided by the Panchayat Raj & Rural Development. The shed will have two rooms and two toilets with a plinth area of 2,046 square feet. The tap water connections in rythu vedikas are being provided under Mission Bhagiratha and electricity service connections are by discoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-to-inaugurate-first-vedika-today/articleshow/78959506.cms||Koride Mahesh
October 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala tops ‘best governed states’ list||NEW DELHI: Kerala emerged as the best governed state in the country while Uttar Pradesh ended at the bottom of the heap in the large states category in the Public Affairs Index-2020 (PAI-2020) released by Public Affairs Centre on Friday. Among the Union Territories, Chandigarh emerged as the best. Commenting on the report, former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman and PAC chief, K Kasturirangan, said the states were ranked based on a composite index in the context of sustainable development. The governance performance has been analysed in the context of sustainable development defined by three pillars of equity, growth and sustainability. The analysis used data from Central government sources. Four southern states - Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka - topped the list of 18 large states with the population of more than two crore. UP, Odisha and Bihar were at the bottom of the ranking, scoring negative points in the category. In the small states category with less than two crore population, Goa ranked first, followed by Meghalaya and Himachal Pradesh. The worst performers were Manipur, Delhi and Uttarakhand. A new aspect in PAI 2020 is the chapter on Delta Analysis – the results on state performance and ranking measured as the Delta value over the last five years from 2015- 16 when the first PAI was released, to 2019-20, covered by PAI 2020. The report also said in the large states’ category, in terms of equity, Bihar followed by West Bengal and Odisha, who feature at the bottom of PAI-2020, are the top performers, while Kerala, Punjab and Maharashtra feature at the bottom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-emerges-on-top-up-last-in-ranking-of-states-in-public-affairs-index-2020/articleshow/78962201.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Agra||Missing Agra lawyer's body found in Etawah, mom in-law, 2 others held for 'contract killing'||AGRA: A 45-year-old Agra-based lawyer, who had been missing for the past few days, was found murdered in the neighbouring district Etawah three days ago. On Friday, Agra police arrested three persons, including the deceased’s mother in-law, who had allegedly given a contract of Rs 10 lakh to hire killers to get rid of him over a property dispute. The prime killer is still absconding. The lawyer Kapil Pawar’s wife Mamta Pawar, who was in the police force, had died a year ago and since then there had been a frequent tussle between him and his in-laws over property investments. Police claimed that due to "inter-caste marriage", Kapil’s mother in-law Shimla Pawar, 66, did not like him and after Mamta’s death things worsened. According to police, Kapil was last spotted with three individuals — Harsh Yadav, Rahul and Anwar. A team was formed to nab them. Police finally found the locations of Rahul and Anwar. They were arrested. During interrogation, they disclosed that the three of them had gone to Kapil’s plot on October 26 and had inebriated him by adding some substance in his "scrambled egg". When he fainted, they took him to his mother in-law. She told them to kill him and collect Rs 10 lakh from her. “We took him to Etawah and threw him into a drain in Bhartana after strangulating with a car seat belt,” the accused confessed. Agra SSP Babloo Kumar said that Harsh Yadav alias Jeetu will be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/missing-agra-lawyers-body-found-in-etawahmom-in-law-2-others-held-for-contract-killing/articleshow/78958230.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||Row over I-T raids on contractors linked to Nitish’s water project||PATNA: The income tax department conducted searches in the office and the residential premises of contractors associated with the state government’s ambitious ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal Yojana’ on Thursday has stirred up a political storm amid the assembly polls in the state. I-T department officials on Thursday searched the office and residential premises of Lalan Kumar and his brother Suman Kumar in Bhagalpur, Patna, Nalanda and Purnia. In Patna, similar searches were carried out in the offices of Ganadhipati Constructions Pvt Ltd and Nalanda Engicon Pvt Ltd. Apart from cash amounting to Rs50 lakh, documents related to investments were also seized during the operation, which stated at 7am and continued till late Thursday night, authoritative sources said. They said similar search operations were carried out against people engaged in stone quarrying in Gaya and its adjoining areas. RJD leader and the CM face of opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said it is the tip of the iceberg. “Sixty scams have come to the fore during the tenure of CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy S K Modi. Corruption is prevalent in all government offices,” he alleged. He claimed that even the state government conceded on the floor of the assembly that financial irregularities were detected during the departmental inquiry in the execution of the schemes. “How can they escape from their responsibility?” he asked. However, incharge of BJP affairs in state, Bhupendra Yadav, defended the NDA government on the issue. Yadav said the I-T department action was initiated after complaints received by the authorities concerned. “Administrative honesty and transparency are the two special characteristics of the state government led by Nitish Kumar,” he said, adding that all prescribed norms were followed at the government level. LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, said the ‘Saat Nishchay’ (seven resolve) scheme is the state’s biggest ‘ghotala’ (scam). “Bihar ke itihas ka sabse bada ghotala ‘saat nischay’ hai,” he added. He said further investigation would throw more light on the funds embezzlement. “I have been raising the issue since long. And it proved true when the searches were conducted on the premises of contractors associated with the government schemes,” he added. RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha demanded a detailed investigation into the scheme. “Garib logon ke vikas ke naam par paison ki loot huyi hai (funds have been siphoned off in the name of development for the poor),” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/row-over-i-t-raids-on-contractors-linked-to-nitishs-water-project/articleshow/78961024.cms||Ramashankar
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||70-year-old man stabbed to death by rowdy sheeter in Karnataka||MANDYA: A 70-year-old man was stabbed to death by a rowdy sheeter in Bevukallu village of Mandya taluk on Thursday. According to police, Chennaveeraiah was stabbed to death by rowdy sheeter Mohan as the victim allegedly objected to the latter’s illicit affair with his daughter. Chennaveeraiah, incensed over Mohan’s illicit affair with his daughter, had entered into verbal argument with Mohan several times. However, the argument on Thursday went awry as Mohan stabbed Chennaveeraiah three times. Mohan fled the village soon after the murder, and the victim’s daughter too allegedly disappeared from the village, said police. A case has been registered in Shivalli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/70-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-by-rowdy-sheeter/articleshow/78959426.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mysuru||Mandya DC orders probe into attempted sale of MySugar Mill property||Mandya: Alleged illegal activities concerning state-owned MySugar Mill’s property, which is being sold at a throwaway price to a private person, have come to light and the deputy commissioner ordered an enquiry into it. According to activist Y Philip, who lodged the complaint with chief minister BS Yediyurappa and Mandya DC, office bearers of Mysugar Employees’ Association (MEA) have been trying to sell 38 gunta land which belongs to the now defunct Mysugar Mill for Rs10 crore while current market value of the said land must be more than Rs 50 crore. In the complaint, Philip alleged that the 38 gunta land, which is situated at Swarnasandra locality, has been given to the MEA for the welfare of employees with a condition that the property should not be alienated in whatsoever manner including sale. Employees are only allowed to be benefited with rental derivatives of the said land. However, office bearers of MEA are said to have entered into an agreement with Bengaluru entrepreneur Sharatgowda to sell the land for Rs 10 crore. After Philip lodged the complaint with CM Yediyurappa, DC Venkatesh ordered Mandya tahsildar to conduct an enquiry and produce a detailed report. In the complaint, Philip urged the state government to take steps to rescind the sale agreement that was entered between office bearers of MEA and Sharatgowda and immediately freeze the bank accounts of the association. Also he demanded legal action against the office bearers of association for trying to illegally sell the land at throwaway prices. However, Siddaraju, president of MEA, claimed that the land was purchased by the association and Mysugar Mill has nothing to do with the ownership of that land. He said that association must prove its ownership over the land as his association does have proper title deeds. DC Venkatesh said that Mandya tahsildar has been tasked to conduct an inquiry. If it is proved that employees’ association has been attempting to sell Mysugar Mill’s land illegally, a strict legal action will be taken against wrongdoers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-dc-orders-probe-into-attempted-sale-of-mysugar-mill-property/articleshow/78959717.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Many return to Delhi from lockdown to find names struck off ration rolls||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain has issued directions to restore the names of beneficiaries under National Food Security (NFS) whose names were removed from the list due to their long absence from the capital during the lockdown. The total number of households in Delhi that benefit from the NFS scheme is around 17.5 lakh and since the lockdown was implemented in March, many had left the city and started coming back only recently. As a result of their prolonged absence, they didn’t take ration and their names were struck off. “It has been brought to my knowledge that some of the beneficiaries had gone to their home states during the period March to October, due to the Covid-19 lockdown and on their return to Delhi, they are unable to get their due ration as their names have been struck off,” the order signed by Hussain stated. Hussain has directed that names of all such beneficiaries should be restored with immediate effect. Hussain had also directed that an action taken report has to be submitted within three days. NFS beneficiaries are provided five kg food grains every month, including four kg wheat and one kg rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-return-to-city-from-lockdown-to-find-names-struck-off-ration-rolls/articleshow/78959561.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Following attacks on Dalits, leaders visit Koppal village||KOPPAL: Dalit leaders from different organisations visited Agedal village in Koppal district on Friday, where upper caste people allegedly assaulted Dalit families. They tried to instil confidence among Dalit families, who were reportedly attacked by upper caste people on Wednesday, by holding an open meeting in their area. Women shared their worries and trauma over the incident, and alleged that they were manhandled by a group of upper caste people. Addressing the meeting, Anand Bandari, a Dalit leader, said that atrocities committed upon Dalits were increasing, and that the caste system was being followed in many villages in Koppal district. “There is a need of launching a movement by secular people, farmers, labourers and students to fight against the caste system being practised in villages,” he added. Other leaders like Srinivas Nayak and Chitte Babu demanded justice and protection for Dalits in the district. DSP Ujjinakoppa and circle police inspector Uday Ravi spoke at the meeting and said that they have registered complaints from both parties. When Dalits raised an objection that false cases were being registered against them by upper caste people, police officials asserted that FIRs will be cancelled if complaints are found to be false during questioning. However, Dalit leaders mentioned that a trend of registering counter cases against Dalits, on whom atrocities were committed, was increasing in the district. “This trend is forcing Dalits to sell their house and land to fight their cases in courts. However, people who barge into Dalit colonies and houses are let off, and wander freely in society,” they alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/following-attacks-on-dalits-leaders-visit-koppal-village/articleshow/78959059.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Meerut||Khap in UP bars boys from sporting shorts||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A prominent khap in Uttar Pradesh’s Muzaffarnagar has issued a “diktat” against wearing of shorts by youths after getting complaints from girls, about four years after it had issued a fiat against sporting of jeans by girls to check their harassment. A panchayat of several prominent khaps was organised in Muzaffarnagar’s Sisoli village on Thursday to discuss issues affecting the society. During the discussion, chief of Balyan khap, Naresh Tikait, stood up and announced the decision of “ban” on the wearing of half pants by boys. “We had put a ban on wearing jeans by girls in the villages. And we got 90% success in this. Now, due to several complaints from the girls, we want to bar youths from wearing half pants. If someone is spotted in the shorts, his name and address will be noted and action will be taken against him,” said Tikait, who is also the chief of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU). Balyan khap had called for a ban on wearing pants by girls about four years ago. Another khap in the region had objected to the use of mobile phones by the girls. The strange diktats of khaps have invited criticism from various courts. In 2018, the Supreme Court had asked khap panchayats not to behave like “conscience keepers of society”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-khap-bars-boys-from-sporting-shorts-after-90-success-of-its-ban-on-girls-wearing-jeans/articleshow/78959559.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 31, 2020||Meerut||‘Aladdin lamp’ brings Arabian nightmare for Meerut doctor||MEERUT: A doctor in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut allegedly paid Rs 2.6crore for a mythical “Aladdin’s lamp”, after two conmen convinced him about its “magical powers”. But, when none of the wishes of Dr Laeek Khan turned into reality, he rushed to Meerut’s Brahmpuri police station seeking help to recover his money. Dr Khan claimed that he paid Rs 2.62 crore to them in several installments. After registering a case, police have arrested the two accused, Ikramuddin and Anees, and recovered a rusty replica of the mythical lamp. Based on the complaint, an FIR under IPC sections 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt) and under 420 (cheating) was registered against three persons, including the two main accused. Police said that the extent of the fraud will be known only after going through bank details and other transactions of the victim and the accused. But they claimed that transactions took place. “Ikramuddin told me that he has a magical lamp made of gold and it weighs around 5kg. He also said that a genie resides in it. He said the lamp is magical and all my wishes will come true. But I had to keep it locked in a box for two years or else some untoward incident will happen in my family,” according to the complainant filed by the doctor. But Dr Khan realized very soon that he has been cheated. Later, police said that the two men have cheated several people with the similar trick. “They would convince the victims that the lamp is magical and djinn in it would fulfill all the wishes,” a police officer said. “They would entice the gullible customers by promising exponential returns. To win their trust, they would initially return money as promised only to ensure the victim returns with a bigger sum,” said Subhash Atri, station house officer at Brahmapuri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-doc-pays-2-cons-rs-2-6cr-to-purchase-aladins-lamp/articleshow/78959568.cms||Piyush Rai
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Camel owners threaten to stage protest on Nov 26||Jaipur: Camel herders have warned the state government of a mass protest on November 26 at all the district headquarters if steps are not taken for their development.According to camel herders, they have been facing problems since camel has been declared as state animal. Now, transportation of camel out of the state is banned which has caused problems as there are no buyers in the state. Due to high expense and no income, owners have started abandoning their camels.Bhanwar Lal, a camel herder in Barmer, said since lockdown the condition has become worse. “All the animal fairs were cancelled this year due to coronavirus and we were unable to sell the camel anywhere in the state. Earlier, our camels were transported out of the state to be used in farming, but with strict rules in place it has become difficult. So, we want the state government to provide some assistance to us for maintaining the camels or we will strike,” said Lal.The government started a scheme to provide Rs 10,000 to camel herders, which was called off after two years. Camel milk is used for medicinal purposes, but the sale is low.Hanwant Singh, member of Lokhit Pashu-Palak Sansthan in Rajasthan which has been working for the uplift of camel herders in the state, said there is a need to focus on this issue.“Camel herders are the most neglected in the state. Pandemic has badly affected them. We are not in support of selling off camels for meat, but at least allow out of state transportation so that their usage will increase. People are abandoning their male camels as they have no source of income. This has resulted in decrease of camel population in the state,” said Singh.In the Livestock Census 2019, camel population dived by 39.4% since 2012. Experts predict that this will decrease further in the upcoming year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/camel-owners-threaten-to-stage-protest-on-nov-26/articleshow/78959596.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||40% pupils have no textbooks this year||Jaipur: In an astonishing claim, 40% of the students enrolled in both public and private schools don’t have textbooks of their current grade, says Annual Status of Education Report (ASER).Experts say that every year a slight percentage of children remained without books, overwhelming from public schools, but this year, the situation is reverse, putting the private schools on the spotlight.Figures say that almost 50% of the students enrolled in private schools don’t have access to books. It means that even if they are attending online classes or via radio and WhatsApp, they are doing it without the books.Kishen Mittal, secretary of Swayamsewi Shikshan Santhan, a body of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education said that since schools are closed from March or before the beginning of the new academic session, many parents couldn’t purchase books for their wards.“The Covid-19 salutation has broken the back of the majority of parents who comes from lower- and middle-class families. They were left with less disposable income to spend on books. It is a problem whose solution is not in our hands,” said Mittal, who said that schools have reported the same to him.He urged the state education department that they should immediately provide some respite to these students else their learning outcome expected in the current grade would be poor making them unfit for the next classes.The books are available in the market, but the booksellers are not finding any takers. Prashant Inani, a bookseller, said that schools are claiming that they are running classes, but the sale of books has gone down by 40%.“Books seem to have not in the priority list of the parents. The market has opened up and economic activities have gradually kick-started but the sale of books have not moved an inch,” said Inani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-pupils-have-no-textbooks-this-year/articleshow/78959611.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Over 24,000 not paid pension in Delhi for 5 months||NEW DELHI: Satyapal Ahluwalia is a patient of Parkinson’s and his right arm is paralysed. His wife is suffering from high blood pressure and thyroid issues. Both need medicines and treatment every month, which amount to about Rs 10,000. Ahluwalia, however, has not received his pension for the past five months, because of which he is facing a tough time. He retired in 2009 as superintendent, vigilance department of unified MCD, and is among the 24,000 persons who have not received their pension since May from North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Unlike regular employees, it is difficult for these elderly pensioners to run from pillar to post and hold protests to get their dues. Besides the monthly income, these pensioners are also unable to avail medical benefits at polyclinics and empanelled hospitals despite being covered by a lifetime medical insurance. This has only added to their hardships. “I have not been getting any medicine from the dispensaries. Non-payment of pension forced me to use my savings initially. Later, I had to borrow some money from my relatives. But how long can we survive like this? Money was deducted from our account for the lifetime medical insurance, but we can’t avail it. The civic agency has no resources at its empanelled hospitals, which refuse to allow cashless treatment,” Ahluwalia claimed. Deep Mathur, former director, press and information, MCD, said that there was no one to stand for them. “We may have retired but pensions are as important to us as salaries for others. There are many senior citizens who are living away from children and need money desperately to run their household expenses,” he added. Rajesh Joiya who retired in 2018, said that they recently met the north corporation commissioner who cited lack of funds for the non-payment. “I am able to deal with household expenses because of my wife’s pension. But her pension amount is not enough to deal with any medical emergency,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-24k-not-paid-pension-for-5-months/articleshow/78959627.cms||Vibha Sharma
October 31, 2020||Bareilly||On the run for 23 years, murder accused finally nabbed from UP’s Moradabad||BAREILLY: UP Police have finally caught hold of a man who evaded it for over 23 years after coming out on bail in a murder case. Keshav Kumar Shukla, now 45, changed his name several times and also looks to evade police. Shukla was found working in a hotel in Moradabad with a different identity. A resident of Railway Colony in Shahjahanpur, he was arrested for the murder of one Bablu Pandey in 1996. In 1997, Shukla was granted bail by a court. That was the last time the police and the court saw him. Scores of court summons and warrants were issued in the last 23 years. Recently, after facing court’s ire, police launched another manhunt. Sub inspector Guddu Singh, who is Mandi outpost in-charge, was given the responsibility to arrest and produce Shukla before court. After a thorough investigation, which involved days of painstaking research and following the leads from sources, Singh came to know that Shukla is working at a hotel in Moradabad. A joint operation was launched by police of both the districts to catch Shukla. He was arrested on Thursday night and produced before the court on Friday. From there he was sent back to jail. SSP Shahjahanpur S Anand said, “A murder case was registered against Shukla in 1996. And he was arrested and sent to jail. However, he came out on bail a year later. Since then the court had been issuing warrants asking him to appear before it but all the warrants remained outstanding as he was never available at the address. Now we found him living with a fake name at a hotel in Moradabad and he has been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/on-the-run-for-23-years-murder-accused-finally-nabbed-from-ups-moradabad/articleshow/78958281.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 31, 2020||Bareilly||Accidents in Bareilly division reduced by 40% during lockdown||BAREILLY: The Covid-induced nationwide lockdown helped bring down the number of accidents in the Bareilly division by over 40%. The year 2019 saw 3,007 accidents in four districts of the division with 1,557 deaths and 2,036 injuries while in 2020, 1,507 accidents have been reported so far with 843 deaths and 942 sustaining injuries. Building on the gains of the lockdown, efforts are now being made to curb the accidents during the winter by identifying potential hotspots and taking preventive measures. Apart from installing sign boards and speed breakers, DIG (Bareilly range) Rajesh Pandey has instructed to ensure the presence of ambulances near hotspots, especially in rural areas, for improved response time. “Apart from taking preventive steps, police would try to ensure that the victims are taken to the nearest critical care specialist to provide immediate medical assistance. The initial few minutes are quite crucial and if the treatment starts on time then many lives can be saved in accidental cases. Private doctors can voluntarily contact the SSPs and join hands with us to save lives,” Pandey said. The officers have been advised to run a campaign against the large vehicles running without permit and flouting norms. A total of 744 vehicles running without permit were impounded in the division in October. In Bareilly, 536 accidents were reported with 262 deaths and most of the accidents were reported on the national highways. Most of the victims were bikers without helmets. Last year, 536 people were killed and 696 were injured here. Budaun, a relatively smaller district, recorded 321 accidents with 251 deaths. Six hotspots were identified here. Last year, 350 people were killed and 473 were injured in 596 accidents. Shahjahanpur recorded 458 accidents in 2020 which proved fatal to 239 people and 289 were reported injured. Ten hotspots were identified here and all of them are either on NH-24 or the Farrukhabad state highway. In 2019, accidents proved fatal for 421 people while 562 were reported injured. A total of 13 hotspots were identified in Pilibhit district where 40 fatal accidents had claimed the lives of 90 people this year. In 2019, 250 people died and 305 were injured across 405 accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/accidents-in-bareilly-division-reduced-by-40-during-lockdown/articleshow/78958274.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 31, 2020||---||CISF report: Cops fired on puja revellers in Munger||PATNA: Munger police had opened fire during the Goddess Durga idol immersion procession in the town on Monday night, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) said in its special report sent to its headquarters in New Delhi as well as to the chief electoral officer of Bihar the very next day of the incident. The DIG of CISF, eastern region headquarters at Patna, has sent the internal report. A 22-year-old man was killed in the firing that night. Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao is probing the incident on the directive of the Election Commission of India. The CISF report refutes the claim of the then Munger SP, Lipi Singh, that the police did not open fire at the Deendayal Upadhyaya Chowk where several policemen as well local residents had been injured in the clash. Singh, along with Munger DM, was transferred by the Election Commission on Thursday following mob violence and attack on three police stations and 2 police outposts in the town. Munger range DIG Manu Maharaaj, who along with new SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon, led the flag march, said six to seven FIRs were being lodged in connection with the Thursday violence. “The situation is peaceful now. We have technical inputs as well as CCTV camera footages to nail the culprits,” he said. The CISF report, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions that following a dispute with Munger police over idol immersion at 11.45pm on Monday, devotees and local residents started pelting stones on security personnel, including central armed police force (CAPF) present there. “In order to control the situation, the local police fired in the air. That instigated the devotees who indulged in heavy stone pelting. In self-defence, as the situation threatened to go out of hand, CISF (number, rank and name of a constable mentioned in the report) fired 13 rounds from 5.56mm INSAS rifle in the air,” the report reads. The reports said the violent procession got dispersed and all CISF, local police and other CAPF personnel could safely return to their respective camps. Altogether 20 CISF personnel engaged in election duty were roped in by the Munger police for escorting the idol immersion procession Monday night, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/cisf-report-cops-fired-on-puja-revellers-in-munger/articleshow/78961064.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Patna||CISF report: Cops fired on puja revellers in Munger||PATNA: Munger police had opened fire during the Goddess Durga idol immersion procession in the town on Monday night, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) said in its special report sent to its headquarters in New Delhi as well as to the chief electoral officer of Bihar the very next day of the incident. The DIG of CISF, eastern region headquarters at Patna, has sent the internal report. A 22-year-old man was killed in the firing that night. Magadh divisional commissioner Asangba Chuba Ao is probing the incident on the directive of the Election Commission of India. The CISF report refutes the claim of the then Munger SP, Lipi Singh, that the police did not open fire at the Deendayal Upadhyaya Chowk where several policemen as well local residents had been injured in the clash. Singh, along with Munger DM, was transferred by the Election Commission on Thursday following mob violence and attack on three police stations and 2 police outposts in the town. Munger range DIG Manu Maharaaj, who along with new SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon, led the flag march, said six to seven FIRs were being lodged in connection with the Thursday violence. “The situation is peaceful now. We have technical inputs as well as CCTV camera footages to nail the culprits,” he said. The CISF report, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions that following a dispute with Munger police over idol immersion at 11.45pm on Monday, devotees and local residents started pelting stones on security personnel, including central armed police force (CAPF) present there. “In order to control the situation, the local police fired in the air. That instigated the devotees who indulged in heavy stone pelting. In self-defence, as the situation threatened to go out of hand, CISF (number, rank and name of a constable mentioned in the report) fired 13 rounds from 5.56mm INSAS rifle in the air,” the report reads. The reports said the violent procession got dispersed and all CISF, local police and other CAPF personnel could safely return to their respective camps. Altogether 20 CISF personnel engaged in election duty were roped in by the Munger police for escorting the idol immersion procession Monday night, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cisf-report-cops-fired-on-puja-revellers-in-munger/articleshow/78962996.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Government schools score over private institutes in enrolment of students||JAIPUR: The state has shown slight improvement in the enrolment of students in government schools over the private institutes. The enrolments among boys have jumped from 56.9% in 2018 to 57.4% in 2020, giving a thumbs up to slew of measures taken by the consecutive governments, says Annual Status of Education report released in Delhi on Thursday. Till 2014, the enrolment in private schools was much ahead of the government schools and at the time the private schools were led by a margin of 18 lakh. The report says that for every 100 boys, 57 go to government schools, while in the case of girls, around 69 go to the public schools. The state government report 2018-19 said that enrolment in government schools was 85 lakh and in private schools 75 lakh. The new report has not been tabulated, however, government sources said that the gap between the two has widened further. Reacting on the report, K B Kothari, managing trustee of Pratham NGO, Rajasthan, which brings out this report said reforms in the public education system have brought some radical changes. “The consecutive governments have laid great emphasis on bringing institutional changes such as linking teacher’s promotions and transfers to their performance, impetus on training and introduction of elite category schools which forced the parents to consider government schools over the private ones,” said Kothari. Over the years, the infrastructure facilities have improved manifold giving stiff competition to the low and middle budget schools. For example, Jaipur’s two government-run Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools have received 10 times more applications than the number of seats. Calling it an alarming trend, Kishen Mittal, secretary of Swayam Sewi Shikshan Sansthan, a body of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education schools, said that declining number of enrolment in private schools will have its adverse effects on the education system of the state and the country. “It is certain that several hundred low income and middle-income schools in the state are set to close down in the coming months. The Covid-19 pandemic has left these schools orphaned in want of support from the government and the parents leaving thousands of people unemployed,” said Mittal. Rough estimates say that almost 80% of these schools have fees pending from months forcing them to slash the salaries of their employees. On the contrary, Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan said that it’s a clear sign that government schools are making remarkable improvement and the reversal trend will continue for years. “It is the time that private schools have to raise their bar much above the government schools in order to reverse the existing trend,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-schools-score-over-pvt-institutes-in-enrolment-of-students/articleshow/78959599.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Government schools score over private institutes in enrolment of students||JAIPUR: The state has shown slight improvement in the enrolment of students in government schools over the private institutes. The enrolments among boys have jumped from 56.9% in 2018 to 57.4% in 2020, giving a thumbs up to slew of measures taken by the consecutive governments, says Annual Status of Education report released in Delhi on Thursday. Till 2014, the enrolment in private schools was much ahead of the government schools and at the time the private schools were led by a margin of 18 lakh. The report says that for every 100 boys, 57 go to government schools, while in the case of girls, around 69 go to the public schools. The state government report 2018-19 said that enrolment in government schools was 85 lakh and in private schools 75 lakh. The new report has not been tabulated, however, government sources said that the gap between the two has widened further. Reacting on the report, K B Kothari, managing trustee of Pratham NGO, Rajasthan, which brings out this report said reforms in the public education system have brought some radical changes. “The consecutive governments have laid great emphasis on bringing institutional changes such as linking teacher’s promotions and transfers to their performance, impetus on training and introduction of elite category schools which forced the parents to consider government schools over the private ones,” said Kothari. Over the years, the infrastructure facilities have improved manifold giving stiff competition to the low and middle budget schools. For example, Jaipur’s two government-run Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools have received 10 times more applications than the number of seats. Calling it an alarming trend, Kishen Mittal, secretary of Swayam Sewi Shikshan Sansthan, a body of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education schools, said that declining number of enrolment in private schools will have its adverse effects on the education system of the state and the country. “It is certain that several hundred low income and middle-income schools in the state are set to close down in the coming months. The Covid-19 pandemic has left these schools orphaned in want of support from the government and the parents leaving thousands of people unemployed,” said Mittal. Rough estimates say that almost 80% of these schools have fees pending from months forcing them to slash the salaries of their employees. On the contrary, Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan said that it’s a clear sign that government schools are making remarkable improvement and the reversal trend will continue for years. “It is the time that private schools have to raise their bar much above the government schools in order to reverse the existing trend,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-schools-score-over-pvt-institutes-in-enrolment-of-students/articleshow/78963292.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 31, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Government schools score over private institutes in enrolment of students||JAIPUR: The state has shown slight improvement in the enrolment of students in government schools over the private institutes. The enrolments among boys have jumped from 56.9% in 2018 to 57.4% in 2020, giving a thumbs up to slew of measures taken by the consecutive governments, says Annual Status of Education report released in Delhi on Thursday. Till 2014, the enrolment in private schools was much ahead of the government schools and at the time the private schools were led by a margin of 18 lakh. The report says that for every 100 boys, 57 go to government schools, while in the case of girls, around 69 go to the public schools. The state government report 2018-19 said that enrolment in government schools was 85 lakh and in private schools 75 lakh. The new report has not been tabulated, however, government sources said that the gap between the two has widened further. Reacting on the report, K B Kothari, managing trustee of Pratham NGO, Rajasthan, which brings out this report said reforms in the public education system have brought some radical changes. “The consecutive governments have laid great emphasis on bringing institutional changes such as linking teacher’s promotions and transfers to their performance, impetus on training and introduction of elite category schools which forced the parents to consider government schools over the private ones,” said Kothari. Over the years, the infrastructure facilities have improved manifold giving stiff competition to the low and middle budget schools. For example, Jaipur’s two government-run Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools have received 10 times more applications than the number of seats. Calling it an alarming trend, Kishen Mittal, secretary of Swayam Sewi Shikshan Sansthan, a body of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education schools, said that declining number of enrolment in private schools will have its adverse effects on the education system of the state and the country. “It is certain that several hundred low income and middle-income schools in the state are set to close down in the coming months. The Covid-19 pandemic has left these schools orphaned in want of support from the government and the parents leaving thousands of people unemployed,” said Mittal. Rough estimates say that almost 80% of these schools have fees pending from months forcing them to slash the salaries of their employees. On the contrary, Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan said that it’s a clear sign that government schools are making remarkable improvement and the reversal trend will continue for years. “It is the time that private schools have to raise their bar much above the government schools in order to reverse the existing trend,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-schools-score-over-pvt-institutes-in-enrolment-of-students/articleshow/78963295.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 31, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Government schools score over private institutes in enrolment of students||JAIPUR: The state has shown slight improvement in the enrolment of students in government schools over the private institutes. The enrolments among boys have jumped from 56.9% in 2018 to 57.4% in 2020, giving a thumbs up to slew of measures taken by the consecutive governments, says Annual Status of Education report released in Delhi on Thursday. Till 2014, the enrolment in private schools was much ahead of the government schools and at the time the private schools were led by a margin of 18 lakh. The report says that for every 100 boys, 57 go to government schools, while in the case of girls, around 69 go to the public schools. The state government report 2018-19 said that enrolment in government schools was 85 lakh and in private schools 75 lakh. The new report has not been tabulated, however, government sources said that the gap between the two has widened further. Reacting on the report, K B Kothari, managing trustee of Pratham NGO, Rajasthan, which brings out this report said reforms in the public education system have brought some radical changes. “The consecutive governments have laid great emphasis on bringing institutional changes such as linking teacher’s promotions and transfers to their performance, impetus on training and introduction of elite category schools which forced the parents to consider government schools over the private ones,” said Kothari. Over the years, the infrastructure facilities have improved manifold giving stiff competition to the low and middle budget schools. For example, Jaipur’s two government-run Mahatma Gandhi English Medium Schools have received 10 times more applications than the number of seats. Calling it an alarming trend, Kishen Mittal, secretary of Swayam Sewi Shikshan Sansthan, a body of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education schools, said that declining number of enrolment in private schools will have its adverse effects on the education system of the state and the country. “It is certain that several hundred low income and middle-income schools in the state are set to close down in the coming months. The Covid-19 pandemic has left these schools orphaned in want of support from the government and the parents leaving thousands of people unemployed,” said Mittal. Rough estimates say that almost 80% of these schools have fees pending from months forcing them to slash the salaries of their employees. On the contrary, Damodar Goyal, president of Society for Private Unaided Schools in Rajasthan said that it’s a clear sign that government schools are making remarkable improvement and the reversal trend will continue for years. “It is the time that private schools have to raise their bar much above the government schools in order to reverse the existing trend,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-schools-score-over-pvt-institutes-in-enrolment-of-students/articleshow/78963296.cms||Shoeb Khan
October 31, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 7, brutalised by youth in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A youth, 16, allegedly raped a seven-year-old girl in a sugarcane field and shoved cane stalks in her mouth and private parts in UP’s Shahjahanpur. The alleged brutality took place on Thursday evening in the district’s Khudaganj block. The child is in district hospital, but out of danger now, a police officer said. The girl was working in a paddy field with her sister when the accused, 16, who lives in the same village, dragged her to a sugarcane field. “He inserted a sugarcane stem into her mouth to ensure that she doesn’t shout, and sexually assaulted her,” the girl’s grandmother said. The father said, “Her condition was not good. The accused had inserted sugarcane stalks in her mouth and in private parts. She was in a lot of pain.” Additional superintendent of police (rural) Aparna Gautam, along with a police team, rushed to the village after receiving information and the accused was arrested while he was trying to flee. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shahjahanpur, S Anand, said, “Forensic experts have inspected the crime spot and collected the evidence. A charge-sheet will soon be filed.” But the SSP has denied the family's charge that cane stalks were inserted into the child's private parts. He said, “The injuries on the girl’s body were due to sharp sugarcane leaves. And injuries on her private parts were due to sexual assault. Doctors said that her condition is stable now. We will add other sections in the FIR if the medical examination report confirms other injuries. We have booked the accused under IPC section 376 (rape) and under Pocso Act which includes death penalty for aggravated sexual assault on children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-7-brutalised-by-youth-in-sugarcane-field-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/78958270.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Truck loaded with govt electricity equipment vanishes into thin air||Ajmer: A truck loaded with government supply of electricity equipment vanished into thin air. The vehicle started from Jaipur but never reached Pratapgarh district.The equipment was to be used to provide electricity connection to villages in Dalot and Arnod sub-division of Pratapgarh district. When inquiry was conducted, the equipment was found nowhere.After preliminary enquiry, the Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (AVNNL) found irregularities and corruption at the sub-division and store of AVVNL at Pratapgarh and suspended six employees including three officers. Officials suspect corruption worth crores will emerge in this matter.AVVNL warned that after complete investigation, FIRs will be lodged against the officials responsible and against the private firm working to provide electricity connections.The matter was reported to MD of AVVNL V S Bhati that there were irregularities within the Pratapgarh store while providing electricity connections in the sub-division. Information revealed that the officials were working hand in glove with the contractor providing electricity connections in the district.Bhati ordered a probe and formed a committee under superintendent engineer Mukesh Baldi and store sub-controller of Ajmer Mukul Kulshrestha. The committee submitted the report in which irregularities of electric equipment and corruption were revealed.The report said that a truck loaded with electric equipment started from Shalvi Plastic Product Firm of Jaipur, but never reached the store I Pratapgarh district. Assistant store controller P C Bundela stated that the truck went directly to the sub-stations of Dalot and Arnod villages.The documents stated that 50 sets of electric equipment were sent to Dalot and 87 to Arnod. But the probe committee did not find the equipment at both the places.On the basis of the report, AVVNL suspended Bundela, assistant engineer of Arnod sub-station, Narendra Singh and assistant engineer of Dalot Ravishanker, Dalot store in-charge Durga Lal Nagar, technical assistants Abhay Singh Rao and Mukesh Kasana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/truck-loaded-with-govt-electricity-equipment-vanishes-into-thin-air/articleshow/78959626.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||NGT dismisses appeal against demolition of illegal structures in Candolim||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed an appeal made by three persons to save their illegal constructions in Candolim after the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) had issued orders for their demolition. “The constructions, which are reported and against which the appeal has been filed, were found to be illegal and unauthorised and against the CRZ notification. The enquiry committee headed by then district judge and had experts as members also found the construction as unauthorised against which the appellant was given an opportunity of hearing,” the tribunal observed. The GCZMA had directed demolition of the structures in 2016, against which the NGT was approached. The owners of the illegal structures stated that the demolition order was passed arbitrarily without application of mind, in violation of the natural justice. The owner of a guest house also told the NGT that the GCZMA had not considered that it is a ‘mundkarial house’ on account of the fact that commercial activity is being run from it. “The matter was pending from 2016, but the reply was been filed just two days before the hearing. By filing the reply, the respondent No. 1 has submitted that structure is admittedly within 200 to 500 metres of High Tide Line and CRZ-3 and no permission from the GCZMA was taken for the construction of the top floor structures and further no permission was taken from the GCZMA to conduct commercial activity in the CRZ area,” the NGT stated in its order. Even if the structure is commercial and an alleged a source of livelihood, this cannot be made in violation of the CRZ notification, the order stated. “The appellant was given an opportunity of hearing and there is no violation of principles of natural justice. Accordingly, we find no substance to interfere in the Appeal. Thus, Appeal deserves to be dismissed,” the NGT stated. The tribunal also stated that even if the demolition orders were without application of mind as it has been argued, this cannot be ground to not follow the high court and Supreme Court orders calling for demolitions of all structures violating CRZ notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-dismisses-appeal-against-demolition-of-illegal-structures-in-candolim/articleshow/78961076.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Eid Milad celebrated in Ajmer without procession this year||Ajmer: Eid Milad-Un-Nabi was celebrated in Ajmer on Friday, but without any procession for the first time in at least 65 years because of Covid-19 guidelines.There was crowd and decoration in Dargah Bazaar area for the first time since lockdown was imposed in March. Shops and streets were decorated. The procession was called off and people offered prayers in their houses.There was a cake cutting ceremony in Dargah Bazaar by Garib Nawaj Welfare Society and Sarvdharm Samaj. Cookies and chocolates were distributed to children while following guidelines of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eid-milad-celebrated-in-ajmer-without-procession-this-year/articleshow/78959628.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||101kg doda post seized in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: In the wake of panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections, police launched a campaign against drugs in the district.Police on Friday recovered 101kg of doda post from a closed house in Nokh police station area and are now looking for the culprits.SP Ajay Singh said in a special campaign against sale and transportation of doda post, police recovered 101kg of doda post.He said that Nokh SHO Mohammad Hanif Khan received information that Mangilal and Poonamchand, residents of Madasar, have hidden doda post in their house. On which police raided the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/101kg-doda-post-seized-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/78959636.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan sees silent vote in favour of BJP||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said there is a silent revolution in Dubbak in favour of BJP in the November 3 poll. Addressing reporters after campaigning in Dubbak on Friday, he said party candidate M Raghunandan Rao, despite losing the election previously, had stayed with people, mingled with them and understood their problems. “He will become the voice of the people by winning the seat,” he said. Kishan Reddy said the ruling TRS had lost the confidence of the people and that is why it is deploying police and other officials to terrorise the electorate to vote in its favour. He said the people were aware of the step-motherly treatment meted out to the constituency by the TRS. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-sees-silent-vote-in-favour-of-bjp/articleshow/78959621.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||CPM neta’s son sent over 1cr to drug dealer, suspects ED||BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM Kerala state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was involved in illegal transactions worth over Rs 1 crore with alleged drug dealer and long-time aide Mohammed Anoop, suspect Enforcement Directorate sleuths. Bineesh, now in ED custody, is expected to be quizzed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as well over his monetary ties with Anoop, who’s suspected to have peddled drugs in Bengaluru for a few years till he was nabbed in August. Bineesh was arrested by ED on Thursday under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The agency has claimed that huge unaccounted cash deposits were made in Bineesh’s accounts in Kerala, which were later transferred to his associate in Bengaluru. In a statement released by the ED headquarters on Friday, the agency said that a money trail led the investigation team to Bineesh’s bank accounts in Kerala. According to ED sources, Bineesh had remitted over Rs 1 crore into the bank account of Anoop from different accounts over a period of time. Anoop, who was taken into ED custody for questioning in mid-October, had confessed to sleuths that Bineesh was his boss and he was acting on his directions in Bengaluru. “During the course of investigation, it was revealed that Mohammed Anoop was made a ‘benamidar’ of a restaurant of Bineesh Kodiyeri. Anoop accepted that Bine-esh Kodiyeri is his boss and he did whatever Bineesh told him to do, for which Bineesh used to pay him,” ED said in its remand report. ED arrested Anoop in the case on October 17 and he is at present in a Bengaluru prison. It has been established that Bineesh had sent Anoop large sums of money for the eatery’s operations and other real estate dealings from various bank accounts in different names to avoid detection. Whether Bineesh knew about Anoop’s drug trade and continued funding it is yet to be established and is expected to be probed by NCB, ED sources said. In September, Bineesh had said that he had transferred only Rs 6 lakh to Anoop as loan for the eatery and was unaware of his drug trade. Bengaluru ED officials quizzed Bineesh on October 6 for the first time and noticed several discrepancies in his version of the transactions with Anoop. ED sleuths on Friday questioned Bineesh till late evening on his money links with Anoop. Bineesh isn’t cooperating with the investigation yet, added ED sources. Content state: Writing In use by: Reporter(s): Last modified: 30-10 23:55 - Veronica BalyanRequested size: 87 lin Actual size: 89 lin - 804p Category: Contextual use: Normal Description: Correction: Usages of this branch: TOIDelhiBS 31-10-2020, Delhi/1 - Nation, A/1 CAPDEL2 TOILucknowBS 31-10-2020, LucknowCity/1 - Nation, A/16 TOILCBP All usages:||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cpm-netas-son-sent-over-1cr-to-drug-dealer-suspects-ed/articleshow/78962213.cms||Petlee Peter
October 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP government reduces land use conversion charge||LUCKNOW: To attract more industries to invest in Uttar Pradesh, the state cabinet on Friday gave its nod to reduction in charges for land use conversion from agriculture to industrial from 35% to 20%. Permission has been granted for amendment of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development (Assessment, Levy and Collection of Land use Conversion Charge) Rules, 2014. The arrangement will be applicable soon after the decision is notified. The cabinet also approved the proposal for development of a ‘parikrama path’ (path for circumambulation) around Vindhyavasini Temple in Mirzapur. It also authorised Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to take any further decision regarding the project. The temple has a huge following and hundreds of devotees perform ‘parikrama’ around its premises. However, the current path is narrow and broken which poses threat to devotees. Once the new corridor is completed, the ‘parikrama path’ will be 50 feet wide. The temple is located on the banks of the Ganga which has immense potential for water sports and adventure tourism. A government spokesperson said there are several waterfalls near the temple and ecotourism can be promoted by developing the area. The cabinet also approved a drinking water scheme for Bundelkhand and Vindhya regions, and in villages where water quality is poor. Earlier, it had approved 21 projects of more than Rs 200 crore each. Work is underway in most of the projects. Three more schemes were approved on Friday which include a piped water scheme for Jalaun and two projects for Sonbhadra. A proposal for World Bank-aided pro-poor tourism development scheme was also approved. The cabinet authorised the CM to take any decision under the project. The cost of the project will be Rs 371.4 crore. Out of this, 70% will be given by the World Bank while 30% will be borne by the state government. Under the project, work will be carried out in Sarnath and Kushinagar. In Sarnath, the project will be implemented by the Varanasi Development Authority while in Kushinagar, it will be carried out by Gorakhpur Development Authority. The project will entail development of tourist facilities, generation of employment and local development. Permission has been given to signing of a memorandum of cooperation (MoC) between the agricultural education and research department of UP and ministry of agriculture, forest and fisheries, Japan. As the next step, the department will now have to take clearance from the ministry of foreign affairs. The MoC will entail receiving assistance from Japan in new techniques and research in the field of agriculture. Scientists and experts working in agriculture and technical universities will benefit from exchange of knowledge and technology which will help in development of new agricultural methods in the state. A proposal to widen and strengthen the District Jail Bypass in Gorakhpur was also approved. The stretch is 8.5km and the proposed cost of the project is Rs 199.4 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-reduces-land-use-conversion-charge-to-attract-industries/articleshow/78961516.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Morning air ‘severe’, doctors caution joggers||MEERUT:Medical practitioners and health experts have cautioned morning walkers and joggers to remain indoors and not venture out in the early hours. According to the Air Quality Index (AQI) hourly data compiled by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), mornings have shown consistent high levels of PM10 and PM2.5 pollutants suspended in the air in almost all districts of NCR and western Uttar Pradesh. The last week’s data analyzed by TOI shows that pollution levels between 4am and 10am hovered anywhere between 450 to 500 which fall under the ‘severe’ category and affects healthy and seriously affects those with existing diseases. Track the pollution level in your cityPollutants show a dramatic decrease during noon and fall to as low as 55 on some days. “During winters, morning walkers need to dispel the myth that early morning fresh air is healthy. On the contrary, they are inviting trouble by taking in the air with the highest levels of toxicity. It is advised that such health conscious people must delay their walks to later hours in the day as pollution decreases as the day advances,” said Meerut-based physician Dr Harish Mohan Rastogi. Green activist and Agra-based ENT specialist Dr. Debashish Bhattacharya said, “As cold and moisture sets in, precipitation brings in more smog. Moreover, construction or repair work on national highways without sprinkling of water or proper dust cover in Agra by the authorities is a leading cause of pollution.” Dr. Bhattacharya added that he has been getting a lot of cases of allergic rhinitis. “Besides, asthma patients are facing difficulties these days due to the rise in pollution.” Sharad Gupta, an environmentalist in Agra, said, “The AQI has been continuously hovering at dangerous levels for almost a month in the Taj city. This is because of burning of solid waste and its disposal in an unscientific manner and rampant construction of roads and industrial activities. “The green cover of Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) has also decreased by 3% despite all instructions given by the green tribunal,” said Dr Gupta, adding that this is scary for everyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/morning-air-severe-docs-caution-joggers/articleshow/78959650.cms||Sandeep Rai
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Half marathon faces dual challenge of bad air, pandemic||NEW DELHI: Being one of most challenging years in history, this year you may not have to be speeding on city streets to complete the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon. The race, registration for which opened on Friday, can be run from wherever you are through a special mobile app. While the 21-km half marathon will be run on November 29, observing the highest levels of safety norms, with bio-secure zones to ensure a Covid-free course for the world’s elite runners, amateurs from across the globe can join them via the exclusive Airtel Delhi Half Marathon mobile app. Unlike the elite runners, who will start from Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, the others can run anytime during the race week from 12am on November 25 till 11.59pm on November 29. Shashwat Sharma, chief marketing officer, Bharti Airtel, said, “These are unprecedented times, so this year the Airtel Delhi Half Marathon will be extra special and will send a message of humanity’s resolve to collaborate and overcome odds.” The $233,270-prize money event will see world-class elites and India’s best taking centrestage, maintaining all mandatory protocols according to the central government’s advisory. The specialised event app has an array of features for an enhanced running experience, including timing and distance tracker and inspiring audio soundscapes. Registrations for all race categories, i.e. the half marathon, 10-km run and Great Delhi 5-km run, commenced on Friday at 7pm and will remain open until November 27. Registration can be done on the event website, airteldelhihalfmarathon.procam.in. Participants are urged to follow all government-mandated safety protocols to avoid Covid infection. The entry fee for the half marathon and 10-km run is Rs 499. This includes a personalised e-bib, personalised e-medal and an e-certificate. In addition to that, participants will be couriered a once-in-a-lifetime personalised unity medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/half-marathon-faces-dual-challenge-of-bad-air-pandemic/articleshow/78959651.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress, BJP cry foul over postal ballot in Dubbak||HYDERABAD: The postal ballot facility being provided for Dubbak by-poll has run into rough weather as the main opposition parties Congress and BJP have alleged foul play by the Election Commission officials, in connivance with the ruling TRS. The ECI has extended the postal ballot option for the first time to voters aged above 80 years, differently challenged or those who are Covid-19 positive. Earlier, the postal ballot facility was confined only to officials drafted on election duty and service personnel from the defence forces. While the Congress said it has not been given the list of the three categories of voters who would cast their vote through postal ballot, the BJP said some of the officials were not informing the saffron party before going to the eligible postal ballot voters. District election officer (DEO) Bharati Hollikeri told TOI that the list of postal ballot candidates is not provided to political parties as per the ECI guidelines. As many as 1,558 voters have opted for postal facility. Of them, there is not a single voter who is Covid-19 positive. All those voting through postal ballot in Dubbak belong to over 80 years of age group and specially challenged persons (people with disabilities) categories. “As per rules, we have to provide the schedule (timing of the election commission teams visiting the residence of postal ballot voters). The returning officer has provided the schedule to political parties or their candidates. Except when the voter exercises his or her electoral franchise, the entire process of going to the residence, explaining how to cast a secret postal ballot is videographed. Everything is transparent,” she said. Of the 1,558 voters, over 600 have already cast their votes. The election officials want to complete postal ballot exercise by Sunday evening. However, Shashidhar Reddy alleged that a sarpanch from the ruling TRS was recently seen moving in the village with the list of postal ballot voters. “Also, election officials cast a vote in favour of TRS when the voter wanted it to be polled in favour of Congress,” he alleged, lodging a complaint with chief electoral officer, DEO and central election observers too. Former MP A P Jithender Reddy of the BJP said in some cases, election officials did not inform them about their visit to the residence of postal ballot voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bjp-cry-foul-over-postal-ballot-in-dubbak/articleshow/78959702.cms||Roushan Ali
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rijiju reaches Jaisalmer day ahead of Fit India Walkathon||Jaisalmer: Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju reached Jaisalmer on Friday to take part in the 200-km-long Fit India Walkathon along the Thar desert at the Indo-Pak border. The walkathon will start from Jaisalmer from Saturday, being organised by Union sports ministry and the ITBP. ITBP DG SS Deshwal, ADG Daljeet Singh Chaudhary and BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Ayushman Tiwari reached Jaisalmer Air Force airport along with Rijiju. BSF sector north officiating DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore, ITBP DIG Sandeep Khosla and BSF sector south commandant JS Sandhu welcomed them. Rijiju was given guard of honour at the sector south headquarters at Dabla. He took information from the officers about the preparations of walkathon starting from Saturday and held a review meeting. The Union sports minister along with film actor Vidyut Jamwal will flag off the walkathon from Kishangarh area in Jaisalmer. This area is historical in regard to the Indo-Pak wars of 1965 and 1971. In 1965, Pak army had attacked the ancient Kishangarh fort. The walkathon is being organised by ITBP and will continue for three days from October 31 to November 2. Deshwal, various CAPF jawans and personnel, will participate and cover the distance of 200km. The walkathon will continue day and night and along with Indo-Pak border, it will pass through the sand dunes in Thar desert and IGNP and will end at 1485RD in Mohanagarh on November 2. Rijiju said that it is a clear call from the Prime Minister to make Fit India Movement a public movement. He said he is really happy that soldiers have come together for fitness through the unique walkathon. He said he will also take part in the walk in Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rijiju-reaches-jaisalmer-day-ahead-of-fit-india-walkathon/articleshow/78959644.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three gangsters arrested after 2 shootouts||NEW DELHI: A henchman of jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana was shot at during an encounter with police officers from the Special Cell on Friday evening. Tarun Tori sustained gunshot injury in his leg and is admitted in hospital. A team led by inspector Shiv Kumar had received information about Tori’s movement in Narela industrial area and laid a trap. The accused was spotted on a bike and flagged down but he tried to flee. When cornered, he opened fire on the cops. One of the policemen got hit but was saved due to his bulletproof jacket. Cops fired back and overpowered Tori. A pistol and four cartridges were seized from him. He was rushed to Balmiki hospital. Tori is known to be a sharpshooter of Bawana and a close associate of Naveen Bali and Parveen Chahar, both close confidants of Bawana. He and his associates had committed back-to-back crimes in August this year. In another shootout, two henchmen of the same gang were nabbed by outer district police after a shootout. Twelve rounds were fired and two accused injured. They were identified as Rinku and Vishal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-gangsters-arrested-after-2-shootouts/articleshow/78959676.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Three arrested in Baran murder case||KOTA: The police on Thursday arrested three persons and detained a minor boy for allegedly murdering a 38-year-old employment assistant in Baran district last week. The police are searching for another accused. According to SHO of Harnawdashahaji police station Ravinder Singh, the key accused turned out to be the former lover of the girl with whom the deceased Doulatram Lodha had an affair. The police have arrested Ramswroop Lodha (25) of Salarkoh village of the same area and his two aides Vishal and Naresh (both around 22-23 years) and detained one minor boy on Thursday evening. The police are looking for another accused Chain Singh, he said. The body of the employment assistant, with disfigured face, most likely by acid, was recovered from a drain in forests near Chalarkhon village on last Saturday following which the police, on the report by family members, lodged a case of murder against Jankial, a childhood friend of the deceased, who was accompanied with him on Thursday evening when he had gone missing and initiated investigation into the matter. According to Singh, the technical and scientific investigation into the matter led to the key accused Ramswroop and it was revealed that he was in love with a minor girl and had eloped with her in 2016 following which he was arrested and booked under Section of IPC and POCSO for rape and abduction. Ramswroop was convicted for 10 years of imprisonment in the case and was in jail but on his first appeal, he was released on bail in 2018, the SHO said. On his return from the jail, Ramswroop found his former girlfriend in affair with the deceased employment assistant, he added. In order to remove the rival in his love, Ramswroop conspired to murder the employment assistant and made a fake ID as girl on Facebook and trapped the employment assistant chats, the SHO said. According to the plan, Ramswroop, in chats on fake ID as girl, asked the employment assistant to meet her (him) at a spot near Chalarkhon village on Thursday evening. When he reached there, the key accused, along with his aides from the family, grabbed Doulatram and slit his neck and later disfigured his face to cover his identify and threw his body into a drain in forests nearby the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-arrested-1-detained-for-murder-of-man-in-baran/articleshow/78959655.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Meerut||Kairana MLA booked for 'disrupting govt work, violating Covid protocol'||MUZAFFARNAGAR:Nahid Hasan, the Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA from Kairana, is back in the news. This time he along with his supporters were booked for "disrupting public servants from performing duty and violating social distancing norms". It so happened that Hasan along with 40-50 supporters had reached Kairana kotwal and accused local police of bias in its probe in a case in which three persons were booked for "breach of peace". After a heated argument between Hasan and Kairana SHO on Thursday, the police eventually booked him. Hasan accused the cops of harassing innocent people. On Friday, at a press conference, Hasan levelled serious allegations at Kairana police and called for a 'jail bharo andolan' on November 2. "Enough is enough, we have to stand against injustice. Hence, we'll hold a peaceful 'jail bharo aandolan'," he said. Shamli SP Nityanand Rai said, "A case has been registered. Further action is being taken." Hasan's run-in with local administration is not new. In October last year after evading arrest for over a month, the Kairana MLA had got a respite from the Allahabad high court which had granted him anticipatory bail. Hasan’s trouble had started on September 9 last year when he had a public spat with the then Kairana’s sub-divisional magistrate Amit Pal Sharma. The officer had stopped his SUV and asked for its papers. Later, during a probe, it turned out that the vehicle was not registered at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kairana-mla-booked-for-disruptinggovt-work-violating-covid-protocol/articleshow/78959660.cms||Mohd Dilshad
October 31, 2020||Trichy||Girls rescued in Trichy to be sent back to kin in MP, Karnataka||TRICHY: The child welfare committee (CWC) is initiating the process to send two girls rescued from Trichy railway station before the Covid-19 pandemic struck, back to their native states, following the dip in the number of fresh cases. The decision to send the girls was taken during the home management committee meeting held at the TMSSS Sontham reception unit for boys and girls in Trichy on Thursday. Chaired by CWC member, N Krishnamoorthy, the committee decided to reunite the children with their parents in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka with the support of the special juvenile police unit (SJPU) and the one stop centre (OSC). “Children run away from home due to family dispute. Some are sent to work in other states as child labourers by single parents. Such children escape from the clutches of the agents and get rescued by the social workers mostly at railway stations,” said Krishnamoorthy. The case of these two girls was similar, he added. “Usually, the rescued children will be reunited with their parents after counselling and rehabilitation measures at the reception home in three months. With Covid-19 cases gradually declining, we are initiating the process to reunite these girls with their families,” he said. Krishnamoorthy also said that two boys were rescued in Trichy recently but their native places are yet to be ascertained. “Since they have speech disabilities, they could not clearly communicate. So, they have been sent to a home in Mayiladuthurai, where more details through sign language can be acquired,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girls-rescued-in-trichy-to-be-sent-back-to-kin-in-mp-karnataka/articleshow/78961080.cms||Gokul Rajendran
October 31, 2020||Meerut||Stalker assaults minor returning from tuition, police slap attempt to murder||MEERUT: A stalker allegedly molested and assaulted a 17-year-old girl returning home after tution in UP's Hapur district on Thursday evening. "The accused, identified as Shahrukh, has been arrested," Hapur additional superintendent of police said on Friday. Based on the complaint of the family, police have registered a case under sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and relevant sections under Pocso Act against the accused Shahrukh and another unidentified suspect. "My 17-year-old daughter was returning from tuition and when she reached the railway crossing she was confronted by Shahrukh who tried to force her into an auto. When she resisted, he drew an iron rod and attacked her but she escaped," a complaint from her father read. Sources claimed the prime accused Shahrukh, who lives in the same locality, had tried to harass the girl in the past, but the matter was resolved between the families, without police intervention. A team of local cops have been deployed outside the girl's house as a precaution after the situation became tense with some right wing groups taking up the cause and demanding strict action against the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/stalker-assaults-minor-returning-fromtuition-police-slap-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/78959723.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Sanjay School student sets up file-making unit||Bicholim: A 24-year-old man with disabilities, Siddharth Naik, has set up a file-making unit at his residence in Govindnagar-Sarvan, Bicholim. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who inaugurated the unit, lauded the young entrepreneur saying that he has given new impetus to the concept of self-reliant India and self-sufficient Goa. Naik is a former student of Sanjay Centre for Special Education, Porvorim. “He is a role model for Goan youth. The government and the society should continue to support such students. Special assistance will be given to bring disabled students into the mainstream through various mediums. Special training as well as marketing support will be offered to them,” Sawant said. Naik was trained in file-making at the school. His mother, Deepti, and brother, Diptesh, too were given training. His parents and brother helped financially, saving up and purchasing a machine worth Rs 1.5 lakh for the unit. “He now handles the file production process very skillfully,” Naik’s father Deelip said. Sanjay Centre for Special Education, chairman, Guruprasad Pawaskar, said the school is committed to making at least 50 children self-reliant in the coming year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanjay-school-student-sets-up-file-making-unit/articleshow/78961123.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Allahabad||Religious conversion only for marriage not acceptable: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: While reiterating that the religious conversion just for the purpose of marriage is unacceptable, the Allahabad high court has dismissed a petition filed by an inter-faith couple seeking directions to police and the girl's father not to interfere in their married life. Dismissing a writ petition filed by Priyanshi alias Samreen and her partner, Justice Mahesh Chandra Tripathi said, “The court has perused the record in question and found that the first petitioner has converted her religion on June 29, 2020 and just after one month, they have solemnized their marriage on July 31, 2020, which clearly reveals to this court that the said conversion has taken place only for the purpose of marriage." In the petition, the couple had stated that the couple had married in July this year but family members of the girl are interfering in the married life of the couple. Rejecting their pleas, the court relied upon a previous judgment given by the Allahabad high court in the Noor Jahan Begum case in 2014 in which it was observed that conversion just for the purpose of marriage was unacceptable. The court dismissed the writ petition saying that it is not inclined to interfere in the matter under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution of India. In Noor Jahan Begum case, this court had dismissed a bunch of writ petitions which were filed praying for protection as a married couple as they had tied the knot after the girls got her religion converted from Hinduism to Islam and then performed the Nikah. The issue considered in the said case was "whether conversion of religion of a Hindu girl at the instance of a Muslim boy, without any knowledge of Islam or faith and belief in Islam and merely for the purpose of Marriage (Nikah) is valid?". The court at that time answered the question in negative while relying on teachings of the religious texts. The court gave this decision on September 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/religious-conversion-only-for-marriage-not-acceptable-hc/articleshow/78961536.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 31, 2020||Delhi||EOW arrests conman for duping investors||NEW DELHI: The Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested a conman who allegedly duped scores of people by inducing them to invest money in an upcoming airline project of his company. The accused has been identified as Tarun Trikha. The investors, police said, were promised that their money will double in three years when the airline becomes operational. However, the victims neither got any returns, nor did the airline project take off. The investors were also lured to invest in other schemes in which they were promised periodic holidays for free at any affiliated resort or hotel for seven days/nights, police said. They had to pay Rs 13,000 to become a member of this club run by the accused. The police had started investigation after receiving a complaint from one Harsh Kumar who said he came across an advertisement in January 2009, wherein Trikha had invited applications for investment offering huge returns. “The complainant made an investment over a period of time to the tune of Rs 22 lakh,” said O P Mishra, joint commissioner (EOW).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eow-arrests-conman-for-duping-investors/articleshow/78959755.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Two wild boars barge into house, shot dead||KOZHIKODE: Friday began as usual for Alamala Mohanan until two unsolicited visitors grunted their way into his bedroom at Poovathumchol in Koorachundu here. Besides KSEB employee Mohanan, his wife and son were in the house when the wild boars barged in through the front door around 7.30am. The unexpected ‘visit’ by two wild boars forced Mohanan and family to flee the house after locking up the pigs in the bedroom. The ‘visit’, however, turned fatal for the animals as the forest department officials brought in two gunmen, who shot dead the pigs. The wild boars that were trapped in the house, meanwhile, had rummaged through the bedroom, hopped on the bed, chomped at the mattress and destroyed furniture. On being informed, forest department and police officers reached the residential neighbourhood with around 15 houses. Many people also gathered at the scene. Kozhikode divisional forest officer M Rajeevan ordered the killing of the animals, and two men having gun licence were brought in from Kootalida and Chakkitappara panchayats. They have been in the forest department’s empanelled list of persons authorized to gun down wild boars. The first wild boar was killed in the bedroom at 11 am. But the second animal lived for a couple of hours more following an issue with the gun. Another gunman was summoned, and he shot down the boar around 1pm. “The incident shows that we are not safe even inside our houses. The entire items inside the bedroom, including furniture and two mobile phones, have been destroyed. We have been suffering the menace of crop-raiding wild boars for a long time and now they have become a threat to our safety as well,” Mohanan said. Thamarassery forest range officer Akhil Narayanan said that the nearest forest boundary was over one-and-a-half kilometre away from the house, but wild boars have been thriving among shrubs in uncultivated private lands. The forest department said it would provide emergency relief payment to the house owner and the payment for damaged property would be processed later. Rajeevan said the state government had provided permission to kill wild boars after confirming to prescribed guidelines, and as many as 17 wild boars have been killed in 12 panchayats in the district. He said that there was a shortage of persons with licensed firearms in Koorachundu panchayat. The state government had recently initiated steps to get the Centre's nod to declare wild boars as `vermin', which would enable killing of the animals in human-wildlife conflict hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wild-boars-in-bedroom-shot-dead/articleshow/78959768.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Corporations must return Rs 8.6k crore to Delhi govt: Saurabh Bharadwaj||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Friday said the municipal corporations must return Rs 8,600 crore they owe to Delhi government and get Rs 18,000 crore from the central government. In a press conference, Bharadwaj said the municipal corporations had in the recent past quoted baseless figures they deserved to get from Delhi government. “It is well known that the central government provides grants to all the municipal corporations. The amount is calculated based on the population and for every person residing in a city, Rs 488 per person is given as municipal development funds. Rs 2,87,636 has been given as municipal funds to all the municipal corporations of the country, except that of Delhi’s. Based on Delhi’s population, this amounts to a total of Rs 18,000 crore over the last 15 years that should have been granted by the Centre,” Bharadwaj claimed. He also referred to a letter deputy CM Manish Sisodia wrote to the mayors of the three corporations on Thursday to say that Rs 6,008 crore loan was outstanding over the three corporations who also owed Rs 2,596.3 crore in arrears to Delhi Jal Board. “I want to request BJP to handover the corporations to AAP,” said Bharadwaj adding that in the last 14 years, the corporations have ruined some of the popular markets of Delhi, including South Ex, Amar Colony and GK-II, by sealing shops and harassing their owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-must-return-rs-8-6k-crore-to-delhi-govt-bharadwaj/articleshow/78959798.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Horses back in action from Rajyotsava day||BENGALURU: The buzz is back at the Bangalore Turf Club with the winter season set to unfold on Sunday with the Rajyotsava Trophy being the plum event on the inaugural day. Although the state government has approved online betting, there will be no betting for at least the first two race days – November 1 and 7 — as the proposed app for online betting is still being developed. This means, the BTC will bear the entire cost of prize money which will be approximately Rs 25-30 lakh per race day. Prospectus for only the first five race days in November have been issued thus far. To begin with, the season will be without spectators amid the pandemic. But according to a BTC release, the office bearers have met government officials and sought permission to allow a limited number of racing patrons. Until spectators are allowed inside the premises, they will have the option of watching the races on the BTC website www.bangaloreraces.com. To minimise the number of people in the club premises during races, the managing committee has decided to allow only one owner per horse during races. The Karnataka Horse Owners Association will be asked to submit the names of the owners, who will be in attendance. GUIDELINES FOR PROFESSIONALSAll outstation professionals will be allowed to compete with a Covid -ve certificate which is not older than 10 days. The number of staff around the horses too have been limited with permission only for a trainer, syce and one stable staff in the saddling enclosure. With masks being the norm for everyone, an exception has been made for the jockeys for the duration of the race. According to the Standard Operation Procedure (SOP), "Jockeys are permitted to pull down the face mask in the moments immediately prior to the start and the duration of the race... On completion of the race, the face covering, if lowered should be raised before entering the horse walk."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/horses-back-in-action-from-rajyotsava-day/articleshow/78957223.cms||Manuja Veerappa
October 31, 2020||Trichy||SH dept notifies land acquisition for RoB near Trichy town station||Trichy: The state highways department has initiated the land acquisition process for constructing a railway overbridge (RoB) across the railway tracks passing through East Boulevard road near Trichy town railway station. Proposed six years ago, the RoB would eliminate the waiting time at the manned level crossing that links the core city with Trichy-Chennai National Highway (NH). However, it was periodically hindered by legal challenges as a section of locals opposed the proposed land acquisition.Armed with judicial and administrative nod, the state highways department recently published a notification in a local daily indicating the commencement of land acquisition work under section 15, Tamil Nadu Highways Act, 2001. The level crossing on East Boulevard road is across the railway tracks between Srirangam and Trichy town stations. It has Gandhi market, Big Bazaar street and Sankaran Pillai on one side and Odathurai road, which links Srirangam island and Trichy-Chennai NH, on the other. Due to the crossing and narrow approach roads, a majority of vehicles entering the city skip the level crossing. Instead, they approach Trichy city through the much-congested Palpannai junction and Melachinthamani Anna statue. It was to eliminate the bottleneck and bypass the level crossing that state highways proposed an RoB during 2013-2014 financial year. However, since the proposal envisaged land acquisition including of residential buildings, the attempts faced persistent hurdles. “The publication of land acquisition notification is a significant development. We will estimate the building and land value for the properties to be acquired to settle the compensation,” an official with state highways department said. The 600-metre-long RoB with service roads on either side will connect Town railway station end with Oyamari end. “Besides avoiding waiting time, the RoB will increase vehicular movement on EB road. Subsequently, the road will attract investments and even public transportation will resume,” P Sugumaran of EB road people’s welfare association said. Although the department plans to complete the land acquisition in six months, the conduct of the ensuing assembly election may delay the progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sh-dept-notifies-land-acquisition-for-rob-near-trichy-town-station/articleshow/78961127.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 31, 2020||Trichy||Fresh Covid cases dip to 38 in Madurai, 211 in central region||Trichy/Madurai: A day after recording a mild increase, the central region of the state registered a sharp decline in fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, recording 211 cases, or a dip by 73 cases. This was mainly due to drop in cases in Thanjavur which recorded 47 cases. Seven deaths were reported in the region including three in Thanjavur and two each in Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam districts. Meanwhile, in the 10 southern districts, a total of 222 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths were reported. While Trichy, Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts also found fresh cases going down, Ariyalur and Perambalur registered the lowest cases of eight and five respectively among the eight central districts. The tally of positive cases in the region stood at 65,227 while 62,336 have recovered so far. The number of active cases of Covid-19 continued to decline to 2,031. With the seven deaths, the death toll in the region touched 860. Among them, a 51-year-old man from Thanjavur district had no comorbidities except the Covid-19 infection. The casualties also included two 50-year-old patients from Tiruvarur and Nagappattinam who had diabetes mellitus. The five deaths in the southern districts included two in Kanyakumari and one each in Madurai, Dindigul and Theni. But for two women aged 52 and 55 years in Kanyakumari district, the three others were above 70 and had comorbid conditions. Madurai with 38 fresh cases has recorded less than 50 cases in a day for the first time in over two months. Tuticorin recorded 71 fresh cases, making it the highest in the region and the only district with more than 50 cases on Friday. Kanyakumari recorded 36 cases while the seven other districts had less than 20 cases. Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram recorded the lowest with four cases each. Dindigul (9) had the third lowest figure in the region. Sivagangai (12), Virudhunagar (14), Theni (16) and Tirunelveli (18) also recorded lesser cases. Dindigul with 92 active cases becomes the fourth southern district to have less than 100 active cases. Tenkasi (54), Theni (66) and Ramanathapuram (92) are the other districts. With active cases in Kanyakumari dropping to 463, Madurai (524) is the only district in the region with more than 500 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-covid-cases-dip-to-38-in-madurai-211-in-central-region/articleshow/78961111.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Jagtar Johal’s Punjabi wife wins immigration battle||LONDON: The Punjabi wife of Jagtar Singh Johal — the Scottish Sikh incarcerated in Tihar Jail in Delhi accused of involvement in murders of right-wing politicians — has been granted permission to stay in the UK after winning an appeal against the UK home office. Gurpreet Kaur (32) has been living in Dumbarton, Scotland, with the family of Jagtar — known as Jaggi — since April 2019. She arrived on a one-month “outside of immigration rules” visa, which is given in exceptional circumstances. After Jaggi’s cases were transferred from Punjab to Delhi, his brother Gurpreet Singh Johal, a solicitor in immigration and asylum, submitted an application for leave to remain so that she could continue to live with his family in Dumbarton. This was prior to the expiry of her visa. On January 18 the home office had turned down the application saying it did not meet immigration rules and there were no exceptional circumstances. The family instructed immigration solicitor Damir Duheric who lodged an appeal on January 22. The appeal was heard at the First Tier Tribunal (Immigration and Asylum Chamber) in Glasgow on October 15, three days before the couple’s third wedding anniversary. A judgment overturning the home office decision was sent to Duheric by email on Thursday. “With this decision, a new energy has been installed. I will not stop until my brother is back home where he belongs” an elated Gurpreet Singh Johal told TOI. “I have been utterly disappointed with the UK government as they have contributed to the unnecessary ordeal we have been subjected to. The granting of the visa was within the UK government’s control but they chose to frustrate the family. I am grateful for the immigration judge’s decision as he considered the evidence and Jagtar’s plight when allowing the appeal. The continued support from the community and my peers has been immense.” Gurpreet was shopping with her husband in Rama Mandir on November 4, 2017, just weeks after they tied the knot, when Jaggi was hooded and forced into a police van by plainclothes policemen. At the time of his arrest, the newlyweds were staying with Jaggi’s paternal grandmother in a village in Jalandhar. The charge sheet alleges Jaggi paid Rs 2.7 lakh to the late Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) chief Harminder Singh Mintoo in France in 2013 to execute the killing of RSS leader Ravinder Gosain in October 2017. KLF was banned in India in 2018. Jaggi denies the charges. “The home office could have withdrawn the decision and saved Jagtar’s wife from going through the immigration appeal ordeal. However, they chose not to do so and subjected her to questioning. Jagtar’s brother was also a witness and was subjected to questioning,” the family said in a statement. “Jagtar supports his wife’s application to remain in the UK. The UK government continues to frustrate the family despite claiming to be supporting Jagtar and his family.” The home office has 14 days to appeal the decision on an error of law, or grant the visa in line with the judge’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jagtar-johals-wife-wins-immigration-battle/articleshow/78961135.cms||NAOMI CANTON
October 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain-affected farmers still await dole: Cong||Hyderabad: The Congress on Friday criticised chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for boasting about Dharani portal but not uttering a word on payment of compensation to the farmers, whose crops were damaged due to the recent torrential rains and floods. Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that various crops in 13 lakh acres were damaged. “Lakhs of farmers are waiting for the state government to announce a compensation package. What is shocking is that even a proper formal assessment of the crop damage has not been done so far,” he alleged. Referring to KCR’s plan to inaugurate a rythu vedika on Saturday, he demanded that the CM should announce a minimum of Rs 20,000 per acre compensation for the farmers on this occasion. Uttam appealed to Dubbak voters to realise that a vote to TRS is a vote to BJP. Meanwhile, Congress working president Ponnam Prabhakar demanded the government to provide a bonus in addition to the MSP while procuring fine rice from the farmers as they had cultivated a fine variety of paddy following state’s diktat as part of its regulated farming policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-affected-farmers-still-await-dole-cong/articleshow/78959813.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Trichy||Residents oppose parking fee plan for visitors in Srirangam||Trichy: Locals in Srirangam have opposed the decision of the Trichy Corporation to re-introduce parking fee for tourists coming into Srirangam, claiming that they will end up being harassed by the authorities. The civic body has sought public opinion for the proposal till November 9.The corporation has designated a portion of Gandhi Road, Salai Road, Ammamandapam Road and Panchakarai Road as paid parking zones and said that parking fee will be levied from vehicles coming from other districts and states. However, locals say that it will result in daily altercations, since it will be difficult to differentiate between tourists and locals based on the vehicle registration number. “The lessee will forcibly collect parking fee even from relatives visiting us from other districts,” R Govindaraju, a resident said.The Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department that manages the Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam too has opposed the proposal. “Without providing any amenities to parked vehicles, it is unfair to charge a parking fee. Devotees will be exploited in the name of parking fee collection. We will not allow that,” an official said. Till March 2019, tourists and visitors to Srirangam, were made to pay entry/parking fee to a private lessee. It was scrapped from April 2019 following the intervention of the high court. But now, the corporation has again come up with the proposal. “There is no stay order stopping us from collecting the parking fee. It will be collected only from visitors,” a senior corporation officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-oppose-parking-fee-plan-for-visitors-in-srirangam/articleshow/78961129.cms||Deepak Karthik
October 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Stormy assembly session likely today over farm laws||JAIPUR: The assembly session beginning on Saturday is likely to be heated as the BJP will oppose the legislation that seeks to override the recently-passed farm laws by the Centre. The session has been convened to counter three farm laws passed by the Parliament allowing private players to purchase farm produce directly from the farmers instead of agriculture markets. The BJP claimed that the Centre’s laws will liberate the farmers from middlemen and allow them to sell their produce at competitive prices. The Congress on the other hand has been demanding to incorporate a provision to ensure minimum support price (MSP) for farmers and prevent private players from purchasing farm produce below MSP. But the Centre had rejected the demand of Congress. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had then asked party ruled states to pass legislations to override the Centre’s farm laws. The direction came as farmers took to streets to protest the laws passed by the Centre fearing that the new legislation would do away with the MSP system. The state government also plans to have a provision that makes sale and purchase of farm produce below MSP punishable with fine and imprisonment as was done by Punjab recently. The Congress-ruled states are also going a step further and plan to bring an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure to make the land of small farmers with less than five acres immune from attachment over breach of agreement or by decree. The BJP will find it difficult to oppose this legislation. Another legislation in the pipeline is to make wearing masks mandatory in public places. Rajasthan is the first in the country going to introduce such a provision as the vaccine for Covid-19 is still a far cry and wearing masks has been found to be effective in preventing the pandemic. Speaker C P Joshi on Friday reviewed the arrangement for the session with officials of the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stormy-assembly-sessionlikely-today-over-farm-laws/articleshow/78961134.cms||---
October 31, 2020||India||India to get potatoes from Bhutan to meet supply gap, calm prices||NEW DELHI: India is looking at Bhutan to help alleviate shortage of potatoes. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Friday issued an order allowing unhindered import of this key kitchen item from the tiny Himalayan nation without any licence till January 31, 2021. Potato prices have been hovering between Rs 40 and Rs 45 per kg across cities. The government move is aimed at addressing this concern quickly. Union food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal told reporters that 30,000 tonnes of potatoes will arrive from Bhutan in the next few days. In another public notice, the DGFT also laid out the procedure for import of potatoes under the tariff rate quota scheme. According to the procedure, only one application against one import-export code will be considered and successful applicants will have to ensure that the import consignment reaches the Indian ports on or before January 31 next year. A total of 10 lakh tonnes is allowed for import. Earlier in the day, Goyal indicated that the government will continue import of onion and pulses (urad and arhar) as well to tide over the current problem of high prices. Private players have imported 7,000 tonnes of onion and another 27,000 tonnes will reach by Diwali, he said. The government is also likely to extend the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Mozambique to import 2 lakh tonnes of arhar per annum for the next five years. Another fresh MoU is likely to be signed with Myanmar to import 2 lakh tonnes of urad per year for the next five years. The minister said there will be enough supply of onions in the market as the government cooperative Nafed will also invite bids from private parties to import the commodity. He said the government is following the “twin track” policy of increasing production as well as import to meet the shortage. Goyal said along with imports, arrival of new kharif onion crops in mandis from next month will improve supply which will reduce prices. The government has pegged kharif and later kharif onion output lower by 6 lakh tonnes to 37 lakh tonnes in the current year. The minister said retail prices of onion, potato and some of the pulses had increased, but for the last few days, prices have been stable after the government took proactive measures, including ban on export of onion and making the process for import easier for private players. He also added that to ensure smooth domestic supply of pulses, the government has extended the time-limit for import of 4 lakh tonnes of arhar dal till December and licences have been issued for import of 1.5 lakh tonnes of urad. The import duty of 10% on masoor will continue till December-end as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-get-potatoes-from-bhutan-to-meet-supply-gap-calm-prices/articleshow/78962222.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Dehradun||Rishikesh: Over 25 rafting guides, members test positive||RISHIKESH: The rafting business in Rishikesh, which resumed only last month after a nearly six-month long break due to the pandemic, has found itself in troubled waters, as over 25 guides and crew members have tested Covid-19-positive in the past few days. As a precautionary measure, the Tehri district administration has launched a Corona-testing drive for all those involved in rafting activities. According to the administration, four teams have been formed to conduct testing and around 700 guides and crew members have been identified for testing. The peak season of adventure sports had been lost to the lockdown imposed in March. Adventure tourism was allowed to resume in the state on September 26. Rafting reopened with restrictions (only four persons were allowed on a raft with waterproof masks and other safety gear). Adventure lovers started turning out in encouraging numbers and operators were hopeful of a decent footfall during the festive season. Now they are afraid that the news of rafting guides testing positive will harm business. The rafting association said that even though all precautions, including social distancing, regular sanitisation and wearing masks were followed, rafting guides and crew members somehow contracted the virus. Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Narendra Nagar Akanksha Verma told TOI, “With 25 rafting operators testing positive and around 700 guides being identified for testing, we have asked more members in the business to come forward to get themselves tested. We haven’t received a good response so far, so we will target check points to conduct tests. Not only rafting guides, workers employed at camping sites and hotel staff members are also being tested.” “The good news is no big corona cluster has been detected so far. Only a hotel in Tapovan area, where seven people tested positive for the virus, was closed down for 48 hours,” Verma added. The rafting association meanwhile has requested the administration not to disclose the reports of rapid testing, saying it will create panic among enthusiasts and stop them from coming to Rishikesh. “We are ready to co-operate with the testing but the reports should not be made public. It will create panic and ultimately damage the rafting and camping business, which is only getting back on its feet,” Dinesh Bhatt, president of the rafting association, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-25-rafting-guides-crew-members-found-corona-positive-so-far-in-rishikesh-casting-shadow-on-rafting-activities/articleshow/78958392.cms||MS Nawaz
October 31, 2020||Pune||Zensar to exit maintenance biz, to focus on digital services in future||Pune: City-based technology firm Zensar Technologies said it expects to close a deal in the next quarter to sell its third-party maintenance business and focus on its core digital, cloud, and information technology businesses going forward. “We plan to invest more in our core businesses as we have a base in countries like the US and South Africa, among others. The third-party maintenance business, under the PSI Group, is no longer a focus for us, which is why we have identified a buyer and hope to complete the deal next quarter,” Zensar CEO and managing director Sandeep Kishore told TOI while discussing their Q2 results. Kishore said they have decided to focus on digital business due to an increasing share (nearly 60%) of its revenue coming from it — a lion’s share of potential clients are expected to avail themselves of Zensar’s digital services, including app support and real-time data monitoring. On the company severing ties with clients, Kishore said it was a conscious choice to have “fewer clients and deeper relationships”. Zensar reported revenues of around Rs979 crore for Q2, down around 9% over the corresponding quarter last year. The potential sale of its third-party hardware maintenance business to the US-based Service Express — subject to board and shareholder approval — is expected to fetch Zensar around Rs89 crore. The company’s stock closed at Rs177.95 at the Bombay Stock Exchange on Friday, dipping by around 4.8%. Kishore said that the firm’s cash position has improved, helping it to pay off a significant portion of its debt. While its rate of attrition has reduced significantly over the corresponding quarter last year, it has also shed its headcount by over 1600 employees. “Our normal attrition rate is around 15%. We have not done any significant backfill in the recent period, and given the business situation, we are managing our costs very strictly. Our headcount will increase next quarter onwards, as our business stabilizes and marginally grows,” he added. He also expects their way of working after the pandemic to return to a hybrid home-and-office model. “Permanently working from home is not feasible. We need to find the right balance. We have settled on working from home during the coming few months. It certainly won’t be the same after the pandemic; there will be a hybrid model,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zensar-to-exit-maintenance-biz-to-focus-on-digital-services-in-future/articleshow/78959802.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||In some Dumka pockets, BJP relies on Sarath strongman||Dumka: For BJP in Dumka, it seems Sarath MLA Randhir Singh is more important than party stalwarts. Singh’s crowd-pulling capacity was evident once again when at a rally, Bablu Datta, a local from Ranighaghar (Dumka district) village said they find themselves closer to Singh than Lois Marandi, BJP’s pick for the bypolls here. Lois was an MLA in Dumka for five years between 2014 and 2019 before she lost to Hemant Soren, who vacated the seat to pave way for his younger brother Basant. “In the previous few terms, we have helped BJP either win or increase its vote percentage. Although Lois didi is our MLA, we find ourselves closer to Randhir babu, who has always walked the extra mile for us in case of any crisis,” Datta told TOI. “When people from this constituency visit Sarath to take part in Randhir babu’s janta darbars, he patiently hears us out although Dumka is not his home ground. People mostly from Masaliya block of Dumka, which is just beside Sarath, visit him with their issues,” Datta said. Randhir had won from Sarath 2014 with a JVM(P) ticket, but later joined hands with BJP and went on to become a minister in the Raghubar Das cabinet. He also managed to retain his seat in the last assembly election despite an anti-incumbency wave against BJP. Lois on the other hand failed to retain the seat despite being a minister for five years. Political analyst Shailendra Sinha says, “Lois lost to Hemant by over 13,000 votes in 2019 and it would have been difficult for her to bridge the gap alone. But, with Randhir Singh in the picture, her prospects have definitely brightened as he will be able to mobilise his supporters in Dumka.” Randhir is attending nearly a dozen meetings in Masaliya block areas, particularly those that are situated along the borders of Sarath, to mobilise electorates in favour of Lois. “People of Masaliya block have for long been my admirers who turn up in large numbers to my janta darbars for redressal of their grievances,” Randhir told TOI and said Lois will win it this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/in-some-dumka-pockets-bjp-relies-on-sarath-strongman/articleshow/78960542.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||Twin bypolls: A fight for prestige between Hemant & Babulal||Ranchi: The bypolls to the Bermo and Dumka assembly seats have become an issue of prestige for both chief minister Hemant Soren and his predecessor and BJP rival Babulal Marandi. While victory for Mahagathbandhan candidates in both the constituencies would be viewed as public endorsement for the 10-month-old state government led by Hemant, Babulal’s relevance in the saffron camp to a large extent would depend on the outcome of the bypolls. The upcoming bye-elections would be the first real test for Babulal after he came back to BJP following a 14-year hiatus. Of the two seats, Dumka is regarded as a traditional stronghold of the ruling JMM, and particularly that of the Soren family. Whereas Bermo has shifted allegiance between BJP and Congress in the last few elections. Notably, unlike in the last assembly polls, the fight in these two seats is largely limited between the Mahagathbandhan and NDA camps. In Bermo, JMM is backing Congress candidate Kumar Jaimangal, who is the son of the deceased Congress MLA. While the GOP is backing JMM’s Basant Soren in Dumka. BJP has also managed to get the support of its alliance partners — JD(U) and Ajsu Party — in both the seats. Although JD(U) does not have a significant presence in the state, Ajsu Party has a strong influence in Bermo, which comes under the Giridih parliamentary constituency represented by Ajsu Party’s Chandraprakash Choudhary. On the campaign trail, Babulal Marandi has harped on the fact that BJP’s Bermo candidate is a local and the Congress nominee is an outsider. He has also picked up the issue of underdevelopment of Santhal Pargana to target JMM in Dumka. Hemant, on the other hand, has trained guns against the central BJP leadership by highlighting the Union government’s decision to auto-debit Jharkhand’s funds with the RBI to clear dues of the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). Incidentally, two DVC thermal power plants are in Bermo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/twin-bypolls-a-fight-for-prestige-between-hemant-babulal/articleshow/78960561.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||2 policemen injured in Maoist ambush in Lohardaga district||Gumla: Two policemen were injured when Maoists triggered an IED blast and ambushed them at Shahighat near the Sereng bauxite mines police picket under Senha police station of Lohardaga district on Friday afternoon. A fierce encounter soon followed and continued till late in the evening but there was no report of casualty or injuries from the rebels’ side. Lohardaga SP Priyanka Meena, who rushed to the spot soon after getting information about the ambush, said, “We have safely evacuated the injured personnel identified as Upendra Singh of Lohardaga district police and Arbind Pande from the state’s Small Action Team (SAT) and they have been taken to Ranchi for treatment. These personnel sustained bullet injuries during the encounter.” Meena said the Reds must have suffered some losses as police recovered uniform components like caps worn by their leaders. The incident happened when a combined police team went after the Maoists on foot around 1.30 pm. The rebels exploded the IED planted earlier. Before the personnel could take up position, they were fired upon but retaliated on time. Reinforcements were also sent from the Gumla district. Sources said the Maoists were led by their regional commander Ravindra Ganjhu, who is active in Lohardaga and the forested areas of neighbouring Gumla district for the last few years. Talking to TOI, DIG (Ranchi range) Akhilesh Kumar Jha said, “There is so far no input about any casualty or injury on the Maoists’ side. They fled after our forces retaliated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-policemen-injured-in-maoist-ambush-in-lohardaga-district/articleshow/78960518.cms||K A Gupta
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro administration puts 2.3k personnel, 18 cells on task||BOKARO: Though political leaders and candidates in the fray for the Bermo bye-election were violating Covid-19 guidelines and cases have been filed against them for such violations, the district administration is putting in sincere efforts to ensure peaceful and safe polling on November 3. District officials said a total of 2,340 polling personnel will be engaged on voting day and steps have been taken up to ensure that they follow the protocols strictly. No person above the age of 55 has been deployed for polling duty and 18 different cells, including for coordination and Covid, have been set up. Bokaro DC-cum-district election Rajesh Singh has appealed to all 3,11,107 electors in the constituency to exercise their franchise and ensure that the protocols are followed properly as well. He said sanitization of EVM-VVPAT machines has been complete and sanitizer will be provided at the polling booths. “We will conduct thermal screening of the voters at every polling station. I have asked all polling personnel and other officials engaged in polling duty to follow the guidelines strictly at all polling stations,” Singh said. Moreover, the district health department has prepared a emergency plan as preparation to face any challenge on the voting day. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “No doctor or department staff on duty at the the health centres located in the Bermo assembly constituency can take leave or go out of the district headquarters. We have also assigned one medical team to each polling booth.” As part of the campaign to ensure a high turnout, Bermo SDO Anant Kumar visited many houses and appealed to the residents to take part in the democratic exercise. Kumar said teams of district officials led by the respective sector magistrates have started home visits to voter slips to the electorates. Police have also started patrolling of the constituency to check for violent and criminal activities. Meanwhile, the district administration has already lodged FIRs against BJP and Congress for flouting the Covid-19 norms during their election campaigns, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-admin-puts-2-3k-personnel-18-cells-on-task/articleshow/78960662.cms||Divy Khare
October 31, 2020||Goa||Five more mortalities see toll cross 600-mark on Fri||Panaji: Goa’s Covid-19 mortality count shot up to 603 on Friday with the death of five people. Two patients died within 24 hours of their admission to hospital. Health secretary Amit Satija tested positive for Covid-19. Satija has been admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and his condition has been stable, said Dr S M Bandekar, dean GMC and incharge of Covid hospitals. Of the five deaths — four men and one woman — reported during the day, four occurred at GMC and one died at the ESI-Covid hospital. A 36-year-old man from Quepem, who was diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), soon after his admission, died within 24 hours of hospitalisation. He suffered from comorbidity of cirrhosis of liver. A 70-year-old man from Bicholim died within 15 minutes of being rushed to hospital. His comorbidities were diabetes and hypertension. Other deaths were that of a 72-year-old man from Vasco, a 77-year-old woman from Aldona and a 64-year old man from Pernem. All had comorbid conditions. Besides, they were diagnosed with ARDS shortly after their admission. The state reported 215 new infections and 241 recoveries on Friday taking its active caseload to 2,404. As many as 180 patients chose to be in home isolation and 42 had to be hospitalised. Panaji saw nine new cases and its tally rose to 125 while that of Porvorim to 135. Margao’s case tally dropped to 208 and that of Ponda to 145. As many as 180 patients chose to be in home isolation and 42 had to be hospitalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-more-mortalities-see-toll-cross-600-mark-on-fri/articleshow/78961167.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand CM plays Sarna code card, vows spl assembly session after bypolls||DUMKA: Hitherto ‘dilly-dallying’ the demand for introducing a separate Sarna religious code for tribals in the census, chief minister Hemant Soren finally announced to send the proposal to the central government in a bid to keep JMM’s major support base intact with it ahead of the bypolls. The demand for a separate Sarna code is long-standing and the recent times have seen heightened protests in Ranchi and other districts. “I spoke to governor Draupadi Murmu today (Friday) and discussed with her the idea of convening a special session of the assembly soon after the bypolls,” Hemant said in a press conference here on Friday which was arranged for making this announcement amidst his hectic schedule for campaigning. Hemant said tribals remain deprived from their identity due to the absence of a separate column for their religion in the census format which includes only six religions. In a reply to a question, Hemant said that the status of converted Christians who still enjoy the facilities meant for tribals, would be looked into after consulting stakeholders and experts. It is believed that the introduction of a Sarna code in the census, if materialised, will deprive converted Christians from the simultaneous status of being tribals, who play a significant role in electoral politics of a vast portion of the state, including Santhal Parganas. “Whether converted Christians will still be categorised as tribals will be discussed at an appropriate time before sending the proposal to the Centre latest by mid-November,” Hemant said without directly commenting on the fate of converted Christians. In Dumka, the Christian population comprise a significant portion, enough to affect the margin of victory and defeat of candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-cm-plays-sarna-code-card-vows-spl-assembly-session-after-bypolls/articleshow/78967033.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM plays Sarna code card, vows spl assembly session after bypolls||DUMKA: Hitherto ‘dilly-dallying’ the demand for introducing a separate Sarna religious code for tribals in the census, chief minister Hemant Soren finally announced to send the proposal to the central government in a bid to keep JMM’s major support base intact with it ahead of the bypolls. The demand for a separate Sarna code is long-standing and the recent times have seen heightened protests in Ranchi and other districts. “I spoke to governor Draupadi Murmu today (Friday) and discussed with her the idea of convening a special session of the assembly soon after the bypolls,” Hemant said in a press conference here on Friday which was arranged for making this announcement amidst his hectic schedule for campaigning. Hemant said tribals remain deprived from their identity due to the absence of a separate column for their religion in the census format which includes only six religions. In a reply to a question, Hemant said that the status of converted Christians who still enjoy the facilities meant for tribals, would be looked into after consulting stakeholders and experts. It is believed that the introduction of a Sarna code in the census, if materialised, will deprive converted Christians from the simultaneous status of being tribals, who play a significant role in electoral politics of a vast portion of the state, including Santhal Parganas. “Whether converted Christians will still be categorised as tribals will be discussed at an appropriate time before sending the proposal to the Centre latest by mid-November,” Hemant said without directly commenting on the fate of converted Christians. In Dumka, the Christian population comprise a significant portion, enough to affect the margin of victory and defeat of candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-plays-sarna-code-card-vows-spl-assembly-session-after-bypolls/articleshow/78960462.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Agri minister promises help to flood-hit farmers||Amaravati: The state government has asked the agriculture department to complete enumeration of crop damages by Saturday. Field teams have been asked to finish enumeration with the help of e-crop data and revenue officials on war footing and prepare lists of farmers who incurred losses due to the recent floods and rains. Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu has assured that each and every farmer who incurred losses will be bailed out by the state government. Kannababu said that the list of farmers whose crop was damaged would be put up in Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) in all villages for social audit. “We have already directed district collectors to closely monitor the issue of crop damage enumeration to avoid troubles to farmers. We have asked agriculture assistants to take the support of revenue assistants wherever the tenant farmers failed to get their data entered into e-crop booking format,” said Kannababu. He said that the farmers do not need to worry about missing names and extent details in the e-crop booking format. The agriculture minister further said that farmers will be able to file complaints regarding enumeration in local RBKs. The 10,641 RBKs set up across the state will act as one-point contact centres for all farmers’ needs, he said, while adding that the government will procure agriculture produce through RBKs and would launch paddy procurement centres at all RBKs. Minister Kannababu also hinted at the launch of a village seed bank programme shortly so that there’s no shortage of seeds. He said that village seed banks will encourage farmers to prepare seeds on their own without having to depend on private seed firms. Acharya NG Ranga Agriculture University would provide the mother seed to farmers and provide guidance on multiplying it, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/agri-minister-promises-help-to-flood-hit-farmers/articleshow/78958434.cms||Samdani MN
October 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Mock drill held in Vizag on radioactive leakage||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP-RINL) organised the first-ever mock drill in the district on radioactive leakage preparedness on Friday. Joint chief inspector of factories, J Siva Sankar Reddy, was witness to the mock drill. As part of the mock drill, one worker inadvertently opens the cap of Cobalt 60 isotope (radioactive source) while cleaning the isotope storage room. Four workers nearby get affected after being exposed to radiation. Consequent to this, communication, execution and evacuation activities to rescue workers and save the premises were organised as part of the drill. The NDRF (National Disaster Relief Force) team played a vital role in arresting the radioactive source and evacuation those affected. Nearby industries, NTPC and Hinduja power plant provided medical assistance as part of ‘mutual aid’. Joint chief inspector of factories, J Siva Sankar Reddy, lauded VSP-RINL for being the first industry to conduct a mock drill of this sort. Following the drill, chief emergency controller KV Vidya Sagar ED (works) of RINL conducted a review meeting and discussed observations of the drill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mock-drill-held-in-vizag-on-radioactive-leakage/articleshow/78958477.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Post-Covid care starts at Valpoi CHC||Valpoi: The community health centre (CHC) at Valpoi recently launched a ‘post-Covid clinic’ to attend to patients, but are suffering from mid- and long-term persistent effects of the infection. “Many patients who have recovered suffer from problems that include breathlessness, chest pain and heart issues, joint pains, vision problems and memory loss, months after contracting the novel coronavirus. The clinic will be managed by a team of doctors,” medical officer Dr Shyam Kankonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/post-covid-care-starts-at-valpoi-chc/articleshow/78961185.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Goa||Biz activities on beaches make blue flag certification difficult, say stakeholders||Panaji: The tourism policy approved by the state cabinet states that the authorities must strive to get a blue flag certification or any other similar certification for beaches. However, stakeholders said that with beaches being exposed to commercialisation it will be a difficult task to have them brought under certification of any kind. Many beaches have shacks, water sports and other activities operating between October and May. Local fishermen also use the beach space for their occupation. It will be a herculean task given the problems similar proposals in the past faced in getting cleared owing to opposition by people running commercial activities in beaches. Efforts to get blue flag certification for Miramar beach met with hurdles as people raised the ante against the proposal. Eight beaches in the country, including two in Karnataka, were accorded blue flag certification recently, Goa missed the bus even as it is touted as the land of sea, sand and sun. Blue flag award is given by an international jury to the safest, cleanest and environment-friendly beaches of the world. Former travel and tourism association president Savio Messias, who is in favour of beaches of Goa getting the blue flag certification, said that the authorities must pursue beaches that have no commercial activities and where the presence of local fishermen community is minimal. “Otherwise the plan will not fructify,” he said. He said no other state in the country having a coastline, has a concept of beach shacks. “It was not difficult to get blue flag certification for those beaches. There are some beaches in Goa that will fit the bill for blue flag certification,” he said. Another stakeholder said that getting the certification for any of the beaches s a distant dream as most of the coastline has been exposed to exploitation. “Increased commercial activity, whether by beach or private shacks or other activities, has hurt the ecosystem. We are already witnessing it at more popular beach stretches. Sand dunes have appeared,” he said. The beaches of South Goa are though comparatively cleaner, he said, but added that will not be surprised if in another five to ten years, they meet with the same fate as beaches of North Goa. The tourism department is trying to keep the beaches clean, yet vendors and others who are trying to sustain a living through tourism, contribute to the littering found along any coastline that sees more footfalls, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/biz-activities-on-beaches-make-blue-flag-certification-difficult-say-stakeholders/articleshow/78961216.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||19 Covid deaths in Vidarbha, lowest in two months||NAGPUR: Vidarbha witnessed reduction in Covid deaths on Friday which provided much-needed respite to the region. With zero Covid-19 deaths in four districts, the region reported 19 deaths in the day, which is lowest in two months. With more than 90% patients (1.72 lakh) recovering till date, only 6.83% persons (13,043) of the total 1.90 lakh cases are under treatment. Covid-19 toll reached 5,209 — which indicates case fatality rate at 2.71%, slightly lower than yesterday’s 2.73%. Yavatmal, Buldhana, Gadchiroli and Gondia reported no Covid-19 deaths on Friday. Out of the seven deaths reported in Nagpur, three were from Nagpur city and four from other states/districts. Nagpur rural, for the first time, reported zero death. Bhandara and Chandrapur reported four deaths each, while Wardha, Akola, Amravati and Washim reported one fatality each. Cases came from Nagpur 294, Bhandara 86, Wardha 37, Gondia 90, Chandrapur 197, Gadchiroli 115, Akola 40, Amravati 48, Yavatmal 47, Buldhana 66, and Washim 8. Interestingly, tests are being done in a good number in all these districts. Recoveries continued to be more than new cases. Total 1,257 recoveries came on Friday — Nagpur 381, Bhandara 30, Wardha 75, Gondia 149, Chandrapur 175, Gadchiroli 97, Akola 93, Amravati 118, Yavatmal 52, Buldhana 63, and Washim 24. With more recoveries, the number of under-treatment patients has reduced significantly. Now, only Nagpur and Chandrapur are the two districts in Vidarbha to have more than 1,000 patients under treatment. All other districts have active cases in three-figures only. Akola has lowest, 241, patients under treatment. In Washim, eight new Covid cases were reported on Friday. Single-digit increase in new cases has happened for the first time in two months in Vidarbha. Akola reported 40 new cases, while Buldhana saw 66 against more than 1,150 tests conducted in a day. In Nagpur division, Gadchiroli continued to report higher number of new patients. Total 115 new Covid cases were reported in a day. Gondia reported 90 cases while Bhandara 86. Bhandara continued to report Covid-19 deaths. Four deaths were reported in Bhandara on Friday. Chandrapur: The district registered 197 new Covid patients and four deaths on Friday. The total Covid-19 patient count has now risen to 15,635 while toll has grown to 231. A total of 175 patients were discharged from hospital during the day, taking the total recoveries to 12,522. There are now 2,882 patients under treatment in Chandrapur. The four deceased include patients from Alapalli and Armori in Gadchiroli, and Nandgaon and Mul in Chandrapur district. Amravati: Forty-eight new Covid cases took the district’s caseload to 16,248 on Friday. The district also saw 118 patients staging recovery today which took the total recoveries to 15,199 for a rate of 93.54%. Death of a 60-year-old woman from Bharsingi village in Katol tehsil of Nagpur district at PDMC Hospital took the district’s toll to 364, said a report by civil surgeon’s office. Now, 685 patients, including 372 in home isolation, are under treatment, the report added. Yavatmal: The district witnessed no Covid death on Friday. The district reported 47 new Covid cases in the day and 52 recoveries. As on date, 358 patients, including 98 in home isolation, are under treatment in the district. Till date, 10,138 persons were found Covid-infected in the district of whom 9,045 have recovered. Wardha: An 86-year-old woman from Wardha died due to coronavirus during treatment on Friday, while 37 new cases and 75 recoveries were also registered in the district. Out the 998 test reports received on Friday, 37 were positive while the caseload of the district reached 6,267 and recoveries to 5,698. On Friday, the number of patients under treatment also reduced to 361. The district has witnessed 208 Covid deaths till date. Today’s cases are Wardha 13, Hinganghat 9, Selu 4, Deoli, Karanja and Samudrapur 3 each, and Arvi 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-covid-deaths-in-vid-lowest-in-two-months/articleshow/78958558.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Homes within buyers’ reach as rates dip||Nagpur: If the stamp duty cut has led to more property registrations, Covid has also had an impact on the real estate prices in the city. A majority of builders continue to maintain a bullish outlook, denying any reduction in the rates. However, a cross section of stakeholders in the realty business, including brokers, businessmen and chartered accountants, admit a price correction has taken place. This has brought homes within the reach of buyers, they say. The rates have corrected by 10% to 20%, and even 30% in some pockets. With the premium segment taking the first hit, Covid has also altered the benchmark for peak rates of housing properties in the city, say sources. In Nagpur, the usual peak rates are estimated to be around Rs 12,000 square-feet. This has come down by at least 10% or even more for some projects, say sources. Chartered accountant (CA) Julfesh Shah said, “Properties in Ramdaspeth that were rated nowhere below Rs 9,000 to Rs 9,500 a square feet are now being quoted for Rs 7,500 to Rs 7,000 a square feet. It’s further lower for old properties.” Samir Bakre, also a CA, said the correction has led to increased demand. This is because rates have come down to realistic levels. Syed Faisal, a broker, said the situation has wiped out the extra premium that was demanded. Pankaj Roshan, another realty agent, said in general there is a scare in the market, which has led to the fall in demand and brought down the rates by 10% to 15% in different price segments. “There has been an impact on the rates of premium properties which were normally priced in the range of Rs 12,000 to Rs 8,000 a square feet. The rates have reduced by around 10%. These include properties in localities like Civil Lines, Dhantoli or Ramdaspeth. The rates of properties priced at Rs 8,000 a square feet and below have remained unchanged.,” said a prominent builder requesting anonymity. Raju Sirsikar of Sirsikar Developers said, “There has been a correction of rates by around 20% in all types of properties, across the board. There has been a marked increase in demand for housing too. However, it would not have happened if the rates had not come down.” “The condition varies from pocket to pocket. For example, there has been no impact on the rates for commercial properties in Itwari. The demand for commercial properties in shopping complexes has been hit, though. The residential segment also saw a correction of 20% and higher in some pockets,” said Harish Gupta of Chaitanya Shree Developers. “The rates for properties in projects developed by corporates have not changed. Although the natural growth expected during the year has not happened. Maybe this is because the spending priorities have changed due to the pandemic,” said a builder not wishing to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/homes-within-buyers-reach-as-rates-dip/articleshow/78958600.cms||Shishir Arya
October 31, 2020||Goa||Tawadkar to challenge court verdict||Poinguinim: Former Canacona MLA Ramesh Tawadkar said he will challenge the order passed by the judicial magistrate first class, Canacona, convicting and sentencing him in an assault case. At a press briefing in Margao on Thursday, the BJP vice-president said he will appeal against the decision. Stating that the case was a politically-motivated conspiracy to ruin his image, Tawadkar, who is the present chairman of Goa State Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Commission, said that he has not “even touched” the person who has accused him of this crime. He alleged that some BJP leaders from Canacona maligned his image by filing fabricated and untrue complaints. Tawadkar also said he will file a defamation suit against those involved in this political conspiracy once he gets justice to his appeal against the judgment. He was sentenced ‘till rising of the court’ in an assault case filed against him in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tawadkar-to-challenge-court-verdict/articleshow/78961231.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Cyberage scheme can be revived: BJP||SALIGAO: The state BJP-led government will try to revive the cyberage scheme for the benefit of students studying online during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, said BJP’s state secretary Gorakh Mandrekar. Speaking to reporters at Mapusa, Mandrekar said that the cyberage scheme, which was was not revived for the last two years, “could be revived this year even though the government is going through a financial crunch due to pandemic”. “Due to the pandemic crisis some schemes could not be revived, but we have to go ahead and lend support to students studying online,” Mandrekar said. BJP’s North Goa district president Mahanand Asnodkar said that the opposition parties were unnecessarily criticising the government and trying to portray it in bad light only on account of the upcoming municipal elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyberage-scheme-can-be-revived-bjp/articleshow/78961238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Massive hunt fails as Tadoba tigress still untraceable, two cubs critical||Nagpur: The massive hunt by field staff has failed to know whereabouts of the tigress that went missing from tourism zone in Khadsangi forest range in the buffer of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). At least 50 camera traps were deployed on Thursday after three emaciated three-month-old cubs were found abandoned, but the tigress has not been recorded. One of the weak male cubs died on Wednesday even before getting treatment while two female cubs are being treated at the transit treatment centre (TTC), Chandrapur. Officials said the cubs are in shock and weigh 7-8kg each. The dehydrated cubs are in critical condition and have been put on saline. The cubs are also suffering from diarrhoea and are tick-infested, indicating that the mother was not around them for long. “The mother licks the cubs not only out of affection but also to keep bacterial infection from insects and ticks away. The presence of ticks indicates that the tigress is not around for a long time,” said wildlife experts. According to tourists and guides, the last time when the tigress was sighted was on October 19. Sources said officials are also exploring cattle kills in the recent past in the forest area. During combing operation, suspected spots vulnerable to electrocution are being checked. TATR conservator of forests & field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “The tigress has not been recorded on camera traps. There are multiple possibilities for the missing animal. We have recorded tigress pugmarks near the same spot from where the cubs were rescued. We are not ruling out anything nor jumping to any conclusions. In next 3-4 days, the picture will be clear.” According to guides and tourists, “The cubs were hardly 200 metres away from the tourism gate of Khadsangi. Seven days ago, we had apprised the beat guard about the cubs being abandoned but the forest staff did not pay heed to our concerns.” However, Ramgaonkar ruled out allegations of lethargic patrolling. “The staff also takes to MSTrIPES, a patrol-based wildlife monitoring GIS database, designed to assist wildlife protection, monitoring, and management.” The area is frequented by tourists and is on the edge of the park. There are villages with agriculture fields around. Villagers use electric fences to protect crops. It was due to tourists and guides, the department could learn that the cubs were abandoned and starving. Forest officials admit that reunion of the cubs is impossible and these cubs will end up going to zoo or rescue centre. Experiments of hand-reared cubs being re-released in the wild have failed miserably in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/massive-hunt-fails-as-tadoba-tigress-still-untraceable-two-cubs-critical/articleshow/78958647.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Boy, 2, dies after falling into lift pit||BENGALURU: A two-year-old boy died after falling into a 6-foot-deep water-filled pit dug up for installing an elevator at an under-construction four-floor residential building at Kodipalya, near Kengeri, on Friday morning. Kengeri police identified the child as Vinod Kumar, son of Ambarish, a security guard working at BGS Global Hospital and from Koppal. Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (west) said Kengeri police have registered a case of criminal negligence under IPC section 304(a) against building owner Ramesh and legal action will be taken against him. According to police, the incident took place around 8.30am, when the boy was playing in the building along with other children. The child fell into the pit and drowned. The incident came to light when his mother noticed he was missing and began searching for him. Ambarish resides in a temporary shed next to the under-construction building with his wife and only son Kumar. He had left home for work and his wife was bathing when Kumar went to play in the building. Locals brought out an unconscious Kumar from the water and rushed him to BGS Global Hospital, where he died within a few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-boy-2-dies-after-falling-into-lift-pit/articleshow/78962249.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||Hold exams for failures soon: Students’ body to edu minister||NAGPUR: After receiving a slew of complaints from failure (ATKT) students, the Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) has rushed a letter to higher education minister Uday Samant demanding exams for them as early as possible. Even as Nagpur and few other universities are conducting exams of final year failure students along with regular ones, nothing has been finalized for those who have backlog subjects from first to final years. The government has only directed universities to conduct their exams within 120 days after the situation returns to normal, but no dates have been announced. The MSWA having branches in Mumbai and Pune wrote to the minister that failure students are confused as their exams have been withheld for last six months due to Covid-19 pandemic. “The situation is yet to improve and in such a situation, the universities should be directed to conduct online exams. However, it shouldn’t be on mobile as the current system adopted by universities has turned out to be a complete failure,” MSWA President Vaibhav Edke mentioned in the letter. While requesting the minister to take the issue seriously, the organization suggested other means like open book, Google Form or assignment based exams. A copy of the letter was forwarded to chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, MSBTE director Vinod Mohitkar and vice-chancellors of Nagpur, Amravati, Pune, Mumbai and Kolhapur universities. Edke told TOI that he has spoken with the minister of state for education Prajakt Tanpure over phone. “The issue will be taken up with the VCs after final year exams are over. Pune University told us MCQ based tests will be conducted after Diwali vacations,” he said adding that MCWA had received several requests and calls from worried students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hold-exams-for-failures-soon-students-body-to-edu-min/articleshow/78958690.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||No manpower at proposed RT-PCR lab in Bhandara||NAGPUR: Expected to have started at least a month back, the proposed RT-PCR laboratory for Covid tests in Bhandara is still a distant dream. In absence of RT-PCR testing facility in Bhandara district, results of several tests used to be delayed due to which many patients were dying. State health minister Rajesh Tope, during his visit to Bhandara on September 24, had given directives to start the RT-PCR molecular diagnostic lab at the district hospital within eight days. The Bhandara district administration is still in search of microbiologists, pathologists, technicians and pharmacists for the lab. On October 30, the health department issued a fresh advertisement for ‘walk-in interview’ to fill 20 posts. Interviews are scheduled on November 5 between 10am and 2pm at ZP health Department. Bhandara neither has a medical college nor RT-PCR lab. The district only has TrueNat facility for Covid-19 testing. For RT-PCR tests, the district either depends on GMCH, Nagpur, or GMCH, Gondia. On September 24, when Tope made the announcement, Bhandara’s Covid-19 toll was 94. On October 30, it’s 215. New cases are under control and recoveries are increasing, but the number of deaths is alarming. Even if the district administration develops proper lab infrastructure and manages to get manpower, the next crucial step will be to get necessary certification from AIIMS-Nagpur which is the mentoring institute for all RT-PCR labs in Maharashtra. “We can appoint retired doctors and technicians on these posts. Age limit for doctors is till 70 years and for technicians it’s 65 years. Moreover, recruitment age has been extended to 38 years for general and 43 years for reserved categories. We are hopeful of filling up all vacancies on November 5,” said a senior official from ZP health department in Bhandara. “Recruitments will be done on contract of 120 days, and can be terminated anytime without notice. The payment for skilled technicians has been fixed at Rs17,000. In Nagpur, experienced technicians are earning more than this in private labs,” said Vina Bhagwat, a lab technician working in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-manpower-at-proposed-rt-pcr-lab-in-bhandara/articleshow/78958747.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
October 31, 2020||Nagpur||RPF rules to check social media misuse||NAGPUR: Railway Protection Force (RPF) top brass has instructed the Special Intelligence Bureaux (SIB) in the respective units to keep an eye on activities of the personnel on social media. SIBs are units within RPF for collecting and analyzing special inputs. In the latest order based on service conduct rules, RPF personnel have been warned of action if they are found violating laid down protocols of official and personal social media activities that include posting of images of oneself in uniform or with official weapons. It has been also made clear that violations would be considered as ‘misconduct’ or an actionable breach of discipline. The guidelines stress that any RPF personnel, whether in official or personal capacity, should act or behave keeping their association with a disciplined force in mind. The personnel have been asked to refrain from any political or religious comments or remarks on the social media or participate in any activism against the government or even show support to such actions. RPF personnel are expected to create official social media handles with unit’s logo and abbreviated names, use and maintain a log of the activities clearly mentioning the context, action taken and various references to the concerned authorities including the higher-ups. Personnel have been also asked to desist from entering into any antagonistic conversations on social media. They have been also asked to ensure no classified or confidential information or information that may attract litigation or media attention is shared. According to a senior RPF official, cyber cells of each units would also monitor social media activities of the personnel along with the SIB. The personnel would be held responsible for any post made from their accounts even if it has been done by someone else including family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpf-rules-to-check-social-media-misuse/articleshow/78958791.cms||Soumitra Bose
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Bineesh Kodiyeri transferred over Rs 1 crore to drug-dealer pal, suspects ED||BENGALURU: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of Kerala CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was involved in illegal transactions worth over Rs 1 crore with alleged drug dealer and long-time aide Mohammed Anoop, suspect Enforcement Directorate (ED) sleuths. The politician's son now in ED custody is expected to be quizzed by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as well over his close monetary ties with Anoop, who's suspected to have peddled drugs in Bengaluru for a few years till he was nabbed in August. Bineesh was arrested by ED on Thursday under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. According to ED sources, Bineesh had remitted money totalling over Rs 1 crore into the bank account of Anoop from different accounts over a period of time. Anoop, who had been taken into ED custody for questioning in mid-October, had told sleuths that Bineesh was his boss and he was only acting on his directions in Bengaluru. ED arrested Anoop in the case on October 17 and he remains in a Bengaluru prison. It has been established that the eatery run by Anoop in Kamanahalli was owned by Bineesh himself and he had sent him large sums of money for its operations and other real estate dealings from various bank accounts in different names to avoid detection. Whether Bineesh knew about Anoop's drug trade and continued funding it is yet to be established and is expected to be probed by NCB, ED sources said. Bineesh had in September told media that he had transferred only Rs 6 lakh to Anoop as loan for the eatery and was unaware of his drug trade. Bengaluru ED officials, who began their probe after NCB shared information about the case, quizzed Bineesh on October 6 and noticed discrepancies in his version of the transactions with Anoop. The ED team had sought 15-day custody of Bineesh but was granted custody till 5pm, November 2. ED sleuths on Friday morning took Bineesh to their office in Shantinagar. He was grilled till late evening. He isn't cooperating with the investigation yet, added ED sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-bineesh-kodiyeri-transferred-over-rs-1-crore-to-drug-dealer-pal-suspects-ed/articleshow/78962261.cms||Petlee Peter
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||9,000 fined Rs 18 lakh for not wearing masks in Mumbai||MUMBAI: BMC penalized 9,107 persons for not wearing masks and collected Rs 18 lakh as fines from them on Thursday. During the pandemic BMC penalized 1.6 lakh persons and collected Rs 3.5 crore as penalty from them till Friday. BMC has started awareness campaigns across the city, distributing around 20 lakh ‘No mask, No entry’ stickers, reminding people to wear masks while going out. BMC collects a Rs200 penalty from each offender. If anyone fails to pay the fine, BMC gets them to do public service, like sweeping a street at the spot. Meanwhile, crime branch (unit III) arrested Mohammed Idris Ansari (31) with 17,300 masks and 10,000 empty pouches worth Rs 21.4 lakh that were reportedly transported illegally. He was caught with a tempo in Lower Parel, in which the masks of Venus Co were brought.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/9000-fined-rs-18-lakh-for-not-wearing-masks-in-mumbai/articleshow/78962262.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Draft rules bar Karnataka govt staff from acting in films||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government will soon prohibit its employees from acting in movies and TV serials, and from criticising the policies of state and central governments. In the draft Karnataka State Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 2020, which was published on Tuesday, the government has laid down dos and don’ts and given 15 days’ time for people to submit suggestions and objections. As per the proposal, staff are barred from conducting or participating in editing or managing a newspaper or publication without permission from the competent authority. They also cannot sponsor programmes on radio and TV channels. No foreign tours without nodHowever, publication of books on literature, drama, essays, poetry, short stories, novels or fiction without obtaining permission is allowed. The employees cannot consume intoxicating drinks and drugs during duty and in public places. They are banned from going on foreign tours without permission. Rules said employees must wear a decent dress and work uniform if they have one. Also, they cannot accept or give dowry in marriage. In 2011, the HC had dismissed a writ petition filed by IAS officer K Shivaram challenging the government order prohibiting its employees and bureaucrats from acting in movies and TV serials. In his petition, he had contended he acted in films to promote art and culture, but the court did not consider it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/draft-rules-bar-karnataka-govt-staff-from-acting-in-films/articleshow/78962273.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Drop of 50% in cases and 42% in deaths in Maharashtra this month||MUMBAI: The state reported a slight increase in new Covid-19 cases and a decline in fatalities on Friday. A total of 6,190 cases and 127 deaths were reported, taking the tally since the outbreak to 16,72,858 and the toll to 43,837. The state crossed the 15 lakh mark for recoveries, with the rate of recovery at 89.8%. The state continued with the trend of discharging more cases than adding them. A total of 8,241 patients were discharged on Friday. With 1,145 Covid-19 cases added in the city, the tally since March shot up to 2.56 lakh. The BMC update added 32 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 10,261. A month-on-month analysis of the new cases and deaths in the state showed that October added nearly 50% fewer cases and 42% fewer fatalities compared to September. The state added 2.9 lakh cases in all of October, and 5.9 lakh cases in September. The deaths reported in October were 6,962, down from 11,975 in September. The state reported a nearly 20% dip in tests conducted in October. A total of 21.2 lakh tests were carried out in October as against 26.4 lakh in September. The recovery rate in the city was 88%, with 1,101 patients discharged on Friday, said a BMC update. The overall growth rate of Covid-29 cases between October 23 and 29 was 0.44%, while the doubling rate climbed to 157 days. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said the city seemed stable but would have to guard against a surge in the festive season by ensuring use of masks and physical distancing. “Mumbai has been unique in the sense that its caseload has always been static, unlike, say, Delhi, which is witnessing its third peak,” Joshi said. He warned, though, that constant migration and the population density in the city could make Covid-19 endemic in the city. “The pandemic could linger, emerging in small bursts for a long period in Mumbai. Hence, the city cannot down its guard. Testing numbers should increase and not decrease,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 2,159 cases and 51 deaths, taking the tally to 5.8 lakh and the toll to 17,942. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 151 new cases and a death, taking the tally to 49,228 and the toll to 1,002 deaths. In Thane, 218 new cases took the tally to 46,503. With four deaths, the toll reached 1,149. The recovery rate in Thane stood at 92.8%. In Navi Mumbai, 150 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 44,372. the recovery rate was 93%. With six deaths, the toll touched 898. Panvel reported 99 cases and four deaths. The tally reached 23,455 and the toll, 550.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-drop-of-50-in-cases-and-42-in-deaths-in-maharashtra-this-month/articleshow/78962278.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Drop of 50% in cases and 42% in deaths in Maharashtra this month||MUMBAI: The state reported a slight increase in new Covid-19 cases and a decline in fatalities on Friday. A total of 6,190 cases and 127 deaths were reported, taking the tally since the outbreak to 16,72,858 and the toll to 43,837. The state crossed the 15 lakh mark for recoveries, with the rate of recovery at 89.8%. The state continued with the trend of discharging more cases than adding them. A total of 8,241 patients were discharged on Friday. With 1,145 Covid-19 cases added in the city, the tally since March shot up to 2.56 lakh. The BMC update added 32 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 10,261. A month-on-month analysis of the new cases and deaths in the state showed that October added nearly 50% fewer cases and 42% fewer fatalities compared to September. The state added 2.9 lakh cases in all of October, and 5.9 lakh cases in September. The deaths reported in October were 6,962, down from 11,975 in September. The state reported a nearly 20% dip in tests conducted in October. A total of 21.2 lakh tests were carried out in October as against 26.4 lakh in September. The recovery rate in the city was 88%, with 1,101 patients discharged on Friday, said a BMC update. The overall growth rate of Covid-29 cases between October 23 and 29 was 0.44%, while the doubling rate climbed to 157 days. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said the city seemed stable but would have to guard against a surge in the festive season by ensuring use of masks and physical distancing. “Mumbai has been unique in the sense that its caseload has always been static, unlike, say, Delhi, which is witnessing its third peak,” Joshi said. He warned, though, that constant migration and the population density in the city could make Covid-19 endemic in the city. “The pandemic could linger, emerging in small bursts for a long period in Mumbai. Hence, the city cannot down its guard. Testing numbers should increase and not decrease,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 2,159 cases and 51 deaths, taking the tally to 5.8 lakh and the toll to 17,942. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 151 new cases and a death, taking the tally to 49,228 and the toll to 1,002 deaths. In Thane, 218 new cases took the tally to 46,503. With four deaths, the toll reached 1,149. The recovery rate in Thane stood at 92.8%. In Navi Mumbai, 150 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 44,372. the recovery rate was 93%. With six deaths, the toll touched 898. Panvel reported 99 cases and four deaths. The tally reached 23,455 and the toll, 550.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-drop-of-50-in-cases-and-42-in-deaths-in-maharashtra-this-month/articleshow/78962272.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 31, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Drop of 50% in cases and 42% in deaths in Maharashtra this month||MUMBAI: The state reported a slight increase in new Covid-19 cases and a decline in fatalities on Friday. A total of 6,190 cases and 127 deaths were reported, taking the tally since the outbreak to 16,72,858 and the toll to 43,837. The state crossed the 15 lakh mark for recoveries, with the rate of recovery at 89.8%. The state continued with the trend of discharging more cases than adding them. A total of 8,241 patients were discharged on Friday. With 1,145 Covid-19 cases added in the city, the tally since March shot up to 2.56 lakh. The BMC update added 32 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 10,261. A month-on-month analysis of the new cases and deaths in the state showed that October added nearly 50% fewer cases and 42% fewer fatalities compared to September. The state added 2.9 lakh cases in all of October, and 5.9 lakh cases in September. The deaths reported in October were 6,962, down from 11,975 in September. The state reported a nearly 20% dip in tests conducted in October. A total of 21.2 lakh tests were carried out in October as against 26.4 lakh in September. The recovery rate in the city was 88%, with 1,101 patients discharged on Friday, said a BMC update. The overall growth rate of Covid-29 cases between October 23 and 29 was 0.44%, while the doubling rate climbed to 157 days. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said the city seemed stable but would have to guard against a surge in the festive season by ensuring use of masks and physical distancing. “Mumbai has been unique in the sense that its caseload has always been static, unlike, say, Delhi, which is witnessing its third peak,” Joshi said. He warned, though, that constant migration and the population density in the city could make Covid-19 endemic in the city. “The pandemic could linger, emerging in small bursts for a long period in Mumbai. Hence, the city cannot down its guard. Testing numbers should increase and not decrease,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 2,159 cases and 51 deaths, taking the tally to 5.8 lakh and the toll to 17,942. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 151 new cases and a death, taking the tally to 49,228 and the toll to 1,002 deaths. In Thane, 218 new cases took the tally to 46,503. With four deaths, the toll reached 1,149. The recovery rate in Thane stood at 92.8%. In Navi Mumbai, 150 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 44,372. the recovery rate was 93%. With six deaths, the toll touched 898. Panvel reported 99 cases and four deaths. The tally reached 23,455 and the toll, 550.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-19-drop-of-50-in-cases-and-42-in-deaths-in-maharashtra-this-month/articleshow/78962277.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 31, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: Drop of 50% in cases and 42% in deaths in Maharashtra this month||MUMBAI: The state reported a slight increase in new Covid-19 cases and a decline in fatalities on Friday. A total of 6,190 cases and 127 deaths were reported, taking the tally since the outbreak to 16,72,858 and the toll to 43,837. The state crossed the 15 lakh mark for recoveries, with the rate of recovery at 89.8%. The state continued with the trend of discharging more cases than adding them. A total of 8,241 patients were discharged on Friday. With 1,145 Covid-19 cases added in the city, the tally since March shot up to 2.56 lakh. The BMC update added 32 Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 10,261. A month-on-month analysis of the new cases and deaths in the state showed that October added nearly 50% fewer cases and 42% fewer fatalities compared to September. The state added 2.9 lakh cases in all of October, and 5.9 lakh cases in September. The deaths reported in October were 6,962, down from 11,975 in September. The state reported a nearly 20% dip in tests conducted in October. A total of 21.2 lakh tests were carried out in October as against 26.4 lakh in September. The recovery rate in the city was 88%, with 1,101 patients discharged on Friday, said a BMC update. The overall growth rate of Covid-29 cases between October 23 and 29 was 0.44%, while the doubling rate climbed to 157 days. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force, said the city seemed stable but would have to guard against a surge in the festive season by ensuring use of masks and physical distancing. “Mumbai has been unique in the sense that its caseload has always been static, unlike, say, Delhi, which is witnessing its third peak,” Joshi said. He warned, though, that constant migration and the population density in the city could make Covid-19 endemic in the city. “The pandemic could linger, emerging in small bursts for a long period in Mumbai. Hence, the city cannot down its guard. Testing numbers should increase and not decrease,” he said. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 2,159 cases and 51 deaths, taking the tally to 5.8 lakh and the toll to 17,942. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 151 new cases and a death, taking the tally to 49,228 and the toll to 1,002 deaths. In Thane, 218 new cases took the tally to 46,503. With four deaths, the toll reached 1,149. The recovery rate in Thane stood at 92.8%. In Navi Mumbai, 150 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 44,372. the recovery rate was 93%. With six deaths, the toll touched 898. Panvel reported 99 cases and four deaths. The tally reached 23,455 and the toll, 550.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-drop-of-50-in-cases-and-42-in-deaths-in-maharashtra-this-month/articleshow/78962279.cms||Bhavika Jain
October 31, 2020||Business||Tired Indians take to ‘revenge travel’||NEW DELHI: Tired of being locked up inside their homes, Indians have now taken to “revenge travel to nearby destinations”, with a vengeance. Visiting friends and relatives (VFR) is back to 40-50% of pre-pandemic level, Rajesh Magow, MakeMyTrip (MMT) co-founder and group CEO, told TOI. Leisure travel, with hotels opening up in the past few months, is at 30-40%. Corporate travel, largely by small and medium enterprises, is just beginning to pick up and is at 10-20% of pre-pandemic times, according to Magow. “Covid has been the mother of all crises we have faced in the past. The impact on business has been much more severe. This April-June saw revenues plunge by 94% over same period last fiscal,” the co-founder of India’s largest online travel conglomerate said. With domestic flights allowed to resume on May 25 and overall reopening initiated from June, there are green shoots of recovery in the travel space. These are limited mainly to the domestic segment as international travel still remains highly regulated, given ever-changing restrictions and quarantine rules by different countries during the pandemic. “Domestic flights, in terms of capacity, are now at 50% of pre-Covid level and at 40% in terms of demand. Hotels, which started opening later, are now seeing 50% capacity with demand at 30% of the pre-pandemic levels. They are also catching up now,” he said. MMT has begun diversifying into non-travel areas like financial services, including offering insurance, to survive the downturn in the industry. It launched its app in Arabic in the UAE and will do the same for customers in Saudi Arabia. The pandemic has seen lot of consumer complaints about refunds — delays, not getting the same or being asked to travel on later date using the blocked money — with all airlines and online travel agents (OTAs). “Every international airline came with its own policy on refund. We are working with all airlines to expedite this issue according to government guidelines. MMT has so far given Rs 675 crore in refunds since the start of lockdown,” he said. Watch ‘Revenge travel’ becomes norm as tired Indians venture out||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tired-indians-take-to-revenge-travel/articleshow/78962286.cms||Saurabh Sinha
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||As active cases drop, Covid centres being wound up in Mumbai region||MUMBAI: Considering the drop in active cases in the Mumbai region, several local bodies have begun to shut down Covid centres, which incur daily expenditures running into lakhs of rupees. The 200-bed Covid care centre that was created at the Mahalaxmi Racecourse may soon be shut if the decline in positive cases continues. Civic authorities said that occupancy in jumbo hospitals and makeshift centres is falling and a call would be taken on how best to conserve resources. TimesViewIt would be a prudent call to shut makeshift Covid centres if they are lying completely unutilised, given that each facility requires several doctors, nurses, ward boys and housekeeping staff to run. But it is imperative that the facilities are dismantled in such a manner that they can be promptly reactivated should the city see a surge in cases, like in May or June.BMC wants to save on Covid centres but is wary of a surgeThe Mahalaxmi Covid facility, complete with oxygen support, was handed over to the BMC in July. But the centre, built by the Naman Group, remained unutilised as nearby facilities, particularly NSCI Dome and BYL Nair Hospital, could absorb the patient load. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said centres that don’t have any patient footfall may be shut. “We are discussing whether that would help save resources,” he said. Mumbai’s active cases have dropped by 30% in 30 days. “We are holding on for the next few weeks as a surge is anticipated,” he said. The BMC is said to have spent around Rs 900 crore on Covid mitigation so far. At the other jumbo facilities too, wards have been shut and contracts of some doctors not extended due to the dip in patient load. The jumbo field hospital at NESCO in Goregaon currently has 441 patients against a capacity of 1,940 beds. Dean Dr Neelam Andrade said they have shut one of two sprawling units. The three-month contracts of around 25 doctors that had come to an end recently were not renewed. “We have asked the doctors to stay on standby in case we need to reactivate the wards,” she said, adding that even the centre’s 100-bed ICU has only 37 patients. The jumbo centre inside Richardson & Cruddas, which has 540 operational beds, currently has only 76 patients on bed. Dean Dr Rahul Chakor said the centre runs with the help of nearly 150 doctors, nurses and ward boys. “We haven’t renewed contracts of doctors whose three-month arrangement has come to an end, but we still haven’t begun terminations,” he said, adding that the centre has treated nearly 2,600 patients. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of the jumbo facility at BKC, said they have an occupancy of around 50%. While the facility heads could not give a monthly estimate of the running cost of makeshift centres, a civic official said it runs in crores, including salaries, cost of treatment and diagnosis. In Navi Mumbai, after five Covid care centres were shut early this week, two more have been shut temporarily due to a decline in positive cases. The temporary closure of centres and withdrawal of manpower would enable the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to save roughly Rs 6.5 lakh a day, which was being spent daily to maintain these centres. On an average, Rs 1,000 was the daily expenditure per person, which included approximately Rs 350 for food, Rs 210 for medical and paramedical staff and Rs 340 for miscellaneous expenses like logistics, ambulance, electricity and water. While the seven centres had a bed strength of 650, a total of around 200 staff, including 138 medical and para-medical personnel, besides 62 housekeeping staff, were deployed at these seven centres. According to NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar, three more centres are on the verge of being closed in the next couple of days. “Though the cases are dipping now, we are ready to reactivate the facilities at any given time if the situation demands,” said Bangar. Watch Covid-19: As active cases drop, centres being shut in Mumbai region||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-active-cases-drop-covid-centres-being-wound-up-in-mumbai-region/articleshow/78962295.cms||Sumitra Debroy
October 31, 2020||Business||15th finance commission to submit report on November 9||NEW DELHI: The 15th finance commission on Friday finalised its recommendations, which will be submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind on November 9. The commission headed by N K Singh remained tightlipped about its recommendations amid indications that it has suggested a new fiscal road map for the Centre and the states. It is unlikely to opt for a significant reduction in the share of central taxes that is transferred to states, which is currently pegged at 41%. Its award period will extend from April 2021 to March 2026. The contents, however, are expected to be known at the time of the Budget presentation in February when the government will table the report along with an Action Taken Report in Parliament. “The commission has finalised their report after wideranging consultations with the Union and state governments, local governments at different tiers, chairmen and members of previous finance commissions, advisory council to the commission and other domain experts, academic institutions of eminence and multilateral institutions,” it said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/15th-finance-commissions-report-on-nov-9/articleshow/78962299.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||IndianOil’s Q2 net profit rises 11-fold to ₹6,227cr||NEW DELHI: Flagship oil refiner and fuel retailer IndianOil Corporation (IOC) on Friday posted a standalone net profit of Rs 6,227 crore, or about Rs 6.8 per share, in the July-September quarter, marking an 11-fold increase from Rs 563 crore net profit in the year-ago period. Company chairman S M Vaidya said IOC refineries were operating at 93% capacity, up from 35% during the lockdown period, and expected fuel demand to be back to normal in a couple of months. The profit increased in spite of lower sales, mainly due to inventory gains of Rs 7,400 crore against Rs 1,807 crore inventory losses in the year-ago period, and forex gains of Rs 672 crore as compared to forex losses of Rs 1,135 crore in the previous corresponding period. A decline in outflows at Rs 109,498 crore from Rs 134,824 crore a year ago also helped the bottom line. IOC sold 17.7 million tonnes of fuels in the July-September period, which is 16% higher than the preceding quarter but 12% lower than 20.2 million tonnes sold in year-ago period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indianoils-q2-net-profit-rises-11-fold-to-6227cr/articleshow/78962325.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Business||India shines in Apple’s global September quarter earnings||NEW DELHI: The Indian market is booming for Apple and Tim Cook, the company’s CEO, who made a special mention about the business here at the electronics giant’s global earnings call. Weeks after Apple started sales through its online store, and as its key manufacturing vendors — Foxconn, Wistron and the new-entrant Pegatron — pump in fresh investments, Cook was all praise for the brand’s performance in India as he gave out September quarter financial numbers. “Geographically, we set September quarter records in the Americas, Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific. We also set a September quarter record in India, thanks in part to a very strong reception to this quarter’s launch of our online store in the country,” Cook said, as the company posted a record September quarter revenue of $64.7 billion. The praise for India came even as Cook said that numbers in China were not that strong due to coronavirus-induced delays in launch of iPhone 12. With a mix of new models such as the newly-launched iPhone 12 and others like iPhone SE, iPhone 11 and iPhone XR, Apple has been gradually expanding its product portfolio in India. It is also offering attractive finance and buyback schemes in line with the price-sensitive nature of the market. Even without the new iPhone and during the peak of corona slowdown, the company’s sales in the September quarter were up 37% in India, even as the broader smartphone market was up 9%, according to research firm Counterpoint. Prachir Singh, senior research analyst with the company, said despite premium pricing, Apple remains a highly aspirational brand in the market, which is likely to attract people who are upgrading as average selling price (ASP) goes up. According to research firm Canalys, the tech giant’s renewed focus on India paid off with a double-digit growth to nearly 8,00,000 units in the region during July-September 2020 quarter. The government’s production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for mobile phones is expected to benefit Apple with all its three manufacturing partners — Foxconn, Wistron and Pegatron — making the cut for benefits. As it intensifies local manufacturing, pricing for Apple’s devices is likely to get even more competitive, said analysts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-shines-in-apples-global-sept-qtr-earnings/articleshow/78962330.cms||Pankaj Doval
October 31, 2020||Business||In a first, a desi airline to get a female boss||NEW DELHI: Breaking the glass ceiling of Indian aviation, a woman has become the CEO of an Indian carrier for the first time, with the government appointing Harpreet A De Singh to the top position for Air India’s (AI) regional subsidiary Alliance Air. Singh is currently AI’s executive director (flight safety). Captain Nivedita Bhasin, one of AI’s most senior commanders currently flying Boeing 787 Dreamliner, will be the new ED (flight safety) in place of Singh. AI CMD Rajiv Bansal issued an order on Friday, saying Singh “will hold the charge of Alliance Air CEO post till further orders.” Captain Nivedita Bhasin has also been asked to head several other departments, given her experience. Alliance Air is not being sold off with the Air India-AI Express-AISATS combine and will remain a PSU for now. AI’s old Boeing 747s will be transferred to Alliance Air, which currently has a fleet of turboprops, if the Maharaja gets a buyer and is privatised. Harpreet Singh was the first woman pilot to be selected by Air India in 1988. However, she could not fly due to health reasons and has been very active in the area of flight safety. Singh has headed the Indian Women Pilot Association, where Bhasin and other senior women commanders like Captain Kshamta Bajpai are seen as role models by budding pilots. Air India has the highest ration of woman pilots among Indian carriers. Indian airlines saw more women applying for pilot jobs in mainly two phases: Mid-1980s and then from 2005 when private low cost airlines started taking wings. Erstwhile Indian Airlines was the first to hire women pilots in the early 1980s. Captain Saudamani Deshmukh was the first woman commander (of a Fokker Friendship) in India. While global average of woman pilots has been 2-3%, India has been at over 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-a-desi-airline-to-get-a-female-boss/articleshow/78962338.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar bus conductor films sex acts on sly, sells clips on porn sites||MUMBAI: A bus conductor with Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) undertaking has been arrested for making sex videos and selling these on a porn site for money. So far two women, aged 18 and 30, have filed complaints against Milind Zade, the 32-year-old conductor. Zade is an MA and holds a BEd degree. The resident of Vikramgad was arrested on Thursday by the Boisar police. He was on the run since July, when one of the women filed a complaint. Zade, whose wife is pregnant, had befriended the two women last year. He allegedly had sexual relations with them after promising them government jobs. Zade allegedly used to secretly film his sexual acts with the women. Police said he told them that between November and June 2019 he made more than Rs 5 lakh by selling the sex videos. Police recovered 62 clips from Zade. All the clips had been uploaded on a pornography site. The police said they were trying to trace other victims. They said Zade would ensure his face was not captured on camera, while the women remained recognisable. A relative of the 30-year-old woman alerted her about a sex video doing the rounds, making her approach the police. Their investigation led the police to the other woman from Vasai. She was shocked to learn about the sex videos and filed a complaint. On Thursday, the police received a tip-off that Zade was coming home to meet his wife. A trap was laid. He was arrested and charged under Section 376(n)(2) and 452 (trespass) of the IPC, and Section 67 of the Information Technology Act. Flavia Agnes, founder of Majlis and a leading women’s activist lawyer, said, “such incidents must be deprecated very strongly... during the lockdown, crimes against women have been on an upswing.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-conductor-held-for-selling-clips-of-his-sexual-acts-with-women/articleshow/78962339.cms||Sandhya Nair
October 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Conduct practical classes first: Bangalore University||BENGALURU: Bangalore University is likely to ask its affiliate colleges to complete practical classes on priority once colleges reopen on November 17. The government has said campuses can reopen from November 17 and offer both online and regular classes. Students are free to choose either. While theory classes are already under way, the worry has always been about practical classes. “It will be wise to complete all practical classes in the first few days of colleges reopening since we can focus on theory classes in case the situation deteriorates and we are forced to go back to online mode,” said KR Venugopal, vice-chancellor, BU. We will be in a comfortable position to complete the syllabus then. Practicals can be held with all safety measures in place.” The VC said the varsity will soon issue a circular in this regard. Students will have to bring their own lunch boxes and water bottles. “Teachers may have to split students into smaller batches in order to ensure social distancing. This may call for extra working hours. They have to find a hybrid model where there is at least one hour of online classes too so that they can cover the syllabus. It will be extra work for teachers, but these are unprecedented times,” he said. However, private colleges have expressed concern over additional batches and the blend of online and regular classes. “We cannot afford more lecturers,” said BG Satyaprasad, president, Bangalore University Bschools directors’/principals’ association. “Many students are yet to pay fees and several colleges are struggling to pay salaries. The government has to make an announcement on fee payment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conduct-practical-classes-first-bangalore-university/articleshow/78962336.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||No threat to safety of Srisailam dam: Chief engineer||AMARAVATI: Stating that there is no threat to the safety of Srisailam dam, Kurnool region chief engineer (irrigation) R Muralinatha Reddy said that minor patches in the plunge pool are a very common phenomenon during flood season and officials have been constantly reviewing project safety and taking all necessary measures. Owing to heavy floods in upstream river Krishna, crest gates of Srisailam project were opened at least 5-6 times during the current season to release floodwater downstream. As the project brims with water at full capacity, officials have had to let out water at regular intervals, whenever there has been an inflow. Frequent and heavy flood from upstream resulted in heavy outflows during the current season. This is believed to have caused minor cracks in the plunge pool between gates six and eight. The cement concrete work done in 2002 is also believed to have suffered damage due to the massive outflows. Speaking to TOI, chief engineer Muralinatha Reddy said, “We have noticed minor cracks in the plunge pool away from the dam. Such small patches occur due to the force of the water falling from the dam height. There is absolutely no threat to dam safety.” He said that grouting of patches is usually taken up every 10 years as cement grouting keeps witnessing cracks due to heavy inflows from the project. Muralinatha Reddy further explained that the panel of experts (PoE) constituted by the state government to study dam safety had submitted its report last March and that they are studying the comprehensive recommendations made by the committee. He added that they have also carried out a comprehensive underwater study by National Institute of Oceanography to take measures required for safety of the dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-threat-to-safety-of-srisailam-dam-chief-engineer/articleshow/78958196.cms||Samdani MN
October 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Planetarium DPR likely to be ready by year-end||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has started working on the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed hybrid planetarium on Kailasagiri Hilltop Park with about Rs 37 crore. VMRDA has entrusted the responsibility of preparing the DPR of the planetarium to the National Council of Science Museums under the Union ministry of culture. Given the NCSM’s vast expertise in setting up planetariums and science centres across the country, the VMRDA opted for the NCSM instead of approaching a private agency. Earlier, the VMRDA constituted a technical committee by drawing professionals experienced in developing planetariums and science centres. The committee brainstormed on the technicalities involved in setup, maintenance and operation of the planetariums in a series of meetings conducted at the VMRDA office. The committee suggested the required equipment, a unique and iconic building and the technical requirements for preparation of DPRs and designs. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the planetarium will be developed in such a way to create scientific curiosity among students and the youth on astronomy, space science and other related fields. “We have recently conducted meeting with the NCSM officials after visiting Kailasagiri. VMRDA has requested NCSM to prepare the DPR by year-end,” said Koteswara Rao. A team of VMRDA officials, headed by metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao, visited several planetarium and science centres in various states, including the full dome planetarium at Pilikula, Mangalore, Planetarium at Science City, NCSM, and Birla Planetarium at Kolkata. The objective of the visits was to study technicalities in the setup, maintenance and operation of the planetarium. The Department of Science and Technology will assist the VMRDA in setting up the first planetarium in Andhra Pradesh. The planetarium project is a separate project from the ongoing renovation works to Kailasagiri Hilltop Park with about Rs 50 crore under a World Bank project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/planetarium-dpr-likely-to-be-ready-by-year-end/articleshow/78958221.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
October 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 19-year-old woman found dead at home in Guntur district, kin cry murder||VIJAYAWADA: A 19-year-old woman was found dead at her residence in Yerrabalem village of Mangalagiri mandal in Guntur district on Thursday. The deceased, identified as Kunnera Venkatalakshmi, was found dead by locals, according to Mangalagiri circle inspector Seshagiri Rao. When police reached the spot, they found blood stains on the floor and that the deceased had suffered a severe injury to her head leading them to suspect that she was murdered. 19-year-old Venkatalakshmi from Bedga Budaga Jangala Colony in Yerrabalem village fell in love with Yekayya from the same colony. The two got married three months back. According to the police, Venkatalakshmi’s parents have alleged that her husband Yekayya could have been involved with the murder. Her parents have also alleged that Yekayya had been asking for dowry since the marriage. Police said that body has been sent for post mortem to ascertain the actual cause of death. Meanwhile, a murder case was registered at Mangalagiri rural police station on the basis of a complaint filed by the deceased’s parents. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/19-year-old-woman-found-dead-at-home-kin-cry-murder/articleshow/78958237.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Mumbai||HC declares Mumbai police best force after Scotland Yard||MUMBAI: Observing that the task of police officers during the Covid-19 pandemic was difficult and the city police, considered one of the best in the world after Scotland Yard, were overburdened, the Bombay high court on Thursday directed a Navi Mumbai woman to cooperate with the cyber police in an investigation over her alleged offensive posts on the chief minister. Sunaina Holey (38) had moved the high court to have the criminal cases against her quashed and for interim protection against arrest. She had been arrested in one case out of three against her and granted bail. At the hearing, a bench of Justice S S Shinde and Justice M S Karnik referred to the workload of the force when informed by J P Yagnik, a state prosecutor, that Holey had not appeared before the BKC cyber police despite a notice. “The job of police officers is difficult during these times. Sometimes they have more than 12-hour shifts. Then they have to do bandobast for morchas and processions. With all these odds, the Mumbai police is considered as one of the best in the world after Scotland Yard,” the bench said. Holey’s counsel, Abhinav Chandrachud, agreed. “Yes, especially during Covid times, it has worked hard,” he said. He said she could not appear earlier because of her health but was ready to appear before the investigating officer on November 2 at 11 am. The bench in its order said it hoped and expected she would extend full cooperation to the city police. The police in the city and Palghar had booked her for attempting to breach public peace and under the Information Technology Act for posts on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his minister son, Aaditya, in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-declares-mumbai-police-best-force-after-scotland-yard/articleshow/78962366.cms||Swati Deshpande
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Parts of south, east, northeast Delhi face water problem||NEW DELHI: Parts of south, east and northeast Delhi, which are in the catchment areas of the Bhagirathi and Sonia Vihar water treatment plants, faced a shortage of water on Friday. A spike in the ammonia levels in the Yamuna water coming from Haryana and stoppage of water in the Upper Ganga canal, which is undergoing annual maintenance, led to a crisis in the city. However, by Friday evening, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said that both plants had resumed 70% operations and assured that the supply would be normal by Saturday mor ning. DJB: High ammonia level caused water supply disruptionWater supply to many areas was resumed in the evening. However, residents in Vasant Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Panchsheel Park and Saket complained that they were yet to get any water. But other areas in south and east Delhi received normal evening water supply. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said the two affected plants have a collective capacity of 250 MGD and their closure did have an effect on supply in some areas but now “water production has resumed, and we have been successful in removing the pollutants”. Chadha said the government had also requested Uttar Pradesh for help. “The flow from Upper Ganga Canal was stopped due to annual maintenance and we are in constant talks with the governments of Haryana and UP, seeking their cooperation.” He pointed out that Delhi is a landlocked city. “The water that we get flows through other states. In such a case, if the level of ammonia increases, we have to shut down our water treatment plants. The supply of water will be restored in all the affected areas of Delhi by Saturday morning.” The vice-chairman of the Vasant Kunj federation of RWAs, Harjinder Saroha, said that water availability remains a problem for the residents of the area. “Supply was at very low pressure. We had trouble during the morning and evening and tankers had to be called. DJB should make alternative arrangements for such a situation,” he added. Dinesh Khurana from a South Ex RWA said they had informed residents that supply would be affected and were able to manage the situation. Supply had been restored in areas like Hauz Khas, RK Puram, Vinobapuri, Lajpat Nagar, East of Kailash, CR Park, South Extn and Alaknanda by the evening. Sanjay Rana, who heads the Greater Kailash-II RWA, said they had received some complaints from residents during the day but water was made available during evening hours at low pressure. BM Bakshi of the New Friends Colony RWA said they too faced a similar situation. Jasbir Chaddha of the East of Kailash RWA, however, said they had normal supply through the day. Late in the evening, DJB officials said that all pumps had been started in the south Delhi main line and Sonia Vihar had achieved a normal pumping output of 136MGD with ammonia levels being as low as 0.15ppm. Ammonia level affecting Delhi’s water supply has become an annual affair. DJB blames lax enforcement in the Panipat industrial belt, which releases untreated industrial effluents into the river for the problem. DJB has a capacity to treat up to 0.9ppm of ammonia levels in raw water but neutralisation of ammonia with chlorine gas on a regular basis at such high levels leads to creation of toxic chlorine-based byproducts and should be avoided. Delhi has an installed water supply capacity of 930 MGD out of which more than 375 MGD water is sourced from Yamuna while 240 MGD comes from Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parts-of-south-east-northeast-delhi-face-water-problem/articleshow/78962382.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Goa||Safety compliance delays start of cruise boat operations||Panaji: After the tourism department granted permission for cruises and boats to kickstart activities 15 days ago, only one cruise operator has commenced operations so far along with a few private yachts. Paradise Cruises, a boat tour agency, has resumed boat rides on select days — from Wednesday to Saturday — while others may resume operations in November. The delay on their part has been owing to unpreparedness to comply with various conditions as part of the safety protocols that have to be put in place to contain any further spread of Covid-19. Cruise boat operations have been allowed to resume after a hiatus of six months due to the pandemic. Aakash Madgavkar, managing partner at Paradise Cruises, said that they have been able to start ahead of others as they utilised the last month to get prepared and comply with protocols. “We need to cover the operational cost to sustain the business as already 90% to 95% of our employees are getting reduced salaries. I have spoken to other operators, but they are not adequately prepared to start operations immediately, but will do so over the next month,” said Madgavkar. Derik D’Sousa, managing partner at Coral Queen, one of the four cruise operators at Santa Monica Jetty, said they are likely to start operations from the first week of November. “We are getting our vessel ready, but we are apprehensive about adequate footfalls to cover the operational cost,” said D’Souza. While giving permission, the tourism department has laid down various conditions. Operators will have to train their staff, place markers within the vessels as well as outside so that guests are able to follow social distancing norms, and arranging face shields and masks for the staff. The added responsibilities will add to the overall cost of cruise operators. It may also lead some or all to hike their fees. Madgavkar said that they have been compelled to hike fees as they are operating below their capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/safety-compliance-delays-start-of-cruise-boat-operations/articleshow/78961132.cms||Bindiya Chari
October 31, 2020||Goa||CM: Decision on school reopening after meeting with stakeholders next week||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that the state government would decide on school reopening next week. “I will call a meeting of stakeholders in the education sector next week, and decide,” he said. Sawant had asked the directorate of education to consult stakeholders to elicit their views on school reopening. He told TOI that he has received the report. As per Unlock 5.0, schools can reopen from October 15. TOI had, however, reported that the opening of schools would be delayed in the state. Recently, the Goa headmasters’ association president Mariano Valadares said that 198 of the 209 government-aided schools it surveyed are not in favour of reopening yet. The parents-teacher associations (PTAs) in these schools want reopening plans on hold till the Covid-19 situation stabilises, he added. Unlock 5.0 gives state’s flexibility to decide on reopening of schools. However, parental consent is necessary for students to attend. “The association is also for reopening of schools, but the situation is not conducive at the moment,” Valadares had said. “Most parents are not in favour of it as of now. We know that Class X students will be facing their board exams this year, and these students can be allowed to come to school after Diwali to seek guidance from teachers. Class X students are already coming to school for one-on-one guidance with teachers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-decision-on-school-reopening-after-meeting-with-stakeholders-next-week/articleshow/78961140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Covid fallout: Kolkata doctors sound lung collapse alarm||KOLKATA: Even as more Covid patients are getting better, some doctors in the city have sounded the alarm about a condition that has been affecting a section of patients: pneumothorax, or lung collapse. And it’s even been noticed in patients with no history of lung disorders. This condition, which doctors believe could be a late fallout of the viral attack, sets in when air leaks into the space between the two protective layers of the lungs, inflates the area and pushes the organs to the opposite side, often triggering cardiovascular failure. More than 25 such cases have been reported in the last four months across three private hospitals. All of them have survived, but doctors are alarmed that few of them had prior lung disease or other severe comorbidities, and were struck by pneumothorax after they tested Covid-negative. Since August, Belle Vue Clinic has treated four pneumothorax patients. Three of them were affected at least a couple of weeks after they recovered from Covid; the other was still positive. The ones who had recovered had gone home when the condition set in, whereas the other had it at the hospital. One of these patients was struck three weeks after testing Covid-positive, and a week after getting discharged. In each case, however, the symptoms were moderate. “Lung collapse happens when air gets in between the visceral and parietal pleura — the two protective layers of the lungs,” said Belle Vue internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain, who has treated three pneumothorax patients. Belle Vue internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain, who has treated three pneumothorax patients, said: “These layers are like thin plastic sheets that stick to each other with a few millilitres of fluid between them for lubrication. Usually, it is the inner layer that gets ruptured, letting in air between the two layers. Once it happens, air keeps getting into the chest cavity and eventually pushes the lungs to a side, triggering a cardiovascular collapse.” More than 20 such patients have been treated at Fortis Hospital since July. The number is unusually high, said pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “We rarely came across pneumothorax prior to the pandemic, which suggests it’s being triggered by Covid,” he said. “The case details confirm that it’s an impact of Covid in every patient. In most cases, Covid has first led to lung fibrosis or stiffening, followed by a leakage in the lungs, leading to collection of air between the protective layers of the organ,” he added. He added that fibrosis was the principal trigger. “Had the lungs not got stiff, they would not have leaked air inwards and collapsed,” Dhar explained. A Covid patient at AMRI Hospital, too, had it in the third week of testing negative. Three of the Belle Vue patients had to be rushed back to hospital after they developed sudden breathing distress at home. “Generally, COPD patients or smokers have it, though pneumothorax may happen without such triggers,” said Jain. “Curiously, none had severe breathing issues while they were Covid-positive and had only been on intermittent oxygen support. Also, the patients were aged between 53 and 68, which is not very old. Intriguingly, it struck when the patients had recovered from Covid. We have documented the cases.” He added that the case analyses suggested these were an after-effect of Covid. While sudden breathlessness is the only symptom, pneumothorax is treated by extracting the air through a pipe. In mild cases, the air gets released without assistance. In severe cases, on the other hand, air infiltrates the space between the lungs and the heart and triggers cardiac arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-fallout-kolkata-docs-sound-lung-collapse-alarm/articleshow/78961299.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip ‘upset’ with rejig, but toes party decision||Kolkata: The replacement of the Bengal BJP president’s long-time aide in the recent organizational shuffle, ahead of the 2021 Bengal assembly polls, is being seen in party circles as a sign of Dilip Ghosh losing grip on the state organisation. Upset with the change, Ghosh rang up BJP president J P Nadda to speak his mind but it didn’t work. Bengal BJP insiders said Ghosh was opposed to changing the state unit secretary (organization) ahead of the crucial polls. But Nadda hastened the change, appointing Amitava Chakraborty in place of Subrata Chatterjee, who was state BJP secretary (organization) since Ghosh took charge as Bengal unit president. After the announcement, Ghosh met RSS seniors at the Sangh’s Abhedananda Road office on Thursday. “Chatterjee has been organizational secretary since he (Ghosh) was nominated president of the Bengal unit. Together, they have worked hard to pull BJP through difficult times. They have played a crucial role in creating an infrastructure of 40 organisational districts and 1,255 mandals in West Bengal,” a state BJP leader said. The secretary (organization) post is crucial in BJP because the person comes next to the party president and is the key person in giving an organizational shape to party decisions. But for all practical purposes, Chakraborty won’t be solely handling the charge when BJP national joint secretary (organization) Shivprakash is staying in Bengal. A disciplined party soldier, Ghosh didn’t make his grouse over the change public. “The party’s decision is final. There is no question of any individual being happy with that or not. We have maintained that discipline always,” he told TOI on Friday. Ghosh also scotched rumours over a possible change of guard in Bengal BJP. “Several rumours are doing the rounds. These are being spread with specific intention. Such ploys don’t win an election,” he said. The BJP central leadership wants the state leadership to make space for people coming from other parties — Trinamool, Congress and CPM — in an attempt to gain new ground ahead of polls. A person known for plainspeak, Ghosh often told the central leadership in meetings that newcomers, barring exceptions, might desert the party in bad times. He argued BJP should protect the old guard who helped the party reach where it is now. Ghosh’s remonstrance, however, didn’t cut much ice, evident from the way BJP newcomer Anupam Hazra was made party national secretary replacing Bengal veteran Rahul Sinha. All these have prompted speculation that the new brigade led by Mukul Roy will have a better say in selection of candidates for assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-upset-with-rejig-but-toes-party-decision/articleshow/78960672.cms||Rohit Khanna
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||Pvt schools might face action for not submitting fee record||Jamshedpur: Several private English-medium schools here might face action for failing to submit the record of monthly fees collected by them between April and September this year to the district education department (DSE). The last date for furnishing the information was on Friday. Notably, the deadline was extended till October 30 at the request of schools. The first deadline had ended on October 10. In the wake of the Covid-induced lockdown, which impacted the earnings of parents, the state government had issued orders asking private schools to charge only tuition fees from students. Sources at the DSE office said that out of the 45-odd ICSE- and CBSE-affiliated schools in the Steel city, around 25 institutes have submitted their records till Friday. “The disciplinary action against the schools not complying with the deadline orders would be decided by the department at the state level,” said the district education superintendent, Vinit Kumar. He refrained from disclosing the exact number of the schools that did not submit the record till Friday. Some schools said that due to technical issues during compilation of data, they have not been able to submit the record. The convenor of Jamshedpur Abhivavak Sangh, Umesh Kumar, said: “During lockdown, the online mode was the only option available to many parents to pay school fees. But they had to pay the total amount as the software would not accept just the tuition fees. Therefore, we complained to the district education officials about the schools’ attempt to escape the tuition fee order. But most schools have not yet refunded the extra amount charged from parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvt-schools-might-face-action-for-not-submitting-fee-record/articleshow/78959645.cms||B Sridhar
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||RU contract teachers denied wages, cease work||Ranchi: Around 350 contract teachers of Ranchi University (RU) ceased work following non-payment of their wages during the lockdown period. The teachers said that many of them were facing financial hardships and finding it difficult to meet their basic expenditure. Earlier in a letter to RU vice-chancellor, members of Ranchi University Sahayak Pradhyapak Sangh had mentioned that they have not been paid wages since March. They said that despite the lockdown, they took classes through the online mode. They had demanded that the university should pay them the dues or else they would boycott all teaching and non-teaching work from October 28. One of the teachers, Dr Sanjay Kumar, said, “During the lockdown, we were asked to conduct the classes online. Many of us bought smartphone and used mobile data to teach students through YouTube, Google Meet and WhatsApp groups. Now the colleges are asking us to submit bills with proof of each class taken.” He said the principals often joined the classes but never did they inform that the teachers would have to keep a proof. He added that all teachers should be paid a fixed amount for the lockdown period. The teachers said that apart from teaching, they were also actively involved in the conduct of internal examinations and data collection and entry. A teacher at Marwari College, Rajan Kumar, said that most of the contractual teachers in his institution have not been paid since August 2019. He said, “One can easily imagine our economic plight under such circumstances.” Pro vice-chancellor of Ranchi University Kamini Kumar said, “The university cannot do anything on its own without an order from the government. Moreover, a significant number of teachers have admitted that they were unable to take classes due to various problems like poor data connectivity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ru-contract-teachers-denied-wages-cease-work/articleshow/78959629.cms||Sanjay Sahay
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Hansda’s last rites run into villagers’ protests||Jhargram: The Jhargram administration on Friday faced an uphill task arranging the last rites of West Bengal assembly deputy speaker Sukumar Hansda in a neighbouring hamlet, away from his ancestral home at Jhargram’s Dubrajpur village. Trinamool seniors Manas Bhuiyan and minister Soumen Mahapatra, along with the Jhargram district magistrate and superintendent of police, had to labour for over four hours to prevail on Jaralata residents who wouldn’t allow Hansda’s cremation in the village, of which he was not a resident. The administration chose the location acting on the wishes of Hansda’s family because they owned land there. Trouble broke out at noon when Jaralata villagers thronged the spot after Hansda’s body was laid on the pyre following a police gun salute at 11am. They demanded a crematorium at the spot before the pyre could be set alight. Trinamool leaders tried to pacify the villagers without success while Hansda’s body lay under the sun. A few villagers even started removing wood from the pyre. They finally allowed the cremation at 4.30pm after the district magistrate and superintendent of police held talks with protesters and assured them of building a crematorium in the village. “Hansda was cremated following the social rituals and tradition,” said Trinamool’s Jhargram president Dulal Murmu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hansdas-last-rites-run-into-villagers-protests/articleshow/78960976.cms||Sujoy Khanra
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||FIR lodged against Dilip||Howrah: A complaint was lodged with Sankrail police on Friday against BJP state president Dilip Ghosh over his comment at a rally following BJP’s Nabanna Abhiyan programme. Guddu Khan, TMC’s south Howrah general secretary, lodged the plaint. On October 8, Ghosh had allegedly threatened Khan with dire consequences. He had reacted after BJP workers in Howrah were beaten up allegedly by TMC supporters. Khan alleged that Ghosh’s comments were not only against him, but religiously coloured as well. Raj Mukherjee, DC (south) Howrah City Police, said: “We have started a probe against Ghosh’s comment. We might question him if required.” “Police has been slapping false cases on our workers on a regular basis. It shows the vindictive nature of the ruling party,” said Raju Banerjee, BJP state vice president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fir-lodged-against-dilip/articleshow/78961062.cms||Rupak Banerjee
October 31, 2020||Ranchi||Over 50% chemists in E Singhbhum operate without pharmacists||JAMSHEDPUR: Over 50% of the chemist shops in East Singhbhum district are operating without qualified pharmacists or by furnishing fake degrees, the district chapter of the All India Pharmacists' Association (AIPA) has said and urged the state health department to conduct a probe into the matter. Despite the process of issuing licences to pharmacies was made online three years ago to bring transparency into the system and check inconsistencies, the problem persists, AIPA district president Shashi Bhushan Singh rued. Singh further said, "East Singhbhum has only 400 registered chemists but over 1,000 shops are doing business. We have taken up the issue with the state health minister and local MLA, Banna Gupta, but no action has been taken yet." According to Singh, it is compulsory to have a full-time and qualified pharmacist to run a chemist shop under the rules. However, many pharmacists helped in flouting the rules by allowing the shopkeepers to do business in their names after taking a large amount of money. He said, "Under this racket, a pharmacist charges around Rs 4,000 per month to people who want to run a chemist shop. Some people are even using fake certificates." Singh added, "The health minister should immediately take up the issue and cancel licences of the chemists who are operating fraudulently. Commenting on the practice, Jamshedpur drug inspector Rajiv Ekka said, "No shop can operate without proper documents and action will be taken against those who flout the rules." Notably, most chemists also defied another rule by selling their drugs without issuing a proper receipts to their customers. Meanwhile, a medicine shop owner said on condition of anonymity, "When we apply for licences, the middleman charges around Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000 though the actual cost is only Rs 3,000. The authorities have made the process online and connected all pharmacies digitally to cut out the middlemen, but the problem has not been resolved so far."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-50-chemists-in-e-singhbhum-operate-without-pharmacists/articleshow/78959673.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Rally van touches live wire; 2 kids dead, 13 in hospital||Islampur: Two children were electrocuted and 13 people — mostly minors — sustained injuries when a pick-up van, ferrying 20-odd passengers, came in contact with a high-tension overhead wire in Islampur, North Dinajpur, on Friday morning. The van from Shialtore under Gunjaria gram panchayat was part of a procession to celebrate Milad-ul-Nabi. It was crossing Telivita, where construction of a bypass had raised the height of the road, precariously reducing the gap with high-voltage overhead power transmission lines. While Anjali Khatun (10) and Md Rezab (11) died on the spot, the others have received grievous burns. All were taken to Islampur subdivisional hospital from where eight have been referred to North Bengal Medical College. Eyewitnesses said the jolt was so powerful that even the road below was damaged. “Despite restrictions for Covid-19, some enthusiasts from Shialtore Mazaar, mostly minors, were coming to Islampur to celebrate the occasion. They were carrying traditional sticks with flags, which may have got entangled with the wire,” said Md Bablu, one of the rally organisers. Sachin Makkar, police superintendent of Islampur, called it an unfortunate incident. Minister of state Ghulam Rabbani paid the injured a visit at Islampur hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rally-van-touches-live-wire-2-kids-dead-13-in-hospital/articleshow/78960850.cms||Subhro Maitra
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Dalit teen dies at Birbhum police station||Birbhum: A 15-year-old Dalit boy, detained in connection with a petty theft here on Thursday, was found dead at Mallarpur police station by night, sparking protests on Friday. Local residents, who stormed the thana in the morning, the BJP and the boy’s family claim he was beaten to death in custody. Police, however, maintain that the teenager hanged himself. West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has sought a report on the minor’s death from Birbhum SP and DM. It is also sending a member to Mallarpur for inquiry. The last rites of the boy were performed at Tarapith burning ghat amid tight security and in presence of his family members as well as Trinamool’s Mayureswar MLA Abhijit Roy. No BJP leader was present at the ghat, but party supporters blocked the national highway at Bahina More. The BJP has also called a 12-hour bandh in Mallarpur on Saturday. BJP district general secretary Atanu Chatterjee said the boy’s family members were party supporters for a long time. “He was framed in a false case and beaten to death in custody.” Police officers denied the allegations and said he was “kept in a child-friendly corner at the thana” and was to be produced before the Juvenile Justice Board on Friday. “Around 9.25pm, he went to the toilet and hanged himself. He was rushed to Mallarpur BPHC, where the on-duty medical officer declared him brought dead. His parents were accordingly informed. The body was shifted to Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem,” Birbhum SP Shyam Singh said. According to the written complaint of the medical officer, a case has been started, the district police chief said and added that an appeal had been sent to Rampurhat ACJM court and SDEM for judicial inquiry and magisterial inquest as per rules. The father of the boy said he was picked up by police because he might have been drunk. “My son was addicted and may have committed some petty crime. Cops may have beaten him up.” WBCPCR chairperson Ananya Chatterjee said they had taken cognisance of the case. “We are probing the incident with utmost seriousness, as a child has died at a police station. We don’t want this to become a caste issue because Bengal does not practise caste discrimination. Our member Sekhar Bhattacharya will visit the family and the police station on Saturday,” Chatterjee said. A BJP leader claimed police hurriedly burnt the body. “They were afraid of a second post-mortem or further investigation. The parents are being forced to act as police wish,” he said. TMC MLA Roy said the teenager “accidentally” died in police custody. “Police would have produced him before the Juvenile Justice Board today. His parents have no complaint against police. His family has been a party supporter. We are standing beside his bereaved kin,” Roy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dalit-teen-dies-at-birbhum-police-station/articleshow/78960903.cms||Someswar Boral
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||Nadda to tour Bengal districts in Nov first week||Kolkata: BJP national president J P Nadda will be touri- ng Bengal districts in the first week of November when neighbouring Bihar goes for its third and final phase of polls. Nadda will arrive in Burdwan on November 6 and move to Midnapore the day after before he addresses a closed-door meeting in Kolkata. The visit is scheduled five days after BJP launches its statewide “sampark aviyan” (mass contact programme) from November 1. The Bengal BJP Yuva Morcha is planning a Nabanna Aviyan-type march to the state secretariat at Uttarkanya in north Bengal in the last week of November. The purpose is to test the organisation’s striking strength in north Bengal when there has been a major change in equations in the Hills and foothills after GJM leader Bimal Gurung pulled out of the NDA and pledged support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Party activists from north Bengal districts who didn’t participate in the Nabanna Aviyan will march to Uttarkanaya. “The date hasn’t been finalized. It could be November 24 or 25,” BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said. Nadda will address representatives of the party’s 17 organization districts, seven under the Rarh Banga zone and 10 centering Midnapore, over two days. District presidents, MPs and state office-bearers will attend the meeting following which Nadda will hold a virtual meet of booth presidents. Prior to this, the BJP national president will inaugurate a party office in Burdwan and virtually inaugurate a number of party offices across the state, said BJP state vice-president Raju Bandyopadhyay. BJP seniors Kailash Vijayvargiya, Dilip Ghosh and Arvind Menon will attend the meetings. Nadda will hold closed-door discussions with “prominent citizens” in Burdwan, Midnapore and Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nadda-to-tour-bengal-districts-in-nov-first-week/articleshow/78961034.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||TMC opens up talks channel with Suvendu||Kolkata: A reconciliation process is under way at Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee’s initiative to retain Suvendu Adhikari when he has moved past his party posts and ministerial portfolio, dropping clear hints of his distance with party leaders other than Banerjee. There is no confirmation on who met whom but leaders in the Trinamool camp and Adhikari loyalists confirmed that communication channels between the two leaders are on. Neither camp divulged anything, but said that the talks haven’t gone awry till date. The development assumes significance when a section of TMC leaders have given up on Adhikari despite his family’s claim a month ago that he is with Trinamool and will be with the party. Rumour mills went agog over Adhikari’s floating a new outfit gained traction three days ago at a Kolaghat Bijoya Sammilani where he said: “One doesn’t need a license or a party post to serve the people.” Adhikari didn’t take Trinamool’s name in his entire speech though he asserted that he was a hardcore political activist. TMC’s distancing with Adhikari at least at the district level became all too apparent when unidentified persons tore off the minister’s posters on a Sarodatsav arch built during puja festivities at Belda. The recent talks initiative can’t just wish away some hard facts in recent times. The minister gave a miss to the government programme at Jhargram during the Adivasi Day a fortnight ago on August 10 where he was among the guests along with education minister Partha Chatterjee. The minister hasn’t been attending office in Kolkata since long. The defiant leader instead has been on a mass contact programme on his own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-opens-up-talks-channel-with-suvendu/articleshow/78960752.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Kolkata||2 sharpshooters held in Shukla murder case||Kolkata: A fortnight after a CID team landed in Patna in search of two sharpshooters who had a direct role in the murder of Titagarh BJP leader Manish Shukla, the agency arrested Sujit Kumar Rai (26) and Roshan Kumar Yadav alias Tatya (20) near Ludhiana in Punjab and brought them to Barrackpore on transit remand on Friday. ADG (CID) Siddh Nath Gupta confirmed the two arrests. Sources revealed that more arrests are likely and a third person — who could be another sharpshooter — has also been detained. CID sources said both the accused are from Bihar and had fled to north India after committing the crime. While Sujit is a resident of Samastipur, Roshan hails from Vaishali. With this, the total number of arrests in the case stands at five. Sleuths said call record dump analysis and CCTV footages led them to the two accused. Calcutta high court is hearing a PIL demanding for CBI enquiry into the murder. “The next date of hearing of the PIL is on November 10,” said Priyanka Tibrewal, who filed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-sharpshooters-held-in-shukla-murder-case/articleshow/78960614.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
October 31, 2020||Ghaziabad||Air quality in Greater Noida better, still 3rd most polluted city in country||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: Greater Noida was the third-most polluted city in the country on Friday with an AQI of 394, which is considered “very poor”. The city, however, experienced marginally better air quality than Thursday when the AQI was at 412. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Friday, while Hisar was the most polluted city in the country, Fatehabad was the second-most polluted city. The AQI in Ghaziabad improved marginally on Friday, compared to Thursday and was recorded at 382. Noida’s AQI was at 374.  According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), calm surface wind has led to higher AQI in the area even although there was slight improvement as compared to the previous day. The wind speed is likely to pick up by Saturday and the air is expected to improve. SAFAR predicts that the AQI is likely to stay in the “very poor category” on Friday. However, a significant improvement is likely on November 1 when the AQI is expected to remain at the lower-end of the “very poor” or in the “poor” category. In Delhi, the AQI was in the “very poor” category at 374 according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) daily bulletin. However, 12 monitoring stations touched “severe” range on Friday noon. With Met officials predicting increased surface wind and faster dispersion of pollutants, AQI is likely to improve significantly on Sunday. SAFAR, the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said the farm fire count decreased to 1,143 in neighbouring states on Thursday, after recording season’s highest at 2,912 on Wednesday. Besides, the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 decreased from 36% on Thursday to 19% on Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Though the wind speed dropped to zero at night time, it started rising during the day and helped in dispersion of pollutants.”  The Air Quality Earth Warning system for Delhi forecast that the predominant surface wind is likely to come from northwest of Delhi with wind speed up to 06-10 kmph. Mainly clear sky and mist in the morning is expected on Saturday.  The CPCB data showed that 12 monitoring stations — Wazirpur, Bawana, Mundka, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Dwarka-Sector 8, Patparganj, Shadipur, DTU and Punjabi Bagh — were in “severe” category on Friday at 12pm after AQI crossed the 400-mark. However, only Jahangirpuri (411) and Anand Vihar (461) continued to remain in the same category by 7pm. The air quality improved marginally on Friday as Delhi’s AQI on Thursday morning had turned “severe”, but overall AQI later in the evening remained on the higher side of “very poor” with a reading at 395. At 367, the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in Gurugram on Friday was in the “very poor” category. The city also saw a slight dip in pollution levels from 384 the day before. Gurugram reported an AQI of 313 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/air-quality-in-gr-noida-better-still-3rd-most-polluted-city-in-country/articleshow/78962579.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Noida||Air quality in Greater Noida better, still 3rd most polluted city in country||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: Greater Noida was the third-most polluted city in the country on Friday with an AQI of 394, which is considered “very poor”. The city, however, experienced marginally better air quality than Thursday when the AQI was at 412. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Friday, while Hisar was the most polluted city in the country, Fatehabad was the second-most polluted city. The AQI in Ghaziabad improved marginally on Friday, compared to Thursday and was recorded at 382. Noida’s AQI was at 374.  According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), calm surface wind has led to higher AQI in the area even although there was slight improvement as compared to the previous day. The wind speed is likely to pick up by Saturday and the air is expected to improve. SAFAR predicts that the AQI is likely to stay in the “very poor category” on Friday. However, a significant improvement is likely on November 1 when the AQI is expected to remain at the lower-end of the “very poor” or in the “poor” category. In Delhi, the AQI was in the “very poor” category at 374 according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) daily bulletin. However, 12 monitoring stations touched “severe” range on Friday noon. With Met officials predicting increased surface wind and faster dispersion of pollutants, AQI is likely to improve significantly on Sunday. SAFAR, the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said the farm fire count decreased to 1,143 in neighbouring states on Thursday, after recording season’s highest at 2,912 on Wednesday. Besides, the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 decreased from 36% on Thursday to 19% on Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Though the wind speed dropped to zero at night time, it started rising during the day and helped in dispersion of pollutants.”  The Air Quality Earth Warning system for Delhi forecast that the predominant surface wind is likely to come from northwest of Delhi with wind speed up to 06-10 kmph. Mainly clear sky and mist in the morning is expected on Saturday.  The CPCB data showed that 12 monitoring stations — Wazirpur, Bawana, Mundka, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Dwarka-Sector 8, Patparganj, Shadipur, DTU and Punjabi Bagh — were in “severe” category on Friday at 12pm after AQI crossed the 400-mark. However, only Jahangirpuri (411) and Anand Vihar (461) continued to remain in the same category by 7pm. The air quality improved marginally on Friday as Delhi’s AQI on Thursday morning had turned “severe”, but overall AQI later in the evening remained on the higher side of “very poor” with a reading at 395. At 367, the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in Gurugram on Friday was in the “very poor” category. The city also saw a slight dip in pollution levels from 384 the day before. Gurugram reported an AQI of 313 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/air-quality-in-gr-noida-better-still-3rd-most-polluted-city-in-country/articleshow/78961161.cms||---
October 31, 2020||Gurgaon||Air quality in Greater Noida better, still 3rd most polluted city in country||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: Greater Noida was the third-most polluted city in the country on Friday with an AQI of 394, which is considered “very poor”. The city, however, experienced marginally better air quality than Thursday when the AQI was at 412. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Friday, while Hisar was the most polluted city in the country, Fatehabad was the second-most polluted city. The AQI in Ghaziabad improved marginally on Friday, compared to Thursday and was recorded at 382. Noida’s AQI was at 374.  According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), calm surface wind has led to higher AQI in the area even although there was slight improvement as compared to the previous day. The wind speed is likely to pick up by Saturday and the air is expected to improve. SAFAR predicts that the AQI is likely to stay in the “very poor category” on Friday. However, a significant improvement is likely on November 1 when the AQI is expected to remain at the lower-end of the “very poor” or in the “poor” category. In Delhi, the AQI was in the “very poor” category at 374 according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) daily bulletin. However, 12 monitoring stations touched “severe” range on Friday noon. With Met officials predicting increased surface wind and faster dispersion of pollutants, AQI is likely to improve significantly on Sunday. SAFAR, the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, said the farm fire count decreased to 1,143 in neighbouring states on Thursday, after recording season’s highest at 2,912 on Wednesday. Besides, the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 decreased from 36% on Thursday to 19% on Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Though the wind speed dropped to zero at night time, it started rising during the day and helped in dispersion of pollutants.”  The Air Quality Earth Warning system for Delhi forecast that the predominant surface wind is likely to come from northwest of Delhi with wind speed up to 06-10 kmph. Mainly clear sky and mist in the morning is expected on Saturday.  The CPCB data showed that 12 monitoring stations — Wazirpur, Bawana, Mundka, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Dwarka-Sector 8, Patparganj, Shadipur, DTU and Punjabi Bagh — were in “severe” category on Friday at 12pm after AQI crossed the 400-mark. However, only Jahangirpuri (411) and Anand Vihar (461) continued to remain in the same category by 7pm. The air quality improved marginally on Friday as Delhi’s AQI on Thursday morning had turned “severe”, but overall AQI later in the evening remained on the higher side of “very poor” with a reading at 395. At 367, the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in Gurugram on Friday was in the “very poor” category. The city also saw a slight dip in pollution levels from 384 the day before. Gurugram reported an AQI of 313 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/air-quality-in-gr-noida-better-still-3rd-most-polluted-city-in-country/articleshow/78962576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
October 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's AQI 'very poor' on Friday, 12 stations in red zone||NEW DELHI: At 374, the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in the capital on Friday was in the “very poor” category, stated Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) daily bulletin. However, 12 monitoring stations touched “severe” range on Friday noon. Track the pollution level in your cityWith Met officials predicting increased surface wind and faster dispersion of pollutants, AQI is likely to improve significantly on Sunday. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under Union ministry of earth sciences, the farm fire count decreased to 1,143 in neighbouring states on Thursday, after recording season’s highest at 2,912 on Wednesday. Besides, the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 decreased from 36% on Thursday to 19% on Friday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, India Meteorological Department, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Though the wind speed dropped to zero at night time, it started rising during the day and helped in dispersion of pollutants.” The CPCB data showed that 12 monitoring stations — Wazirpur, Bawana, Mundka, Anand Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Dwarka-Sector 8, Patparganj, Shadipur, DTU and Punjabi Bagh — were in “severe” category on Friday at 12pm after AQI crossed the 400-mark. However, only Jahangirpuri (411) and Anand Vihar (461) continued to remain in the same category by 7pm. The air quality improved marginally on Friday as Delhi’s AQI on Thursday morning had turned “severe”, but overall AQI later in the evening remained on the higher side of “very poor” with a reading at 395. “Calm surface winds prevailed over the region and wind speed is likely to pick pace. The improved ventilation is likely to influence air quality positively. AQI is likely to improve to the middle end of ‘very poor’ by Saturday, while a significant improvement is likely on Sunday,” said the bulletin. The Air Quality Earth Warning system for Delhi forecast that the predominant surface wind is likely to come from northwest of Delhi with wind speed up to 06-10 kmph. Mainly clear sky and mist in the morning is expected on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-aqi-very-poor-on-friday-12-stations-in-red-zone/articleshow/78962397.cms||---
