01-07-2021||Business||Alert: Banks to remain closed for 15 days in July||Reserve Bank of India has notified that banks across India will remain closed for a total of 15 days in the month of July. The official holiday list released by the banking regulator has listed nine holidays under the category of religious, festival and state-wise leaves, thereby making them state-specific. The remaining six off fall under the category of weekends off. According to an NDTV report the holidays fall under Negotiable Instruments Act, Holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act and Real-Time Gross Settlement Holiday and Banks’ Closing of Accounts. These 15 days holiday, for the month of July fall under the bracket of Holiday under Negotiable Instruments Act indicated the report. Also, public sector, private sector, foreign, cooperative and regionals banks will remain closed. Money lenders across India will remain shut on July 21 on account of Eid-Ul-Adha or Bakri Id. It must be noted that bank holidays are state specific, and may not be observed by all banks. These holidays will be applicable on festivals being observed in the state. 12 July 2021: Kang (Rathajatra)/Ratha Yatra 13 July 2021: Bhanu Jayanti 14 July 2021: Drukpa Tshechi 16 July 2021: Harela 17 July 2021: U Tirot Sing Day/Kharchi Puja 19 July 2021: Guru Rimpoche's Thungkar Tshechu 20 July 2021: Bakrid 21 July 2021: Bakri Id (Id-Ul-Zuha) (Eid-UI-Adha) 31 July 2021: Ker Puja||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||RBI governor flags data breach risk, says economy recovering well||The second wave of the pandemic took a "grievous toll" on India, but the dented economic activity has started recovering from late-May, Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday. In a first, Das flagged the rising data breaches and cyber attacks as a risk facing the economy, along with others like firming global commodity prices. "The recovery that had commenced in the second half of 2020-21 was dented in April-May 2021, but with the wave of infections abating as rapidly as it had set in, economic activity has started to look up in late May and early June," Das wrote in his foreword to the bi-annual Financial Stability Report prepared by the RBI. The report said the gross non-performing assets of banks have been stable at 7.5 per cent in March 2021 -- the same level as six months ago -- but are expected to go up to 9.8 per cent in March 2022, as per its baseline scenario. Das said the dent on balance sheets and performance of financial institutions in India have been much less than what was projected earlier, but was quick to add that a clearer picture will emerge as the effects of regulatory reliefs fully work their way through. He also said capital and liquidity buffers at financial institutions are "reasonably resilient" to withstand any future shocks. The financial system is on the front foot to aid recovery, but the priority is to maintain and preserve financial stability, he said. Domestic financial markets are also boosted by the strengthening signs of the pandemic's abatement, the growing pace and breadth of the vaccination drive and renewed hopes of the economy clawing back lost ground as it unlocks, he said. "...while the recovery is underway, new risks have emerged on the horizon and these include the still nascent and mending state of the upturn, vulnerable as it is to shocks and future waves of the pandemic; international commodity prices and inflationary pressures; global spillovers amid high uncertainty; and rising incidence of data breaches and cyber attacks," he said. The governor emphasised that sustained policy support accompanied by further fortification of capital and liquidity buffers by financial entities remain vital to tackle the risks. The financial system can take the lead in creating the conditions for the economy to recover and thrive, he said, adding that stronger capital positions, good governance and efficiency in financial intermediation will be the touchstones of this endeavour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Nirav Modi's sister has sent Rs 17 crore to Indian government, says ED||The ED on Thursday said fugitive businessman Nirav Modi's sister has "remitted" over Rs 17 crore from a UK bank account to that of the Indian government after she was allowed pardon from criminal proceedings in lieu of extending help in the investigation into the over Rs 13,000 crore PNB loan fraud case. Purvi Modi alias Purvi Mehta (47) and her husband Maiank Mehta were made approvers -- granted 'tender of pardon' -- in the case by a Mumbai court in January on the condition of making full and true disclosure. Purvi and her husband are British citizens and have never joined the probe. "On June 24, Purvi Modi intimated Enforcement Directorate that she had received the knowledge of one bank account in London, United Kingdom in her name, which was opened at the behest of her brother Nirav Modi and that the funds did not belong to her." "As Purvi Modi was allowed tender of pardon on conditions of making full and true disclosure, she remitted an amount of USD 23,16,889.03 from her UK bank account to the bank account of the government of India, Directorate of Enforcement," the central probe agency said in a statement. With the "cooperation" of Purvi Modi, it said, the ED has been able to recover about Rs 17.25 crore (USD 2316889.03) from the proceeds of crime, it said. According to the agency, Purvi Modi had assured the ED that she would help the agency in getting confiscated assets worth Rs 579 crore that included flats in New York and London and swiss bank deposit. The ED had earlier got issued an Interpol arrest warrant against her in 2018 and had filed two charge sheets under the criminal provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in which she and her husband were arraigned as accused in the alleged bank loan fraud case. In her application made to the court for pardon, Purvi Modi had said that she was not a prime accused and has been attributed only a limited role by the investigating agency. She had said that she fully cooperated with the ED in this investigation by providing all requisite information and documents. Her plea said that on account of being Nirav Modi's sister, she was in a unique position to provide "substantial and important evidence, information, proof, and documents and access to bank accounts, assets, companies and entities that are relevant to Nirav Modi and his actions/dealings". The ED had earlier said the assets in the names of Purvi Modi or her companies, that are expected to be repatriated with her help are: A Rs 19.5 crore worth flat near Breach Candy on Bhulabhai Desai Road in Mumbai, two flats in Central Park south area of New York (in the name of a trust) wroth Rs 36.52 crore and Rs 182.82 crore respectively, two swiss bank account deposits worth Rs 168.08 crore and Rs 108.23 crore, a Rs 62.1 crore flat at Marylebone Road in London and bank deposits worth Rs 1.96 crore kept in a Syndicate Bank branch at Nariman Point in Mumbai. Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, both prime accused in the case, along with others are being probed by the ED on money laundering charges for allegedly perpetrating an over USD 2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai. Nirav Modi, 50, is presently lodged in a UK jail and has lost his extradition plea to India in connection with this case that is also being investigated by the CBI. The ED had issued a statement last month saying that about 40 per cent of the money lost by banks in alleged frauds perpetrated by fugitive businessmen Nirav Modi, Choksi and businessman Vijay Mallya has been recovered so far due to its "swift" action in attaching and freezing their assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||India-Bangladesh thermal project to get first consignment from Calcutta port||The first consignment of coal for a thermal power plant being developed by state-owned NTPC Ltd through a joint venture in Bangladesh is getting ready at the port in Calcutta and will be shipped to Mongla Port in the neighbouring country in the next 2-3 days, an official said on Thursday. The 1,320-MW Rampal Power Plant is being built by BIFPC, the joint venture between India's NTPC Ltd and Bangladesh Power Development Board. "The first full rake of coal has arrived at Calcutta docks from Dhanbad and is now getting unloaded. It will be shipped to Mongla Port in the next 2-3 days for Rampal Power Plant," Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port (formerly Calcutta Port Trust) Deputy Chairman A K Mehera told PTI. The is the first shipment for a trial run, he said. "Each rake consists of about 3,800 tonnes of coal. It will be the first export of coal cargo from this port," Mehera said. The coal-fired unit of Bangladesh India Friendship Power Company was supposed to be completed by December 2020, but the work got delayed, sources said. The time for completion of Bangladesh's largest power plant, also known as Maitree Super Thermal Power Project, has been extended by a year, they said. Once the unit will run in full capacity, there will be transportation of 20,000 tonnes of coal cargo per month from Kolkata port, the sources said. Spread over 1,834 acres of land, the power plant is situated 14 kilometres north of Bangladesh part of Sundarbans, the world's largest mangrove forest and an ecologically sensitive area. Environmentalists had raised voice against the development of the Rampal Power Plant close to Sundarbans, which is also a UNESCO world heritage site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||GST Council maintains status quo on alcohol taxes||The GST Council has decided to continue with the status quo on states taxing extra-neutral alcohol (ENA), which is used for manufacturing alcoholic liquor for human consumption, a senior official said on Thursday. The Council, chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and comprising state counterparts, in its 43rd meeting on May 28 decided that for now ENA would not be brought into GST ambit and states will continue to levy Value Added Tax (VAT) and sales tax on ENA. Joint Secretary in the GST Council S K Rahman said the issue of whether GST is to be charged or state governments will continue to tax ENA has been discussed in about three or four GST Council meetings so far. "To a large extent it has been finally decided, let's not take up the issue again and again. Let the status quo continue that the state governments will continue to levy VAT and ... CST on ENA, which is going into manufacture of alcohol for human consumption. It is a decision that has been taken in the 43rd GST Council meeting," Rahman said in an interactive session of the PHD Chamber of Commerce. Currently, alcohol for human consumption or potable alcohol is out of the ambit of GST and states are free to levy taxes on them. However, industrial alcohol is within the Goods and Services Tax (GST). ENA a is derivative of sugarcane molasses and is not an alcoholic liquor for human consumption but can be used as raw material or input, after processing and substantial dilution, in the production of whisky, gin, country liquor etc. The pharmaceutical industry also uses ENA to manufacture cough syrups and the cosmetics industry to make perfumes. The pharma industry has been demanding inclusion of ENA in the GST so that it can avail input tax credit. However, states have reasoned that if ENA is brought under the GST, it would be difficult to monitor alcohol production in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 164 points to close at 52,318||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 164 points on Thursday following losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a weak trend in Asian peers.  The 30-share BSE index ended 164.11 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 52,318.60. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 41.50 points or 0.26 per cent down to 15,680.  Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, Dr Reddy's, Bajaj Auto, Sun Pharma, Asian Paints and NTPC were among the gainers.  "Domestic equities continued to trade range-bound as rebound in auto, pharma and FMCG was overshadowed by profit-booking in financials and IT space," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Strong June month dispatches reported by the automobile companies aided auto index to see sharp rebound, he noted.  However, weak cues from global markets also weighed on sentiments.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.90 per cent higher at USD 75.29 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on flat note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a flat note on Thursday amid a weak trend in Asian peers and foreign fund outflow.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 36.88 points or 0.07 per cent lower at 52,445.83 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 5.50 points or 0.03 per cent down to 15,716.  Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Bajaj Finserv, Infosys and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, M&M, Asian Paints, Maruti, Titan, Kotak Bank and Bharti Airtel were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 66.95 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 52,482.71, and Nifty slipped 26.95 points or 0.17 per cent to close at 15,721.50.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,646.66 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended with gains in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.20 per cent higher at USD 74.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry extends ban on international commercial flights||The ban on international commercial flights has been extended by the civil aviation ministry till the end of July — a decision that is at odds with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s plan to issue 5 lakh free visas to foreign tourists to help the tourism industry get back in business. The Directorate-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in a circular on Wednesday that the ban on international commercial flights has been extended till July 31. The ban was to end on June 30 after a 15-month gap. Dedicated cargo flights, flights under the bilateral air bubble pacts with select countries will continue to operate, the civil aviation watchdog said. Etihad, meanwhile, has suspended all flights from India till July 21. Sitharaman had tried to lure tourists from abroad by waiving the tourist visa fee to five lakh tourists or till March end, whichever is earlier. She claimed that the financial implication of the tourist visa fee waiver would be Rs 100 crore. Around 10.93 million foreign tourists visited India in 2019 and spent $30.098 billion on leisure and business, Sitharaman had said. A foreign tourist spends 21 days in India on an average and spends around $34 daily. Sources in the tourism sector said Europe, Australia and Canada have issued travel advisory asking citizens not to travel to India because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “In the absence of a date for the issuance of e-tourist visas and of the resumption of scheduled international flights, we cannot revive tourism and free visas will be meaningless. “Tourists who are spending on air fare can easily pay for the visa fee. This will only benefit tourists from Myanmar, Bangladesh and Pakistan. The money could have been used to give grants to tourist guides and tourism workforce,” Subhash Goyal, president of the Confederation of Tourism Professionals of India, said. The government has also announced a scheme for the industry, under which Rs 10 lakh loan will be given to travel agencies, while registered tourist guides will be eligible for a loan of Rs 1 lakh. Sanjay Sharma, president of the Tour Guides Federation of India, said: “There is no business at all. Our guys have not earned a penny over the last one-and-a half year. A lot of us have already taken loans for automobiles or houses. The government is trying to make a mockery of us by announcing this package.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Worry over skillsets for board posts||Market regulator Sebi’s directive to companies to disclose the skillsets they seek in a director’s position and explain to shareholders how the appointee has attributes that fit those skillsets have drawn mixed reactions. On Tuesday, the market regulator tightened rules on independent directors. It said that their appointment, re-appointment or removal should only be through a special resolution. Sebi also laid out the process to be followed by the nomination and remuneration committee while selecting the candidates for appointment. It made the procedure more transparent, including enhanced disclosures regarding the skills required to be appointed as an independent directors and how the proposed candidate fitted into that skillset. Some experts feel the idea will work only if the skillset brought in by an independent director complements those possessed by the others on the board. Others are of the view that the main job of an independent director is not to bring in a particular skillset to a company, but to protect the interests of its minority shareholders. According to Shriram Subramanian, founder and managing director, InGovern Research Services, the decisions taken by the Sebi board on independent directors are incremental steps in a positive direction. He pointed out that one of the key positives is that the appointment of independent directors will be done only through a special resolution. At present, only their re-appointment or removal are done through such resolutions. Another good step is that the entire resignation letter of an independent director will be put in the public domain. “I don’t think it will overhaul promoter influence and the spectrum of promoters from good to bad will remain the same. While Sebi has also stressed on skillset, the key is whether the skillset of an independent director complements other members on the board,” he added. Pranav Haldea, managing director, PRIME Database Group, told The Telegraph that the primary role of an independent director is to safeguard the interests of minority shareholders. “In bringing in a special resolution in place of an ordinary resolution earlier, the regulator has achieved a fine balance between empowering minority shareholders while not adding to the burden of companies of getting a majority of minority investors to vote in favour, like was suggested in the discussion paper.” He pointed out that there is an inherent conflict in the process of appointment of independent directors. Independent directors are supposed to safeguard minority investors from the very people who appoint and pay them. This measure undertaken by Sebi shall help in addressing this issue to some extent. Promoter  holding in most listed firms is 50-75 per cent. Though the influence of promoters will not reduce significantly, they will now have to engage more with minority shareholders to get the appointment done, he added. On the skillset criteria, Haldea said, “A company can instead have an advisory board or hire consultants to bring in domain expertise.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea’s consolidated loss narrows to Rs 7,022.8 crore||Debt-ridden telecom operator Vodafone Idea’s consolidated loss narrowed to Rs 7,022.8 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, mainly on account of cost optimisation. Vodafone Idea (Vi) had posted a loss of Rs 11,643.5 crore in the same period a year ago. Total income declined about 19 per cent to Rs 9,647.8 crore from Rs 11,920.4 crore in the year-ago period. “We enter financial year 2022 with a renewed focus on executing our strategy to keep our customers ahead, and our cost optimisation plan remains on track to deliver the targeted savings. “We are in active discussion with potential investors for fund raising to achieve our strategic intent,” Vi managing director and CEO Ravinder Takkar said in a statement. The company attributed the decline in revenue to the scrapping of domestic interconnect usage charges from January 2021 and an around 2.2 per cent dip on account of lower number of days in the quarter. For the year ended March 31, 2021, the company’s loss narrowed to Rs 44,233.1 crore from Rs 73,878.1 crore in 2019-20. The subscriber base of the company dipped to 26.78 crore during the reported quarter. SpiceJet numbers SpiceJet on Wednesday reported narrowing of net loss to Rs 235.3 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, and announced that it will raise up to Rs 2,500 crore to ensure long-term growth and sustainable operations. The budget carrier had suffered a net loss of Rs 807 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-155
01-07-2021||Business||SC allows CA aspirants to opt out of upcoming exams||The  Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed candidates scheduled to appear for the upcoming CA exams to opt out if they or their family members have suffered from Covid-19. A three-judge bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Aniruddha Bose also made it clear that a candidate need not produce an RT-PCR test report if a medical certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner for his family members is produced along with a request for opting out. “A candidate who has suffered Covid-19 personally or any of his family members …as a result of which he is unable to appear for the exam, or was disabled from preparing for the exam, is entitled to exercise the option of opting out. It will not be considered as an attempt. Such a candidate will be permitted to appear for the next examination for both the old and new syllabus,” the bench said. For candidates affected by a lockdown during the exam, the apex court said according to an ICAI scheme they will also be allowed to opt out and it will not be treated as an attempt and the candidate will be allowed to appear in the next examination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Jet Airways lenders to take steep haircut on their admitted claims||Jalan Kalrock Consortium, the winning bidder for the grounded Jet Airways, will make a total cash infusion of Rs 1,375 crore in the airline and lenders will take a steep haircut on their admitted claims of over Rs 7,800 crore under the approved resolution plan. The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on June 22 approved the consortium’s resolution plan for Jet Airways, which has been undergoing insolvency resolution process since June 2019. The carrier shuttered operations in April 2019. The consortium has proposed a total cash infusion of Rs 1,375 crore, including Rs 475 crore that will be used for payment to stakeholders, including financial creditors. An amount of Rs 900 crore would be invested for capital expenditure and working capital requirements for smooth functioning of the airline, according to a detailed order published by the tribunal on Wednesday. The amount of Rs 475 crore includes CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) costs. According to the resolution plan, assenting financial creditors would get Rs 380 crore, which means a haircut of 95 per cent compared with the admitted claims of a little over Rs 7,807 crore. Among others, there would be an upfront payment of Rs 185 crore to the financial creditors. Zero-coupon bonds worth Rs 195 crore would be issued to them and the lenders stand to have a 9.5 per cent equity stake in the airline. Among others, they would get a 7.5 per cent stake in Jet Privilege Private Ltd. Further, the consortium would invest a maximum of Rs 600 crore in the equity of Jet Airways. About slots, the NCLT noted that the facts and circumstances would indicate that at present the slots cannot be restored to Jet Airways on a historic basis. “The thumb rule being ‘use it or lose it’. Be that as it may, we must remember that running an airline, much less reviving one, is not a facile business.” “It involves the entire gamut of complex and diverse activities from land to sky and everything in between... when the airline is sought to be revived, which is the sole object of the Code, all concerned need to make concerted efforts to see that the move succeeds,” it said. The Code refers to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Over 96% complaints Google received in April related to copyright violations||Over 96 per cent of the 27,762 complaints that Google received in April this year were related to copyright violations, much like the one which resulted in the  blocking of the Twitter accounts of IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and IT parliamentary committee head Shashi Tharoor. While Twitter blocked their accounts for violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of the US, the search engine has done so for violating the Indian law. In its maiden monthly transparency report, the search engine giant said it received 27,762 complaints alleging violations of Indian laws or personal rights that resulted in the removal of 59,350 posts or messages. Giving the break-up of the complaints in April, Google said 96.2 per cent of the complaints were related to copyright issues, 1.3 per cent were over trademarks, 1 per cent for defamation, 0.4 per cent were for counterfeit issues and 0.4 per cent over circumvention. “These complaints relate to third-party content that is believed to violate local laws or personal rights on Google’s SSMI platforms. This data also includes individual user complaints accompanied by a court order,” the report said. Google said there will be a two-month lag for reporting to allow sufficient time for data processing and validation. Google is among the first large digital platforms to release such a report in compliance with the IT rules that came into force from May 26. Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms — with over 5 million users — will have to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Ratan Tata lauds Tata Steel's stellar performance ||Ratan Tata, chairman emeritus of Tata Group, made an unscheduled address to the shareholders of Tata Steel at the company’s annual general meeting on Wednesday, lauding the stellar performance of the company and also recognised the achievements of Natarajan Chandrasekaran and the ‘new team’ headed by him. The short speech, which surprised many as few could recall if he ever spoke at an AGM after stepping down from the role of the chairman of Tata Group in 2012, appeared to be a ringing endorsement for Chandrasekaran. “Today, I stand before you to recognise the achievements of Tata Steel and the new team headed by Chandrasekaran and others who are looking into the future to take the leadership of the Tata Group where it hopes to be in the years ahead,” Tata said at the start of the AGM which was held on a virtual platform. Tata Steel is now one of the bright spots of the Tata empire, which had to face the brunt of the pandemic like many others. The company posted the highest EBIDTA (earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation) and also declared the highest ever dividend of Rs 25 a share (250 per cent). Tata Sons will be the biggest beneficiary of the dividend bonanza and, in turn, it will benefit Tata Trusts, which collectively hold the largest stake in it. Tata is also the chairman of Tata Trusts, the controlling shareholders of Tata Sons, the holding company of the salt-to-software conglomerate. Chandrasekaran was plucked out of TCS, the most profitable company of the group, and made the chairman of Tata Sons in February 2017 following the acrimonious exit of Cyrus Mistry from the leadership post. Tata said ‘Chandra’ should be proud of what the new team has been able to achieve and hoped it would continue in the future. “I am very very proud of what this Group has been able to do and I look forward to hearing of the continued success of Tata Group in the years ahead. Chandra, you ought to be exceedingly proud of what your team has achieved,” Tata said. The endorsement for Chandrasekaran comes at a time the group is making big bets in the digital space, acquiring several businesses such as online grocer Bigbasket and online pharmacy 1mg. He also appears to be pushing the century-old group to digitise operations, bringing in knowledge of big data and analytics. The octogenarian also fondly recalled his stint with Tata Steel where he began his career more than half a century ago. “Tata Steel has a special place in my heart. This is where I began my career in Tatas 57 years ago, where I had the opportunity of working on the shop floor for three years, watching the company grow, seeing and interacting with people like J.R.D. Tata, Russi Mody, and Nanavati,” he said. Responding to shareholders later, Chandrasekaran said Tata Steel Europe is going to post solid results in terms of EBIDTA, profits and cash flow after years of losses. Tata led the charge of taking the conglomerate to the global stage with audacious and big ticket acquisitions, such as TSE, formerly Corus Group Plc. Chandra said the team is trying to make the TSE performance sustainable by taking a strong operational rigour. The underperformance of TSE was touted to be a major conflict point between Tata and Mistry who questioned the acquisition at a high cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||Centre's gross market borrowings may dip below budgeted level: CEA||In an indication that the Narendra Modi-government is unlikely to crank up spending to revive the economy, chief economic adviser (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian has said that gross market borrowings of the Centre may even dip below the budgeted level of Rs 12.05 lakh crore this fiscal. While the CEA made these comments in an interview to a TV channel, data released by the Controller-General of Accounts (CGA) on Wednesday showed the fiscal deficit at Rs 1.23 lakh crore or 8.2 per cent of the budget estimate at end-May against around 58.6 per cent a year ago. The central government on Wednesday also asked various ministries and departments to restrict expenses to a maximum of 20 per cent of their annual budgetary allocation in the September quarter.  The restrictions for the second quarter would not be applicable for select ministries and departments, including health, agriculture, fertilisers, pharmaceuticals and food. Subramanian’s comments also come just days after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a relief package that was dominated by guarantees. Though the size of the stimulus measures was put at Rs 6.3 lakh crore, the actual fiscal hit would be much lower, economists said. “The quantum of fresh measures comes to Rs 2.67 lakh crore. Since this package mostly consists of guaranteed loans (which do not result in immediate fiscal outgo), its actual impact on the fiscal in 2021-22 is estimated at just Rs 100 crore,’’ says Anagha Deodhar, research analyst at ICICI Securities. Sitharaman had budgeted for a fiscal deficit of 6.8 per cent of GDP for this year, though many brokerages estimate it will higher. Due to the severe impact of the second Covid wave, there were suggestions that the government should spend its way out of the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
01-07-2021||Business||India opposed to idea of global minimum corporate tax||The G7 nations recently agreed on a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15 per cent but India is starting to have second thoughts. At their talks held on Tuesday, US treasury secretary Janet Yellen and finance minister Nirmal Sitharaman discussed the issue but it is becoming clear that India is opposed to the idea of allowing the US — which is backing the tax plan — to dictate the country’s tax laws. “(Janet) Yellen discussed that the US and India have a shared interest in implementing a robust global minimum tax,” the US Department of Treasury in a release said late Tuesday night. During the call, Yellen stressed on the importance of partnership with India in the G20 and the OECD to seize a once-in-a-generation opportunity to remake the international tax system and help the global economy thrive, the US release said. The G7 leaders in their communique also stated that multinationals with a 10 per cent profit margin will be taxed on at least 20 per cent of the profits that exceed this margin in the countries where they operate. The G7, however, said, countries such as India would have to abolish the equalisation levy of 2 per cent it charges on foreign online companies. The minimum tax is designed to prevent countries such as Singapore and Ireland which have lower tax rates to draw multinationals to set up regional bases. It will be a while before the 139 nations agree to such a tax which will be one of the two pillars propping up the larger plan to ensure MNCs pay fair taxes in the jurisdictions in which they operate. North Block officials have pointed out that the government had already cut corporate tax rates on existing and newly incorporated companies to 25 per cent and 15 per cent in September 2019. They feel any further tweaks to reflect a tax rate understanding among the G20 countries at a time of Covid-19 induced economic uncertainty will not help business sentiment. Tax experts said India’s effective tax rate is still above the global minimum tax rate, which would not impact companies doing business in India. “Even the recently announced lower rate of 15 per cent for new manufacturing units in India just about meets this new threshold, thus, not affecting this much-needed boost to manufacturing in India,” EY India national tax leader Sudhir Kapadia has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-156
