02-07-2021||India||Facebook actioned 30 million content pieces during May 15-June 15 under new rules||Facebook "actioned" over 30 million content pieces across 10 violation categories during May 15-June 15 in the country, the social media giant said in its maiden monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules.  Instagram took action against about two million pieces across nine categories during the same period.  Under the new IT rules, large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) will have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The report is to also include the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools.  While Facebook actioned over 30 million content pieces across multiple categories during May 15-June 15, Instagram took action against about 2 million pieces.  A Facebook spokesperson said over the years, Facebook has consistently invested in technology, people and processes to further its agenda of keeping users safe and secure online and enabling them to express themselves freely on its platform.  "We use a combination of artificial intelligence, reports from our community and review by our teams to identify and review content against our policies. We'll continue to add more information and build on these efforts towards transparency as we evolve this report," the spokesperson said in a statement to PTI.  Facebook said its next report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken.  "We expect to publish subsequent editions of the report with a lag of 30-45 days after the reporting period to allow sufficient time for data collection and validation. We will continue to bring more transparency to our work and include more information about our efforts in future reports," it added.  Earlier this week, Facebook had said it will publish an interim report on July 2 providing information on the number of content it removed proactively during May 15-June 15. The final report will be published on July 15, containing details of user complaints received and action taken.  The July 15 report will also contain data related to WhatsApp, which is part of Facebook's family of apps.  Other major platforms that have made their reports public include Google and homegrown platform Koo.  In its report, Facebook said it had actioned over 30 million pieces of content across 10 categories during May 15-June 15. This includes content related to spam (25 million), violent and graphic content (2.5 million), adult nudity and sexual activity (1.8 million), and hate speech (311,000).  Other categories under which content was actioned include bullying and harassment (118,000), suicide and self-injury (589,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (106,000) and dangerous organisations and Individuals: organised hate (75,000).  'Actioned' content refers to the number of pieces of content (such as posts, photos, videos or comments) where action has been taken for violation of standards. Taking action could include removing a piece of content from Facebook or Instagram or covering photos or videos that may be disturbing to some audiences with a warning.  The proactive rate, which indicates the percentage of all content or accounts acted on which Facebook found and flagged using technology before users reported them, in most of these cases ranged between 96.4-99.9 per cent.  The proactive rate for removal of content related to bullying and harassment was 36.7 per cent as this content is contextual and highly personal by nature. In many instances, people need to report this behaviour to Facebook before it can identify or remove such content.  For Instagram, 2 million pieces of content were actioned across nine categories during May 15-June 15. This includes content related to suicide and self-injury (699,000), violent and graphic content (668,000), adult nudity and sexual activity (490,000), and bullying and harassment (108,000).  Other categories under which content was actioned include hate speech (53,000), dangerous organisations and individuals: terrorist propaganda (5,800), and dangerous organisations and individuals: organised hate (6,200).  Google had stated that 27,762 complaints were received by Google and YouTube in April this year from individual users in India over alleged violation of local laws or personal rights, which resulted in removal of 59,350 pieces of content.  Koo, in its report, said it has proactively moderated 54,235 content pieces, while 5,502 posts were reported by its users during June.  According to the IT rules, significant social media intermediaries are also required to appoint a chief compliance officer, a nodal officer and a grievance officer and these officials are required to be resident in India.  Non-compliance with the IT rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.  Facebook recently named Spoorthi Priya as its grievance officer in India.  India is a major market for global digital platforms. As per data cited by the government recently, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
02-07-2021||Business||Sensex snaps 4-day losing streak, ends 166 points higher||Snapping its four-session losing run, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 166 points on Friday, led by gains in index majors Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and HDFC.  After trading in a range through the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 166.07 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 52,484.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 42.20 points or 0.27 per cent up at 15,722.20.  Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, SBI, HDFC, M&M, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Titan and Infosys.  On the other hand, Tata Steel, PowerGrid, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma and Bajaj Auto were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities continued to trade in a rangebound with benchmark indices witnessing marginal gains," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  While financials, pharma and realty indices recovered modestly, profit-booking was visible across metals and FMCG counters, he said, adding that midcap and smallcap indices continued to outperform as improved earnings visibility attracted investors towards this space.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul closed in the red, Tokyo ended with gains.  Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was quoting marginally lower at USD 75.79 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Goyal reviews critical infrastructure projects||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects, with anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore, an official statement said on Friday. The minister issued directions and timelines to ensure expeditious resolution of pending issues for timely commissioning of projects, it said. Among the projects that were reviewed include dedicated freight corridors along eastern and western routes, and Amritsar Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC), it said. The minister also emphasized the importance of regular multi-level monitoring of infrastructure projects that are critical to the economic growth and employment generation in the country, the statement added. "The minister reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects with anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore," it said. Senior officials of key central ministries including Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, Road Transport and Highways, Environment, Forest and Climate Change were also present in the meeting. The meeting was held on June 29. AKIC traverses through seven states and would facilitate development of industrial manufacturing in the region of eastern dedicated freight corridor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on weak note amid sustained FII outflow||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Friday amid sustained foreign fund outflow and a mixed trend in Asian peers.  The 30-share BSE index started on a slightly positive note, but soon turned negative to trade 46.89 points or 0.09 per cent lower at 52,271.71 in early deals.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 9.90 points or 0.06 per cent down to 15,670.10.  TCS was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Infosys, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, HCL Tech, PowerGrid, Tata Steel and HDFC.  On the other hand, ICICI Bank, M&M, Reliance Industries and Titan were among the gainers.  In the previous session, the 30-share index Sensex ended 164.11 points or 0.31 per cent lower at 52,318.60, and Nifty inched 41.50 points or 0.26 per cent down to 15,680.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,245.29 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, sustained FII selling and high valuations are the major reasons for the weakness in the market now.  "It is normal and rational for FIIs to sell and book profits at the present elevated valuations. High-net-worth individuals (HNIs) also might be tempted to partially book profits," he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red in mid-session deals, while Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended on a positive note in the overnight session.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was quoting flat at USD 75.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Gross non-performing assets ratio of scheduled commercial banks may increase to 9.80% by March 2022||The Reserve Bank of India’s financial stability report released on Thursday has shown the gross NPA ratio of banks to rise by March 2022 compared with a year ago but will improve vis-a-vis September 2021. According to the stress tests of the RBI, gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) ratio of scheduled commercial banks may increase to 9.80 per cent by March 2022 from 7.48 per cent in March 2021 under the baseline scenario; and to 11.22 per cent under a severe stress scenario. This is lower than the GNPA ratio of 14.8 per cent by September 2021 under a severe stress scenario and 13.5 per cent under the baseline scenario. These stress tests were done in January. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the GNPA ratio of banks stood at 8.4 per cent. In PSU banks, the bad loan ratio was forecast to rise to 12.52 per cent by March 2022 under the baseline scenario against 9.54 per cent in March 2021. In January, the stress tests had shown that the PSU banks’ GNPA ratio may increase to 16.2 per cent by September 2021 under the baseline scenario from 9.7 per cent in September 2020. This is an improvement over earlier expectations with the report pointing out that it indicates “pandemic proofing by regulatory support’’. According to the report, unprecedented policy support has contained the impairment of the balance sheets. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in the report the second wave has taken a “grievous toll’’ and that the recovery which commenced in the second half of 2020-21 was dented in April-May 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Sebi floats consultation paper on certain aspects of the Superior Voting Rights Share Framework||Markets regulator Sebi on Thursday floated a consultation paper on certain aspects of the Superior Voting Rights Share (SR share) Framework, including net worth requirements of SR shareholders. In addition, suggestions from the public have been sought with regard to issuance of SR shares to trusts and other entities on behalf of promoters and the timing of the issuance of such shares, according to the consultation paper. Market participants are of the view that certain aspects of the current framework on SR shares are onerous, which delays such issuer companies from raising funds from capital markets. Sebi’s Primary Market Advisory Committee (PMAC) deliberated the matter and considered mandating the net worth requirement of SR shareholder on an individual basis. The threshold for such net-worth requirement can also be enhanced, the consultation paper noted. Sebi has sought suggestions till July 30 on several aspects, including whether net-worth requirement for SR shareholders be determined individually or as part of the promoter group. The regulator also asked whether the net-worth threshold for SR shareholders should be retained at Rs 500 crore or enhanced. If it is to be enhanced then suggestions have been sought on the new threshold and whether the proceeds from sale of shares of the issuer company should be excluded while determining the net-worth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business|| Indian tribunal put hold on directive to ban Vivek Kudva of Franklin Templeton||An Indian tribunal put on hold on Thursday a directive to ban Vivek Kudva of Franklin Templeton after he challenged it saying the market regulator had“overstepped” its powers in taking the decision. Kudva, head of Asia Pacific distribution at Franklin Templeton, was barred last month by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), which said he and his family members used non-public information to sell holdings worth about $4 million in Franklin debt funds that were shut down weeks later and caused investor panic. The regulator had imposed a one-year market ban on Kudva and his wife and fined them a total of $1 million. It said it was not “fair conduct” as Kudva was privy to non-public information. In an appeal heard by the Securities Appellate Tribunal on Thursday, Kudva argued he acted only on public information. Sebi objected to his position, but the tribunal judges decided to put the ban on hold while his appeal is heard. But Kudva will still need to deposit half of the penalty imposed on him, the tribunal said. In his 232-page appeal filing,  Kudva had argued that Indian law prohibits unfair trade practices, but mutual fund redemptions were not a “trade” and were akin to withdrawing one’s own money from a bank. Sebi had “overstepped its authority and misused the discretion” while passing its order and there was no reasoning in the regulator’s decision “to justify the draconian directions and restrictions,” said the filing by Kudva.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules may need further clarity on fallback liability||The draft Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 may need further clarity on the fallback liability of an e-commerce marketplace. Under the draft rules, a marketplace e-commerce entity shall be subject to a fallback liability when a seller registered on its platform fails to deliver goods and services due to negligent conduct, causing loss to consumers. The e-commerce firms, however, can get exemption from liability against lawsuits from irate consumers as set out in the IT intermediary rules. However, industry is waiting for greater clarity on the fallback liability that could spill over to the platform. Industry observers argued that e-commerce platforms could not be blamed or become liable for a fraud committed by a seller over whom they have no oversight. “The liability is going to be that of the seller, it cannot be on somebody who is transmitting the information as provided by the seller,” Aruna Sharma, former secretary to the government of India, said at a session organised by public policy think-tank — The Dialogue — on Thursday. Consumer activist Jehangir Gai said both online and offline markets should be able to always coexist. “There is a need to check the methodology. Let’s have regulations that safeguard consumers without impacting the industry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea approaches govt to seek a one-year moratorium on spectrum instalment||Cash-strapped Vodafone Idea Ltd (VIL) has approached the government to seek a one-year moratorium on the payment of spectrum instalment of over Rs 8,200 crore, due in April 2022. VIL, in a letter to the telecom secretary on June 25, has said it will be “unable to pay the instalment of Rs 8,292 crore due on April 9”, because of “cash being used for payment of AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues and the inability of the operations to generate the required cash in a predatory pricing situation”. According to the letter, the company has requested the department of telecom to grant it another year of moratorium to pay this instalment in April 2023 instead of April 2022 and has made it clear that “it is almost inevitable” that the firm will not be able to pay the said amount in April 2022. VIL has also said that while it is working on raising new funds for the last six months, “investors are not willing to invest in the company because they believe that unless there is a significant improvement in consumer tariffs, the health of the industry will not recover and they will incur a loss on their investment”. In its communication to the DoT, VIL said after the grant of a two-year moratorium earlier, the AGR judgment was pronounced, which has taken away Rs 7,854-crore cash as upfront payment. Based on the current demands of the DoT, it will also have to pay AGR instalments of about Rs 9,000 crore in March 2022. Meanwhile, Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal on Thursday said the telecom industry was under tremendous stress. “I hope the government, the authorities and the telecom department focus on this issue and ensure India’s digital dream remains intact through the provision of at least three operators, ” he said. Airtel would “not hesitate” to raise tariffs but it cannot be done “unilaterally”, Mittal added. Bengal spectrum Bharti Airtel on Thursday said it has deployed additional 21.6MHz spectrum in the Bengal circle secured in the last round of auction to beef up its network to 65MHz in the circle. The telecom major had paid Rs 783.6 crore for spectrum in the Bengal circle. “With the largest spectrum bank of 65MHz in Bengal, Airtel is well positioned to meet the surging demand for high-speed data,” said Siddharth Sharma, CEO — Bengal and Odisha, Bharti Airtel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||West Bengal govt extends Re 1-a-litre rebate on petrol and diesel prices||The Mamata Banerjee government has extended the Re 1-a-litre rebate on petrol and diesel prices for three more months, delaying petrol’s uninhibited march towards a century. The discount on both the fuels, announced before the Assembly elections, will now be in place till September 30. The measure that came into effect from February 22 was in place till June 30. A fresh notification was issued by the state administration extending the rebate, without which petrol would have crossed the unenviable Rs 100-a-litre mark in Bengal. Petrol will retail at Rs 99.04 a litre on Friday in Calcutta after central oil marketing companies raised prices by Rs 0.40 a litre. Diesel retails at Rs 92.03 in Calcutta. Chennai, which sells petrol at Rs 99.80 a litre, is also likely to touch the Rs 100-mark on Friday after the hike. Bengal imposes a 17 per cent and a 25 per cent sales tax on diesel and petrol, respectively, on an ad valorem basis. Additionally, it imposes a cess of Rs 1,000 per kilo litre or Re 1 a litre on both the products. Following the rebate, no cess is being imposed on these fuels. In contrast, the Centre collects Rs 32.90 a litre from petrol and Rs 31.80 a litre from diesel. However, it does not share most of the levies collected with states according to the formula of devolution of central taxes. The Centre bypasses the states by imposing a cess, which stood at Rs 20.50 a litre on petrol and Rs 22 a litre on diesel. Cooking gas price up PSU oil marketing firms have raised prices of non-subsidised cooking gas by Rs 25.50 a cylinder from July 1, putting an additional burden on consumers. Following the latest round of hike, a 14.2 kg cylinder will cost Rs 861, going up from Rs 835.5 a cylinder. Similarly, the price of a 19kg cylinder is going up to Rs 1,629, up by Rs 76. In the past nine months, LPG prices have gone up by 38.8 per cent in Calcutta. Consumers were paying Rs 620.5 for a 14.2 kg cylinder as on September 1, 2020. Moreover, the Modi government has all but put an end to the subsidy even though some consumers continue to get Rs 19.5 in their bank account. Retailers report a drop in demand for LPG especially from consumers of the economically weaker section. “Many people are alternating with kerosene which they can buy on a daily basis instead of blocking a lump sum on a cylinder,” a distributor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
02-07-2021||Business||Factory activity contracts for the first time in almost a year||India’s factory activity contracted for the first time in almost a year in June as restrictions to contain the deadly second wave of the coronavirus triggered declines in demand and output that pushed firms to cut more jobs, a private survey showed on Thursday. The IHS Markit India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index declined to an 11-month low of 48.1 in June from May’s 50.8, moving below the 50-level separating growth from contraction. The Services PMI had contracted in May to 46.4 for the first time in eight months —from 54 in April. “The intensification of the Covid-19 crisis in India had a detrimental impact on the manufacturing economy,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Lima said: “Of the three broad areas of the manufacturing sector monitored by the survey, capital goods was the worst affected in June.” “Output here declined at a steep rate because of a sharp fall in sales. The sector also saw the fastest contraction in buying levels and was the only to cut jobs.” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said: “The drop in India’s manufacturing PMI in June suggests that the recent plunge in new virus cases is yet to translate into a pick-up in manufacturing activity. The recovery should get back on track as containment measures are still being scaled back, but could come at the cost of a relapse further ahead.” India Inc has been peeved with the capricious manner in which the Centre and states have announced lockdowns but have refrained from voicing their views vociferously. The exception has been Bajaj Auto chairman Rahul Bajaj who has once again slammed the practice of introducing lockdowns to control the pandemic. “Let us also hope that we do not react to the epidemic by declaring more lockdowns, as we did the last time. For these will destroy business, employment and the economy without necessarily controlling the spread of the disease,” Bajaj said in his letter to shareholders published in the company’s annual report for 2020-21. “We were looking forward to another quarter of positive growth in January-March 2021. With the second wave that started in March 2021, I doubt whether we will see that growth. “More worryingly, I am concerned about the first quarter of the 2022 financial year and what a series of state-wide lockdowns might do to businesses and economic growth. “Let us hope that rapidly accelerated vaccinations coupled with a strict enforcement of masks and social distancing will soon bring the second wave under control,” Bajaj added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-154
