03-07-2021||Business||Government extends retirement age of LIC chairman to 62 years||The government has extended the superannuation age of IPO-bound LIC chairman to up to 62 years by making amendment to the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Regulations, 1960. The changes made in the rules will be called the Life Insurance Corporation of India (Staff) Amendment Rules, 2021, according to a government notification dated June 30, 2021. It is to be noted that the retirement age for the top executives of the majority of PSUs is 60 years, barring a few exceptions, including the State Bank of India. “Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, if the central government appoints the chairman for a term of office that extends beyond 60 years of age, or extends his term of office to a period beyond the said age, he shall not superannuate till he completes such term, or till he attains the age of sixty-two years, whichever is earlier,” the gazette notification said. Last month, the government approved a nine-month extension to LIC chairman M. R. Kumar till March next year in view of the insurer’s proposed initial public offer towards the end of the current financial year. In her budget speech this year, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the initial public offer of LIC would be floated in 2021-22 as part of the ambitious Rs 1.75-lakh-crore disinvestment target. The government extended the term of Kumar from June  2021 till March 13 next year, the date when he completes three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Centre imposes stock limits on pulses till October to prevent hoarding||To prevent hoarding and check price rise, the Centre on Friday imposed stock limits on all pulses, except moong, held by wholesalers, retailers, importers and millers till October. The stock limits are imposed with immediate effect. An order in this regard has been issued by the Union food and consumer affairs ministry. Retail prices of pulses rose by more than 20 per cent during the January-June period of this year, according to the ministry’s data. According to the ministry, the stock limit of 200 tonnes has been imposed on wholesalers provided they do not hold more than 200 tonnes of one variety of pulses. For retailers, the stock limit will be 5 tonnes. In the case of millers, the stock limit will be the last three months of production or 25 per cent of annual installed capacity, whichever is higher. For importers, the stock limit will be the same as that of wholesalers for stocks held/imported prior to May 15, 2021. For pulses imported after May 15, the stock limit applicable on wholesalers will apply after 45 days from the date of customs clearance, the order said. If the stocks of entities exceed the prescribed limits, they have to be declared on the online portal (fcainfoweb.nic.in) of the department of consumer affairs and have to be brought within the prescribed limit within 30 days of the notification of this order, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||RBI tweaks norms for interest on unclaimed amount after deposit matures||The Reserve Bank of India on Friday tweaked the norms for interest on the amount left unclaimed with the bank after a term deposit matures. At present, if a term deposit matures and the proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unclaimed with the bank attracts the rate of interest as applicable to savings deposits. “It has been decided that if a term deposit (TD) matures and the proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unclaimed with the bank shall attract a rate of interest as applicable to a savings account or the contracted rate of interest on the matured TD, whichever is lower,” the RBI said in a circular. The new norms are applicable for deposits in all commercial banks, small finance banks, local area banks, and co-operative banks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Big Tech entry into India’s financial sector poses risks for traditional banks, says RBI||Plans by Big Tech to foray further into India’s financial sector pose risks for traditional banks as the tech firms have the potential to become dominant players in financial services, the central bank has said. The plans will also create governance-related challenges for regulators, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) wrote in its bi-annual financial stability report on Thursday. Major technology firms “straddle many different lines of business with sometimes opaque overarching governance structures”, it said. The RBI said concerns included operational risks, too-big-to fail issues, challenges over anti-trust rules, cybersecurity and data privacy. But it added that the positive outcomes could include efficiency gains and more access to financial services. At present, Amazon and Google provide basic payment services in India. Both companies as well as Facebook and others have applied for licences to operate broader retail payment and settlement systems in partnership with Indian companies such as Reliance and lenders. The central bank’s warnings come at a time of much tension between the Indian government and US technology giants over issues that range from e-commerce rules to data privacy and content posted on their platforms. Amazon, Facebook, Facebook-owned WhatsApp and Twitter have all been caught up in disputes with New Delhi. A State Bank union and UNI Global Union, which represents about 20 million workers globally, last month had raised concerns about the entry of big technology companies into the country’s payments sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||India in favour of a consensus solution which is simple to implement and simple to comply: Finance ministry ||India has finally spelt out its stance on the minimum global corporate tax. The finance ministry on Friday said some significant issues relating to the extent to which India can tax multinationals — including the share of profit to be allocated to the country and the scope of subject to tax rules — are yet to be addressed and a “consensus agreement” is expected by October after working out the technical details of the proposal. The ministry said it would push for the allocation of meaningful and sustainable revenue to market jurisdictions, particularly developing and emerging economies, as India agreed to join the OECD backed minimum global corporate tax regime. There are subtle differences between the G7 proposal and the one proposed by the OECD. Under the G7 agreement, market countries will be awarded taxing rights on at least 20 per cent of profit exceeding a 10 per cent margin. Under the OECD/G20 Pillar One criterion: between 20 per cent and 30 per cent of residual profit defined as profit in excess of 10 per cent of revenue will be allocated to market jurisdictions with nexus (meaning taxable presence) using a revenue-based allocation key. R.V. Anuradha, partner, Clarus Law Associates, said: “There is much to be resolved to achieve a global common position. This can also be discerned from the differences in the OECD/G20 statement endorsed by India, and the G7 communique of last month. While the G7 wanted to limit the scope to the largest and most profitable MNEs, the OECD/G20 Pillar One proposal references MNEs with global turnover above 20 billion euros”. A total of 130 countries on Thursday agreed to an overhaul of global tax norms to ensure that multinationals pay taxes wherever they operate and at a minimum 15 per cent rate. “The devil lies in the details. The specific criteria for this greater share needs to be implementable. Similarly if the provisions of the Framework are subject to tax rules without defining the scope, it may dilute the purpose. These two are critical but also contentious issues,” Pralok Gupta, Centre for WTO Studies, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, said. Rajendra Nayak, tax partner, EY India, said: “The inclusive framework’s approach of limiting application of the new rules to large and profitable multinational groups is eminently practical. India’s primary interest is regarding Pillar One which seeks to re-allocate taxing rights over MNEs to markets where they earn profits.” “However, some finer details which could impact the allocation still need to be worked out. The OECD statement indicates 20-30 per cent of residual profit in excess of 10 per cent of revenue will be allocated to market jurisdictions. To maintain the level of re-allocable profits, India may seek to keep the allocable quantum at 30 per cent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Exports grow 47 per cent to $32.46 billion in June||India’s exports rose 47.34 per cent to $32.46 billion in June on account of a healthy growth in sectors such as engineering, gems and jewellery and petroleum products even as trade deficit aggregated at $9.4 billion during the month, according to preliminary data released by the commerce ministry on Friday. Exports stood at $22 billion in June 2020 and $25 billion in June 2019. In May 2021, the outward shipment was worth $32.27 billion, while in April it was $31 billion. Imports in June 2021 grew 96.33 per cent to $41.86 billion from $21.32 billion in June last year. In June 2019, imports stood at $41 billion. “India is a net importer in June 2021 with a trade deficit of $9.4 billion, widened by 1426.6 per cent over trade surplus of $0.7 billion in June 2020 (India was net exporter in June 2020) and narrowed down by 41.26 per cent over trade deficit of $16 billion in June 2019,” the ministry said. Exports during the April-June quarter this year jumped to $95.36 billion from $51.44 billion a year ago. Merchandise exports were at $82 billion during April-June 2018-19 and $90 billion during the last quarter of 2020-21. “The highest-ever quarterly growth in exports not only shows the resilience of exports but also the strength of the economy,” FIEO president A. Sakthivel said. “Non oil, non gold imports jumped to $30.2 billion in June 2021 from $28.5 billion on an average in the last two months, reflecting a pickup in demand with the gradual unlocking as well as the high commodity prices,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||India to come out with certain clarifications on FDI in e-commerce sector shortly||Commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said the ministry will “very shortly” come out with certain clarifications on the e-commerce sector. Domestic traders have often complained about alleged violations of FDI norms by foreign online players. Goyal said the ministry is not changing any policy on e-commerce for foreign direct investment as the policy is crystal clear. “We will also come out with the e-commerce policy and whatever clarifications... Certain instances have come to our notice where the policy is not being followed in letter and spirit, we will obviously be clarifying that very shortly,” he told reporters. The statement assumes significance as the minister recently said that all e-commerce companies should follow the law of the land and not use money power to hurt Indian interests. Meanwhile, Goyal has reviewed 59 issues in 20 critical infrastructure projects with an anticipated investment value of nearly Rs 2.7 lakh crore, an official statement said on Friday. GST compensation meet Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday that a special session of the GST Council will be held soon to discuss all compensation-related issues. The finance minister, who is in Karnataka, said she had assured the states a special session of the Council would be held  where every issue related to compensation would be discussed in detail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
03-07-2021||Business||Centre announces inclusion of 2.5 crore retail, wholesale traders under MSMEs||The Centre on Friday announced the inclusion of 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders within the category of MSMEs, meaning they can get loans from banks and financial institutions under the RBI’s priority sector lending rules. The announcement was made in a tweet by MSME minister Nitin Gadkari. “Retail and wholesale trade were left out of the ambit of MSMEs. Under the revised guidelines, MSME (ministry) has issued an order to include retail and wholesale trade as MSME and extend to them the benefit of priority sector lending under RBI guidelines,” the minister tweeted. Though the Confederation of Indian Traders (CAIT) welcomed the decision, its counterpart in the MSME slammed the move as it would bloat the number of players in the MSME field, making it difficult to monitor the sector and provide support. The Consortium of Indian Associations, which represents the MSME sector, said the move was not the right strategy. “It is a disastrous move that will dilute the MSME sector that is already quite vast and struggling for its survival.  Good quality MSME data is nearly absent in the country, and including over 2.5 crore traders and retailers will further complicate the issue,” the association’s convenor K.E. Raghunathan said. He said it would be difficult to collect data on MSMEs according to industry in each state and district. “It will also be difficult to estimate and analyse the problems prevailing in each sector, thereby making it difficult to introduce the right provisions at the right time,” he added. The government had last year changed the definition of MSME, categorising them on the basis of turnover rather than investments. It had also abolished the distinction between the manufacturing and services sector that would allow the MSMEs to grow in size while continuing to avail of the benefits. “The Covid pandemic-affected traders will now be able to restore their businesses by obtaining necessary finances from the banks which was earlier denied to them,” Praveen Khandewal, secretary-general of CAIT, said. “We have to see the fine print to see whether the trading community would be eligible for the emergency credit line guarantee scheme. If there is no clarity we would seek from the finance ministry,” Khandelwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
