04-07-2021||Business||Colgate-Palmolive says 'well prepared' to meet business challenges||Leading oral care player Colgate-Palmolive India Ltd (CPIL) has said it is well prepared to meet challenges because of its strong financial position and its “continued focus” on key priorities. The company further said it is facing an “intense competition” in the oral care segment but its outlook for the industry remained positive given the size of the opportunity in this space. The company expects the challenging market conditions and unfavourable macro-economic conditions to continue, according to its latest annual results. However, CPIL believes it is well prepared to meet the challenges ahead because of  its strong financial condition, the experience of operating in challenging environments and continued focus on its key priorities, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
04-07-2021||Business||Home sales up 23 per cent across top seven cities: Report||Home sales rose 23 per cent across top seven cities in the country during the first five months of 2021. However, Calcutta witnessed a decline of 11 per cent during the same period, a report released by PropEquity showed. The research and analytics firm said home sales in Calcutta declined to 4,673 units between January and April 2021 from 5,267 units a year ago. One of the reasons behind this fall was that launches fell by 28 per cent to 2,391 units against 3339 last year. Apart from Calcutta, the National Capital Region also saw a slump of 20 per cent as it faced a major brunt of the second Covid-19 wave. However, Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai Metropolitan Region and Pune witnessed a growth in home sales in the first five months of 2021 over last year. Sales in Bangalore were up 16 per cent, while Chennai recorded a 40 per cent growth in sales. Hyderabad house sales rose 39 per cent, while those in Mumbai rose 29 per cent and in Pune 34 per cent. Cumulatively, home sales rose 23 per cent across the top seven cities to 1,32,818 units against 1,08,199 units in the first five months of 2020. Majority of the sales happened till April 15, PropEquity added. “India witnessed the worst of the Covid wave in April and May, which drastically stopped almost all real estate activity. The worst is behind us... We expect home sales to bounce back faster as the recovery has been at a rapid pace,’’ Samir Jasuja, founder and managing director of PropEquity, said. “Business is picking up...We expect sales to improve in the next quarter for projects by fundamentally strong developers,’’ said Ankush Kaul, president (sales & marketing) of Ambience Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
04-07-2021||Business||E-retailers seek clarity on rules||Amazon Inc and Tata Group have warned government officials on Saturday that plans for tougher rules for online retailers would have a major impact on their business models, four sources familiar with the discussions have said. At a meeting organised by the consumer affairs ministry and the government’s investment promotion arm, Invest India, many executives expressed concerns and confusion over the proposed rules and asked that the July 6 deadline for submitting comments be extended, said the sources. Amazon said the proposed rules will have a huge impact on its sellers, arguing that some clauses were already covered by existing law. The proposed policy states e-commerce firms must ensure none of their related enterprises are listed as sellers on their websites. On that proposed clause, a representative of Tata Sons, the holding company of Tata Group, argued that it was problematic, citing an example to say it would stop Starbucks — which has a joint venture with the Tatas — from offering its products on Tata’s marketplace website. The Tata executive said the rules will have wide ramifications for the conglomerate, and could restrict sales of its private brands, according to two of the sources. The Tatas declined to comment. The clause could impact Amazon in particular as it holds an indirect stake in at least two of its sellers, Cloudtail and Appario. The sources said that a consumer ministry official argued that the rules were meant to protect consumers and were not as strict as those of other countries. The ministry did not respond to a request for comment. A Reliance executive agreed that the proposed rules would boost consumer confidence, but added that some clauses needed clarification. Reliance did not respond to request for comment. The rules were announced last month amid growing complaints from brickandmortar retailers that Amazon and Flipkart bypass foreign investment law using complex business structures. The companies deny any wrongdoing. The sources asked not to be named as the discussions were private. The government’s tough new ecommerce rules announced on June 21 aimed at strengthening protection for consumers, caused concern among the country’s online retailers, notably market leaders Amazon and Walmart Inc’s Flipkart. New rules limiting flash sales, barring misleading advertisements and mandating a complaints system, among other proposals, could force the likes of Amazon and Flipkart to review their business structures, and may increase costs for domestic rivals, including Reliance Industries’ JioMart, BigBasket and Snapdeal. A Reuters investigation in February cited Amazon documents that showed it gave preferential treatment to a small number of its sellers and bypassed foreign investment rules. Amazon has said it does not give favourable treatment to any seller. The government will soon issue certain clarifications on the foreign investment rules, Indian commerce minister Piyush Goyal told reporters on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
04-07-2021||Business||BIS website, FAQs don't reflect key points on hallmarking: GJC writes to Goyal||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) website and FAQs do not capture many key points on hallmarking, discussed between the gems and jewellery industry and the government, causing confusion and disruption among jewellers, the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) said on Saturday. The industry body has written to Union minister for consumer affairs, Piyush Goyal, stating that the FAQs (frequently asked questions) released by BIS on their website have a lot of ambiguity and lack clarity, the GJC said in a statement. The website and FAQs do not mention or capture several key points that were discussed during a meeting between the industry stakeholders and the government on June 15, it said. “A very important point of one-time registration for jewellers and no renewal with BIS is still not clearly mentioned in the FAQs on the BIS website. Another significant point about hallmarking being applicable only at the first point of sale is also missing,” GJC chairman Ashish Pethe said. The elements of distribution, storage, transport, and exhibition for sale of jewellery (as mentioned in Section 15 of the BIS Act 2016) were not yet removed from the FAQs, Pethe added. “The points about manufacturers being given a chance to use their own logo in hallmarked jewellery and use of B2B (business to business) customer logo and login are also not mentioned,” he said. Pethe said it was communicated that the issue of HUID (hallmarking unique ID) will be put up for discussion and the final decision will be taken by a high-level committee. He also claimed that the BIS has already started to initiate six-digit HUID on jewellers indirectly. The BIS FAQs, under the heading ‘Under Mandatory System’ mentions that the registered jeweller has to visit the BIS portal and upload the jewellery items, pieces and weight on the software before sending goods for hallmarking. “However, during the earlier discussions, it was clarified that HUID and digitalisation would only be limited to the hallmarking centres and no jeweller will be involved,” Pethe added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-153
