05-07-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 395 points on Monday||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 395 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a mixed trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,880. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15,834.35. State Bank of India was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, M&M and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's, HCL Tech and Titan were among the laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Tokyo closed in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market on Friday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 982.80 crore, as per exchange data. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.35 per cent higher at USD 76.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 200 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC Bank, TCS and Reliance.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 211.04 points or 0.40 per cent higher at 52,695.71 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty inched 65.10 points or 0.41 per cent up to 15,787.30.  Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Dr Reddy's and HDFC were the laggards.  In the previous session, the 30-share BSE index ended 166.07 points or 0.32 per cent higher at 52,484.67. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 42.20 points or 0.27 per cent up at 15,722.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 982.80 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Shanghai were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.09 per cent to USD 76.10 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Diesel price crosses Rs 100 a litre in Madhya Pradesh||Diesel price on Sunday crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in some places in Madhya Pradesh, while Sikkim became the latest state to see Rs 100-per-litre petrol price after yet another hike in fuel rates. Petrol price was increased by 35 paise per litre and diesel by 18 paise a litre, according to a price notification from state-owned fuel retailers. In Delhi, petrol now comes for Rs 99.51 a litre and diesel is priced at Rs 89.36 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as value-added tax (VAT) and freight charges. For this reason, petrol has crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Bihar, Punjab and Ladakh. Sikkim joined that list on Sunday. Petrol in the state capital Gangtok is now priced at Rs 100.15 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 91.55. Petrol has crossed Rs 100-a-litre mark in the metro cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Pune and it is over Rs 99 in the other two cities of Delhi and Calcutta. Rates of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, have crossed Rs 100 a litre at Sri Ganganagar and Hanumangarh in Rajasthan as well in some places in Odisha. On Sunday, Rewa, Shahdol and Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh saw those levels. The hike on Sunday is the 34th increase in the price of petrol and 33rd in the case of diesel since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during the Assembly elections in states such as Bengal. In 34 hikes, the price of petrol has risen by Rs 9.11 per litre. Diesel rates have soared by Rs 8.63 a litre in 33 instances of price increase.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Equity investors factoring in improving corporate balance sheet despite pandemic||Equity investors are factoring in the improving corporate balance sheet along with the long-term impact of production-linked incentive scheme and the growth of housing sector despite the pressure on the economy from the Covid pandemic. Benchmark index Nifty touched a fresh high of 15916 for the month ended June and is up around 12 per cent in calendar year 2021. According to a market valuation report of Motilal Oswal, around 60 per cent of Nifty constituents are trading at a premium to their historical averages. There is also inflows from foreign institutional investors supporting the rise. The rally in the market has been in contrast to the GDP growth projections for 2021-22 which has seen a downward revision by the RBI to 9.5 per cent from its earlier projection of 10.5 per cent. “The market is ignoring short-term pain of Covid-19 related impacts on the economy for the longer gain,” Nilesh Shah, group president and managing director, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Ltd, said at a CII event on Saturday. “Corporate India has done extremely well over the last few years. They have made the balance sheet leaner and repaid debt,” said Pankaj Tibrewal, senior executive vice-president and fund manager (equity), Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company Ltd. According to market observers, the production-linked incentive scheme covering 13 sectors with an outlay of Rs 1.97 lakh crore for a five-year period has the potential to trigger private sector capital expenditure. Further, improving affordability in the housing sector could aid ancillary sectors such as cement, paints. “We believe the PLI scheme will start adding about a percentage to India’s GDP from 2024-25 onwards,” Shah said. “Housing interest rates are at an all-time low level. Over the next couple of years, we could see another percent added to India’s GDP through the housing sector,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
05-07-2021||Business||Excise duty collections from petrol and diesel jump three-fold in April and May||Excise duty collections from petrol and diesel jumped three-fold in April and May, with the oil companies raising prices 16 times during May and reducing them once in April when the elections were on in the key states of Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The price of petrol has crossed Rs 100 per litre in more than 15 cities of the country. The price or petrol has already hit the century mark in North Bengal. Collections in the corresponding period a year ago stood at Rs 10,996 crore. It could be argued that 2020-21 was an unusual year with the government imposing a lockdown because of the coronavirus pandemic. But the amount is also much more than the collections in the first two months of “normal year” 2019-20, when the government raised Rs 17,333 crore. April-May 2021 was also the time the second wave of the coronavirus swept through the country. Prices may rise further if global crude prices move up in the event of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec) and its allies including Russia (the Opec+ group) fail to reach an agreement to boost production. Opec+ is expected to resume talks over oil output on Monday, having failed to arrive at a unanimous agreement for the second day running on Friday. Analysts warned there may not be any output hikes till the next fiscal year if there is no resolution to the standoff between the UAE and the Opec+ members. The present agreement between the members will expire in April 2022. A failure to structure an agreement would likely lead to higher prices and create an inflationary effect on the economy. The Narendra Modi government can provide some relief to users by reducing the cess levied on petrol and diesel. “Higher consumption of fuels should support a rise in the indirect taxes levied on them, offering a window for a partial reversal in the cess hikes that were imposed last year. Our calculations suggest that the cesses levied on petrol and diesel could be reduced by Rs. 4.5/litre each, while maintaining the total cess revenues of the GoI on these fuels in FY2022 at the FY2021 level. Such a cut in the cess rates would offer some relief to household budgets and ease the inflationary pressures related to the rising global crude oil prices,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra said. Nayar said Icra has forecast the growth in the consumption of petrol at 14 per cent by the end of the fiscal and diesel 10 per cent on account of the rise in mobility as states wind up lockdowns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Govt likely to invite bids for LIC from merchant bankers this month||The government is likely to invite bids from merchant bankers this month for managing LIC’s disinvestment as it moves ahead with plans to launch the IPO by January, an official said. The department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) had in January appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP India to assess the embedded value of LIC ahead of the IPO, which is touted to be the biggest public issue in Indian corporate history. The official further said the budget amendments to the LIC Act have been notified and the actuarial firm would work out the embedded value of the life insurer in the next couple of weeks. Under the embedded value method, insurance companies’ present value of future profit is also included in its present net asset value (NAV). “We will invite bids for the appointment of merchant bankers in the next couple of weeks,” the official said, adding discussions are going on with institutional investors. “We are hoping to get regulatory approvals by November-end,” the official said. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. The LIC Amendment Act has been made part of the Finance Act, thereby bringing the required legislative amendment for launching the IPO of the country’s largest life insurer. LIC’s will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. The government aims to mop up Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the current fiscal from minority stake sale and privatisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Government readies amendments to Nationalisation Act for insurance PSU privatisation||The government is working on amendments to the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act (GIBNA), which will faciliate the privatisation of a PSU general insurance company. The monsoon session is expected to begin from July 19. The Act, which came into force in 1972, provided for the acquisition and transfer of shares of Indian insurance companies and undertakings of other existing insurers in order to serve better the needs of the economy by securing the development of the general insurance business. The amendments are being worked out and may be tabled in the upcoming session to help privatisation of a general insurance company announced in the budget this year, sources said. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two PSU banks and one general insurance company. The Niti Aayog was entrusted with the task of recommending a suitable candidate for the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. The government think-tank is believed to have suggested the name of United India Insurance to the core group of secretaries on disinvestment. The government is also gearing itself to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, to enable the privatisation of two public sector banks. Amendments would be required in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for privatisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Tata Steel reports 11% decline in deliveries in Q1 of 2021-22||Tata Steel India reported an 11 per cent decline in deliveries in the first quarter of 2021-22 compared with the fourth quarter of the last fiscal, signalling that partial lockdown and restrictions because of the second wave of Covid-19 dented demand for the metal in the country. Deliveries of 4.15 million tonnes (mt) were, however, significantly higher than the same period of the last fiscal when the nation underwent one of the strictest lockdowns in the world. Sales volume was up by 43 per cent compared with April-June of 2020-21 when Tata Steel India recorded only 2.93mt sales. Production of Tata Steel India, which includes those of subsidiaries such as Tata Steel BSL Ltd and Tata Steel Long Products Ltd, was 4.62mt, 2.6 per cent down quarter-on- quarter as the entities had to supply liquid medical oxygen (LMO) to hospitals, cutting down on production level. Cumulatively, they supplied 47,800 tonne LMO to hospitals when oxygen demand spiked during the second wave. However, production was up 55 per cent compared with the same period of the last fiscal when Tata Steel India reported 2.99mt production. The sales and the production volumes reveal a contrasting picture of business and severity of the pandemic in terms of affliction and death. The first wave caused more damage to the business and industry while during the second wave more people contracted Covid-19 and succumbed to the disease than the first. However, during the second wave, large enterprises were more prepared to navigate through the uncertain times with the Centre not imposing a blanket curb like in the first. Exports raised To offset the impact, exports were increased to 16 per cent of the total sales against 11 per cent in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal. The domestic market has been improving since the middle of June with easing lockdowns, the company stated in a statement. Steel majors also increased prices multiple times from April onwards, giving rise to the expectation that net sales realisation would make up for the decline in sales vis-a-vis the January-March quarter of the last fiscal. Tata Steel Europe’s steel production grew 27 per cent year-on-year to 2.73mt while deliveries increased 19 per cent . While production was up 5 per cent quarter-on-quarter, sales were down 4.4 per cent. Tata Steel Southeast Asia, which the company decided not to sell, saw a 49 per cent year-on-year growth in production, while steel deliveries increased 50 per cent year-on-year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Skoda Auto lines up new products, plans to focus on local platform||Skoda Auto is planning to introduce a compact SUV and a compact hatchback based on its localised platform and a locally manufactured engine. “We do have a platform that is highly localised and a locally manufactured turbo-charged stratified injected (TSI) engine that will enable us to enter these highly competitive segments,” Skoda Auto brand director Zack Hollis told The Telegraph after the launch of its mid-sized SUV Kushaq late last month. “We are serious about the Indian market and we are here for the long-haul. If you see the bookings now for the existing models, they are already at the same level as in January this year. “We have confidence in the economy in the long term. The Indian economy will get back in track and probably grow faster than it did before the pandemic. “A growing economy gives people confidence to buy high priced assets, large capital items such as cars and by 2025 we will be achieve sales of 100,000 units,” said Hollis. When asked if the company’s sales were on track even after two waves of the Covid pandemic, Hollis said: “We aim to sell 30,000 units by 2021. A majority of that will be Kushaq. But we were able to launch the Kushaq only now. So, we will see more sales in the second half than the first. By 2022, we will more than double the sales.” On the response to the fourth-generation Octavia, the director said: “It is far superior than the outgoing car. It is giving competition to German luxury cars while being 20 per cent cheaper. We plan to sell 150-200 Octavia per month and we are on track to achieve that.” The company is due to launch a new mid-sized sedan soon and it feels demand in the sedan segment will grow with the launch of products. “It is not that a segment grows only with demand. Often new products lead to the growth in the segment. Sub-4 metre SUVs have grown hugely because competitors brought in several products. Similarly, we think our products in the sedan segment will lead to its growth,” said Hollis. Lack of diesel powertrains will not affect Skoda’s SUV sales because of its TSI engines. “We have two outstanding TSI engines. The performance of our existing models with TSI engines has been excellent. Superb has a 30 per cent segment share. Both with Rapid and Superb, we are selling more TSI engines than we sold petrol and diesel combined.” Besides, he said, the long-term outlook for diesel is dismal worldwide. “Diesel is seen as highly polluting and by 2025 we will see legislation that will make diesel powertrains even more expensive. Our TSI engines are far superior, fuel efficient and future ready,” said Hollis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||New TDS rule to strengthen data reconciliation||Companies will have to wrestle with a new compliance requirement from July 1 as a new levy — TDS on purchase of goods — has kicked in from July 1. Taxes deducted at source (TDS) and taxes collected at source (TCS) have not only proved to be an important source of revenue generation for the government but have also been a rich source of data on the direct tax front. With the new levy of TDS on purchase of goods, the government seems to have shown immense confidence in the IT infrastructure and data analytics capabilities of the revenue department. Buyers will now have to deduct tax at 0.1 per cent on the purchase consideration exceeding Rs 50 lakh made from one party in a financial year and report such data to the tax authorities. The data may be used by the government for further reconciliation with similar data furnished by taxpayers under other legislations. There has been an increasing trend in enquiries for such reconciliations after tax assessments went “faceless” last year. This has left businesses with no choice but to toe the line of the government and invest in expanding their digital/IT capabilities to manage large quantities of data and ensure consistency. Effective from July 1, certain new TDS/TCS provisions are applicable along with the existing compliances on TDS/ TCS. These provisions cast an obligation on businessmen to deduct or collect taxes at twice the existing rate or 5 per cent, whichever is higher, on transactions with taxpayers who have not filed their income-tax return for the last two assessment years. This amendment is also focused on generating more data for the tax authorities and aims to augment the number of taxpayers filing their income-tax returns. With no mechanism to ascertain such details and rising apprehensions in the minds of taxpayers, the revenue department has recently launched a “Compliance Check Facility” which the taxpayers can use to identify parties on whom the higher rate shall apply using PAN. Few clarifications have also been issued by the CBDT on June 30 in respect of the new TDS levy on the purchase of goods applicable from July 1. Every new amendment brings its own share of interpretational issues and practical challenges, but it’s only a matter of time, before India Inc finds ease in compliance with such tedious TDS provisions, with due support from the CBDT and the IT infrastructure. While major IT changes were made to capture and comply with the new TCS levy on the sale of goods last year, the recent TDS levy would necessitate a complete revamp of IT systems to handle the interplay between TDS and TCS (where new TDS provisions may prevail over TCS on the sale of goods and such TCS shall coexist, to be levied subject to thresholds) and for timely compliances. While the government’s “Compliance Check Facility” has provided a window for verification on return filing status, it is equally important for businesses to determine whether a transaction would be liable to TDS or TCS levy separately. Initially, this major amendment may pose a few challenges but in times to come, will only result in ease of compliance once the IT systems of the company are well aligned with the tax laws. Dinesh Agarwal is tax partner and Chetan Mehta is tax director at EY India||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
05-07-2021||Business||Lessons on education loans and what’s changed in the pandemic||Students all over the country are preparing for higher education. The pandemic has disrupted the schedules of schools and university exams. Despite the challenges, many students are evaluating their options. There will be students who would like to pursue education in a foreign country not wracked by Covid-19. When it comes to education — domestic or foreign — one must also look at the financing options. Higher education isn’t cheap. But there are education loans to bridge the gap. Here’s a primer on education loans and what’s changed in the pandemic. Covid impact College admission processes have been delayed because of Covid-19. Many universities haven’t been able to conduct examinations. As a result, last year’s sessions are still going on and new sessions have been delayed. Despite this, many eligible students want to prepare for admission to their preferred institutions. Upon acceptance, they can approach the lending institutions such as banks to finance their education. They will have to fulfil several conditions to get the loan though. Who is eligible Indian students generally in the age group of 18-35 can apply for a loan on getting admission to a recognised educational institution. You can take this loan not only for university studies but also for any recognised training programme. As students do not have any income while taking the loan, they often have a parent or guardian as a co-applicant. Students can repay the loan on their own from their earnings after the completion of the course. If they are unable to pay, the responsibility will pass on to the co-applicant. What all will be covered An education loan covers all the expenses of your studies such as tuition fees, cost of texts, lab and library fees, purchase of laptop etc. Apart from this, the cost of living such as hostel and food is also covered. Because of Covid-19 and home-based online learning, not all these options will be made available in the course. Therefore, the loan will finance only what’s required by the course. Keep in mind that if the loan is small in value, you could get 100 per cent financing. If the loan is large, the bank would like you to pay a percentage of the cost from your pocket. What is big or small varies from one lender to another. The loan can be of a few thousand rupees or even a crore. The student only needs to be eligible for it. The lender is primarily concerned with whether the student or the guardian have the repayment capacity. This is ascertained through proofs of stable income, taxes paid, assets owned and credit score. Security may be required Generally, banks provide education loans up to Rs 7.5 lakh without any security, meaning you will not have to mortgage any property or assets with the bank for the loan. If the loan is bigger, some banks may insist on a security such as a fixed deposit, property etc. The security is returned to the borrower on full repayment of the loan. If the student has been admitted to a reputed college such as an IIT or IIM, some banks may even lend up to Rs 40 lakh without security. When to repay You can get up to 15 years to repay an education loan. Students are also given a payment holiday, that is a moratorium. It’s usually for 12 months from the end of the course after which students may need some time to find employment and start payments. The moratorium can also be extended. Because of Covid-19-related problems, the government itself had announced a moratorium on all loans in 2020. However, during any moratorium, interest will continue to get added to your loan balance, which will increase your EMI burden. As the moratorium essentially makes the loan bigger, it is advisable to start repayment as soon as possible. Tax savings Once you start repaying your education loan, you get exemption under Section 80E of the Income Tax Act. You can save tax without limit on the interest paid on your education loan for eight years from the start of repayment. If the student’s parents have taken the loan, they will be eligible for the tax exemption. This exemption is available only on loans taken from a certified lending institution such as a bank or a non-bank institution. If the loan is taken from family, friends, or office, no exemption is provided. Keep in mind that because of Covid-19, students have faced difficulties in completing their studies and finding jobs. If they are unable to find a job, they will have trouble repaying the loan. Banks have come under some pressure because of rising education loan defaults. That is why if you are taking a loan, make arrangements to repay it as well. Failure to repay the loan can result in forfeiture of your security and spoil your credit history, which will make it difficult for you to get a loan in the future. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-152
