06-07-2021||Business||Domestic air traffic goes up as Covid cases go down||Domestic air passenger traffic was back to the growth trajectory in June amid the falling number of COVID-19 cases in the country with around three million passengers flying on local routes in the previous month as against around two million in May, a report said on Tuesday. Though there is some recovery observed in June, stress on demand continues, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, credit rating agency ICRA said in its report. On a sequential basis, domestic passenger traffic was up 41-42 per cent in June over May. The domestic passenger volume, however, rose 51 per cent on a year-on-year basis, it stated. June 2020 was the full month of operations after domestic commercial flights were recommenced on May 25 following a nearly two-month ban amid the nationwide lockdown in late-March last year. It has now permitted increasing the capacity to 65 per cent with effect from July 5 and which will remain applicable up to July 31. For June 2021, domestic passenger traffic stood at around 29-30 lakh, implying a sequential growth of around 41-42 per cent as compared with around 19.8 lakh in May 2021, ICRA said in the report. The airlines' capacity deployment in May, which was reduced to 50 per cent from 80 per cent earlier following a government order, was around 46 per cent higher at around 31,700 departures, than 21,696 departures in June 2020, it stated. On a sequential basis, the number of departures in June were higher by around 14-15 per cent, as coronavirus infections demonstrated a downward trajectory, ICRA added. "For June 2021, the average daily departures were at around 1,100, significantly higher than average daily departures of around 700 in June 2020, and higher than around 900 in May 2021, though remains significantly lower than around 2,000 in April 2021," said Kinjal Shah, vice-president and co-group head at ICRA. She added that the average number of passengers per flight during June 2021 was 94, higher as against an average of 77 passengers per flight in May, the ratings agency noted. Though there was some recovery observed in June, there exists continued stress on demand, driven largely by the second wave of the pandemic, limiting travel to only necessary travel, she added. Shah, however, added that both leisure and business travels have been curtailed due to various state-wide restrictions, despite the decline in infections, she added. According to ICRA, the government's recent announcement of a scheme providing financial support in the form of working capital/personal loans to around 10,700 recognised regional-level tourist guides is expected to provide the much-needed liquidity support to tourism and travel stakeholders (TTS). This, in turn, is expected to boost the overall travel and tourism sector, of which aviation remains a key beneficiary, it stated. Under the scheme, TTS will be eligible to get a loan of up to Rs 10 lakh each, while tourist guides can avail loans of up to Rs 1 lakh each. Additionally, to provide an impetus to the tourism industry, the finance ministry announced a scheme to issue one-month tourist visas free of charge to first five lakh customers. Validity of this is until March 31, 2022, or issuance of five lakh tourist visas, whichever is earlier. "This is a right step towards a demand push for the airlines sector, primarily directed at in-bound international travel. However, the impact of the same is expected to be realised only once scheduled international operations are permitted by the government on a regular basis and the global fear psychosis related to travel to India subsides," ICRA said. While the scheduled international operations have been suspended further till July 31, 2021, special overseas flight services are being carried out under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) for evacuation of Indian citizens from foreign countries, since May last year. The international passenger traffic (inbound and outbound) for Indian carriers has been around 37 lakh for the period between May 7, 2020, and June 30, 2021, it said. For June, the international passenger traffic for Indian carriers under the VBM was estimated at around 1.47 lakh, a sequential growth of around 4 per cent, as flights to/from India remained suspended in June by many countries, citing the new variant of COVID-19 and high infection levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Sensex snaps 2-day winning run, ends marginally lower||Equity benchmark Sensex closed marginally lower after a choppy session on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors TCS, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a largely weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 18.82 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 52,861.18. The broader NSE Nifty fell 16.10 points or 0.1 per cent to 15,818.25. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by TCS, Maruti, Reliance, Sun Pharma and Infosys. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, Titan and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong closed in the negative terrain, while Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading in the red in mid-session deals. The rupee fell 24 paise to close at 74.55 gainst the US dollar. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 77.46 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors were net sellers in the capital market on Monday as they offloaded shares worth Rs 338.43 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Job openings for permanent staffers at risk due to 2nd wave, says study||Job openings for permanent staffers at fresher level will be adversely affected due to the overall hiring freeze amid the second wave of Covid-19, while temporary or gig workers seem to be better placed, says a survey. According to a survey by staffing and HR services company Genius Consultants, over 57 per cent respondents believe that new job positions for permanent employees will suffer a major impact of the overall hiring freeze. However, just 43 per cent of respondents believe the same for temporary or gig workers, it noted. The survey was conducted online with more than 1,000 company leaders and executives across sectors during May 28 till June 30, 2021. "In the beginning of the year, India was witnessing a steady economic recovery and an upward curve in hiring. But the overwhelming situation due to the second wave of Covid-19 had a huge impact on the employment rate and hiring process in the country. Restrictions in mobility also resulted in job losses in many sectors," Genius Consultants CMD R P Yadav said. Temporary or gig workers seem to be better placed than their permanent counterparts simply because of an array of opportunities available especially in the e-commerce sector, Yadav said. According to the survey, around 69 per cent of respondents felt that the travel and hospitality sector is the most vulnerable, followed by the manufacturing sector and the media and entertainment industry. The majority of respondents believe that the overall hiring scenario is on hold as the country is in the grip of the second wave of Covid-19. Further, the lockdowns and strict restrictions imposed by states due to the second wave of the pandemic impacted several sectors. Yadav, however, noted that this is a temporary halt and India Inc is optimistic about the market recovery at the end of the year. Around 51 per cent respondents were optimistic about it and around 61 per cent expect to see a robust growth of hiring in the private sector, the survey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises 55 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex inched higher by 55 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Bajaj Finance and Infosys amid sustained foreign fund outflows. The 30-share BSE index was trading 55.46 points or 0.10 per cent higher at 52,935.46 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 24.05 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,858.40. UltraTech Cement was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising 0.69 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Maruti, Tata Steel, Titan and Bajaj Auto, HDFC, M&M, L&T and Bajaj Finance. Infosys was up 0.06 per cent in early deals. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, TCS, HUL, and Reliance Industries were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE Sensex closed 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 52,880. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15,834.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 338.43 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be muted as of now. Notably, sharp rise in crude prices and strengthening dollar index weighed on sentiments in the last couple of days. Further, expectations of further rise in crude prices with no agreement on ease of production in the OPEC meeting can weigh on sentiments further," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, we continue to believe any meaningful correction in the market should be offering opportunity to investors to get in quality stocks, Modi said. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 0.32 per cent to USD 77.41 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Tokyo gained, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading in the red in mid-session deals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Viacom18 Media signs three-year broadcasting deal with LaLiga||After the action and excitement of UEFA Euro 2020, Indian football fans can look forward to the Spanish  league that will kick off next month. Viacom18 Media, a joint venture of Mukesh Ambani-controlled Network18 and ViacomCBS, on Monday announced that it has signed a three-year broadcasting deal with LaLiga to bring the Spanish football league exclusively to the Indian sub-continent. Enabled and supported by Rise Worldwide — the sports and lifestyle arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) — LaLiga will air exclusively on MTV in India along with select national and regional network channels and be live-streamed on Voot and Jio platforms. Network18 holds 51 per cent in Viacom18 Media with the rest being held by ViacomCBS. A press statement from Viacom18 said that while LaLiga will start on August 13, the network will put its might behind extending the reach and resonance for the league among Indian viewers. “Viacom18 will connect with football fans through a massive marketing and communications campaign, further building the fandom and outreach for LaLiga in India.” “MTV’s extensive social media and digital clout will ensure that LaLiga engages fans through a multi-platform approach, potentially making football a part of dinner-table conversations across Indian homes and further widen MTV and Viacom18’s offering to its viewers,’’ the press statement added. MTV, the youth entertainment brand, has earlier pioneered shows such as Roadies, Hustle and Splitsvilla. This will be the first time it will telecast a well-known football league. According to Viacom18 Media, popularity of football in India has consistently increased over the past decade, particularly among the youth. In its 91st season, the Spanish football league is one of the most followed championships across the world and is home to Europe’s finest talent and football clubs, including Atlético Madrid, Real Madrid and  FC Barcelona. "We at MTV have always known that football enjoys a groundswell of support amongst young-at-heart Indians. The LaLiga in particular, is a cultural phenomenon all over the World. When the folks from RISE Worldwide introduced us to LaLiga team, we realized that this was a partnership waiting to happen – the vision was common, the vibes were good, and we quickly put pen to paper’’, Anshul Ailawadi, Business Head – Youth, Music and English Entertainment said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Restaurant body approaches CCI for probe against Zomato and Swiggy||Restaurant industry body NRAI on Monday said it has approached fair trade regulator CCI for a detailed probe against the ‘‘anti-competitive practices’’ of food aggregators Zomato and Swiggy. “Keeping the interests of restaurants in India in mind and how they have been affected by the inherently anti-competitive practices of Zomato and Swiggy, NRAI has filed an information with the CCI highlighting the practices by the two, which have an appreciable adverse effect on competition,” said the apex body of Indian restaurateurs. Issues such as bundling of services, data masking and exorbitant commissions, deep discounting, violation of platform neutrality and lack of transparency have been flagged in the submission. For over a year-and-half now, the association has been trying to sort out the problem areas with the food tech aggregators but without much result. Zomato and Swiggy did not comment on the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business||Sensex gains over 395 points to close at 52880||Optimism over Corporate India’s earnings saw the benchmark Sensex gaining over 395 points to close at 52880 on Monday. The earnings calendar for the first quarter of 2021-22 will kick off this week with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) declaring its numbers on Wednesday. “We expect healthy Q1 growth momentum on the back of seasonal strength (higher billing days and uptick in spending after budget allocation), with the US dollar revenue growth of 2.0-9.3 per cent quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) for Tier-1 companies,” analysts at Emkay said. “Revenue growth momentum should sustain on the back of broad-based demand, strong deal wins, continued traction in digital and cloud, ramp-up of large deals and demand recovery in highly impacted verticals — travel, hospitality and manufacturing,’’ the Emkay analysts added. The brokerage expects TCS to report a 32.6 per cent growth in its net profit at Rs 9,292 crore. Its topline is expected to show a rise of 20 per cent to Rs 45,936 crore. Dollar revenue is projected to show a sequential rise of 4 per cent. According to the technology report of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, a median US dollar organic growth of 3.3 per cent (sequential in constant currency terms) during the quarter is expected for companies in its coverage. Market circles added that the focus will also be on the guidance given by the companies. Infosys is expected to raise its revenue growth guidance from the current 12-14 per cent to 13-15 per cent. However, they caution that expectations are high and any disappointment could lead to a correction in these scrips. Stocks were also boosted by a strong rupee on Monday. The 30-share Sensex opened at 52682.89 and hit an intra-day peak of 52919.17 after which it settled at 52880 — a gain of 395.33 points or 0.75 per cent. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 112.15 points or 0.71 per cent to 15834.35. At the inter-bank forex markets, the rupee ended 43 paise higher at 74.31 against the US dollar. It opened at 74.51 against the greenback and rose to an intra-day high of 74.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
06-07-2021||Business|| Shares of Panacea Biotec closes with gains of over 5 per cent ||Shares of Panacea Biotec on Monday closed with gains of over 5 per cent after the company announced it has received a manufacturing licence for the Sputnik V vaccine. Panacea received the manufacturing licence from the Drugs Controller General (India) pursuant to its collaboration with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RIDF). The RDIF is Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, which was established in 2011 to make equity co-investments, primarily in Russia, alongside other international financial and strategic investors. Panacea Biotec said the batches produced at its facilities at Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, were shipped to the Gamaleya Center in Russia for quality control. These batches had passed all the checks for quality parameters both at the Gamaleya Center in Russia and at the Central Drug Laboratory, Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh. On the BSE on Monday, the Panacea share opened higher at Rs 400.25 and rose to an intra-day peak of Rs 411 before closing at Rs 397.35 — a rise of Rs 19.95, or 5.29 per cent over Friday’s close. In May, Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla had sold his entire stake in Panacea through an open market transaction for Rs 118 crore. These shares were picked up by SII. Panacea Biotec focuses on discovery, development, and commercialisation of prescription medicines and segments like vaccines, diabetes, transplant, gastroenterology, and oncology.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business|| Food Corporation of India to expand storage capacity in the east||The Food Corporation of India has received approvals to expand its storage capacity in the east by another 3 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) to 12LMT, FCI eastern region officials said on Monday. The silos will be set up at six locations in Bengal — Malda, Murshidabad, Balurghat, Dankuni, Durgapur and Alipurduar — and will be ready in two years. The FCI at present has 32 warehouses in the state that can stock up to four months of foodgrains. The new facilities will also meet the needs of neighbouring states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Sikkim. “We are moving from warehousing towards bulk handling and silos. This approved capacity is expected in another two years. The projects will be implemented in a public-private partnership mode,” said S.K. Swain, general manager (Bengal), FCI. Another 8.25LMT capacity has been identified and sent for the approval of the central office and the government. Ajit K. Sinha, executive director (east), FCI, said lifting of foodgrains under the fourth phase of the poor relief scheme has started in Bihar, Odisha, Bengal and is expected to commence soon in Jharkhand and Sikkim. He added that despite the challenges of the Covid pandemic, after effects of cyclones, floods and landslides, the FCI has been able to keep its foodgrain supply momentum. Around 6.01 crore beneficiaries are covered under the National Food Security Act in Bengal and FCI is the major supplier of wheat to these beneficiaries. During the pandemic, the state has procured its allocated quantity of 6 LMT under the third phase of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana offering subsidised foodgrains. This includes both wheat as well as rice. A total of 20.62 LMT of foodgrains was distributed in the states under the eastern zone office during the third phase between May and June 2021. A fourth phase of the scheme has been announced and allocation for the eastern states has been expanded to a total of 51.63 LMT of rice and wheat. Bengal’s share in the allocation is 6.02 LMT of rice and 9.03 LMT of wheat. FCI officials also said that the Bengal government has been requested by the centre to encourage migrant NFSA beneficiaries to use the facility of portability under the One Nation One Ration Card plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Opec+ ministers called off oil output talks||Opec+ ministers called off oil output talks on Monday after clashing last week when the United Arab Emirates balked at a proposed eight-month extension to output curbs, meaning no deal to boost production has been reached. Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman on Sunday called for “compromise and rationality” to secure a deal after two days of failed discussions last week. But on Monday, four Opec+ sources said there had been no progress and talks were called off, without a new date being set. The failure to agree on Monday means an expected increase in oil output from August will not take place, the sources said, helping to drive up the price of benchmark Brent crude, which was trading around 1 per cent higher at close to $77 a barrel. Oil prices are at the highest since 2018 and have already prompted concerns that inflation could derail a global recovery from the pandemic. Opec+ agreed on record output cuts of almost 10 million barrels per day (bpd) last year, about 10 per cent of world output, as the pandemic hit. They have been gradually relaxed and stand at about 5.8 million bpd. The UAE, sources said, on Friday accepted a proposal from Saudi Arabia and other Opec+ members to raise output in stages by about 2 million bpd from August to December but rejected extending remaining cuts to the end of 2022 from a current end date of April. The UAE is upset about the baseline from which its production cuts are being calculated and wants it raised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Two laws for issuing notices and reopening assessments leaves I-T assessees bewildered||The applicability of two sets of laws for the same purpose of issuing notices and reopening assessments has left income tax assessees bewildered and tax practitioners peeved. The procedures related to reassessments or re-computation of income escaping assessment and review of search related cases has undergone a major overhaul. Several sections of the Income Tax Act have been amended with the objective to lower litigation and make it easier for taxpayers. The prominent changes include the lowering of the time limit for issuing notices of reassessment from six years from the end of the relevant assessment year to three years. Such notices cannot be issued unless the assessing officer has information to suggest that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment. Before issuing any notice, an assessee will have the opportunity to be heard and after that the assessing officer will take a call on whether there is a case to issue a notice and serve a copy of the order along with such a notice. If the assessing officer has in his possession books of accounts or other documents or evidence which reveal that income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment and the amount involved is Rs 50 lakh or more, a reassessment notice can be issued beyond the period of three years but not beyond an upper limit of 10 years from the end of the relevant assessment year. The changes, announced in the Union budget, are part of Finance Act 2021 and they take effect from April 1, according to the explanatory memorandum to Finance Bill 2021. The Finance Bill received the assent of the President on March 28. However, the tweaks come amid several extensions given by the Central Board of Direct Taxes. The time limit for reassessment of proceedings under the previous provisions of Section 147/148 of the Income Tax Act was also extended till June 30.  This has left the department with the option to issue notices under the provisions of the old regime which allows reopening of cases for assessment year 2013-14 to 2017-18, which tax experts point out cannot be reopened under the new provisions that came into effect from April 2021. “Two sets of legal provisions cannot be used for the same purpose of initiating proceedings for reopening of assessments during the period from April 1 to June 30, 2021 as the new provisions have come into effect from April 2021. Naturally earlier provisions have become redundant and any notice issued under the old provisions is bad by law,” said tax advocate Narayan Jain. Moreover, under the provisions of Section 148, assessment can be reopened for three years if a survey or search has been conducted even if no asset or incriminating material was seized. “This should not be allowed if the search report is nil. Scrutiny assessment is now only for the year in which the survey or search is conducted. Same system should continue,” Jain added. Narendra Goyal, president of Direct Tax Professionals Association, also expressed concern on the rampant issue of notices under Section 148 of the old provisions of the Income Tax Act. The Direct Taxes Professionals Association on Monday made a representation to the Union finance minister highlighting the issue. The issue of notices under Section 148 after April under the old provisions has been challenged in a writ petition by Armada D1 (a subsidiary of Shapoorji Pallonji Oil & Gas) in the Bombay high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Paytm to file draft prospectus for IPO with SEBI||One97 Communication, parent of the digital payments firm Paytm, is likely to file a draft prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) as early as next week for its much awaited initial public offering (IPO). According to a Reuters report, the draft prospectus may be filed by July 12 for the share float which will raise $2.3 billion. The IPO is likely to be a combination of offer for sale (OFS) and sale of fresh shares. EGM on July 12 Incidentally, One97 Communication will hold its extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on July 12 where it will take shareholders approval to raise Rs 12,000 crore through the fresh issue of shares. The company will also move a resolution to de-classify Vijay Shekhar Sharma as promoter of the company. Sharma currently holds 9,051,624 equity shares, amounting to 14.61 per cent of the total paid-up equity share capital of the company. The company also proposes to adopt a new set of articles of association (AoA) to conform to the requirements prescribed by stock exchanges prior to filing of the draft red herring prospectus with Sebi. One97 Communication said in its EGM notice that the issue of fresh shares will be up to an aggregate amount of Rs 12,000 crore and it will be made to various categories of investors and eligible employees. There will be an offer for sale by certain existing shareholders. After beginning as a mobile & DTH recharge platform, Paytm started offering services of a mobile wallet. It has now ventured into other financial services such as distribution of mutual funds and insurance products. It has also received approvals to launch stock broking, demat services and National Pension System  services. Some of the well known investors in One97 Communication include Softbank, Ant Financial, AGH Holdings, SAIF Partners, Berkshire Hathaway, T Rowe Price, and Discovery Capital. Ant Financial is its largest investor with a stake of around 40 per cent. Zomato plan cleared Food delivery platform Zomato has received Sebi’s approval to raise Rs 8,250 crore through an initial share sale. The IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 7,500 crore. Zomato’s first institutional investor  Info Edge (India) Ltd will make an offer for sale (OFS). Info Edge initially planned to offer Rs 750 crore, but has now reduced the size by half. Zomato filed preliminary IPO papers with Sebi in April and the firm obtained its observation on July 2, an update with the regulator showed on Monday. Sebi’s observation is very crucial for any company to launch public issues like IPO. Proceeds from the fresh issue would be used towards funding initiatives and general corporate purposes. The online food delivery segment has seen significant growth in the last few years with Zomato and Swiggy competing to grab market share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
06-07-2021||Business||Activity in India’s services sector contracts sharply in June||Activity in India’s dominant services sector contracted sharply in June as tighter restrictions to contain a resurgence of coronavirus cases hammered demand and forced firms to shed jobs at a rapid clip, a private survey showed on Monday. IHS Markit’s Services Purchasing Managers’ Index plunged to 41.2 last month from an already depressed 46.4 in May. That was its lowest reading since July 2020 and well below the 50-level separating growth from contraction. “Given the current Covid-19 situation in India, it was expected that the services sector would take a hit. PMI data for June showed quicker declines in new business, output and employment that were sharp, but much softer than those recorded in the first lockdown,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Subdued demand conditions resulted in a second successive monthly drop in new business received by services firms. The pace of contraction was sharp and the quickest since July 2020, the survey said. In Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) parlance, a print above 50 means expansion, while a score below 50 denotes contraction. The international demand for Indian services deteriorated further in June, with new export orders falling for the 16th consecutive month. “The drop in India’s PMI readings for June should soon reverse as the second virus wave has subsided and restrictions are being eased. But a rapid reopening increases the risks of fresh outbreaks, which could throw the recovery off course once more,” Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said. Meanwhile, the overall level of business sentiment was down for the third month in a row in June, reaching its lowest mark since last August. The Covid-19 pandemic was the main factor seen as a threat to the outlook among survey participants. “Uncertainty about the path of the pandemic restricted business confidence among services firms, which were generally neutral in their forecasts for output in the year ahead. The overall level of sentiment slipped to a 10-month low,” Lima said. Lima noted that “with India expanding its vaccine options and the government announcing ambitious plans to immunise the entire adult population by the end of the year, it is hoped that the pandemic can be brought under control and a sustainable economic recovery can begin”. Private sector companies in India noted a second successive monthly decline in business activity during June as market conditions remained challenging because of the escalation of the pandemic. The Composite PMI Output Index, which measures combined services and manufacturing output, fell from 48.1 in May to 43.1 in June, signalling the sharpest rate of reduction since July 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-151
