07-07-2021||Business||RBI includes retail, wholesale trade under MSME category||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday notified the inclusion of retail and wholesale trade under the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) category.  This will help retail and wholesale trade benefit from priority sector lending under RBI guidelines.  Earlier on July 2, the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises had decided to include retail and wholesale trade under MSMEs for the limited purpose of priority sector lending.  The revised guidelines will benefit 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders. The move would also allow them to register on the Udyam portal for MSMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
07-07-2021||Business||Sensex ends above 53,000 for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 194 points to close at a fresh record on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Tata Steel and ICICI Bank. Closing above the 53,000 mark for the first time, the 30-share BSE index jumped 193.58 points or 0.37 per cent to 53,054.76. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 61.40 points or 0.39 per cent to its fresh record peak of 15,879.65. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, Nestle India, Asian Paints and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, Titan, Maruti, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. "Markets bounced back into the positive terrain in afternoon trade led by metal stocks. Cabinet reshuffle today created interest amongst market participants as we saw some hectic activity in smaller private sector banks," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Shanghai was positive. Equities in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.64 per cent to USD 75.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Odisha government approves five major industrial projects in state||In a major move, the Odisha government has approved five industrial projects worth Rs 1.46 lakh crore in the metal and metal downstream sector, at a high-lLevel clearance authority meeting chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, which is likely to generate employment opportunities to over 26,959 people in the state. According to a press release by the government, the state has been able to attract investments worth Rs 2.96 lakh crore in financial year 2020-21. The government approved the expansion of Bhushan Power and Steel Limited’s integrated steel plant from 5 MMTPA to 15 MMTPA against an investment of INR 55,000 crore to be set up in Rengali of Sambalpur district , which will generate potential employment opportunities for over 10,000 people. It has also approved the expansion of Tata Steel Limited’s Crude steel production from 3 MTPA to 8 MTPA, Hot rolled coil from 3 MTPA to 7 MTPA, 2.2 MTPA cold-rolled products and 2 MTPA long products against an investment of INR 47,599 crore to be set up in Kalinga Nagar, Jajpur, which will generate potential employment opportunities for over 4,625 people. Keonjhar, the mineral-bearing district will get a mega steel plant of 3 MT capacity. This is the first big investment in manufacturing in Keonjjhar. Among the other projects approved are the expansion of Jindal Steel and Power Limited’s 6 MTPA existing Integrated steel plant from the proposed capacity of 18.6 MTPA to 25.2 MTPA. This will be the largest single location steel plant capacity in the world and employ over 1,000 people in Angul. Expansion of Rungta Mines Limited’s Integrated Steel Plant from the proposed capacity of 2.85 MMTPA capacity to 7.55 MMTPA by adding capacity of 4.7 MMTPA was also approved. The existing steel-making capacity in Odisha is about 30 MT. The government's approval another 27.5 MT steel making capacity will almost double the installed capacity in Odisha over the next few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Asian Paints at TCS. After starting on a negative note, the 30-share BSE index turned positive to trade 119.36 points or 0.23 per cent higher at 52,980.54 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 25.10 points or 0.16 per cent to 15,843.35. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 2 per cent, followed by Asian Paints, Tata Steel, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finserv, Maruti and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, UltraTech Cement, HUL and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 18.82 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 52,861.18, and Nifty fell 16.10 points or 0.1 per cent to 15,818.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 543.30 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Notably, sharp rise in crude prices and strengthening dollar index weighed on sentiments in recent weeks. Accordingly, FIIs have turned out as large net sellers, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, improving business momentum with ease of business curbs started offering comfort, he added. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.15 per cent to USD 74.42 per barrel. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. US equities ended mixed as supply chain bottlenecks started weighing on the economy, Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Sensex hits record high, later slumps with rising crude prices and lower GST collections||The Sensex on Tuesday hit a record high but its climb was thwarted by rising crude prices and lower GST collections in June. The profit booking that ensued saw the Sensex closing marginally lower after rising almost 250 points during intra-day trades. Fears of inflation as a result of higher crude oil prices also had its impact on the G-Sec market as bond prices fell and yields on the 10-year paper rose to 6.18 per cent — its highest in nearly three months. The bond markets were also disappointed by the RBI’s choice of securities for the second round of G-SAP 2.0 as all the papers have very low liquidity. On July 8, the RBI will again purchase five government securities of different maturities, aggregating Rs 20,000 crore. The Sensex opened at 52874.85 and surpassed 53000 to hit a record high of 53129.37. It could not sustain these peaks and ended at 52861.18 points — a drop of 18.82 points. The Nifty too came very close to its all-time peak of 15914 but closed at 15818.25. The rupee weakened by 24 paise to close at 74.55 against the dollar on Tuesday as firmer dollar and rising crude prices weighed on sentiment. Aviation soars Aviation stocks were flying high on Tuesday after the civil aviation ministry permitted airlines to operate at 65 per cent capacity. Shares of InterGlobe Aviation rose 3 per cent during intra-day trades to hit Rs 1,810 but gave up the gains  to close at Rs 1,769.40 — a rise of 0.79 per cent. The SpiceJet scrip rose 4 per cent to a day’s high of Rs 82 but closed at Rs 79.30, a rise of 0.25 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover to begun deliveries of new Range Rover Evoque in India||Jaguar Land Rover India on Tuesday announced that it has begun deliveries of the new Range Rover Evoque in India. The car is available in petrol and diesel powertrains. The pricing starts from Rs 64.12 lakh, ex showroom in India. President and MD of JLR India Rohit Suri said, “With the introduction of new interior colours and latest technologies, the new Evoque’s style quotient is even more enhanced and the new Ingenium powertrains make it more powerful and efficient.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Jaguar Land Rover says global semi-conductor chips shortage to effect drop in wholesale volume||Tata Motors-owned Jaguar Land Rover on Tuesday said the global shortage of semi-conductor chips may lead to a 50 per cent drop in its wholesale volumes in the July-September quarter apart from an operating cash outflow of about £1 billion and a negative EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) margin in the same period. The announcement, which showed how global chip shortage continues to plague the auto industry, sent the shares of Tata Motors crashing more than 8 per cent on the bourses today. At the BSE, the scrip settled lower Rs 29.10 or 8.41 per cent at Rs 316.95 after falling around 10 per cent to Rs 311.45 during intra-day trades. The chip shortage which has affected several industries is not going away anytime soon. JLR expects the scarcity to be greater in the second quarter ended September 2021 than in the first three months. In a regulatory filing on Tuesday, Tata Motors said the situation was very dynamic and it was not possible to give any forecast about the future. JLR expects the situation to improve after September but it would take another 12-18 months to clear the bottleneck, which is the time it would take for its suppliers to make the investments and produce the new chip-enabled components. The company, therefore, expects some level of shortage to continue through to the end of the year and beyond. Amid the supply constraints, JLR will continue to prioritise the production of higher margin vehicles with the available supply of chips. JLR reported a 68 per cent year-on-year increase in retail sales during the April-June period at 1,24,537 units , reflecting the continuing recovery in demand from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group to acquire 74.9% stake in Fullerton India Credit Company||Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group (SMFG), Japan’s second largest lender, is acquiring a 74.9 per cent stake in Fullerton India Credit Company (FICC) for $2 billion. A non-banking finance company (NBFC), Fullerton India, provides personal loans, business loans, loans against property, vehicle loans and housing finance among others. FICC started its India operations in 2007 and has established a presence across 600 towns and more than 58,000 villages through 629 branches and over 13,000 employees offering lending products to 2.3 million retail and small business borrowers. It is an wholly owned subsidiary of Fullerton Financial Holdings Pte Ltd (FFH), which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore. SMFG and FFH on Tuesday reached an agreement wherein SMFG will acquire a 74.9 per cent stake in FICC from FFH, subject to regulatory approvals. SMFG will eventually acquire 100 per cent of FICC, a press statement from Fullerton India said. Though it was silent on the deal, it is understood that Sumitomo will pay $2 billion for the 74.9 per cent stake and another $500 million for the additional purchase. The investment will combine SMFG’s Asian push towards consumer and MSME lending with FICC’s expertise in serving mass-market consumers and MSME customers in India. “We are pleased to partner FFH and jointly accelerate FICC’s growth strategy. India is one of our focus markets ...where we want to build a deeper presence. As a long-term investor, we believe that the FICC platform’s innate strengths of multi-product focus and pan-India distribution will enable us to build a comprehensive financial service offering in India,’’ said Jun Ohta, president & group CEO of SMFG, said. Fullerton India Home Finance Company Ltd (Grihashakti) will continue to be a wholly-owned subsidiary of FICC. Citigroup, Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, Allen & Overy were financial and legal advisers to FFH, while JP Morgan, Anderson Mori & Tomotsune were financial and legal advisers to SMFG.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Covid: India might witness third wave in August||India may see the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic from the second fortnight of August and cases would peak by September, a report by the economic research wing of State Bank of India (SBI) has said. “India has achieved its second wave peak on May 7 and going by the current data, India may experience cases around 10,000 somewhere around the second week of July. However, based on historical trends the cases can start rising by the second fortnight of August with peak cases at least a month later,’’ the special report — Covid-19: The race to finishing line —said. According to the report, global experience shows that countries with high per capita GDP have been associated with higher Covid-19 deaths per million, while low per capita countries had lower death rates. High income countries suffered more during the pandemic. Commenting on the Indian experience, the report said that states with high per capita GDP have been associated with higher Covid-19 deaths per million, while it is lowerfor states with per capita GDP. “Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Rajasthan all have low per capita income and low deaths per million. At the same time, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh have high per capita income and high deaths per million,’’ the report noted. It pointed out that the pace of vaccination picked up in the country recently after the Centre changed the vaccination strategy. India is now receiving more than 40 lakh vaccination doses per day as shown by the seven day moving average. “The cases are now hovering around 45,000 from the past seven days. In the first wave as well, the cases declined gradually, with cases above 45,000 for around 21 days before any meaningful decline in daily cases. Certain States like Rajasthan, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and Uttarakhand have already given vaccine double dose to larger percentage of population above 60 years. Total vaccine doses as percentage of population above 60 years is more than 100 per cent for these states, implying double dose to many’’, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Global crude oil prices spike to three year high||Global crude prices spiked to a three year high of $77 per barrel as Opec+ failed to reach an agreement and analysts expect it to touch $100 a barrel soon. If the rising prices are passed on to consumers by state-owned oil firms, it would add to inflationary pressure and slow down economic recovery at a time petrol prices across several cities have already crossed Rs 100 a litre. Rising inflation amid a slowing economy would put pressure on the Modi government to cut excise duties to provide some relief to consumers. The other option of bringing it under the Goods and Services tax appears remote as it would further shrink the taxing options of the state governments which have little revenue sources. While Opec+ members Saudi Arabia and Russia are in favour of increasing oil production by 4,00,000 barrels a day from August till the end of the year, UAE has not yet agreed to the proposal. If oil production and supply levels do not increase in line with rising global demand, it could lead to crude breaching $100 per barrel, according to the International Energy Agency. The Indian basket of crude on June 5 was $75.62 per barrel and the exchange rate was Rs 74.39 to a dollar. Every dollar increase in the price of crude raises India’s import bill by Rs 10,700 crore on an annualised basis. Economists have stated that high fuel prices could delay economic recovery by lowering demand and weakening consumer sentiments. It has already led to a sharp rise in inflation, evident by the price rise seen across several products and services. Petrol and diesel have a combined weight of 4.69% in the wholesale price index and 2.34% in the retail price index. Any increase in the prices of the transport fuels affect the WPI more than the CPI but what is more worrisome is the pass through effect the increase in fuel prices can cause. The retail price inflation, which impacts the day-today lives of the common man, hit 6.3% in May, according to the latest available numbers. This is higher than RBI’s threshold of 6 per cent. Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das had urged the government for a calibrated unwinding of fuel taxes to reduce price pressure in the economy after consumer price inflation refused to ebb since the beginning of the year. The Modi government has been raking the benefits of the excise duty on petroleum products as a milching cow with revenue sources yielding little down due to economic slowdown. Data showed that the excise duty collection swelled three times to Rs 36,963 crore during the first two months of the current fiscal. The latest government data showed that the government collected Rs 10,956 crore in the corresponding period last year and the duty collection for the first two month of FY20, the normal year, the government kitty got Rs 17,333 crore. Analysts said the Modi government can provide some relief to motorists, analysts said by cutting the cess levied on petrol and diesel, which would, however, not impact the overall collection and would be similar to FY21 levels. “Higher consumption of fuels should support a rise in the indirect taxes levied on them, affording a window for a partial reversal in the cess hikes that were imposed last year. Our calculations suggest that the cesses levied on petrol and diesel could be reduced by Rs. 4.5/litre each, while maintaining the total cess revenues of the government on these fuels in FY2022 at the FY2021 level. Such a cut in the cess rates would offer some relief to household budgets and ease the inflationary pressures related to the rising global crude oil prices,” Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA said. The benefits from the revival in consumption of fuels, the aggregate revenue generated from the cesses imposed by the Government of India (GoI) on petrol and diesel is estimated to expand by 13% or Rs. 0.4 trillion to Rs. 3.6 trillion in FY2022. As pandemic spread last year and the global crude prices dropped, the Modi government hiked the duties to shore up its revenues.  The Centre levies Rs 32.90 a litre on unbranded petrol and Rs 31.80 on unbranded diesel. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 percent of diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court to hear Centre’s plea to club cases against new IT rules||The Supreme Court is likely to hear this week the Centre’s petition seeking transfer of the pleas pending in different high courts challenging the validity of new IT Rules to the apex court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. Several petitions challenging the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, are pending adjudication in different high courts, including the high courts of Delhi and Madras. The Delhi high court had sought a response from the Centre on these petitions. According to the new IT Rules, social media and streaming companies will be required to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist in investigations. The new rules also seek to regulate the functioning of online media portals and publishers, over-the-top (OTT) platforms and social media intermediaries. According to the case status shown on the apex court website, the Centre's plea, which was filed earlier, is likely to be listed for hearing on July 9. Query for Twitter The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed Twitter to inform it by July 8 as to when it will appoint a resident grievance officer (RGO) in compliance with the new IT Rules after the microblogging platform submitted that it was in the process of doing so. Justice Rekha Palli took exception to the fact the court was not informed that the earlier appointment of the RGO was only on interim basis and he has already resigned. The high court pointed out that only an interim RGO was appointed by Twitter and a wrong impression was given to the court on May 31 as it was not informed that the appointment was on interim basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-149
07-07-2021||Business||Tata Steel to invest Rs 10,000-12,000 crore per annum over five years||Tata Steel is going to invest Rs 10,000-12,000 crore per annum for the next five years to scale up the India business even as it plans reduce leverage by at least $1 billion (Rs 7,400 crore) on an annual basis in the next few years. The company wants to blend the urge to grow with the caution of strengthening the balance sheet, taking advantage of the commodity up-cycle which has led to record profits for steelmakers . In 2021-22, Tata Steel will step up investment from Rs 7,000 crore spent in the last fiscal even as it may reduce gross debt as much as $2 billion or twice the stated target. In 2020-21, it had brought down gross and net debt by $4 billion. Much of the cash will be funnelled to Kalinganagar in Odisha, where the company is scaling up capacity to 8 million tonnes (mt) from 3mt to take the India business at 25mt by the end of fiscal 2024. The investment numbers do not,  take into account potential acquisitions, the company told investors on Tuesday. “We are now poised to capitalise on the growth opportunities in India. We have 3 active sites viz. Kalinganagar, Jamshedpur and Angul. And between these three sites, we can go up to 40mt if we have the EBIDTA, balance-sheet and the demand for that,” T V Narendran, CEO and managing director of Tata Steel, told investors. The share of the profitable Indian business, vertically integrated with iron ore mines, to the overall pie of Tata Steel Group, will reach 73 per cent by 2030, if the company decides to scale up the three sites by 15 mt between 2024 and 2030. The share now stands at 57 per cent with India capacity of 19.6mt. The company pointed out they would look out for acquisitions to bolster long products capacity and mentioned opportunities that may come up from disinvestment programmes of Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd and RINL. Debt to fall The company informed the investors that it would prioritise retiring offshore debt. In the first quarter alone, Tata Steel has made repayment of debt from their Singapore and European balance sheets, though it did not quantify the amount. “This year we can certainly say that it will be much more than the announced policy of $1 billion,” Tata Steel executive director and CFO Koushik Chatterjee said Investors wanted to understand why the management is guiding a net debt to EBIDTA ratio of 2, wondering if the company is holding back cash for big ticket  deals. The management took pains to remind the investors that steel is a cyclical business with ups and downs but informed that net debt to EBIDTA number would be “much lower than 2x” in this fiscal. “For the next 2-3 years, we intend to prioritise, at least about a $1 billion of repayment each year prior to the allocation of surpluses towards growth. If there are acquisition opportunities, we will revisit the level,” Chatterjee told the investors. The company ended the last fiscal with a net debt to equity of 2.44. Net debt has been restored to FY 18 level of around Rs 75,000 crore in the last fiscal despite the acquisition of Bhushan Steel and Usha Martin’s steel business for Rs 40,000 crore.  “We reduced interest cost by about Rs 600 crore in FY 21. You will see more reduction in the current year,” Chatterjee added. The management said the European business would be cash positive this fiscal and the company plans to maintain that and stop cash burn at the Indian side. It would spend around Rs 3,500 every year for sustenance capex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
07-07-2021||Business||Goods and services tax collection slips below Rs 1 lakh crore in June||Goods and services tax (GST) collection slipped below Rs 1 lakh crore in June for the first time since September 2020, a sign the second wave of the coronavirus has severely hurt the economy. The collections at Rs 92,849 crore are the lowest in 10 months since August when it was Rs 86,449 crore, official numbers released Tuesday showed. The collections in June 2021 are primarily for supplies made in May — a month when most states were under different levels of lockdown, reducing business activity, the finance ministry said. The gross GST revenue collected in June is Rs 92,849 crore, of which central GST is Rs 16,424 crore, state GST is Rs 20,397 crore, integrated GST is Rs 49,079 crore, including Rs 25,762 crore collected on import of goods, and cess Rs 6,949 crore, including Rs 809 crore collected on import of goods. GST collection had remained above the Rs 1 lakh crore mark for eight months in a row and was Rs 1.02 lakh crore in May. “The easing of lockdowns and increased pace of vaccinations will pull up the demand and supply vectors in the coming months, that may again support the tax collections above 1 lakh crore,” Rajat Mohan, senior partner, AMRG & Associates said. Rajat Bose, partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. said “the collections are lower than expected. It is probably because of the complete or partial lockdown imposed by most of the states. Given that the 2nd wave is behind us, we should see a rebound in the collection figures for the coming months”. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said despite declining to a 10-month low, the June collections provided a positive surprise. “Overall, the GST collections in the first quarter are nearly twice as high a year ago, highlighting the narrower impact of the state-wise restrictions necessitated by the second wave of Covid-19, as compared to the stringent nationwide lockdown last year. ” “This will buffer the revenue situation of the Centre and the states, which should support a ramping up of expenditure going ahead,” Nayar said. Deloitte India senior director M.S. Mani said while the collections are lower than Rs 1 lakh crore which had become the norm for the past few months, considering the fact that it relates to transactions in May which was badly impacted by the pandemic, it would be considered as a very satisfactory collection.” EY tax partner Abhishek Jain said “the collections are for the supplies made in May, where several parts of the country were under the lockdown, so this dip is on the expected lines. With significant relaxations in lockdown and business supplies picking up, the collections should see a definite uptick in the coming months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
07-07-2021||Business||Life Insurance Corporation IPO likely to get cabinet  clearance this week||The much awaited initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation is likely to get the clearance of the cabinet this week, which is expected to give a leg-up to the Modi government's ambitious disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal. Although the amount of the stake the government will sell in this mega IPO is unclear, it could be up to 5 per cent, according to indications. The government at present owns 100 per cent in the insurance behemoth. Once listed, it is likely to be one of the leading companies by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. Officials expect the IPO could hit the market in mid-January if the government and LIC follows the timelines of the sale and market conditions were favourable. The government has notified 27 amendments in the LIC Act, 1956, which are part of Finance Act 2021, paving the way for the 65-year old corporation, with over Rs 35 lakh crore assets, to corporatise and list its shares on the domestic stock exchanges. The amendments to LIC Act include putting in place a board with independent directors in line with listing obligations, increasing the authorised capital to Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each. Legislative changes have also been made for LIC to appoint an audit committee, select auditors, declare dividend and issue bonus shares. The amendments do not alter the legal position of the corporation or turn it into a company. It continues to be governed by the LIC Act. Amendments have also been done to ensure that the Centre will hold at least 75 per cent stake in LIC for the next five years after listing and at least 51 per cent in the insurance behemoth after that period. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had informed parliament. The government will remain the majority shareholder and will continue to retain management control, safeguarding the interest of policyholders, he had said. NMDC selloff The government on Tuesday was assured of at least Rs 3,700 crore from NMDC’s share sale after institutional investors overwhelming subscribed to the OFS on Day 1. The government is selling over 21.95 crore shares or 7.49 per cent stake in state-owned miner NMDC at a floor price of Rs 165 a piece.  This is the first PSU offer for sale (OFS) in the current fiscal. The two-day offer for sale will open for subscription by retail investors on Wednesday. Over 2.19 crore shares would be offered to retail investors at a floor price of Rs 165 a piece On Tuesday, as against over 10.55 crore shares on offer for institutional investors, they put in bids for over 22.55 crore shares or 2.14 times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-150
