08-07-2021||Business||LIC to have CEOs and MDs as govt does away with Chairman post||The Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) will now have the post of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director instead of the Chairman position, with the government making changes to relevant rules ahead of the insurer's initial public offering this fiscal. The changes have been made by the Department of Financial Services under the finance ministry by amending Life Insurance Corporation of India (Employees) Pension (Amendment) Rules. Besides, some other rules under LIC Act, 1956, have been amended. "Chief Executive and Managing Director means the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director appointed by the Central Government under section 4 of the Act (LIC Act 1956)," according to a gazette notification issued on July 7. To facilitate the listing of the insurance behemoth, the government has already approved raising its authorised share capital to Rs 25,000 crore. Besides, the Department of Economic Affairs under the finance ministry recently amended the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules. Companies that have a market capitalisation of more than Rs 1 lakh crore at the time of listing can now sell just five per cent of their shares, with the latest amendment in rules, a move that will be beneficial for the government during the LIC initial public offer. Such entities will be required to increase its public shareholding to 10 per cent in two years and raise the same to at least 25 per cent within five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
08-07-2021||Business||Sensex plunges 486 points to close below 52,600||Equity benchmark Sensex slumped 486 points on Thursday led by losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Reliance Industries amid a selloff in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 485.82 points or 0.92 per cent lower at 52,568.94, while the broader NSE Nifty dropped 151.75 points or 0.96 per cent to 15,727.90.  Tata Steel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, ICICI Bank, SBI, Kotak Bank and Dr Reddy's.  On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid and NTPC were among the gainers.  "Domestic equities witnessed sharp correction amid weak global cues," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Hang Seng corrected by over 2.50 per cent as investors dumped Chinese tech giants led by mounting concerns about regulatory risk, he noted.  Asian stock markets fell after the Federal Reserve talked about possibly reducing US economic stimulus and Japanese officials prepared to declare a coronavirus state of emergency during the Olympics due to a surge in infections.  Bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo too ended with significant losses.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals.  Selling pressure was seen across all counters in Indian markets, while IT stocks broadly remained resilient ahead of TCS earnings later in the day. Metals and financials witnessed steeper correction, Modi said, adding that midcap and smallcap indices continued to outperform broader indices despite moderate profit-booking.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.93 per cent to USD 72.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
08-07-2021||Business||Cairn Energy secures French court order to seize 20 Indian govt properties in Paris||In a setback to India, Britain's Cairn Energy Plc has secured a French court order to seize some 20 government properties in Paris to recover a part of the USD 1.72 billion due from New Delhi following an arbitration panel overturning levy of retrospective taxes. The centrally located properties mostly comprise of flats, valued at more than EUR 20 million, were used by Indian government establishment in France, three people with direct knowledge of the matter said. The French court, Tribunal Judiciaire de Paris, on June 11 agreed to Cairn's application to freeze (through judicial mortgages) residential real estate owned by the Government of India in central Paris, they said adding the legal formalities for the same was completed on Wednesday evening. While Cairn is unlikely to evict the Indian officials residing in those properties, the government cannot sell them after the court order. Meanwhile, the Finance Ministry said it has not received any order from any French court and will take appropriate legal remedies after it gets an order. In its statement, Cairn further said that in absence of any resolution to its tax dispute, it "must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders." A three-member international arbitration tribunal that consisted of one judge appointed by India, had in December last year unanimously overturned the levy of taxes on Cairn retrospectively and ordered refund of shares sold, dividend confiscated and tax refunds withheld to recover such demand. The government has not accepted the award and has filed a 'setting aside' petition in a court in the Netherlands - the seat of the arbitration. With its shareholders - who include the biggies of the global financial world - egging it to get the money back, Cairn has got the arbitration award registered in countries such as the US, UK, Canada, Singapore, Mauritius, France and the Netherlands. It has since started seeking enforcement action. It has identified USD 70 billion of Indian assets overseas for the potential seizure to collect award, which now totals to USD 1.72 billion after including interest and penalty. Last month, Cairn brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York pleading that Air India is controlled by the Indian government so much that they are 'alter egos' and the airline should be held liable for the arbitration award. Similar lawsuits are likely to be brought in other countries, primarily with high-value assets. Stating that the government of India has "not received any notice, order or communication" from any French court, the finance ministry said it is trying to ascertain the facts, and "whenever such an order is received, appropriate legal remedies will be taken, in consultation with its counsels, to protect the interests of India." "Government of India will vigorously defend its case in Set Aside proceedings at The Hague," it said. "It is also stated that the CEO and the representatives of Cairns have approached the Government of India for discussions to resolve the matter. Constructive discussions have been held and the Government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country's legal framework. Cairn also said it is looking at an amicable settlement. "Our strong preference remains an agreed, amicable settlement with the Government of India to draw this matter to a close, and to that end, we have submitted a detailed series of proposals to them since February this year," it said. However, in the absence of such a settlement, Cairn said it must take all necessary legal actions to protect the interests of its international shareholders. Sources said the French court order affects some 20 centrally located properties, belonging to the Indian Government, as part of a guarantee of the debt owed to Cairn. "This is the necessary preparatory step to taking ownership of the properties and ensures that the proceeds of any sales would be due to Cairn," one of the persons said. The move by Cairn is similar to a court in the British Virgin Islands ordering in December last year hotels in New York and Paris owned by Pakistan International Airlines to be used to settle a claim against Pakistan's government by a Canadian-Chilean copper company. The Scottish firm invested in the oil and gas sector in India in 1994 and a decade later it made a huge oil discovery in Rajasthan. In 2006 it listed its Indian assets on the BSE. Five years after that the government passed retroactive tax law and billed Cairn Rs 10,247 crore plus interest and penalty for the reorganisation tied to the flotation. The state then expropriated and liquidated Cairn's remaining shares in the Indian entity, seized dividends and withheld tax refunds to recover a part of the demand. Cairn challenged the move before an arbitration tribunal in The Hague, which in December awarded it USD 1.2 billion (over Rs 8,800 crore) plus costs and interest, which totals USD 1.725 million (Rs 12,600 crore) as of December 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||India's inflation likely increased to 7-month high in June, poll shows||India's retail inflation probably accelerated to a seven-month high in June on rising food and fuel prices, staying above the Reserve Bank of India's comfort zone for a second straight month, a Reuters poll showed. While many of India's states have eased restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus, supply-side disruptions remain and higher taxes on petroleum products continue to exert upward pressure on inflation. The July 5-7 poll of 37 economists showed retail inflation rose to 6.58% in June from a year ago. It was 6.30% in May. If realised, it would mean inflation above the central bank's target range of 2%-6% for a second month, putting pressure on the RBI to tame prices amid a faltering economic recovery. "We believe the biggest driver of June inflation would be elevated levels of fuel prices engendered by high domestic tax on petroleum products and its pass-through to transportation costs," said Kunal Kundu, India economist at Societe Generale. A recovery in global demand has driven a rally in commodity prices, including crude oil which contributed to record-high fuel prices in India. Fuel prices have risen over 30% from May of last year, driving prices up across the board. Analysts expect high fuel prices and rising input costs for companies to keep inflation elevated for some time. "I expect India's headline inflation to remain over 6% y/y for the next few months. Price pressures are coming mostly from the supply side, reflecting higher commodity prices and supply chain bottlenecks," said Tuuli McCully, head of Asia-Pacific economics at Scotiabank. "I expect the RBI to tolerate the higher inflation readings through 2021, as there are no signs of significant demand-driven inflation, and as domestic demand remains soft on the back of virus-related issues." The RBI is facing the difficult conundrum of balancing growth-inflation dynamics. While the RBI's focus remains on growth, minutes of the June meeting showed the Monetary Policy Committee would remain watchful on inflation. read more "Needless to say, the Reserve Bank of India is caught between a rock and hard place, as with higher inflation, monetary policy efforts to revive growth lose a degree of freedom," noted economists from ANZ. The wholesale price index (INWPI=ECI) is expected to remain high at 12.23% in June from at least a 15-year high of 12.94% year-on-year recorded in May. read more Industrial output (INIP=ECI) likely surged 32.0% in May, the poll showed. That jump was likely to have been led by the rise in India's infrastructure output (ININFR=ECI), which makes up about 40% of overall industrial production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty started on a choppy note on Thursday amid a negative trend in Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 3.34 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 53,058.10 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 8.95 points or 0.06 per cent lower to 15,870.70. Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising nearly 2 per cent, followed by Tech Mahindra, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, M&M and HCL Tech. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, HUL, Sun Pharma and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 193.58 points or 0.37 per cent to close at its fresh lifetime high of 53,054.76, and Nifty rose 61.40 points or 0.39 per cent to its record 15,879.65. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 532.94 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring as of now. Notably, visible improvement in business momentum with ease of business curbs by states started offering comfort, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, profit-booking at higher levels is leading to bouts of correction in the market, traders said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals. US equities ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.01 per cent to USD 73.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Airbus India’s technical  advisory and procurement services liable to 18 per cent GST||Airbus India’s technical advisory and procurement services for its Francebased holding company are ‘intermediary services’ and liable to 18  per cent GST, the Authority for Advance Ruling has said. Airbus Group India had approached the Karnataka bench of the AAR, seeking a ruling on whether the services rendered by it to its holding company Airbus Invest SAS, France, would qualify as ‘export of service’ under GST law and hence be treated as a ‘zero rated supply’. The applicant — Airbus Group India Pvt Ltd — is a subsidiary of Airbus Invest SAS, France (holding company) and its ultimate holding company is Airbus, SE Netherlands. Airbus India was established as a regional entity for performing services that include procuring raw materials, assessing quality and risk evaluation, receiving a quotation from suppliers and sharing it with the holding company. “The services rendered by the applicant do not qualify as export of services ... and consequently are eligible for GST at the rate of 18 per cent...,” the AAR said. Rajat Mohan, senior partner, AMRG & Associates, said: “This ruling would significantly impact the margins of Airbus India, which is estimated to be cut short by 18 per cent of the overall service revenue.” When Airbus was contacted on the ruling, they said “no comments”. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said:  “The coverage of intermediary services which do not qualify as export and are liable to GST has typically been an area of dispute between the taxpayers and revenue authorities. “Some taxpayers have also challenged the taxability of intermediary services in courts and a final judgment of the apex court would be keenly awaited by the industry.” Tax expert Bimal Jain said: “Such AAR rulings are going against the concept of GST ... services provided by Airbus India (applicant) to its holding company  Airbus, France should have been export of services... the stated issue is a matter of concern while determining what is ‘intermediary services’ and its place of supply in terms of section 13(8) of the IGST Act, which is just copied from the Service tax regime w.e.f October 1, 2014.”The government should amend this place of supply provisions as location of recipient, on basic concept of GST, being destination based consumption tax to avoid unwanted litigation.” He pointed out that the Maharashtra Authority for Advance Ruling had said overseas liaison offices should come under the GST net, which is contrary to the stand taken by its counterparts in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The case relates to the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry which has set up an office, DCCI UAE, in Mumbai. The entity claims to be a nonprofit organisation promoting the interests of Dubai businesses. Mohan said “historically IT companies are enjoying the benefit of refund of unclaimed service input against the export of these services. As per the advance ruling all these transactions between Indian entities and their overseas entities are subject to GST and Indian entity need to charge the GST on their invoice. GST charge would become an expense for the overseas entity and they are not eligible to claim the input in their respective countries against these taxes paid on output.” “In such a scenario either the Indian entity needs to take the hit of GST or their overseas counterpart needs to take the hit of GST. In any case this will impact the overall profitability of either company. Indian Businesses will become dearer and Philippines counterparts may use this opportunity to cater to the global demands,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Cabinet reshuffle unlikely to have any major impact on benchmark indices||The much-awaited cabinet reshuffle is unlikely to have any major impact on the benchmark indices on Thursday, market circles said. The oath-taking by 43 ministers, which was accompanied by the surprise resignation of a dozen ministers, came on a day both the Sensex and the Nifty ended at lifetime highs. Market mavens were keenly awaiting the announcement of the portfolios which was expected to come late on Wednesday evening. However, as no changes were expected at North Block, the view was that stocks are unlikely to react in any major way to the cabinet revamp. “As no changes are expected in the Big Four ministries of finance, defence, home and external affairs, stocks may not react to the reshuffle. We could have expected a major reaction in the markets had there been a change in the finance ministry. Overall, the revamp is mildly positive, but it won’t move the needle too much,” an analyst said. He said the markets will continue to be dictated by corporate earnings, the infection trend and the vaccination rollout. The first-quarter earnings season will begin on Thursday with Tata Consultancy Services declaring its results. The Sensex climbed 194 points to close above the 53000-mark for the first time. The 30-share index witnessed some volatility as it opened in the green at 52919.71 and hit a low of 52751.76. It  breached the 53000-mark towards the last few minutes of trade and closed with gains of 193.58 points at a fresh lifetime high of 53054.76. The broader NSE Nifty rose 61.40 points to its record peak of 15879.65.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||PNB asks housing finance arm to recast Carlyle deal||PNB Housing Finance on Wednesday said its promoter Punjab National Bank has asked it to consider restructuring the proposed Rs 4,000-crore capital infusion deal led by US-based Carlyle group. The housing financier also said it will await the Securities Appellate Tribunal’s (SAT) order on the issue before taking a final decision. PNB Housing Finance said it received a letter from PNB on July 4 and subsequent to that the board of the company met on July 5 and 6, 2021. “The PNB letter had conveyed a decision taken by the board of directors of PNB at their meeting held on July 3, 2021,” PNB Housing Finance said in a regulatory filing. The state-owned lender took a legal opinion from a law firm and deliberated the matter during its board meeting, it said. The letter from the bank said: “The board of directors of the company should take cognizance of the directive issued by Sebi vide their letter dated June 18, 2021 and reconsider restructuring the contours of the deal/transaction of the capital raising in line with such a Sebi directive,” PNB Housing said in the filing. Under the deal announced on May 31, the US-based Carlyle, alongside other investors, is slated to infuse Rs 4,000 crore capital into PNB Housing through the issuance of preference shares and warrants. However, the deal has come under the scanner of the regulator. The company was directed to carry out the valuation process of shares according to the relevant legal provisions. PNB Housing had contended that it has followed Sebi norms in deciding the issue price at Rs 390 apiece. PNB Housing had filed an appeal before SAT against the letter issued by Sebi last month, requesting it not to go ahead with the proposal until due diligence was done. The matter is scheduled for hearing on Monday, July 12. Following PNB’s letter, the board of the housing finance firm, by a majority resolution passed on July 6, decided that since the issue relates to interpretation of law and is sub-judice, it will await SAT's order on the matter. The order was expected to come on July 5. However, the company sought the same to be heard next week. “As sought by the company, the Securities Appellate Tribunal, in its hearing on July 5, 2021, adjourned the case for Monday, July 12, 2021,” PNB Housing Finance said in a regulatory filing on Tuesday. The PNB Housing Finance stock closed at Rs 686.25 apiece on the BSE on Wednesday, down 1.14 per cent from the previous close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Jindal Steel and Power Limited to invest over Rs 1 lakh crore in Odisha over next 10 years||Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) will invest over Rs 1 lakh crore in Odisha over the next 10 years, its chairman Naveen Jindal said on Wednesday. The Odisha government on Tuesday approved five major industrial projects worth Rs 1,46,172 crore in metal and metal downstream sectors. These projects will almost double the steel production of Odisha to 58 million tonnes and create about 27,000 jobs. JSPL plans to expand its six-million-tonne steel plant at Angul to 25.2 million tonnes. “This expansion will make our Angul plant the largest single location steel plant capacity in the world,” Jindal tweeted. He added that in the next 10 years, JSPL will invest more than Rs 1 lakh crore and create huge employment opportunities in the state. Jindal was, however, silent on how the investment will be financed. The expansion proposals of Bhushan Power and Steel, Tata Steel and Rungta Mines were also approved by the state government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Ashwini Vaishnaw to handle railways and communications and information technology||The Narendra Modi-government has parachuted former IAS and Wharton MBA Ashwini Vaishnaw to handle the prime portfolios of railways and communications and information technology as a cabinet minister. Wednesday’s cabinet reshuffle has sent former diplomat Hardeep Puri to the petroleum ministry. Hardeep Puri has been put in charge of the petroleum ministry at a time crude prices have started to surge, amplifying concerns over auto fuel prices. New inductee Jyotiraditya Scindia has got the civil aviation portfolio and former Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal the ports, shipping and waterways portfolio. But it was Vaishnaw’s elevation that caught the attention. An MTech from IIT Kanpur, Vaishnaw held leadership roles across major global companies such as General Electric and Siemens. He was also the personal secretary to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Vaishnaw was inducted into the BJP six days ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections on June 28, 2019. He takes charge of the crucial ministries at a time the communications and I-T ministry is grappling with the controversial social media rules, while it prepares for the money-spinning 5G auctions. Indian Railways plans to allow private players to run passenger trains on their tracks and the bidding process has been delayed because of the pandemic. Some issues raised by the private operators have led to further delays. While the data privacy legislation has been keenly awaited for long, the new IT rules had ruffled the feathers of the social media giants. The spate of cases filed across the country against micro blogging site Twitter have raised doubts about India being a suitable investment destination. Twitter has been in a tussle with the Indian government since last month over compliance with the country’s new intermediary guidelines. In the meantime, telecom industry players have been pressing the DoT to refer to Trai to suggest reserve prices for all spectrum bands cleared for 5G trials, including 26 Ghz, 3.3-3.67 Ghz and 700 Mhz in the run up to the next auction. Telecom players have been peeved with the telecom ministry on the AGR issue following the Supreme Court verdict. They had expected the ministry to be considerate to their concerns. However, the ministry adopted a tough stance, which is resulting in a situation of duopoly in the sector, with Vodafone finding itself in a precarious situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
08-07-2021||Business||Department of public enterprises brought under ministry of finance||The department of public enterprises (DPE) has been brought under the ministry of finance ahead of Wednesday’s mega cabinet reshuffle to enable North Block get a firmer grip on the government’s privatisation process. A new department called the department of public enterprises (or Lok Udyam Vibhag) has been created and parcelled out to the finance ministry. Earlier, the DPE was part of the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises. Many companies under the heavy industries ministry are sick and up for sale under the disinvestment programme of the government. As many as 44 PSUs, including Maruti Udyog and the ailing Scooters India, will be shifted to finance from the heavy industries ministry, which will now have oversight only on capital goods PSUs. PSUs from  Bengal — Andrew Yule, Braithwaite, Burn Standard, Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Limited and Hooghly Dock and Port Engineers Limited — also figure in this list. According to experts, this move will help the government to speed up the privatisation of PSUs which have been in a slow lane because of several inter-ministerial consultations. The expansion of the finance ministry’s domain signals the growing importance of Nirmala Sitharaman. In the budget, finance minister Sitharaman had unveiled an ambitious privatisation road map that envisaged a “bare minimum” of PSUs in four strategic sectors and privatisation or closure of the rest. A government notification provided the details of the role of the department of public enterprises, which will now be under the control of the finance ministry. These include co-ordination of matters of general policies affecting all PSUs, evaluation and monitoring their performance, including the memorandum of understanding mechanism. It is the finance ministry which will now review the capital projects and expenditure of PSUs. The ministry will also now take up issues relating to the revival, restructuring and the closure of sick PSUs, including the rehabilitation of the employees and offering them VRS. Besides the DPE, the finance ministry has five existing departments: economic affairs, revenue, expenditure, investment & public asset management and financial services. It is believed that as one department of the finance ministry is dealing with PSUs, bringing the DPE under the ministry would make co-ordination easier. Earlier, the disinvestment ministry — created under the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government — was merged with the finance ministry and is now a department under it. The Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) was also abolished and administration of foreign investments was given to the finance ministry. Sitharaman in her Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. As part of the disinvestment strategy for the financial sector, the government has decided to go for a mega initial public offering (IPO) of Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) and a residual stake sale in IDBI Bank during the current financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-148
