09-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 183 points to close at  52,386||The BSE benchmark Sensex tumbled 183 points on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and TCS.  The 30-share index ended 182.75 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,386.19. The broader NSE Nifty dropped 38.10 points or 0.24 per cent to close at 15,689.80.  Bajaj Auto was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by TCS, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and Tech Mahindra.  On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, Bharti Airtel and NTPC were among the gainers.  Domestic equities traded on a weak note mainly led by continued profit-booking in financials, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  However, metals, pharma and realty indices shined, while IT index remained soft after TCS missed earnings estimates, he said, adding that buying momentum remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks as improved earnings prospect attracted investors' interest.  "While visible improvement in business momentum with ease of business curbs by states started offering comfort, recent uptick in daily caseload and increasing positive rate could be a near term risk as we saw Japan imposing fresh restrictions in Tokyo, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the red, while Hong Kong was positive.  Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 1.08 per cent to USD 74.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
09-07-2021||Business||Second wave starting to recede, economy performing better: Finance Ministry ||The Finance Ministry on Friday said the economy has started showing signs of revival from the impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the back of targeted fiscal relief, monetary policy and a rapid vaccination drive. The broad-based economic relief package, extended to mitigate the second wave, amounted to Rs 6.29 lakh crore. RBI continues with its efforts to calm the nerves of the market and revive sectors with both backward and forward linkages and multiplier effects on growth, the ministry said in its monthly economic review. To stimulate the economy and ease the financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman last month announced eight economic measures amounting to Rs 6.29 lakh crore to provide relief to individuals as well as businesses in the country. Apart from eight relief measures announced in health and other worst affected sectors, Sitharaman announced a stimulus package for the tourism industry, which included five lakh tourist visas to be issued free of charge, once the government resumes issuance. The total financial implication of the scheme will be Rs 100 crore. Resilient tax collections of the central government in the first two months of FY 2020-21 and sustained momentum in capital expenditure, particularly in the road and rail sector, the report said, augurs well for continued economic recovery driven by capital expenditures. The report further added that the recently announced economic relief package was expected to further oil the wheels of the Capex cycle via implementation of the PLI scheme and streamlining of processes for PPP Projects and Asset Monetisation. Consumption sentiment is expected to pick up with further enhancement of employment support under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ANBRY), targeted support to the urban poor through the credit guarantee scheme for on-lending by micro-finance institutions and wider Bharat-Net digitisation coverage, the economic review for June said. Free food-grain and enhanced fertiliser subsidies under the package along with continued MGNREGA implementation, on the other hand, would serve as a cushion for rural demand in the coming quarters, it said. "Maintaining a rapid pace on vaccination and quickly bridging health care infrastructure gaps across both urban and rural areas would emerge as the most sustainable stimulus for durable recovery of the Indian economy," the report added. Going forward, it said, further expansion of vaccination and strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour will be a critical safeguard against the emergence of a possible third wave. On high food prices, the report said, healthy monsoon coverage, gradually rising Kharif sowing and unlocking of states is expected to ease food, and thereby headline inflation. However, it said, risks due to global demand-led recovery in commodity prices and input cost pressures remain. About global economic growth, it said this has continued its upward trajectory in June 2021. Falling Covid-19 infections and accelerating vaccinations consolidated US recovery and renewed growth prospects in the Euro Area, it said, adding global trade remained buoyant with an uptick in global commercial flight and port activity, which portends well for Indian exports. However, it said, the resurgence of delta variant infections, firming inflationary pressures, unequal access to vaccination and burgeoning debt levels continue to lend substantial uncertainty to the global economic outlook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
09-07-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 300 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. After dropping 340 points in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 282.08 points or 0.054 per cent lower at 52,286.86 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty dropped 77.75 points or 0.49 per cent to 15,650.15. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, TCS, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma and Titan were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 485.82 points or 0.92 per cent lower at 52,568.94, while Nifty dropped 151.75 points or 0.96 per cent to 15,727.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 554.92 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continue to look soft due to weak global cues as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. While visible improvement in business momentum with ease of business curbs by states started offering comfort, the recent uptick in daily caseload and increasing positive rate could be a near term risk as we saw Japan imposed fresh restrictions in Tokyo yesterday, he stated. US stocks retreated in overnight trade as the weak tone across global equities on worries about a possible slowdown in recovery due to persistent supply bottlenecks and the spread of the delta variant weighed on sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was positive. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.04 per cent to USD 74.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Zomato Limited seeks post-issue valuation of Rs 64,365 crore||Zomato Limited is seeking a post-issue valuation of Rs 64,365 crore on a fully diluted basis at the upper end of its public issue price band of Rs 72-76 a piece announced on Thursday. The maiden offer from the online food ordering and delivery platform comprises a fresh issue of Rs 9,000 crore and an offer for sale of Rs 375 crore from existing investor — Info Edge. The public issue opens on July 14 and closes on July 16. Following the public issue, Zomato estimates Rs 15,000 crore will be available with the company which could then be utilised to strengthen its current business and test the waters with new businesses such as grocery delivery and nutraceuticals. According to the disclosed financial results in the prospectus, Zomato posted a total income of Rs 2,118.24 crore for the year ended March  2021. This is lower than Rs 2,742.73 crore a year ago with the first wave of Covid lockdown affecting operations. The losses, however, narrowed to Rs 816.42 crore during 2020-21 compared with Rs 2,385.60 crore in the previous fiscal. “The losses in the business are currently low and, hence, we can continue to invest in the business that we build, both in what we do today and the newer areas which we might explore going forward as well,” Zomato CFO Akshant Goyal said while announcing the company’s IPO. He added that the company expects a revival in the topline with business on a recovery path after the initial impact of Covid pandemic last year and apprehensions around transmission of the virus. “If we take the impact of the first one or two quarters out, business is going well now...and that will reflect in our results going forward,” Goyal said. Earlier this month, Zomato had approached the Competition Commission of India to acquire a 9.3 per cent stake in online grocery start-up Grofers. The estimated investment is around $100 million. “Online grocery in India is nascent now but is growing rapidly. We are experimenting in that space. Once we have full conviction in the business model that works for India in the online grocery context, we will expand in this space,” said Goyal. He added that the investment will give exposure to Zomato in the segment and help build its strategies around it. Kotak Mahindra Capital, Morgan Stanley India and Credit Suisse India are the global coordinators and book running lead managers to the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||RBI asks banks and financial institutions to use alternative reference rate instead of Libor||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday asked banks and financial institutions to use any widely accepted alternative reference rate (AAR) instead of Libor (London Interbank Offered Rates)  in new financial contracts. In March, the UK’s  Financial Conduct Authority, UK, had announced that all Libor settings would either cease to be provided by any administrator or would no longer be representative. After December, Libor cannot be provided with the pound sterling, euro, swiss franc and Japanese yen settings. In dollar settings, the deadline was June 30, 2023. The RBI has now asked banks and financial institutions to ‘‘cease entering into new financial contracts that reference Libor as a benchmark and instead use any widely accepted alternative reference rate  by December 31, 2021’’. The financial institutions, it suggested, should incorporate robust fallback clauses in all contracts that reference Libor. The RBI has also advised the financial institutions to cease using the Mumbai Interbank Forward Outright Rate (Mifor), a benchmark which references Libor latest by December 31, 2021. In August 2020, the RBI had asked banks to frame a board-approved plan, outlining an assessment of exposures linked to Libor and steps to be taken to address risks arising from the cessation of Libor, including preparation for the adoption of an alternative reference rate. The longer deadline in the dollar settings till June 30, 2023, was meant to ensure the fulfillment of older contracts.Banks and financial institutions should incorporate robust fallback clauses, preferably well before the respective cessation dates, in all financial contracts that reference Libor, the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Amazon says 3 lakh sellers joined them in India since January 2020||Global e-commerce major Amazon on Thursday said around 3 lakh sellers have joined the platform in India since January 2020. The platform also saw local shops and offline retailers coming on board as the pandemic pushed them to explore alternative channels. More than 50,000 offline stores have joined the platform. The e-commerce platform has over 7 lakh sellers in the country, according to its 2020 Amazon SMB Impact Report, India. Manish Tiwari, vice-president, Amazon India, said the platform has already achieved $3 billion cumulative exports from India. There is a target to enable exports worth $10 billion from India by 2025. “It took us the first three years to enable the first billion dollars of export. The second billion came in 18 months and the third billion just took 12 months,” he said while announcing the Amazon Digital Kendra in Gujarat on Thursday. Amazon Digital Kendra is a physical resource centre that will provide small and medium enterprises access to third-party services, ranging from training on benefits of e-commerce, cataloguing to shipping, logistics and GST and taxation support. Amazon on  Thursday announced that its annual prime day sale will be held on July 26-27 during which there will be launches from top brands and small and medium businesses. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it will hear on July 20 the Amazon plea against the Delhi high court verdict which stayed the directive by its single-judge and paved the way for the multi-billion dollar deal to amalgamate Future Retail Ltd with Reliance Retail. A bench of Justices R. F. Nariman, K. M. Joseph and B. R. Gavai was informed by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Future group, that a Singapore tribunal will begin hearing on the issue from July 12 and requested that the proceedings on the appeals be adjourned for a week. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanian, appearing for Amazon, said he had no problem if the hearing on the appeals was adjourned by a week, as they will be busy next week before the tribunal. The bench then posted the matter for further hearing on July 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Central Board of Direct Taxes notifies Rule 8AC regarding computation of short-term capital gains||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has notified Rule 8AC regarding computation of short-term capital gains where companies have claimed depreciation on goodwill from April 2020 till now. The budget this year has said depreciation and, hence, relief cannot be claimed on goodwill from this fiscal. Relief claimed for the last fiscal will be taxed. The CBDT has notified the Income tax Amendment (19th Amendment) Rules, 2021 which seeks to amend Income-tax Rules,1962 Rule 8AC in respect of computation of short term capital gains and written down value under Section 50 where depreciation on goodwill has been obtained. The notification said capital gains for the purposes of goodwill shall be the excess of the written down value of the block of assets at the beginning of the relevant year and the actual cost of any asset (goodwill). Such excess shall be deemed to be the capital gains arising from the transfer of short-term capital assets. Further, where the goodwill is the only asset in the block of asset for which depreciation was obtained by the assessee in the assessment year beginning on the 1st day of April, 2020, and the block of asset ceases to exist on account of transfer, there will not be any capital gains or loss on account of the block of asset having ceased to exist. Lastly, capital gains on transfer of goodwill shall be computed in accordance with the normal provisions of the income tax law, it said. Aravind Srivatsan, Partner & Tax Leader, Nangia Andersen LLP, said, “India Inc has witnessed a record number of M&A deals and emergence of Indian unicorns with intangibles fetching substantial value. Transactions done in the past five years in sectors such as pharma, lifesciences, startups lining for IPO would have to closely evaluated. Companies where the goodwill has not been substantially depreciated by April’ 2020, need to immediately quantify their tax impact.” “The impact for such corporate houses is that now short term capital gain taxes need to be computed and be paid before filing of return of income for FY 202021. Further corporate houses who have not opted for the lower tax rate regime should also closely evaluate the financial impact of this rule change,” Srivatsan said. “Companies shall, therefore, have to reassess their tax liabilities for the assessment year 202122 by ignoring depreciation on goodwill... in case such depreciated cost of goodwill formed a substantial part of the block of assets to the extent that it exceeded the written down value of the residual block of assets itself, they may also be subject to short term capital gains tax on such excess,” Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner at J Sagar Associates, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds net inflows plunge 40% over preceding month||Equity mutual funds witnessed net inflows for the fourth straight month in June but they plunged 40 per cent over the preceding month to Rs 5,988.17 crore as investors resorted to profit booking on the back of the recent stock market rally. Equity mutual funds had witnessed a net inflow of Rs 10,083 crore in May, the highest infusion in 14 months. “Consistent equity inflows indicate positive sentiment among investors as the economy is opening up and vaccination drives are going reasonably well. However, the decline on a month-on-month basis could be attributed to profit booking  as well as pressure on household savings during recent lockdowns,” said Mohit Nigam, head, PMS-Hem Securities. Investors continued to invest in pure equity schemes, resulting in positive net sales of almost Rs 6,000 crore. However, this is slightly lower than last month because of higher redemptions. “The trend surely is in favour of the Indian equities by domestic investors,” said Akhil Chaturvedi, associate director, head of sales & distribution at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business|| Delhi HC tells Centre to take action against Twitter Inc for any breach of new IT Rules||The Delhi high court on Thursday told the Centre it was free to take action against Twitter Inc in case of any breach of the new IT Rules and that no interim protection was granted even as the new IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said those who live and work in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. Locked in a standoff with the central government over the new information technology (IT) rules, Twitter Inc, meanwhile, informed the high court that it has appointed an interim chief compliance officer, who is a resident of India, and said it will make an “endeavour” to fill the regular position within eight weeks according to the rules. The court granted two weeks time to the microblogging platform to file an affidavit, notarised in the United States, in compliance with the new rules. “It is made clear that since this court has not passed any interim order, this court has granted time to Respondent No 2 (Twitter Inc) to file an affidavit, no protection is granted. It is open to Centre to take action against Respondent 2 in the case of any breach of the rules”, a bench of justice Rekha Palli said while listing the matter for further hearing on July 28. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, told the court it was not seeking any protection either. “The consequence (of non-compliance) is that the protection to intermediaries falls off. I’m not seeking any protection,” he said. Vaishnaw while responding to a question by reporters on the issue of Twitter not adhering to the IT rules said whosoever lives and works in India will have to abide by the rules of the country. The US-based company has been in the eye of a storm over its alleged failure to comply with the new IT rules in India, which mandates, among other requirements, the appointment of three key personnel — chief compliance officer, nodal officer and grievance officer — by social media platforms with over 50 lakh users. All the three personnel have to be residents in India. While the rules came into effect on May 26, Twitter is yet to adhere to the social media guidelines, despite repeated reminders from the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
09-07-2021||Business||Tata Consultancy Services reports 3.9% increase in revenue and net profit of Rs 9,008 crore||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) reported a 3.9 per cent increase in revenue in the period ended June 30, on a trailing quarter basis, and a net profit of Rs 9,008 crore but both numbers fell far short of the Street’s estimates despite a strong performance by all verticals in its core markets. ‘‘We did not anticipate the viciousness of the Covid second wave in India,’’ Rajesh Gopinathan, managing director and chief executive officer at TCS, said in a post-earnings videoconference. ‘‘We lost Rs 350 crore in revenue due to the impact of Covid during the quarter. We have seen some stabilisation and recovery by the end of June. If the Covid situation continues to improve in India, there is no doubt we will bounce back in Q2,’’ he said. Net profits for the quarter ended June 2021 came in at Rs 9,008 crore against Rs 7,008 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the company to report net profits in the range of Rs 9,200-9,500 crore. The revenue in dollar terms stood at $6,154 million. In rupee terms, TCS reported a revenue of Rs 45,411 crore against Rs 38,322 crore in the year-ago period. Gopinathan said the company was confident of achieving double-digit revenue growth during this fiscal. The lifesciences and healthcare vertical led the show showing a sequential rise of 7.3 per cent and a year-on-year growth of 25.4 per cent. In terms of geographies, growth was led by North America at almost 16 per cent, followed by the UK at 16.3 per cent over the year-ago period, even as continental Europe saw a rise of 19.7 per cent. In India, the company reported a 14 per cent fall in revenue in sequential terms. Margins at TCS also softened because of the salary hikes in April. The operating margins came down to 25.5 per cent from 26.8 per cent in the preceding three months. TCS also reported its highest ever quarterly net headcount addition of 20,409, taking its workforce to 509,058. Another positive highlight was the strong TCV (total contract value) of $8.1 billion during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-147
