10-07-2021||Business||Shaping your brand with Creative Packaging Solutions - AG Poly Packs||A brand’s packaging is capable of shaping its identity. The packaging industry has witnessed constant changes and has emerged as one of the largest sectors of the Indian economy. The significant contributors driving the growth of the packaging industry are the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), pharmaceuticals, personal care, and the food processing sector. The Global Flexible Packaging Market in India is projected to grow at a CAGR of 13% with a Revenue of USD 9.76 bn during 2021-2024. The YOY (year-over-year) growth rate for 2021 is estimated at 10.49% by the end of 2024. One of the preeminent industries in this line of work is AG Poly Packs Pvt Ltd. AG Poly Packs - Excellence in Quality, Service, and Performance Formed in 1997, the company started as a distributor for other packaging products. Since 2003, AG has diversified its business operations and opened its first manufacturing facility in 2013. In 2017, they established a branch office and warehouse in Vapi and Gujarat and subsequently a sales office and design studio in Mumbai - increasing their geographical presence in West India.  In 2020, promoters, Mr. Gaurav Daga and Mr. Neeraj Maheshwari formed a separate entity AG Synergy Pvt Ltd, a state of the art manufacturing plant at Hapur, UP, covering over 2 lakh square feet. With a mission of providing continuous innovation and sustainable packaging solutions, AG Poly Packs Pvt Ltd is growing 30 percent annually. With an expanding history of marketing in domestic and global markets, their dedication and professional skills are imperative. N2N Packaging Solution Provider AG Poly Packs is committed to designing, manufacturing, and supplying high-quality products through a well-defined system. It is providing packaging solutions to some of the most elite brands, catering to their requirements. Tapping into India’s Potential with Make in India Initiative AG Poly Packs is a ‘Made in India’ brand that has reduced dependency on China for the import of pumps and other similar components used in pharma or personal care products by establishing a world-class manufacturing facility. The company has actively participated in various Indian and Global exhibitions driven by the government's ‘Make in India’ Initiative. AG has invested and expanded its business operations in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. Covid-19 Impact: AG Poly Packs Shaping the New Normal The devastating impact of the Coronavirus outbreak has brought the sharpest decline in the demand for certain types of packaging while stimulating the acceleration of E-commerce and pharmaceutical packaging. These changes have drawn many new challenges in the packaging sector. By rebalancing their sustainability goals, prioritizing needs, and incorporating heightened hygiene practices, the AG group has turned this crisis into an opportunity. The availability of SAP, the world's best ERP software, gave an extra edge to AG in analyzing the client base and repositioning the products as per the need of the hour. With an extensive consideration of how customers perceive the packaging and keeping customers’ interests at priority, they have worked on various innovations. These have helped them navigate cautiously in the post-pandemic world. Redefined Sustainability and Heightened Hygiene in the New Normal Setting a new trend in the packaging industry, they have accustomed their approach between sustainability and hygiene. They have invested huge capital in infrastructure to be a self-dependent firm. With innovations like tamper-proof packaging to protect the products, they have readjusted their focus and raised their game to earn customers’ trust. By delivering excellence and adding value to the customers’ businesses, AG Poly Packs Sets milestones of success and reform. Safety, Security, and Quality Checks The machines used in the manufacturing process are regularly monitored and serviced for unequaled ease of use. Judgment of the quality of each product is done with undivided attention based on various parameters, leaving no chance of errors in the future. Skillful Task Force in AG Poly Packs AG Poly Packs has a committed and credible workforce with an inherent sense of dedication and collaboration who truly cares about exceeding customers’ expectations. The company started with two members and now manages to run the business with more than 450 manpower. To create an inclusive workspace, AG has acknowledged the efforts of its team members by rewarding them for their contributions. Their new plant, AG Synergy, has contributed to the hiring of around 250 employees. The organization aims to serve society and reflect its diversity by actively empowering women. Commitment to Improve and Make an Impact With the enhancement of people’s quality of life, education, and health at their heart, AG Poly Packs has been actively involved in numerous CSR initiatives.  They organized a vaccination drive for all their employees and their families and contributed significantly to setting up a quarantine and health care center at Man Sarovar Bhawan, Ghaziabad. In 2020, AG Poly Packs joined hands with Sewa Samiti, an NGO that provided food to the migrant laborers during the first wave of Covid-19 The company contributed to the foundation of a first of its kind school, hostel, wherein students are imparted knowledge and trained to serve the nation by joining defense forces along with the Sharda Foundation, NGO Vidya mandir & Rajpal Singh Jan Kalyan Samiti. AG Poly Packs - Re-shaping Tomorrow AG Poly Packs commits to ethical business practices and has focused on developing solutions that are biodegradable, eco-friendly, resulting in a more sustainable world. With a turnover of 92 cr in 2018-19, 116cr in 2019-20, 190 cr in 2020-21, they strive to reach 500 crores by 2025. They have been awarded as Best Packaging Partner by one of the Emerging Beauty products brand WOW in their annual event in Thailand, and popular MLM company, Vestige, for their exemplary packaging services. Using cutting-edge technologies, working in a coordinated and seamless manner, they strive to provide efficient results that add value to brands. AG Poly Packs consider packaging as emerging science and a discipline that contributes to a successful brand image alongside being a partner to many mainstream industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||India invites UK companies to invest in insurance sector||India has invited UK companies to invest in the insurance sector, while Britain offered its London market for direct listing of Indian firms. This year India has increased the foreign direct investment ceiling in insurance from 49 per cent to 74 per cent. Earlier, the government had allowed firms to list overseas without simultaneous listing at the domestic market. To deepen bilateral ties in the financial sector, the first meeting of India-UK Financial Markets Dialogue was held on Thursday late evening, a finance ministry statement said, adding the dialogue was established at the 10th Economic and Financial Dialogue (EFD) in October 2020.The government-to-government discussion focused on four themes  GIFT (Gujarat International Finance TecCity) City, India's flagship international financial centre, banking and payments, insurance, and capital markets, it added. Following the government-to-government discussion, private sector partners were invited to the discussion, the statement said. At the meeting, Indian and UK participants discussed matters relating to the insurance sector, including domestic updates on the impact of Covid19, opportunities to encourage UK investment in the Indian market, and the UK Solvency II Call for Evidence. Participants also took stock of capital markets cooperation, it said, adding the UK outlined progress on regulatory reforms, including through the Wholesale Markets Review and the Lord Hill Listings Review. There was also a productive discussion on opportunities for increased cross-border activity, including an update from India on the implementation of the direct listing policy, according to the statement. Both sides agreed that there is significant scope for strengthening financial services cooperation between India and the UK, it said. "Both sides agreed to continue to engage bilaterally on these areas in the coming months, in the runup to the next EFD and the beginning of negotiations for a future India-UK FTA, both expected to take place later this year," it said. The statement said participants provided updates on their respective banking and payments landscapes, to increase cross-border activity in this area. The Bank of England discussed its work on cyber resilience and both sides also recognised the key role the banking sector has played in maintaining stability during the Covid-19 pandemic. The dialogue was led by senior officials from the finance ministry and UK Treasury, with participation from Indian and UK independent regulatory agencies, including the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, International Financial Services Centre Authority, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, the Bank of England, and the Financial Conduct Authority-Nirmals on tax-Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the country has taken fiscal policy measures to get better environmental outcomes. In her address at the G20 High-Level Tax Symposium on Tax Policy and Climate Change, ahead of the third G20 Finance Ministers & Central Bank Governors Meeting, she also said that concessional tax rates are in place in India to promote use of renewables. In a series of tweets, the Ministry of Finance said that the minister shared India's innovative policy mix for better environmental outcomes such as new energy map of India, digital innovation and emerging fuels, international solar alliance for enabling clean energy, and promotion of energy efficiency and afforestation. The third meeting of G20 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors is scheduled on July 9 and 10, under the Italian G20 presidency. Arpita Mukherjee of Icrier said: “A number of countries, including many EU members, and India are net importers of digital goods and services and they need to work together to have a common view. There is a need to collect data on digitalisation in the country to have data driven policies. As India will take up G20 Presidency in 2023 this areas will need consultations with experts and industry.” Ajay Rotti, partner, Dhruva Advisors LLP, said: “What is important for India is the allocation of profits to market jurisdictions. Indian has clearly stated that the issue remains open and needs to be addressed. It is this aspect on which India intends to remain ‘constructively engaged’ and seek a ‘meaningful and sustainable’ revenue allocation in its own words.” The finance ministry has said it would push for allocation of meaningful and sustainable revenue to market jurisdictions, particularly for developing and emerging economies as it joins OECD backed minimum global corporate tax regime. There are subtle differences between the G7 proposal and the one proposed by OECD. Under the G7 agreement — market countries will be awarded taxing rights on at least 20% of profit exceeding a 10% margin. Under the OECD/G20 Pillar One: between 2030% of residual profit defined as profit in excess of 10% of revenue will be allocated to market jurisdictions with nexus using a revenue-based allocation key. The proposed solution consists of two components Pillar One, which is about reallocation of additional share of profit to the market jurisdictions and Pillar Two consisting of minimum tax and subject to tax rules.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India to make major organisational rejig to counter adverse pandemic impact ||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) on Friday introduced major organisational changes in its top echelons to counter the adverse impact on sales and market share on account of the Covid pandemic. The company has lost market share from 51 per cent to 47.7 percent in the current quarter. Maruti is also facing major competition in the SUV segment and is ceding ground to competitors such as Hyundai and Kia. Sources said two joint managing directors have been appointed from Suzuki Motor Company to assist the present managing director Kenichi Ayukawa. The company has appointed the two joint managing directors — H. Takeuchi for commercial and S. Tori for production and supply chain. Sources said the appointments have been made for managerial efficiency in a large organisation like Maruti. However, they denied any cost-cutting measures prompted by a falling market share. Meanwhile, Shashank Srivastava and Partho Banerjee have been elevated to the position of senior executive directors and Ram Suresh Akela, who was the national head, sales has been elevated to the post of executive director — marketing. The new leadership changes are effective from the first quarter of 2021-22. Company sources, however, denied any fall in market share saying “in fact the share has risen from 44 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 to 47 per cent in the corresponding period of 2021-22”. However, he admitted that the mid-SUV segment is a cause for concern. “We are watching the mid-SUV segment. In the entry SUV segment we are market leaders with the Vitara Brezza. But in the mid-SUV segment we are quite weak ... we are trying to push the S-Cross,” said the source. In the people mover segment, Ertiga and Eeco seem to be doing well with a 98 per cent market share. The company’s decision to exit the diesel powertrain is also affecting its SUV sales, said an industry expert. “With Hyundai’s Creta and Venue and Kia’s Seltos and Sonet, buyers have a choice,” said the expert. Each of the South Korean companies have shored up a market share of 23 per cent in 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Microsoft to reward employees with $1500 as pandemic bonus||Microsoft will reward its employees with $1500 (around Rs 1.12 lakh) as pandemic bonus in recognition of a challenging fiscal year. “As a symbol of our appreciation for coming together as One Microsoft during a uniquely challenging year, we are proud to recognise our employees with a one-time monetary gift,” a spokesperson said in response to a query from The Telegraph. This bonus is separate from our compensation programmes, Microsoft said. Microsoft had over $125 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the period ended March 31, 2021. The tech major earned a profit of $15.5 billion for the quarter ended March at a growth rate of 44 per cent. Microsoft’s chief people officer Kathleen Hogan announced the bonus in a message to the employees on Thursday. The amount will be available to employees in the US and abroad who are below corporate vice-president level that started on or before March 31, 2021, including part time workers on and those on hourly rates. Microsoft has 175,508 employees worldwide and in India it has over 13,000 employees across 11 Indian cities including Calcutta. However, the employees of its subsidiaries LinkedIn, Github and ZeniMax are not eligible for the bonus. Addressing investors at the quarterly earnings Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella had said that over a year into the pandemic, digital adoption curves are not slowing down. “In fact, they are accelerating and it's just the beginning. Digital technology will be the foundation for resilience and growth over the next decade,” said Nadella. A large part of the growth in business in the pandemic for Microsoft has been on account of cloud services with users increasingly relying on such services in a hybrid work model. Microsoft’s meeting platform – Teams – has seen over 145 million daily active users, almost double the number a year ago. Rising PC sales has also supported Microsoft’s growth. Earlier, Facebook gave its 45,000 employees $1000 each and Amazon gave $300 holiday bonus for frontline workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Temasek, Warburg Pincus, Bhavish Aggarwal invest $500 million in Ola||Ola on Friday said Temasek, Warburg Pincus affiliate Plum Wood Investment and Ola founder Bhavish Aggarwal have invested $500 million (about Rs 3,733 crore) in the ride-hailing platform ahead of its proposed IPO. This is among the largest investments in the Indian consumer internet space by these funds, a statement said. “Over the last 12 months, we’ve made our ride-hailing business more robust, resilient and efficient. With a shift in consumer preference away from public transportation, we are well-positioned to capitalise on the various urban mobility needs of our customers,” Aggarwal said. “We look forward to collaborating with Bhavish and the team in the next phase of Ola’s growth,” said Vishal Mahadevia, managing director and head of India at Warburg Pincus. The company, however, didn’t specify a timeline for its proposed initial public offer. Ola has previously talked of a possible listing as well. An IPO will help investors like SoftBank, Tiger Global and Steadview Capital to exit or partially sell their stake to return funds to their shareholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||SoftBank in discussions to invest in PharmEasy parent API Holdings||SoftBank Group is reportedly in discussions to invest in API Holdings which owns PharmEasy, the country’s largest online pharmacy chain. According to a Bloomberg report, API is seeking a valuation of $5.6 billion in the funding round and the Japanese conglomerate could invest up to $200 million. The report added that API Holdings may also approach other investors. PharmEasy was recently in the news when it announced the acquisition of Thyrocare Technologies Ltd (Thyrocare) for Rs 4,546 crore. API Holdings will acquire a 66.1 per cent stake in Thyrocare from A Velumani and affiliates at a price of Rs 1,300 per share aggregating to Rs 4,546 crore. The acquisition will be done by Docon Technologies Pvt Ltd, a 100 per cent subsidiary of API. Docon will also make an open offer for an additional 26 per cent stake at the same price for a consideration of Rs 1,788 crore if the offer is fully accepted. Earlier, PharmEasy had completed the acquisition of Medlife to become the largest healthcare delivery platform in India. PharmEasy, founded by Dharmil Sheth, Dhaval Shah, Harsh Parekh, Hardik Dedhia and Siddharth Shah, is also present in the B2B pharma marketplace and in consultations. The company has a base of 12 million plus consumers, a network of more than 6,000 digital consultation clinics and 90,000 partner retailers across the country. It currently serves over one million patients for their pharmacy and diagnostics needs and issues over one million digital prescriptions on a monthly basis. Recently, Tata Digital Ltd, a wholly-owned arm of Tata Sons had announced that it will acquire a majority stake in 1MG Technologies Ltd, the online healthcare marketplace, days after the company said it will invest $75 million in fitness-focused Curefit Healthcare for an undisclosed stake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Amazon and Future group arbitration battle to resume in Singapore||The arbitration proceeding between Amazon and the Future group will resume in Singapore next week that led to the Indian Supreme Court pushing back its own hearings to July 20 on a plea made by the US e-commerce giant against a Delhi high court order on the Reliance-Future deal. The arbitration proceedings between the two parties will reportedly begin on July 12. In October, the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre in an interim award restrained Future Retail Ltd from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Earlier this year, a three-member arbitration panel was formed that included Michael Hwang, Albert Jan van den Berg and Jan Paulsson. On Thursday, the apex court said it will hear on July 20 the Amazon plea against the Delhi high court verdict which stayed the directive by its single-judge and paved the way for the Reliance-Future deal. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, K.M. Joseph and B R Gavai was informed by senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Future group, that the Singapore tribunal will commence hearing on the matter from July 12. While Salve requested the proceedings on the appeals be adjourned for a week, senior advocate Gopal Subramanian, appearing for Amazon, said he had no problem if the court pushed back the hearings by seven days. Amazon had moved the apex court on April 8 challenging the Delhi high court's division bench order of March 22 by which it had vacated a stay on the Future Group proceeding with the deal with Reliance. On February 22, the Supreme Court had asked the National Company Law Tribunal not to pass the final order on the amalgamation. In its suit before the single judge of the Delhi high court for enforcing the award in Singapore, Amazon has sought to restrain Future Retail from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. It had also sought detention of the Biyanis, directors of FCPL and FRL and other related parties in civil prison and attaching of their properties for alleged "wilful disobedience" of the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
10-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India relaxes stand on yield||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) appeared to cede some ground to the bond traders in their face-off on yields — as it fixed a coupon of 6.10 per cent for the new 10-year bond on Friday after trying to anchor the yields at around 6 per cent. The cut-off yield for the new paper is above the 5.85-per-cent set for the present benchmark bond. Amid a huge government borrowing programme, the RBI has tried to cap the benchmark bond at 6 per cent. In several auctions, the RBI had either rejected all the bids or the bonds devolved on primary dealers as the central bank was not comfortable with the high yields sought by the market. More recently, the central bank moved to a uniform price auction for certain bonds to iron out volatility. However, despite its efforts, yields have risen in recent weeks because of concerns about firm crude oil prices leading to high inflation and a higher supply of government bonds during the pandemic. Retail inflation in May touched a six-month-high of 6.30 per cent and the worrying developments on the crude front have only heightened concerns. The Centre on Friday sold Rs 14,000 crore of the new 10-year-paper as well as Rs 3,000 crore of the 4.26 per cent GS 2023 (two-year paper) and Rs 9,000 crore for the 6.76 per cent GS 2061 bond (40-year paper). There were no devolvement on primary dealers. The benchmark 10-year-bond also ended higher at 6.19 per cent — a rise of almost 6 basis points — after opening at around 6.15 per cent. Market circles are of the view that the development indicates some firming up of yields. While the central bank has retained its accommodative stance at its June meeting, it remains to be seen if there is some indication of an unwinding at the next policy meet. According to Bloomberg data, G-sec yields have risen 45-85 basis points in the 3-7 year segment and around 15 basis points in the 10-year paper since the past six months. Tata Mutual Fund in a note said the G-sec yields are expected to move up gradually because of the higher borrowing programme required to support state governments and the pandemic relief. However, the fund house feels the short-term rates will remain stable because of RBI intervention. The fund house believes the RBI will ensure the growth impulses are firmly entrenched before its starts withdrawing its accommodative monetary policy stance. In a separate announcement, the RBI said states will raise a total of Rs 1,92,091 crore during the July-September quarter. They include Bengal, which intends to mobilise Rs 18,000 crore. Sovereign bond The issue price for Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2021-22, which will open for subscription for five days from July 12, has been fixed at Rs 4,807 per gram of gold, the RBI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-146
