11-07-2021||Business||GI-certified consignment of Fazli mangoes from Malda exported to Bahrain||Fazli mango growers are set to get new connoisseurs as a GI-certified consignment of the variety was exported to Bahrain from Bengal’s Malda district, the commerce ministry said on Saturday. The GI tag helps growers get a premium price for the product as no other producer can use the name to market similar goods. “In a major initiative which would boost mango exports from the eastern region, especially to the West Asian countries, a consignment of geographical identification (GI) certified Fazli mango variety sourced from Malda district was exported to Bahrain on Saturday. The consignment of Fazli mango was exported by APEDA-registered DM enterprises, Calcutta, and imported by Al Jazira group, Bahrain,” the ministry said. In June, a week-long Indian mango promotion programme was organised in Bahrain where 16 varieties of the fruit, including the GI-certified Khirsapatin, Lakshmanbhog and Zardalu (Bihar) varieties, were displayed. Both Khirsapatin and Lakshmanbhog are from Bengal. While most of the states in India have mango plantations, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka have a major share in the total production of the fruit. Alphonso, Kesar, Totapuri and Banganpalli are the leading export varieties from India. Other varieties that are exported include GI-certified Khirsapati, Lakkhanbhog, Amrapali and Chausa from Malda, Dusshheri from Malihabad in Uttar Pradesh and Langda from Nadiya in Bengal. For the first time in this season, India recently shipped a consignment of GI-certified Banganapalli and other varieties of Survarnarekha mangoes sourced from farmers in Krishna and Chittor districts of Andhra Pradesh. Mango is exported primarily in three forms: fresh fruit, pulp and mango slice. A geographical indication (GI) tag is used for an agricultural, natural or a manufactured product (handicraft and industrial goods) originating from a definite geographical territory. Typically, such a name conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness attributable to the place of its origin. Darjeeling tea, Tirupathi laddu, Kangra paintings, Nagpur orange and Kashmir pashmina are among the registered GIs in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||Business||Equitas Holdings mulls merger with its small finance bank||Equitas Holdings Ltd, the promoter of Equitas Small Finance Bank (ESFB), is looking to merge with the bank. At present, Equitas Holdings Ltd has an 81.98 per cent stake in the niche lender. In a regulatory filing to the bourses on Saturday, Equitas said according to the RBI’s small finance bank licensing norms released on November 27, 2014, and the subsequent clarification in January 2015, a promoter of a small finance bank (SFB) can exit or cease to be a promoter after the mandatory initial lock-in period of five years depending on the central bank’s regulatory and supervisory comfort and the Sebi’s regulations at that time. “In the case of ESFB, our subsidiary for which the company is the promoter, the said initial promoter lock-in for the company expires on September 4, 2021. Hence, the bank had requested the RBI if a scheme of amalgamation of the company with the bank, resulting in the exit of the promoter, can be submitted to the RBI for approval, prior to the expiry of the said five years,” Equitas said in the filing. It disclosed that the central bank through its communication on July 9 has permitted the bank to apply, seeking approval for the scheme of amalgamation. Further, the RBI has also conveyed that any no-objection, if and when given on the proposed scheme, would be without prejudice to its powers to initiate action, if any, for violating any licensing guidelines or any terms and conditions of licence, or any other applicable instruction. “Accordingly, we would be initiating steps to finalise the scheme of amalgamation, submit to the boards of the company and the bank for approval, and take further action thereafter in accordance with applicable regulations and guidelines,” Equitas Holdings added. On Friday, shares of ESFB ended with gains of almost 2 per cent at Rs 65.10, while the Equitas Holdings share finished 2.44 per cent higher at Rs 115.35. ESFB had posted a net profit of Rs 384.22 crore for the year ended March 2021 against Rs 243.63 crore in the previous year. In a recent update on its performance during the first quarter of this financial year, the small finance bank had disclosed a 15 per cent rise in gross advances to Rs 17,839 crore compared with the same period of the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||Business||Fuel demand up in June as several states ease Covid-19 restrictions||Fuel demand rebounded in June after slumping to a nine-month low in May as several states eased Covid-19 restrictions and economic activity picked up. However, the spike in global crude prices after failure of Opec+ to reach an agreement is likely to add to inflationary pressures on the economy, analysts said. Fuel consumption rose 1.5 per cent to 16.33 million tonnes in June from a year earlier and by 8 per cent over May 2021, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas showed. Petrol sales rose 5.6 per cent year-on-year to 2.4 million tonnes in June. It was up 21 per cent from the May sales of 1.99 million tonnes. Diesel - the most used fuel in the country - rose 12 per cent from May to 6.2 million tonnes, but was down 1.5 per cent from June 2020 and 18.8 per cent from June 2019. This is the first monthly increase since March. Aditi Nayar, chief economist with Icra, said, “Benefitting from the anticipated rise in mobility and economic recovery aided by an acceleration of the coverage of Covid-19 vaccines, the YoY growth in the consumption of petrol and diesel in FY22 stood at 14 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, on the low base of FY21. Our forecasts suggest that consumption in FY22, relative to the pre-Covid level of FY20, will be 6.7 per cent higher for petrol, and 3.3 per cent lower for diesel.” Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi of Nomura said, “India would be adversely impacted by rising oil prices, given its status as a net oil importer. Rising crude oil prices are a negative terms-of-trade shock for consumers and businesses, and we estimate every 10 per cent increase in oil prices would shave off 0.20 percentage points from GDP growth. It could also dent the pace of the growth recovery that we currently expect to be supported by the ongoing vaccinations, strong external demand and easy financial conditions, adding downside risks to our GDP growth outlook of 10.4 per cent y-o-y for FY22.” “A 10 per cent rise in crude oil prices would further widen the deficit by 0.3 per cent of GDP. Inflation represents a more material risk, as core pressures are already building. A 10 per cent rise in crude oil prices would lead to a 0.3-0.4 percentage point rise in headline inflation, adding further upside risks to our projection of 5.6 per cent for 2021 and 2022,” they added. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March Covid-19 infections led to the re-imposition of lockdowns in different states, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August last year amid lockdowns and restrictions in several states.Fuel demand showed signs of resurgence in June after restrictions began to be eased and the economy gathered pace. With Covid case addition continuing to decline and vaccination pace picking up, state governments have continued to reopen, though some exceptions such as Maharashtra exist. The then oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan had last month stated that India’s fuel demand would recover to pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2021. “We are confident by the end of this calendar year we will be in a position to restore our original (pre-Covid) consumption behaviour,” Pradhan said. Consumption of LPG, the only fuel which showed growth even during the first lockdown because of free supplies by the government to the poor, rose 9.7 per cent year-on-year to 2.26 million tonnes. It was up 26.3 per cent over June 2019. With airlines yet to resume full-scale operations because of travel restrictions around the globe, jet fuel sales at 2,58,000 tonnes was up 16.2 per cent year-on-year but 61.7 per cent lower than June 2019. Naphtha sales dropped by about 3.1 per cent to 1.19 million tonnes, while sale of bitumen used to make roads was down 32 per cent to 509,000 tonnes. Fuel oil consumption rose 1.9 per cent to 533,000 tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
11-07-2021||Business||Global tax overhaul gains pace||Global leaders on Saturday agreed to move ahead with what would be the most significant overhaul of the international tax system in decades, with finance ministers from the world’s 20 largest economies backing a proposal that would crack down on tax havens and impose new levies on large, profitable multinational companies. If enacted, the plan could reshape the global economy, altering where corporations choose to operate, who gets to tax them and the incentives that nations offer to lure investment. But major details remain to be worked out ahead of an October deadline to finalize the agreement and resistance is mounting from businesses, which could soon face higher tax bills, as well as from small, but pivotal, low-tax countries such as Ireland, which would see their economic models turned upside down. After spending the weekend huddled in the halls of an ancient Venetian naval shipyard, the top economic officials from the Group of 20 nations agreed to forge ahead. They formally threw their support behind a proposal for a global minimum tax of at least 15 per cent that each country would adopt and new rules that would require large global businesses, including technology giants such as Amazon and Facebook, to pay taxes in countries where their goods or services are sold, even if they have no physical presence there. “After many years of discussions and building on the progress made last year, we have achieved a historic agreement on a more stable and fairer international tax architecture,” the finance ministers said in a joint statement at the conclusion of the meetings. The approach marks a reversal of years of economic policies that embraced low taxes as a way for countries to attract investment and fuel growth. Instead, countries are coalescing around the view that they must fund infrastructure, public goods and prepare for future pandemics with more fiscal firepower at their disposal, prompting a global hunt for revenue. “I see this deal as being something that’s good for all of us, because as everyone knows, for decades now, the world community, including the United States, we’ve been participating in this self-defeating international tax competition,” Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen said on the sidelines of the G20 summit. “I’m really hopeful that with the growing consensus that we’re on a path to a tax regime that will be fair for all of our citizens.” The agreement followed a joint statement last week that was signed by 130 countries who expressed support for a conceptual framework that has been the subject of negotiations at the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development for the better part of the last decade. The OECD estimates that the proposal would raise an additional $150 billion of global tax revenue per year and move taxing rights of over $100 billion in profits to different countries. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
