12-07-2021||Business||Retail inflation remains high at 6.26 per cent||Retail inflation remained above the RBI's comfort level for the second consecutive month despite slipping slightly to 6.26 per cent in June while the factory output recorded a growth of 29.3 per cent in May, mainly on account of the base effect, the government data showed. The marginal slippage in the Consumer Price Index (CPI)-based inflation was noticed despite little firmness witnessed in the food inflation which inched up to 5.15 per cent in June from 5.01 per cent a month ago. Retail inflation based on Consumer Price Index (CPI) was 6.3 per cent in May 2021 and 6.23 per cent in June 2020. As regards the factory output, the Index of Industrial Production rose sharply by 29.3 per cent in May against a decline of 33.4 per cent in the corresponding month of 2020. As per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on June CPI, the inflation on annual basis in the 'oils and fats' segment was 34.78 per cent in June. While the rate of price rise in fruits basket was 11.82 per cent, it contracted in vegetables (-0.7 per cent). The inflation in 'fuel and light' segment was 12.68 per cent. The RBI has been mandated by the government to keep retail inflation at 4 per cent with a margin of 2 per cent on the either side. The central bank mainly factors in the CPI inflation while arriving at its bi-monetary policy. The NSO data revealed that industrial production surged by 29.3 per cent in May, mainly due to low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power sectors, but remained below the pre-pandemic level. The manufacturing sector -- which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) -- grew 34.5 per cent in May this year, as per the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Monday. The mining sector output rose 23.3 per cent in May while power generation increased 7.5 per cent during the same month. In May 2021, the IIP stood at 116.6 points compared to 90.2 point in the same month last year. The index was at 135.4 points in May 2019 as per the NSO data. The data showed that industrial production recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level in May 2019. Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year following the COVID-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020. Commenting on the CPI data, Suresh Nagpal, Chairman of Central Organisation for Oil Industry and Trade (COOIT), an apex association of edible oil, said internationally, the prices of edible oil started correcting in the second fortnight of June. "The Government of India has also reduced duty and has lifted restriction on imports of certain edible oils for the next few months. As a result, the prices of edible oils have softened in both wholesale and retail market since mid of June. We expect prices to remain at the current level over the next few months," he said. Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank, said the softer-than-expected CPI inflation comes as a relief after a shockingly high May reading. While the headline inflation still remains elevated and risks remain, the high frequency mandi data shows further moderation in food prices in July signalling towards a return of sub-6 per cent readings going ahead, she said. "We continue to expect the MPC to retain its current policy guidance in the August policy in favour of growth. However, towards the end of the year gradual policy normalization will be underway," she added. On factory output, Aditi Nayar, Chief Economist, ICRA Limited said as the widening state-wise restrictions caused the sequential momentum to falter, the pace of year-on-year IIP growth expectedly flattened to 29 per cent in May 2021. "The sequential dip in activity was broad-based across the use based categories, as well as two of the three sectors, namely manufacturing and electricity. Only mining escaped the impact of the localised restrictions brought on by the second wave of Covid-19, with a mild month-on-month uptick of 0.6 per cent in May 2021," she said. Shravan Shetty, MD Primus Partners said: "The IIP for May at 29.3 per cent... suggests the supply chains have adopted over the last year to dampen the impact of second wave. This points to a robust Q1 considering the high-frequency parameters for June are also positive". The output of capital goods, which is a barometer of investment, grew 85.3 per cent in May 2021 as against a contraction of 65.9 per cent in the year-ago period. Consumer durables manufacturing increased 98.2 cent in the month under review compared to a 70.3 cent decline in May 2020. Consumer non-durable goods production grew 0.8 per cent in May this year where it was a contraction of 9.7 cent in the year-ago period. The second wave of the pandemic started by the middle of April this year and many states imposed restrictions to curb the spread of coronavirus infections. "The growth rates over corresponding period of previous year are to be interpreted considering the unusual circumstances on account of COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020," NSO said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||SC refuses to interfere with HC order in Lodha case ||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with the Calcutta High Court order dismissing contempt petitions filed against Harsh Vardhan Lodha for continuing as a director and chairman in companies of the M P Birla Group. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Hrishikesh Roy said it was not inclined to interfere with the high court order of April 22, as appeals are still pending there. The apex court directed the high court to make an endeavour to dispose of the bunch of pending appeals as expeditiously as possible and in any event on or before March 31, 2022. The group companies headed by Lodha are Birla Corporation, Universal Cables, Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cable. Appearing for the Birlas and petitioner Arvind Kumar Newar, a battery of senior lawyers Kapil Sibal, P Chidambaram, K V Vishwanathan and Janak Dwarkadas, said the high court is completely wrong in dismissing the contempt petitions. "The high court said that he has to comply with its order but he has not complied with directions. I am not interested in contempt or sending him to jail but I want him to be removed," Sibal said. Senior advocate Shyam Divan and advocate Sumeer Sodhi, appearing for Vindhya Telelinks Ltd, said a direction be issued that all the pending appeals before the high court are heard in four weeks. Divan said that there were several contempt petitions filed and the opposite party have selectively chosen one contempt petition and they have been repeatedly writing letters to the company. He said that they have no registered share in the company and since the last two years the actions of the two of the three administrators have constantly been to interfere with the affairs of the companies under the guise of an unwarranted/ illegal control by the Committee, not only over the Estate but also over third-party trusts, societies and publicly-held companies which are part of the MP Birla Group. Senior Advocate Darius Khambata, appearing for Lodha, said the the high court's single-judge verdict on September 18 last year had refused to interfere with the resolutions passed at the annual general meetings of the four manufacturing companies, where his client was reappointed as director by an overwhelming majority of at least 97.98 per cent of votes cast in his favour. The Birlas and the Lodha family are embroiled in a litany of court proceedings over the M P Birla Group's assets. On April 22, the High Court had dismissed several contempt petitions filed against Lodha for continuing as a director and the chairman in companies of the M P Birla Group. The High Court had also dismissed contempt proceedings against other directors of the companies in view of findings of the court that Lodha had not committed contempt by attending board meetings as director/chairman of the company. It had observed that Lodha's participation in the board meetings "cannot be termed as a contumacious violation of the order of this court as willful disobedience has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt." "There is a possibility that he could continue to hold office on the strength of the votes of public shareholders in exclusion to the votes of the APL (Administrators Pendente Lite) Committee and the promoter and promoter groups and PACs (persons acting in concert)," the court had said. An APL is appointed by a court to begin probate proceedings during a lawsuit that challenges the will. The contempt petitions before the High Court were filed by the Birlas alleging wilful violation of an order passed on October 1 last year. In that order, the High Court had declined to pass an interim stay on a single bench judgment over administering the Priyamvada Devi Birla Estate by a court-appointed committee, while clarifying parts of the order under challenge. The high court is hearing a probate application by Harsh Vardhan, whose late father R S Lodha had claimed that Priyamvada Devi Birla bequeathed her estate, comprising the M P Birla Group, to him through a will. The Birlas, one of the oldest industrial groups in the country, have challenged the probate application by the Lodha family and they have been involved in a legal battle over the control of the M P Birla Group since the death of Priyamvada Devi Birla in 2004. Priyamvada Devi Birla's husband M P Birla died in 1990.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat after volatile session||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty closed on a flat note after a volatile session on Monday, following a mixed trend in global equities.  The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 13.50 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 52,372.69, while the broader NSE Nifty inched 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent higher at 15,692.60.  Bharti Airtel was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slipping around 1 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, Infosys, HDFC, Bajaj Auto and PowerGrid.  On the other hand, Ultratech Cement, ICICI Bank, SBI, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank and IndusInd Bank were among the gainers.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with significant gains.  Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, the rupee appreciated by 6 paise to close at 74.58 against the US dollar.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.47 per cent lower at USD 74.44 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Buy Instagram Followers from These 4 Trending Websites||Instagram is a social network platform where there is a strong competition of getting viral. People all over the world use this platform for general surfing or uploading their different content and posting. They want to get a high number of followers on their post. They desperately wait to see when their post or videos get a high number of likes and shares. The frequent sharing of different content from Instagram to other platforms also becomes the source of getting viral. There is another way of getting viral over night with the blink of an eye. Have you ever thought how famous you can become and will find your name on different platforms? Today I shall tell you the easiest way to become viral. Most of the brands and celebrities also utilize this strategy for fan following and publicity. Four trending followers selling websites There are many websites that sell followers, likes to their customers. These websites have multiple packages according to the customer demand. Among all those, there are four trending websites which provide the best real-quality followers. These websites will make your account viral overnight. These are Buy Instagram followers from four these trending websites •        Activeig.com •        Qubeviews.com •        Instadean.com •        Wbix.com Activeig.com This website is famous for its quality service and real Instagram followers. It provides an instant service after placing your order. They never wait their customers and do any negligence. The instant service of them will make your account trending and viral overnight. The quality service will not only boost your profile but also involve in making a high number of engagement on your post. It multiplies your visibility and makes your account recognizable very fast. Another important thing about this website is it is very cost effective. It provides packages according to the clients demand at a very reasonable price. The process of placing the according to the date it receives is very simple. The quality service of this website is available on multiple platforms. In the given table below the price of the packages with the number of followers are given below: Number of followers/Price of packages 100/$2.99 500/$7.99 1000/$11.99 2500/$29.99 5000/$39.99 Qubeviews.com The packages and striking features make this website trending and popular among people. The Qube views are user-friendly website which provides a quality service to their customers on multiple platforms such as YouTube, Instagram, spotify and sound cloud. The website offers a simple process which can be followed by anyone easily to place the order. All you have to do is to decide the amount of order that you want, that is, how many followers you want. Then select the package according to your demand. Enter the details and then wait for the result. The customer service support by this website is available 24/7 for their customers. The representatives are highly skillful and knowledgeable. The payment options offered by them are by various means such as visa cards, debits cards, credit cards, master cards, American express, Citi bank and chase capital one. This versatile mode of payment is the source of attraction for other customers. It makes the payment easy with a suitable price package and full-privacy mode for their clients. Number of followers/Price of packages 100/$2.99 500/$7.99 1000/$11.99 2500/$29.99 5000/$39.99 7500/$69.99 10000/$84.99 15000/$129.99 25000/$199.99 50000/$249.99 Instaden.com This is the hub of real-quality followers, likes and other similar services on various platforms. This platform is famous for not compromising quality and quantity. The instant delivery of the order and active customer service support for the clients makes it favorable and trending. The followers which this platform provides are involved in following your post, like it and engage with it for a long time. Their service satisfied their clients by providing such quality followers that last long on your account. The process of order is very simple and easy. One of the most attractive features which make this website trustworthy is a money-back guarantee within 30 days. Number of followers/Price of packages 500/$6.99 1000/$11.99 2500/$29.99 5000/$39.99 10000/$78.99 Wbix.com This website is user friendly as it provides very striking features to their clients. The services of this website are available on multiple platforms. This platform will take you to the top of social media. The one who buys the followers from them also becomes a partner in their business. Their business is spread over Europe, Asia, Russia and the Pacific region due to their focus on quality, quantity and loyal service. They provide a very reasonable package to their customers according to their need. The discount offer is also available on their site. So try to be up-to-date to date to grab the golden opportunity of the discount. Number of followers/Price of the packages 1000/6.99 5000/$24.99 50000/$209.99 100000/$374.99 1000000/$2799  Points to be consider while selecting website When you are going to select any website for buying the followers, you must consider the following points in your mind: •        The website must be secure with SSL certification and a valid payment option •        The reviews and testimonials are a good source for evaluating the quality of the website and their services. Significance of high fan following on Instagram The increase in the number of fans following on Instagram not only gives you fame and makes your account viral, but also other financial benefits as well. When you have increased followers, your account becomes recognizable. You become to appear everywhere on this platform. In this way, new people on Instagram want to share your account. Mostly, those people who want publicity for their products will contact you. They will pay you for sharing your platform for their personal use. In this way, getting viral has multiple benefits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 240 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 240 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, TCS and Reliance Industries amid a firm trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 241.95 points or 0.46 per cent higher at 52,628.14 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 81.65 points or 0.52 per cent to 15,771.45.  ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, climbing nearly 2 per cent, followed by Maruti Suzuki, SBI, UltraTech Cement, IndusInd Bank and Tata Steel.  TCS and Reliance Industries rose up to 0.56 per cent in early trade.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra and Hindustan Unilever were the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 182.75 points or 0.35 per cent lower at 52,386.19. The NSE Nifty dropped 38.10 points or 0.24 per cent to close at 15,689.80.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,124.65 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.19 per cent to USD 75.41 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Andrew Yule to shut down electrical division||Century-old Andrew Yule is bringing the curtains down on its city-based electrical division rendering close to 600 workers jobless in one more instance of central public sector organisations under the Narendra Modi-government paring their presence in Bengal. The process of winding up the division’s two units, both located in the Khidderpore area, is likely to be completed by September and employees offered voluntary retirement or separation schemes. An internal committee of the board has approved the closure of the units by meeting the expenses of the separation scheme from internal resources. The panel had submitted its recommendations to the board and the concerned central ministry more than a month ago, on June 2. The electrical division in Calcutta manufactures switchgears, transformers and unitised sub-stations among other items. The division had become unviable in the absence of investments to upgrade its technology even as it failed to match up to the stiff competition in the market. Last month, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote a letter to Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan in which he listed the number of central PSUs which are either scaling back operations in Bengal or in the process of relocating out of the state in the wake of a decision by Steel Authority of India to dismantle the raw material division based in Calcutta. SAIL went ahead with the decision amid protests but none of the RMD employees got the sack. The closure of the Yule division was not publicly known then and understandably was not mentioned in the letter. Sanjoy Bhattacharya, who took charge as the chairman and managing director of Andrew Yule less than a year ago, did not respond in spite of repeated attempts. However, the latest annual report of the company published in November 2020 did lay bare the PSU’s outlook on the electrical division which was referred to as the “bleeding organ”. The Calcutta operation of the company has been incurring continuous losses for many years as the products  lost their viability because of the changed demand and technology scenario, Andrew Yule observed in its annual report of 2019-20. The average loss of the unit was almost touching Rs 20 crore per year, including  Rs 16 crore incurred for employee benefits. The management felt the unit can at best clock a turnover of Rs 40-42 crore, subject to the availability of necessary working capital, way short of a turnover of around Rs 120 crore needed to make the unit viable. The report concluded that such a scenario “is no way possible due to the aforesaid non-viability of the product”. “As such, this unit has become a continuous bleeding organ for AYCL, which is pulling down the overall profitability and liquidity of the company,” the board’s report to the shareholders noted. The electrical division in Calcutta posted a turnover of Rs 22.20 crore in the financial year 2020-21 and a pre tax loss of Rs 10.97 crore. In the previous fiscal, it recorded a pre-tax loss of Rs 19.34 crore over a turnover of Rs 20.67 crore. Workers deployed at the division have disagreed with the management view that the unit could not be turned around. “There is a good market for the products that are being made in these units under the electrical division. But the management is not serious in pursuing the business or modernise the plants," said Khokan Majumdar, president of the Citu unions at the two units of the electrical division in Calcutta. The unions plan to submit a memorandum to the management voicing their concern this week. Glorious past Set up by Scottish entrepreneur Andrew Yule in 1865 as a managing agency in Calcutta, the then second most important city in the British empire after London and the capital of India, the group reached its zenith of prosperity at the time of the country’s Independence when it had 57 companies under management, employing 86,000 people. On a turnover of Rs 23 crore in 1947, it paid a tax of Rs 1.8 crore which accounted for one-sixth of the then government’s current revenue, the Andrew Yule website claimed. After the abolition of the managing agency system in 1969, the fortunes of Andrew Yule ebbed and it subsequently became a public sector unit in 1979. Several companies were nationalised and merged with Andrew Yule over the course of the next decade by acts of Parliament. One of the units of the electrical division came under the Yule fold in this manner too. The undertaking of Brentford Electric (India) Ltd, was nationalised vide Brentford Electric (India) Ltd Act, 1987 with effect from 1st April, 1986 and all the rights, titles and interest in relation to the said undertaking was vested with the company through a gazette notification dated 14th November, 1987. The Modi government subsequently repealed the Act in 2017. The decision to wind up the division comes at a time the Centre brought the ministry of heavy industry, the administrative ministry of AYCL, under the finance department. Many of the companies are based out of Bengal and sick and are said to be potential divestment candidates. Andrew Yule posted a net profit of Rs 21.19 crore on an income from operation of Rs 328.38 crore in the last fiscal compared with a loss of Rs 21.25 crore on an income of Rs 297.07 crore in 2019-20. On a consolidated basis, it made a profit of Rs 35.15 core in the last fiscal. While the engineering division based in Kalyani, Bengal and the electrical division at Chennai also made losses, the profit from the tea division covered them up fully. The company has 15 gardens in Darjeeling, Dooars and Assam, capable of producing 15 million kg a year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Swift recovery expected due to limited impact of lockdown on economy: CII survey||India’s economy is expected to see a swift recovery from the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 as lockdowns were largely designed to limit social gatherings and did not affect economic activities much, a CII survey said. About 60 per cent of the CEOs participating in the survey expect that the recovery in sales of their companies would be better than that in the first wave of the pandemic. “A CII CEO poll of 119 top corporates indicate swifter economic recovery from the impact of the second wave. The deadly second wave has not affected much of the economic activities as lockdowns were largely designed to limit social gathering and this has helped limit the impact of the second wave on economic growth when compared to the first wave,” CII director-general Chandrajit Banerjee said. The survey added that vaccination holds the key to mitigating the impact of the second wave on economic activity and boosting consumer sentiment. Over 60 per cent of the corporate leaders confirmed that their firms were compelled to scale back operations during the second wave, it added. About 81 per cent of the respondents expected that the second wave in India would not have an adverse impact on the exports for their sectors in the first half of the current year over the comparable period of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
12-07-2021||Business||Twitter appoints resident grievance officer, publishes first compliance report under IT rules||Amid tensions with the government, Twitter has appointed a resident grievance officer, days after it designated a chief compliance officer, as it also released its first India Transparency Report to meet the new IT rules. The US social media giant’s website has listed Vinay Prakash as the new grievance officer, providing contact details and procedure for users to report potential violations of its rules and terms. Twitter had previously appointed Dharmendra Chatur as its interim grievance officer for India after the new IT rules came into force on May 26. However, Chatur stepped down within weeks of taking over the key role. California-based Jeremy Kessel was named as India’s grievance redressal officer, on the platform’s website — although the appointment did not meet the requirements of IT rules that clearly mandate that the key officers — grievance officer, chief compliance officer and nodal officer — to be residents of India. Twitter’s website on Sunday showed Vinay Prakash as the resident grievance officer. “Twitter can be contacted in India at the following address: 4th Floor, The Estate, 121 Dickenson Road, Bangalore 560 042,” the page further said. Prakash’s name appears along with Kessel, who is the global legal policy director, and is based in the US. Twitter did not share additional details of the new resident grievance officer. Compliance report Twitter has also published its maiden compliance report. In its India Transparency Report: User Grievances and Proactive Monitoring July 2021 report, Twitter said it had received 94 grievances and “actioned” 133 URLs between May 26 and June 25, 2021. Twitter said the complaints received during the period included defamation (20), abuse/harassment (6), sensitive adult content (4), impersonation and privacy infringement (3 each), IP-related infringement (1), and misinformation and manipulated media (1).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Luxury car makers witness surge in sales in first half of 2021||Luxury car makers have witnessed an uptick in sales in the first half of 2021. Mercedes-Benz India sold 4,857 units in the January-June period, up 65 per cent over the same period last year when it sold 2,948 units. Swedish luxury car maker Volvo clocked sales of 713 units, a 52 per cent growth over 469 cars sold in the year-ago period. “The June 2021 retail in particular signifies first signs of a strong recovery in customer sentiments influenced by factors such as a new product portfolio and gradual unlocking of markets leading to an uptick in economic activities,” said a Mercedes-Benz India spokesperson. However, the company did not reveal the monthly figures. The company is seeing a strong demand for top-end cars such as GLS Maybach 600, the new S-Class along with the AMGs. However, the biggest seller is the LWB E-Class followed by the GLE luxury SUV. Volvo’s dynamic mid-sized luxury SUV XC60 was the highest selling model in the first half of 2021. Jyoti Malhotra, managing director of Volvo Car India, said, “A 52 per cent growth in the high-end luxury mobility segment during a highly depressed consumer sentiment phase and major Covid-related restrictions in the marketplace shows the confidence that the Indian consumer has in brand Volvo. Despite the uncertain conditions, it has been a good first half for the company, giving us a strong base as we move forward in the year and bring new products to our consumers.” Audi and BMW do not reveal quarterly or half-yearly sales.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Think long-term and stash up on mutual funds, says financial experts||Investors who feel they missed the bus because they failed to shovel their money into stocks and mutual funds last year need to stop wringing their hands over a missed opportunity. There is still a lot of room left on the upside. That is the verdict of financial experts such as Deepak Jain, Head of Sales at Edelweiss Asset Management Company (AMC), and Shibu Das, director of Fine Advice Pvt Ltd, who specialises in helping investors negotiate the risky shoals of investment. “In April last year, the Sensex sank from the highs of 50000 to almost 27000 — an almost 44-45 per cent fall... But in the collective view of the market, April 2020 was the worst phase,” says Jain. The market reckoned that everything from here on could only get better. “And that’s pretty much how it has all played,” the Edelweiss honcho said at a recent webinar held under the auspices of ABP Virtual Insight. Jain believes there are several reasons why the market has run ahead of a still-stuttering economy, anticipating gains as companies start to recover from a dire, once-in-a-century kind of crisis brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic. Firstly, investors should never look at cash flows in a business — the fundamental basis that underpins equity valuations — from a one-year perspective. “Businesses are in here for perpetuity. You would like to evaluate the cash flows of a business over a 10-, 20- or a 25-year period,” says Jain. If you take the longer perspective, a crisis recedes into a mild kerfuffle. The markets bounced back within a year after the global financial meltdown in 2008; it’s happened this time as well. “The market bet positively on the future and it has really worked well for people who invested (during the downturn),” adds Jain. Jain adduces another reason why investors ought to take the longer view. Central banks around the world have slashed interest rates — and liquidity is sloshing around in every conceivable market. “When you value any business, interest rates are very important,” he adds. “So, from a higher level of 6-8 per cent on a 10-year basis, the rates have tumbled. The overnight fund rate is way below 4 per cent —and that means there is a lot of cheap money available.” Shibu Das amplifies on how falling interest rates have badly crimped returns in competing asset classes — bank fixed deposits for instance — triggering a shift towards mutual funds. “People are looking at various options to de-risk their portfolio. Earlier, investors in India were only looking at fixed-return instruments like bank deposits, and the safer schemes in the mutual fund industry. Slowly, the retail investors started investing in equity funds. Now, they want a portfolio that includes a global fund,” he says. Jain tosses in a data point that buttresses this shift towards mutual funds. “We now have more than 5.5 crore demat account holders in India. Compared with May 2020, the registrations have grown four times,” he says. “Equity markets were also bolstered by the so-called TINA (there is no alternative) factor of lower interest rates,” Jain believes. Das says the shift towards mutual funds all boils down to practical considerations. “Fixed deposit rates have come down to around 5 per cent. Throw in the 30 per cent tax element (levied in the highest bracket) and your return automatically falls to 3.5 per cent. Inflation is around 7-8 per cent. So, people know that putting money in a bank — which is supposed to be safe — is actually not safe,” he says. People need to stay invested in  mutual fund for the long term. People who invested in mutual fund schemes 25 years ago have seen the net asset value of the Rs 10 unit balloon to Rs 1,700 “which is a 170 times growth in 25 years that translates into a 20 plus CAGR (compound annual growth rate),” Das claims. “Even if you don’t see that kind of return (in future), who stops us from expecting a return of 12 per cent CAGR over the next 20 years? That is possible,” asserts Das, arguing that taxation queers the pitch even further. “The simple trade-off is between a bank fixed deposit that offers a 5 per cent return and is taxable at 30 per cent against a mutual fund that could give you a 12 per cent return with a 10 per cent long-term capital gains tax.” “The arbitrage between these two instruments is so high that it has led to a natural shift from bank deposits towards mutual funds. It is happening — slowly but it is happening,” Das adds. The pandemic has made investors — who have cut back sharply on discretionary spending and parcelled out their resultant savings between banks deposits, small savings schemes and mutual funds — only too keenly aware of the need for an emergency fund to tide over the hard times brought on by a crisis. “The great learning in this pandemic is that we need to plan for an unforeseen event... maybe not for three months but a little longer...perhaps 15 to 18 months,” adds Das. Both experts believe that investors should exercise discipline in financial planning — and resist the overpowering urge to dump their investments at the first sign of trouble. The webinar, which is posted on Facebook, weighs in on a variety of investment and has already racked up over 1 lakh views. If you haven’t caught it yet, you can watch it at: https://www.facebook.com/ABP-Virtual-Insights-with-Edelweiss-MF-108414431470574||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Be dynamic while making investment plans||Stock markets globally and in India have been supported by liquidity unleashed by the global central banks. As a result, Indian and global equity markets are steadily marching to new highs and are trading at steep valuations. Liquidity support coupled with near-zero cost of capital in most parts of the world have played a big role in ensuring that equity markets remain resilient. The Indian business cycle is attractive given that corporate houses have deleveraged, credit growth is very low, the capex cycle is yet to revive and the profit-to-GDP ratio too is low. Economic recovery seems to have been delayed because of the second wave of the pandemic, but we believe the recovery is well on track given the fairly resilient domestic economic indicators, favourable macro environment, government policies and supportive RBI measures. On the other hand, US corporate profit-to-GDP ratio is high and the country has pursued extremely aggressive fiscal and monetary policies. So, the risk of a global business cycle contraction exists but the Indian business cycle is in its initial stages. After the 2018 market fall, the market rally was concentrated and led by growth stocks. However, after October 2020, we have seen a broader based rally and going forward we expect this rally to continue as the economy further opens up. From a macro perspective, inflation should not be seen as a major risk. We believe going forward inflation is likely to be stable. Historically, it has been observed that when inflation is at manageable levels, it gives a boost to economic activity. During such times, businesses are able to sell goods at a faster pace and the recent uptick in real estate sales is a case in point. In terms of sectors, we are optimistic about select private sector banks, power, telecom, metals and software. The IT sector has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the work from home culture during the pandemic. As a result, the sector has gone through substantial valuation re-rating. Commodity companies are another pocket we are positive about as this space has witnessed significant under-investment over the past several years. Supply may not be able to catch up with demand, thus driving metal prices higher. This thesis on the metal played out very well in FY2020-21 and this trend is likely to continue in the near term. More caution than last year Investing at an all-time high requires much more caution than what was required while investing in March 2020, a time when the market was steadily correcting. When considering the previous all-time highs of the market seen during 1999, 2007 and 2017, the common feature is that investors fail to practice asset allocation, which means investing across debt, equity and other asset classes. An investor today can opt for balanced advantage or dynamically managed asset allocation schemes to achieve this objective. In such a fund, the corpus is deployed across equity and debt asset classes based on their relative attractiveness. While equity provides the growth element, the debt allocation cushions the impact of high volatility in equities. Given the active management of asset allocation, such a scheme can be a part of one’s core portfolio. The other mistake that investors make is to go for stocks where sizeable gains are being made. In 1999, the investor favourite theme was TMT —technology, media and telecom stocks, while in 2007, it was infrastructure and in 2017, it was smallcap. This challenge can be addressed by investing across a diverse set of stocks through mutual fund categories such as the flexicap. Here, the fund manager has the flexibility to invest across large, mid and small cap names. This approach will help mitigate the risks associated with investing in a narrow set of stocks. For those opting to invest in an equity oriented scheme can consider investing from a long-term perspective through the SIP route. Risk factors to watch out for The US Fed rate hike is likely to be the biggest risks for the domestic market over the next two years. While Fed chairman Jerome Powell lowered rate hike concerns, he acknowledged that the Fed was considering tapering its bond-buying $120 billion a month programme, which includes $80 billion in treasury securities and $40 billion in mortgage-backed debt. This development has the potential to derail the global and US markets. As we live in a world which is much more intertwined than earlier, a global development of this magnitude is sure to impact domestic market as well. Needless to say, this could keep volatility at elevated levels as and when it plays out. Another source of uncertainty for the market is the evolving pandemic situation in the light of new Delta variant. The writer is ED and CIO, ICICI Prudential AMC||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Buybacks of employee stock option plans finds favour||Buybacks of employee stock option plans (Esop) remain in vogue in 2021 as start-ups find in it the twin benefit of rewarding employees during the Covid pandemic and prevent equity dilution. Esop is an employee benefit plan that allows companies to offer ownership interest in the organisation. Under Esop buybacks, employers can repurchase the vested shares of the employees. While start-ups often reward their employees with Esops to retain talent and incentivise them, buyback of Esops is a relatively newer trend that was kicked off in 2018 by e-commerce major Flipkart. Since then, more than 20 start-ups have gone for Esop buybacks, with some announcing multiple rounds as well. According to industry estimates, employees were rewarded over Rs 500 crore through Esop buyback in 2020, a year marked by the Covid pandemic and economic slowdown. The trend has continued in 2021 with Cred, Razorpay, Cashify, Zetwork, Wakefit.co and Whatfix among the firms that have reportedly gone for such buybacks. “Esop buybacks can be used to remunerate employees for their contribution in building the company. Even early employees can get an exit so that they are able to create wealth. For the employers, this creates a pool of available Esops, without diluting equity,” said Archit Gupta, founder and CEO, ClearTax. “Start-ups go for Esop buyback under specific conditions, like when they want to secure a huge chunk of share for future negotiations, or if the founders want to replenish their Esop pool and they do not want to dilute the start-up any further. It really depends on the situation and the strategy of the start-up to grow further,” said Fahim Alam, CEO at The Better Co. Companies, however, have to pay a 20 per cent tax on distributed income on buyback of its shares under section 115QA of the Income Tax Act. However, any income arising for shareholders on account of share buybacks is excluded from total income, according to subsection 34A of Section 10 of the Tax Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
12-07-2021||Business||Multinational companies tax shift unlikely until 2022, says US treasury secretary Janet Yellen||US treasury secretary Janet Yellen on Sunday said that a newly endorsed mechanism to allow more countries to tax large, highly profitable multinational companies may not be ready for consideration by lawmakers until spring 2022. Yellen told a news conference after a G20 finance leaders meeting in Venice, Italy, that the OECD reallocation of taxing rights was on a “slightly slower track” than a global corporate tax of at least 15 per cent as part of a tax deal among 132 countries. G20 finance ministers and central bank governors endorsed the deal over the weekend, but questions remain over the ability of US President Joe Biden’s administration to persuade a deeply divided Congress to ratify the changes. Yellen’s comments suggest a two-step process for implementing the OECD tax deal, with the global minimum tax moving first. She said she hoped to include provisions to implement the so-called “Pillar 2” minimum tax into a budget “reconciliation” bill this year that Congress could approve with a simple majority, potentially without Republican support. The “Pillar 1” portion of the agreement would end unilateral taxes on digital services in exchange for a new mechanism that would allow large profitable companies to be taxed in part by countries where they sell products and services, rather than just those hosting their headquarters or intellectual property. “Pillar 1 will be on a slightly slower track. We’ll work with Congress,” Yellen said, when asked whether a two-thirds majority would be needed in the US Senate, which is normally the requirement for international treaties. “It may be in ready in the spring of 2022 and we’ll try to determine at that point what’s necessary for its implementation,” Yellen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-145
