13-07-2021||Business||Boeing will cut 787 production after identifying new structural defect ||Boeing Co said on Tuesday it will cut its 787 production rate as it works through a new structural defect in its troubled twin-aisle airliner program in another obstacle to recovery from the coronavirus pandemic's impact. The company now forecasts delivering fewer than half of the lingering 100 or so 787s in its inventory this year - instead of the“vast majority” it had expected - as it continues forensic inspections and costly repairs to address quality flaws in the aircraft. Boeing did not disclose a new production rate for the 787 program, but said it would shift temporarily below the already-slow current rate of five jets per month. ”To us this is more significant than the cut to the delivery forecast, as it ripples down through the supply chain,” Vertical Research Partners analyst Robert Stallard said in a client note. ”The supply chain cannot just be turned on and off like a switch,” Stallard added. Boeing shares were down 3.7% in midday trading. For the year so far, the company has delivered 156 jets of all types, compared with 157 for all of 2020, Boeing said. The latest production-related flaw, first reported by Reuters on Monday, involved unacceptable gaps around the forward pressure bulkhead, the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration said. The FAA said late on Monday that Boeing, which spotted the problem, would fix it before the planes are delivered. The US planemaker's 737 MAX and 787 have been afflicted by electrical defects and other issues since late last year. Boeing halted deliveries of the jet in May, the second pause after it initially stopped handing over the jet in late 2020. ”We will continue to take the necessary time to ensure Boeing airplanes meet the highest quality prior to delivery,” Boeing said, adding that the new issue poses no immediate threat to flight safety. The FAA said it will review data to“determine whether similar modifications should be made on 787s already in commercial service.” In June, Boeing booked 146 jet orders. That net figure takes into account instances in which the buyer converted an order to another model or canceled it entirely, including 71 737 MAX jets, the company said. Its backlog increased from 4,121 to 4,166 aircraft, Boeing said. Boeing handed over 45 planes to customers in June, its highest monthly total since March 2019, when the second of two fatal 737 MAX crashes occurred. Its June delivery tally includes 10 widebody aircraft, one of which was a 787-9 for Turkish Airlines, Boeing said. It also delivered 35 737s, including 33 737 MAXs and two P-8 maritime patrol aircraft to the U.S. Navy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
13-07-2021||Business||Ryan Zimmerman Reveals The Unique Approach That Makes Arzee Stand Out From The Crowd||Ryan Zimmerman is the founder and CEO of Arzee and Buckleband. Founded in 2016, Arzee is an apparel manufacturer that works with national brands, high-end designers, as well as smaller startups. Buckleband launched more recently, in March 2021, and is the first premium resistance band with a buckle, designed for both the advanced athlete and the occasional exerciser, and even highly suitable for those in physical therapy or with mobility concerns. As a man with two companies under his belt, Zimmerman had to find a way to stand out from the competitors. Arzee is known for its top-notch quality, but that is not enough. "There are many premium players in the market, so offering quality products is not something that will make you stand out from the competition. Now, that has become an imperative for success," Zimmerman says. However, he was able to figure out a few strategies that helped his brands stand out from all the rest. 1.    Connect With Your Customers What makes Arzee stand out from other apparel manufacturers is its unique approach and dedication to each customer. "The majority of other companies don't bother to connect with their customers. They have an intake meeting, followed by design meetings, and then they don't communicate until the customer gets the final product," Zimmerman says. "Arzee uses a different approach. If you're working with us, we're always working with you. Even if that includes countless phone calls and numerous reviews, or just an opinion on a color or a shape, we're there for you, and you won't find this type of personal touch anywhere else." 2.    Consistent Branding Zimmerman believes that high-quality, consistent branding is essential for every company that wants to stand out from the crowd. "Your brand should have a memorable logo, slogan, company colors, and you need to use the same branding on all of your channels—website, social media, as well as ads. It is also beneficial if your branding appeals to multiple audiences," Zimmerman says. 3.    Make the Most of Social Media "If you have a company and you're not on social media, you have to change that immediately," Zimmerman says. "Social media is the best and most affordable way to reach your target audience, advertise your product, promote your brand, and boost your sales." Arzee is an excellent example of how all businesses supplied can benefit from having a social media presence regardless of what they do. Even if they are an apparel manufacturer, Arzee posts content that their target audience finds attractive, such as the latest products or behind-the-scenes videos of how everything is made. Zimmerman's last but most fundamental piece of advice for all business owners is to never be afraid to ask for help. "No one sitting at the head of a company, a successful entrepreneur, any titan of industry, ever got to the place they are alone,” Zimmerman says. “They had mentors, friends, or acquaintances in similar positions. When you don't know something, ask. Don't be afraid to reach out to those that have been down the path before you."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
13-07-2021||Business||Robin Janssens on innovation, passion, success and more||Most people want to start and grow a business, but only a few understand what it takes. In building any business, it is essential to have a good network with other key players in the industry, from the supplier to its target audience. Robin Janssens, one of the leading entrepreneurs best known for creating modern and innovative ecosystems, stresses why it’s crucial to leverage the business ecosystem. From a young age, Robin was passionate and determined to become an entrepreneur, and after his studies, he felt he would not be as good working under someone as opposed to working for himself. Together with his partner Hamza, they have over 100 employees and have scaled more than 10 companies to millions. He is a successful entrepreneur in different industries, including a marketing agency and an accounting agency. According to Robin Janssens, ecosystems diversify the business by improving innovation; together with his team, he has created a one-of-a-kind methodology that any business can use. He says in order to come up with a perfect ecosystem, one should ensure it fits well with your goal and vision as a company. His ecosystem has so far helped grow hundreds of businesses. By creating an ecosystem, you facilitate collaboration and also a learning process. When you get to collaborate with other organizations, it’s a way of growing your business since clients of the other organizations will get to know your business. Robin says the ecosystem is one of the fastest ways to grow a business because even as you collaborate with other sectors, you get to learn a thing or two and expand on your capabilities. When you partner with dominant parties in the industry, it gives you an edge over your competitors, which is why, according to Robin, before entering an industry, you should be well conversant with the market and know your competitors and dominant players. Coming up with a product that will complement the chief player links you to their customer base, which will help grow your business. An ecosystem paints a better picture of the customer, enabling the businesses to get an understanding of his tastes and preferences. Since there’s that good relationship between companies, they work together to ensure customer satisfaction by understanding the customer better. Adhering to and leveraging existing ecosystems for the growth of your business is important. Plug into existing ecosystems as Robin Janssens recommends and grow in a space that is conducive for your business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
13-07-2021||Business||Vibhor Varshney Shares His Expertise in Stock Market||Most Indians treat money as a taboo topic and the ambition to earn more of being greedy. Hence, people do not often discuss Finance and Investment. However, as time is changing, many have started finding other sources to increase their revenue and one such medium is the Stock market. Stock Market, which was once considered evil and non-profitable, has gained recognition and popularity in recent years. Vibhor Varshney is a Stock Market expert and he teaches people how to invest in the right way. Vibhor Varshney, with his far-sightedness, astounds his students. Unlike others he believes in the power of making unexpected investment moves. He attained this understanding because of his expanded life as a stock marketer and a renowned research analyst. Vibhor is the creator and CEO of Vighnahara Investment Solutions, a one-stop destination for all your financial requirements. Vibhor Varshney's experience speaks volumes to his YouTube and Telegram audience. He is one of the youngest to acquire a SEBI licence. Many known organizations including NIFM, Spider India and others invited him to give guest lectures on the step-by-step method of investing and then nurturing those investments. However, all these achievements  did not happen overnight. Years of trial and error went into acquiring his diverse portfolio and ensuring that it would survive the test of time. Vibhor, a bright student from elementary school, has always taken the money and the importance of proper financing seriously. His MBA in finance and banking has solidified his business skills through mentoring people who have attested to his greatness. Vibhor Varshney is a well-known name in the financial market nowadays. His organization, Vighnahara Investing Solutions, is also making tremendous strides because of its practical and client-focused approach in managing investment challenges. These challenges include a thorough assessment of an individual's risk profile, investment potential and wealth ambitions. Vibhor Varshney wants to broaden and transform the financial paradigm of Indians. He uses various social media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, Telegram, and Twitter to change the investment mindset in India. He advises that copying others does not work in any field, especially Stock Market. He says that one should do his market research and analysis before investing. According to Vibhor, you can never be sure how your investment will turn out but you can decrease the risk of damage by doing proper research. Profit and loss are a part of stock market and if you want to make money, you must also learn to deal with losses. It is to say, only take chances that you can afford to lose. Vibhor says to Interviewer PR, “When you take your money seriously, a time will come when money will take you seriously.” Stock Market has the potential to be an added benefit in your daily life if used properly. People must stop running away from decisions that involve risks rather they should be careful of the degree of risk they are willing to take.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 397 points at 52,769.73||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 397 points on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid positive domestic as well as global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 397.04 points or 0.76 per cent higher at 52,769.73, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 119.75 points or 0.76 per cent to 15,812.35. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging nearly 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, NTPC and M&M. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Dr Reddy's, Maruti and Tech Mahindra were among the laggards. "Following favourable economic outcome and positive Asian markets, domestic bourses traded positive," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Though June CPI inflation continued to remain above RBI's tolerance level, it eased to 6.26 per cent from 6.30 per cent in the previous month giving some relief to the market, he said, adding that industrial production (IIP) for May grew 29.3 per cent YoY essentially due to a lower base. Asian shares sparked a rally after better-than-expected Chinese economic data and a bounce back in Chinese tech stocks, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading mixed in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.56 per cent to USD 75.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 228 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 52,600.69 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.50 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,762.10. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC, PowerGrid, M&M, Axis Bank, L&T and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, HCL Tech and HUL were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 13.50 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 52,372.69, while the Nifty inched 2.80 points or 0.02 per cent higher to 15,692.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 745.97 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, the domestic market looks to be good as of now. "IIP data for May witnessed strong over 29 per cent growth on base effects, while second wave impact made it to see 14 per cent contraction compared to May 2019. Hence, policy support is still much needed to spur economic activities in coming months, and we believe RBI will continue to maintain its accommodative policy in the medium term," he said. Additionally, investors were upbeat as US equities recovered from earlier losses and all three key indices ended with record highs as expectations of robust June quarter earnings lifted sentiments. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.23 per cent to USD 75.33 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||SC dismisses Birla petition against Harsh Vardhan Lodha||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to take up a special leave petition filed by Birla family members challenging a division bench order of the Calcutta High Court that had paved the way for Harsh Vardhan Lodha to continue at the helm of MP Birla Group. The apex court also set a deadline for Calcutta High Court to dispose of all outstanding appeals and cross appeals over Lodha holding office as a director in the MP Birla Group of companies by March 31, 2022. “Having heard the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the contesting parties, we are not inclined to entertain the Special Leave Petition at the present stage, particularly because the main appeals are pending before Calcutta High Court,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and Justice Hrishikesh Roy said in the order. “However, we request the HC to take up the appeals for expeditious disposal and conclude the proceedings by March 31, 2022,” the order read. The Lodha camp claimed that with Monday’s order, the Supreme Court had put its stamp of approval on Lodha’s continuation as a director. “Monday’s Supreme Court verdict demolishes the charges of contempt of court brought against Lodha for not stepping down as the chairman. The verdict vindicates our faith in the judiciary as we continue to neutralise repeated attempts to disrupt the functioning of MP Birla Group of companies,” a statement from Lodha’s counsel Fox & Mandal said. However, the Birla family termed the order as a “win-win”. “It is a win-win situation for both parties as the Birlas would derive the benefit from the early conclusive disposal of the pending appeals and Lodha would derive the benefit of continuing to be in control of the manufacturing companies till disposal of the said appeals,” a statement from the Birlas noted. The appeals and cross-appeals emanated from a single-bench order of the HC on September 18 which had ordered Lodha to step down as the director of MP Birla firms such as Birla Corporation, Birla Cable, Universal Cables and Vindhya Telelinks. On October 1, a division bench of Calcutta High Court comprising the then chief justice T.B. Radhakrishnan declined to stay the order of Justice Shahidullah Munshi but added that the restriction on Lodha would be “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of PDB (Priyamvada Devi Birla)”. Lodha claimed victory on the basis of the order and continued to attend board meetings prompting the Birla family to file contempt petitions. The same HC bench on April 22 dismissed the petition, observing that Lodha could continue to hold office on the strength of the votes of public shareholders in exclusion to the votes of the APL Committee and the promoter and promoter groups and persons acting in concert. The Birlas moved SC to challenge the HC order on the ground that Lodha could not possibly be on the board on the strength of public shareholders. The Birlas were represented by a battery of lawyers such as Kapil Sibal, P. Chidambaram, Janak Dwarkadas and K.V. Vishwanathan. Lodha was represented by Darius Khambata, Shyam Diwan and Abhrajit Mitra among others. During the argument, Khambata said Lodha remained chairman of all MP Birla Group companies and chaired all board meetings even in the face of contempt petitions filed against him because he was reappointed in all with a vast majority of at least 97.98 per cent of the votes cast in his favour. The two sides have been sparring ever since late Priyamvada bequeathed her estate to late Rajendra Lodha, father of Harsh Lodha, in 2004. Fresh escalation in the legal battle began in 2019 when the committee of administrator pendente lite appointed to oversee the estate of Priyamvada started taking decisions based on majority. The committee had instructed promoter group firms to vote against the appointment of Lodha in the manufacturing firms during their AGMs. A Birla family member approached the high court seeking to enforce the decisions of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel records speed of over 1 Gigabit per second during 5G field trial ||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel recorded a speed of over 1 Gigabit per second during a 5G field trial in Mumbai using Finnish firm Nokia’s network gear, according to sources. The company is running a live 5G trial in Mumbai’s Phoenix Mall in Lower Parel. A Nokia spokesperson confirmed the development. “Airtel is conducting the trial in the 3,500MHz band using 5G gear from Nokia under DoT guidelines. The trials have delivered speeds of over 1 Gbps with ultra-low latency,” one of the sources said. 1 Gbps is 1,000 Mbps (Megabits per second). The department of telecom (DoT) had recently allotted 5G trial spectrum to Airtel in the 3,500MHz, 28GHz and 700MHz bands in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Calcutta and Bangalore to develop India-relevant use cases on the next generation fast wireless broadband technology. Earlier this year, Airtel became the first telecom operator to test 5G over a live network in Hyderabad using liberalised spectrum in 1800MHz band. “Airtel and Nokia plan to soon begin 5G trials in Calcutta,” the source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Rupee continues to feel  the heat of rising commodity prices||The rupee continues to feel the heat of rising commodity prices, particularly crude oil, and India’s widening trade deficit. The declining trend in the rupee prompted Standard Chartered and RBL Bank Ltd to forecast that the currency would depreciate to 76 per dollar by year-end. Deutsche Bank AG has a slightly less pessimistic projection of 75. On Monday, the Indian currency closed at 74.58, higher by 6 paise over its last close. On Friday, the rupee had settled at 74.64 against the dollar. The surge in crude oil, which leads to more demand for dollars, have heightened apprehensions over a further slide in the rupee. Though rising crude oil prices are a deterrent, they can be countered by foreign inflows and the sale of dollars by the RBI, which will provide support to the currency, analysts said. They said funds infusion such as the $3.6 billion pumped into Flipkart by marquee names such as Softbank and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board will prop up the dollar. On the portfolio front, the Zomato IPO is set to open for subscription on July 14. One97 Communications, the parent of digital payment firm Paytm, is also set to file its draft prospectus shortly. “The higher oil price is not sufficient to take the US dollar higher. The dollar rupee value is driven by capital flows be it portfolio flows or FDI. Over the short term, these flows have the biggest impact on the pair. Inflows are likely to remain robust and these would continue to support the rupee,’’ Anindya Banerjee, DVP, currency derivatives & interest rate derivatives at Kotak Securities, told The Telegraph. Banerjee feels the rupee is likely to move in a range of 74.20-75.00 over the near term. Moreover, India’s foreign exchange reserves now stand at a record high of $610 billion. This could provide another comfort to the rupee as the RBI could step in should the currency depreciate sharply. Meanwhile, oil prices fell on Monday as concerns about slowing global growth outweighed the prospect of tightening supply. Brent crude for September fell 45 cents, or 0.6 per cent, to $75.10 a barrel by 12:08 pm. US West Texas Intermediate crude for August was at $74.07 a barrel, down 49 cents, or 0.7 per cent. Both benchmarks fell about 1 per cent last week but remained close to highs not seen since October 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India raises prices of Swift and CNG variants of other models ||Maruti Suzuki India on Monday said it has raised the prices of its hatchback Swift and the CNG variants of other models by up to Rs 15,000. Sources said the price of Swift has been increased by Rs 15,000 (ex showroom Delhi), while the other models will be costlier by Rs 10,000. The company has informed the stock exchanges that it is planning to raise the prices of other models too and a formal intimation would be made accordingly. The hike in various input costs has prompted the price revision, Maruti said in a regulatory filing. The new prices will be effective from Monday. Before the hike, the Swift was available at a price range of Rs 5.73 lakh to Rs 8.27 lakh (ex showroom Delhi) across variants.Maruti Suzuki sells CNG variants of the Alto, Celerio, S-Presso, WagonR, Eeco and Ertiga with prices ranging from Rs 4.43 lakh to Rs 9.36 lakh. “Steel prices have gone up by 80 per cent compared with May last year and prices of precious metals such as rhodium and palladium have increased 250 per cent. So, the price increase could be substantial compared with the January and April price hikes,” Shashank Srivastava, executive director (sales and marketing), Maruti Suzuki India, told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Industrial output surges 29.3 per cent in May||Industrial output surged 29.3 per cent in May, backed by a low-base effect and good performance by manufacturing, mining and power, but remained below the pre-pandemic level. The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of the index of industrial production (IIP) — grew 34.5 per cent in May, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Mining sector output rose 23.3 per cent in May, while power generation increased 7.5 per cent. In May 2021, IIP stood at 116.6 points compared with 90.2 point in the same month last year. The index was at 135.4 points in May 2019. The data showed that industrial production has recovered but was still below the pre-pandemic level in May 2019. The IIP had contracted 33.4 per cent in May 2020. Madan Sabhavis, chief economist of Care Ratings, said: “The IIP growth at 29.3 per cent is lower than our forecast of 47.8 per cent. It has been driven by base effects and this will get diluted over a few months, especially in July. Within manufacturing only pharma has shown negative growth because of the high base effect. PMI-manufacturing does not bode well for IIP growth in June as it was below 50.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Retail inflation fell marginally to 6.26 per cent in June||Retail inflation fell marginally to 6.26 per cent in June but stayed above the RBI’s tolerance range for the second straight month because of soaring fuel prices and costlier items in the food basket. It was 6.3 per cent in May. Food inflation in June accelerated to 5.15 per cent from 5.01 per cent in May. Food inflation rose on the back of higher inflation in eggs (up to 19.4 per cent in June from 15.2 per cent in May) and  pulses (up to 10 per cent from 9.4 per cent) even as cereal prices fell by 1.9 per cent in June against a fall of 1.4 per cent in May. A marginal decline in retail inflation in June 2021 came from unexpected quarters — health (down to 7.7 per cent in June from 8.4 per cent in May), transport and communication (11.6 per cent from 12.4 per cent), recreation (5 per cent from 6.1 per cent) and personal care (4.8 per cent from 7.4 per cent). Inflation in the “fuel and light” category stayed high at 12.68 per cent during the month against 11.58 per cent in the previous month. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research, said: “Retail inflation is likely to remain in the 4.5-6.0 per cent range during the rest of FY22. Elevated commodity prices have and will continue to be a risk to inflation.” Madhavi Arora, lead economist, Emkay Global Financial Services, said: “We remain watchful of pass through of impending cost push pressures in core goods inflation, while the demand revival in select contact-sensitive household services could put pressure on core services inflation. “However, MPC may still choose to look through the spike in inflation in the near term, with the monetary reaction function currently hinging more on growth revival becoming sustainable.” “We expect inflation forecasts to be revised upwards in the next MPC review, amid a status quo in the rates and stance, albeit with an underlying tone of uneasiness in the commentary. The tussle between supporting the nascent, incomplete revival in growth and preserving the anchoring of inflationary expectations will continue. If inflation remains above 6 per cent in the next two prints (July-August), rate normalisation may be done earlier,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist of Icra. Darren Aw, Asia economist, Capital Economics, said: “Even if inflation remained elevated, the RBI would be under no immediate pressure to act: the headline rate would need to remain above 6 per cent for more than three successive quarters before the RBI would be deemed to have missed its target.... policy rates will be left on hold at the MPC meeting in August, and we don’t expect any hikes to materialise until late next year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Sebi in a spot over PNB Housing Finance||Is Sebi asking regulated entities not to  follow its own rules? This was one of the questions that came up on Monday as PNB Housing Finance concluded its argument against the market regulator’s direction that it should not proceed with the transaction with Carlyle till a valuation is done by an independent valuer. Last month, PNB Housing had filed an appeal with the Securities Appellate Tribunal. During Monday’s hearing, senior counsel for the company, Janak Dwarkadas, cited the Companies Act to conclude that listed firms should follow Sebi’s guidelines on pricing for preferential issues. He quoted section 62(1)(c) of the Companies Act read with the Companies (Share capital and Debenture Rules) to say that in the case of a preferential issue by a listed firm, the pricing shall not be required to be determined by a registered valuer. Dwarkadas went on to add that listed firms have to follow the pricing formula under the Sebi’s ICDR regulations. Sebi had in its June order asked PNB Housing Finance to put on hold the Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle saying it was ultra-vires of the articles of association (AoA) of the housing finance firm. It said the company should undertake valuation of shares as prescribed under 19(2) of its AOA, for purpose of preferential allotment. This was also questioned by Dwarkadas. According to a Bloomberg Quint report, the lead counsel said he did not understand how Sebi was asking the company to follow its AoA instead of complying with its regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-143
13-07-2021||Business||Shareholders' approval for Rs 16,600-crore Paytm public offer||Paytm on Monday received shareholders’ approval for its Rs 16,600-crore public offer, according to a source aware of the EGM decisions. “The shareholders have approved the proposal to raise capital and the fresh issue of shares of up to Rs 12,000 crore during the IPO at the extraordinary general meeting. The secondary raise will bring the total to Rs 16,600 crore,” the source said. An email query sent to Paytm did not elicit any reply. The shareholders approved a proposal permitting Paytm founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma to shake off the promoter tag. He will, however, continue as chairman, managing director and chief executive officer of the company. “According to Sebi rules, Paytm is a professionally managed company. No shareholder can have ‘special rights’. That is just how listed companies need to be in India,” the source said. Coal India had come up with the biggest IPO issue of around Rs 15,500 crore, which was listed in the last quarter of 2010. According to the source, the valuation of Paytm is likely to be in the range of Rs 1.78 lakh crore to Rs 2.2 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
13-07-2021||Business||Flipkart raises $3.6 billion (Rs 26,845 crore) in fresh funding round||Flipkart has raised $3.6 billion (Rs 26,845 crore) in a fresh funding round, valuing the e-tailer at $37.6 billion (Rs 2.81 lakh crore). The infusion saw the participation of Walmart and others, including SoftBank. The funding will give Flipkart more teeth to fight against JioMart and Amazon in the domestic market. The pandemic has seen more people buying online and this is one of the reasons that has prompted SoftBank to re-enter Flipkart. The Japanese conglomerate had invested in Flipkart in 2017 and then sold its stake a year later to Walmart. After this round, Flipkart is ranked among the top 10 global e-commerce companies in terms of market cap along with entities such as Amazon, Alibaba and Shopify. The funding round was led by financial investors GIC, Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPP Investments), SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and Walmart, along with investments from sovereign funds DisruptAD, Qatar Investment Authority and Khazanah Nasional Berhad. Marquee investors such as Tencent, Willoughby Capital, Antara Capital, Franklin Templeton and Tiger Global also participated. The details of the individual investments made by these entities were not disclosed, but it is learnt that CPP Investments brought in about $800 million, while SoftBank has invested around $500 million. “This (latest) investment by leading global investors reflects the promise of digital commerce in India and their belief in Flipkart’s capabilities to maximise this potential for all stakeholders. We will focus on accelerating growth for millions of small and medium Indian businesses, including kiranas,’’ Flipkart group CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
13-07-2021||Business||Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs approves Life Insurance Corporation IPO||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has given its in-principle approval to the initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation, with the listing of the shares expected by the end of this fiscal. Officials said the CCEA at its meeting last week cleared the proposal for the mega IPO. A group of ministers headed by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman would now decide on the amount of stake sale by the Centre and the timing of the issue. They said the government was preparing a timeline that envisages listing by March next year. At present, the government owns a 100 per cent stake in LIC. Once listed, it is likely to be one of the leading companies by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. The LIC is working on embedded value, internal efficiency and product restructuring. The actuarial advisers are likely to arrive at the embedded value of LIC by August-end. The Union budget had proposed 27 amendments to LIC Act, 1956 that was incorporated in Finance Act 2021 with the government gazette notifying the changes. This paved the way for the 65-year old corporation with over Rs 35 lakh crore assets to corporatise and list its shares on domestic stock exchanges. Officials said the bids from merchant bankers were likely to be called later in July and regulatory approvals received by November end. The Centre has picked SBI Capital Markets and Deloitte as the pre-IPO advisers. The Department of Public Asset Management (Dipam) in January had appointed actuarial firm Milliman Advisors LLP to assess the embedded value of LIC . The amendments to LIC Act include putting in place a board with independent directors in line with the listing obligations, increasing the authorised capital to Rs 25,000 crore divided into 2,500 crore shares of Rs 10 each. Amendments have also been done to ensure that Centre will hold at least a 75 per cent stake in LIC for the next five years after listing and at least 51 per cent after that period. Up to 10 per cent of the LIC IPO issue size would be reserved for policyholders. IDBI stake sale The government has extended the deadline for transaction and legal advisers to bid for managing the IDBI Bank strategic sale by nine days till July 22. The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) had on June 22 invited bids from merchant bankers and law firms for managing and giving legal advice for the sale process. The last date to put in bids was July 13. “The competent authority has decided to extend the bid submission date of the… tender by nine days. The last date of bid submission will now be July 22, 2021,” the Dipam said in a notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-144
