14-07-2021||Business||PNB moves court seeking restoration of assets of Nirav Modi's firms confiscated by ED||The Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Wednesday moved multiple applications before a special PMLA court here, seeking restoration of the assets of two firms owned by fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who is accused of duping the bank.  The bank submitted the applications before special judge V C Barde under the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).  The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had earlier confiscated assets worth over Rs 329.66 crore of Nirav Modi under the fugitive economic offenders law. The confisticated property includes assets of Firestar Diamond International Private Limited and Firestar International Limited, firms owned by Modi.  Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, both prime accused in the case, along with others are being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on money laundering charges for allegedly perpetrating an over USD 2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) bank fraud in connivance with bank officials and by issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) at the Brady House PNB branch in Mumbai.  The court has asked the ED to file its reply on July 28.  Nirav Modi (49) was declared a fugitive economic offender by the PMLA court in December 2019. Following that, the court had authorised the ED to confiscate the assets under the provisions of the Act. He is currently lodged in a UK jail after being arrested in London in March, 2019 and is currently fighting extradition to India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Zomato's $1.3 bn IPO fully subscribed on Day One||Giant food-delivery startup Zomato was fully subscribed by investors on the first day of its blockbuster $1.3-billion initial public offering, giving a big confidence boost to a string of other Indian unicorn start-ups waiting in the wings to list on Dalal Street. Investor enthusiasm for the the IPO of Zomato, which is backed by Chinese billionaire Jack Ma’s Ant Group, bodes well for the looming mega-IPO of unicorn fintech startup Paytm, analysts say. “Over a dozen companies are planning IPOs now, so this is only the start,” says Pranav Pai, founding partner of the VC firm 3one4 Capital. Zomato is the country’s first online food delivery company to go public in India’s blistering IPO market. The first-day sellout showed investors are willing to buy into Indian start-ups still haemorrhaging cash and what analysts called -- in Zomato’s case -- its pricey $9-billion valuation. Financial institutions and retail investors on Wednesday bid for 749 million shares of Zomato against the 719 million shares on offer, making the IPO 104 per cent oversubscribed. “On the back of Zomato's success, we should see some of the other IPOs also go through,” says Arun Natarajan, founder of Venture Intelligence and an advisor to financial institutions and corporate law firms. Zomato’s IPO to raise Rs 9,375 crore is the country’s biggest this year and the latest in a string of public listings planned by the country’s fast-multiplying unicorns -- startups that have a value of at least $1 billion. (According to Bloomberg, India is spawning unicorns at the rate of three a month). In fact, while many businesses hit rock-bottom during the devastating Covid-19 second wave, India added 11 new unicorns, bringing its total to 48. “A combination of rapid total addressable market expansion, increased consumer awareness and demand shifting to digital, and a bottom-up emergence of talented founders with domain expertise to craft meaningful solutions has resulted in India becoming the third-largest startup ecosystem after the US and China,” says Pai. Online companies have become increasingly popular with investors as the pandemic has shifted more consumers onto the Internet. “Over 2020 and 2021, record-setting amounts of global capital has also entered to capture this opportunity. With a dozen start-up IPOs planned over the next few quarters, this exit cycle will also lend more optimism and should support additional reinvestments back into the ecosystem,” says Pai. Analysts also say that the stretch between company launches and IPOs is getting shorter as India’s start-up ecosystem matures.  “The accumulation of larger amounts of dry powder in VC funds every year clearly demonstrates the many significant steps forward taken by the ecosystem. We expect Indian VC to become a mainstay asset class for allocators in India, as well as top-tier global allocators. Our estimates indicate that Indian start-ups should raise between $15 billion to $20 billion, on average, every year this decade,” says Pai. If all goes well and the shares sell at the top of the Rs 72-Rs 76 price range (the IPO closes on Friday), Zomato will be worth Rs 64,365 crore or $8.6 billion -- not bad for a company that lost Rs 812 crore in the last financial year. Those losses, though, were down by 65 per cent from the previous year. Zomato’s also flipped its performance on each order to earn an average of Rs 20.5 on every order in the last financial year from a loss of Rs 30.5 in the previous financial year, thanks to improved efficiency. Analysts have been keeping a close eye on the fate of Zomato’s listing with the expected IPO of digital payment startup Paytm that’s also backed by Ant Group that’s expected to seek to raise as much as $3 billion.  Shareholders include Japan’s SoftBank and Warren Buffet’s Berkshire Hathaway have reportedly approved a plan to sell Rs 120 billion. Another company Mobikwik has also issued the draft red herring prospectus for an IPO. Paytm which is also losing money, posting a consolidated loss of Rs 17 billion for the 2020-21 financial year. But the pandemic which has made many more consumers carry out their buying, banking and other transactions online has made Internet-based consumer companies a must-have in many investor portfolios. Still, though, “how Indian institutional investors take to the IPOs of Zomato and Paytm, given their massive losses alongside hyper-growth, will be interesting to see and probably crucial for other B2C (business-to-customer) online services companies lining up for domestic IPOs, says Natarajan. The Indian public markets have seen successful listings of pure-play Internet and mobile companies like Info Edge, Matrimony, JustDial and IndiaMART, but these were mature ventures from the 2000 era and had a track record of profitability, points out Natarajan.  Still, Zomato co-founder Gaurav Gupta is brimming with confidence about the company’s prospects: “There’s a large opportunity to build out,” Gupta told ET Now. “If Zomato was a movie, you have only watched the trailer, the movie hasn’t even started” he said. The pandemic has given 13-year-old Zomato’s operations a big boost with Indians stuck at home and now, even with Covid curbs easing, hesitant to eat out. Zomato delivered some Rs 40 crore worth of meals last year. Still, Zomato recognises the pandemic “bump” may not last forever, warning in its prospectus “the accelerated growth of our business stemming from the effects of the Covid-19-pandemic may not continue in the future. And there’s growing competition. Amazon is going for growth in its delivery food activities and Zomato’s battling rival Swiggy for customers. Swiggy is reportedly in advanced stages of talks with SoftBank for an investment of up to $450 million into food delivery startup, which will peg its valuation at $5 billion. But even with strong competition, on the bright side, analysts believes that the Indian food delivery market is still vastly underpenetrated (it comprises just 6-8 per cent of the overall food services market). The Indian online food delivery industry is projected to grow at a staggering compound annual growth rate of 28.84 per cent to $21.41 billion by 2026, according to one estimate. Zomato fattened itself before the pandemic by acquiring Uber Eats India (Uber now holds a close to 10 per cent stake in Zomato as a result). It’s already been a blockbuster year -- in fact the busiest in 12 years -- for IPO listings on Indian exchanges with $5.6 billion raised so far from investors in the red-hot Indian share market that has defied gravity throughout the pandemic. Analysts project that the total capital raised this year from IPOs could be close to $10 billion. And for investors in IPOs this year, they’re smiling all the way to the bank with their shares up by an average of 62 per cent, according to Bloomberg. Still, analysts are wary of what they call the “punchy valuations” of Zomato while it still has to earn a profit. Brokerage KR Choksey says it’s not at ease with what it calls Zomato’s “sky-high valuation.” Other analysts say Zomato is a “longterm growth story” and is best for investors with “long-term investment horizons. Zomato was valued at $5.4 billion after its last fundraising round in February 2021 from marquee investors that also include Tiger Global Management and Glade Brook Capital Partners. RPG Group chairman Harsh Goenka has been even more outspoken on Zomato’s valuation. “Can anyone explain to me - Two top hotels including global Indian brands - total market cap Rs 44,0000 crore. Top 6 QSR chains serving millions of customers - total market cap - 60,000 crores; Zomato - continuing huge losses. Hold my vadapav! Market cap - 60,000 crores???” he tweeted. It’s definitely a case of “watch this space.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank bars Mastercard from adding new clients from July 22||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday barred Mastercard Asia Pacific from onboarding new credit, debit and prepaid card customers with effect from July 22 as it failed to comply with data storage norms. The supervisory action will not impact existing customers of Mastercard, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said. Taking action against Mastercard, RBI said, "notwithstanding lapse of considerable time and adequate opportunities being given, the entity has been found to be non-compliant with the directions on Storage of Payment System Data". According to RBI, the directions will not impact existing customers of Mastercard. "Mastercard shall advise all card issuing banks and non-banks to conform to these directions". In terms of its circular on Storage of Payment System Data on April 6, 2018, all system providers were directed to ensure that within a period of six months the entire data relating to payment systems is stored only in India, as per the central bank. Mastercard becomes the third major Payment System Operator on which restrictions have been imposed for non-compliance with RBI's direction on Storage of Payment System Data. Earlier, RBI had restricted American Express Banking Corp and Diners Club International Ltd from onboarding new domestic customers on to their card networks from May 1 for violating data storage norms. In April 6, 2018, the RBI had directed all Payment System Providers to ensure that within a period of six months the entire data (full end-to-end transaction details / information collected / carried / processed as part of the message / payment instruction) relating to payment systems operated by them is stored in a system only in India. They were also required to report compliance to RBI and submit a board-approved System Audit Report conducted by a CERT-In empanelled auditor within specified timelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises 134 points to close at 52,904||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 134 points on Wednesday, tracking gains mainly in IT stocks, despite weak global cues. The 30-share BSE index ended 134.32 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 52,904.05, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 41.60 points or 0.26 per cent to 15,853.95. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Infosys, L&T, Tata Steel and ITC. On the other hand, Maruti, HUL, Nestle India and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. "Dropping institutional participation rates have contributed in part to a 20 per cent drop in daily market volumes however, market breadth and retail participation in futures segment continue to remain robust and underpinning strength in ongoing broad market rally," said S Hariharan, Head- Sales Trading, Emkay Global Financial Services. Further, he noted that strong investor interest in new issuances like Zomato, Tatva Chintan and Clean Science have also contributed to some extent to reduced flows into the secondary segment, and a loaded pipeline of issues in the coming few months would be expected to play a similar role. "July has seasonally been the lowest volatility month for headline indices in the last 15 years, and we expect similarly subdued index moves this year too. The ongoing results season can be expected to see strong numbers from IT, chemicals and real estate businesses, while numbers would be relatively weaker for autos and financials names, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.82 per cent to USD 75.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Centre hikes Dearness Allowance of employees, pensioners from 17 per cent to 28 per cent||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to restore Dearness Allowance (DA) and Dearness Relief (DR) for central government employees and pensioners from July 1, 2021 while increasing the rate of allowance to 28 per cent. The increase in the DA and DR will impose an additional annual burden of Rs 34,401 crore on the exchequer, Minister of Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur told reporters after the cabinet meeting. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Government had frozen the three additional instalments of the DA and DR which were due from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020 and January 1, 2021. The move, Thakur said, will benefit about 48.34 lakh central employees and 65.26 pensioners. "The government has decided to increase DA to central government employees and DR to pensioners with effect from July 1, 2021 representing an increase of 11 per cent over the existing rate of 17 per cent of the basic pay/pension," said a release. "#Cabinet approves restoring of three instalments of Dearness Allowance and Dearness Relief with effect from 01.07.2021 representing an increase of 11% over the existing rate of 17% of the Basic Pay/Pension. No arrears for the period from 01.01.2020 till 30.06.2021 shall be paid," the official handle of PIB tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Wholesale price-based inflation eases to 12.07 percent in June||The wholesale price-based inflation eased marginally to 12.07 per cent in June as crude oil and food items witnessed some softening in prices. However, WPI inflation remained in double-digit for the third consecutive month in June, mainly due to a low base of last year. WPI inflation was (-) 1.81 per cent, in June 2020. Snapping the five straight months of uptick, the wholesale price index (WPI)-based inflation in June softened as prices of food articles and crude oil eased, even though manufactured products hardened. "The annual rate of inflation is 12.07 per cent for the month of June, 2021 (over June, 2020) as compared to 1.81 per cent in June 2020. "The high rate of inflation in June 2021, is primarily due to low base effect and rise in prices of mineral oils viz petrol, diesel (HSD), naphtha, ATF, furnace oil etc, and manufactured products like basic metal, food products, chemical products etc as compared the corresponding month of the previous year," the Commerce and Industry Ministry said. Inflation in fuel and power basket eased to 32.83 per cent during June, against 37.61 per cent in May. Inflation in food articles too eased to 3.09 per cent in June, from 4.31 per cent May, even as onion prices spiked. In manufactured products, inflation stood at 10.88 per cent in June, against 10.83 per cent in the previous month. The RBI in its monetary policy last month kept interest rates unchanged at record lows and committed to maintain an accommodative policy stance to support growth. Retail inflation remained above the RBI's comfort level of 6 per cent for the second straight month at 6.26 per cent in June, data released earlier this week showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC twins and Reliance Industries amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 104.99 points or 0.20 per cent lower at 52,664.74 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 31.80 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,780.55. Maruti was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slipping around 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, L&T, HCL Tech and Sun Pharma were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 397.04 points or 0.76 per cent higher at 52,769.73, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 119.75 points or 0.76 per cent to settle at 15,812.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 113.83 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, benchmark Nifty appears to be consolidating in the range of 15,600-15,900. "However, we continue to believe that any meaningful correction in the market should be taken as an opportunity to get in quality stocks. "Visible improvement in key economic data including IIP, import-export business momentum and visible traction in overall economic activities in June indicates healthy corporate earnings for 1QFY22E despite the second wave of COVID-19," he said. US markets finished lower as a higher-than-expected jump in CPI print for June weighed on investors' sentiments, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.31 per cent to USD 76.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
14-07-2021||Business||Coal India picks Accenture to advise on leveraging technology to increase production||Coal India Limited (CIL) has picked up consulting giant Accenture to advise it on how to leverage technology to increase production from seven of its large open cast mines of its two subsidiaries — South Eastern Coalfields Limited and Northern Coalfields Limited. Accenture has said it is possible to increase production from the seven mines by 100 million tonnes in 2022-2023 vis-a-vis 2021-22. Coal India officials said the seven high yielding mines accounted for nearly 32 per cent, or 188mt of the miner’s total output of 596mt during 2020-21. While the three mines of SECL contributed around 112mt, the four of Northern Coalfields produced 76mt. The seven identified mines are Kusmunda, Gevra, Dipka of South Eastern Coalfields Ltd and Nigahi, Jayant, Dudhichua, Khadia of Northern Coalfields Ltd . Accenture will use data analytics in its work and will advise Coal India at all stages of production from planning to operations till despatch and monitoring. As an initial recommendation, it has suggested the heavy earth moving machines be fitted with digital sensors to monitor their  efficiency . The move helps in addressing the road blocks and taking corrective measures. The objective is to extract higher volumes of coal at lower costs. “This is a first of its kind initiative by the company utilising digitalisation to ramp up coal output. It will be enabled in seven select mines for transformation across the entire business value chain of mining operations,” said a senior official of Coal India. Accenture will be paid its success fees only if the production from the seven mines crosses a threshold. Subsequently, it will be paid an agreed sum for every additional tonne of coal produced in the mines. “Learning from the outcome and success of this model we may replicate it in our other large mines,” said the official. Industry observers said extracting an additional 100mt from the running mines was a substantial volume amid challenges of land acquisition and environment concerns delaying greenfield and brownfield expansions. This incremental amount could play a role in import substitution. India imported 215.92mt of coal in 2020-21, including 136.77mt of non-coking coal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Covid: Govt exempts basic customs duty on imports of test kit raw materials||The government has exempted basic customs duty on imports of specified API/ excipients for Amphotericin B and raw materials for manufacturing Covid test kits as the number of Covid-19 cases slowly increases amidst concerns of a third wave of the pandemic. In a notification dated July 12, the finance ministry said the basic customs duty exemption on raw materials for manufacturing Covid test kits would be till September 30, 2021. The exemption on specified API (active pharmaceutical ingredients)/excipients for Amphotericin B would be valid till August 31. Fear of third wave Mahesh Jaising, partner, Deloitte India, said it was not surprising that the government has exempted the customs duty on raw materials for Covid testing kits, given the fact that a third-wave was likely to hit the country soon. Covid test kits attract 5 per cent GST rate (till September 30) and this exemption will further reduce the cost for the manufacturers and, therefore, the general public.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Patanjali Research Foundation Trust gets five-year tax exemption||Patanjali Research Foundation Trust has been granted a five-year tax exemption by the income tax department by recognising it as a ‘research association’. Tax experts said they would be able to claim tax benefit for any sum invested for scientific research. “The central government hereby approves Patanjali Research Foundation Trust, Haridwar under the category ‘Research Association’ for Scientific Research,” a notification dated July 12, issued by the CBDT, said. The notification will apply from the date of publication in the Official Gazette (i.e from the previous year 2021-22) and shall be applicable for assessment years 2022-23 to 2027-28, it said. Neha Malhotra, director, Nangia Andersen LLP, said: “In computing the income under head business and profession, a taxpayer is permitted to deduct any amount paid to an ‘approved scientific research association’ for undertaking scientific research. A business entity that pays any amount to the Patanjali for scientific research shall be eligible to claim the said expense as deduction from business income under section 35 of the Income Tax Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||S&P Global Ratings keeps India’s sovereign rating unchanged at BBB-||S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday kept India’s sovereign rating unchanged at the lowest investment grade of ‘BBB-’ for the 14th year in a row and said the government’s ability to execute additional economic reforms that spur investment and create jobs will be crucial for recovery from the current economic slowdown. S&P projected a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in the current fiscal year that began in April and a 7.8 per cent expansion in the following year. GDP, which shrank from $2.87 trillion in 2019-20 to $2.66 trillion in the following year, is projected to expand to $3.96 trillion in 2024-25. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019 envisioned making India a $5 trillion economy and a global economic powerhouse by 2024-25. Forecasting economic recovery to gain pace through the second half of 2021-22 fiscal, S&P kept the rating outlook at stable. “The government’s ability to deliver and execute additional economic reforms, especially those that spur investment and job creation, will be important for India’s ability to recover from the economic slowdown. “Existing vulnerabilities, including a relatively weak financial sector, rigid labour markets, and sluggish private investment, could hamper the economic recovery if not meaningfully addressed,” S&P said . “S&P Global Ratings affirms its ‘BBB-’ long-term and ‘A-3’ short-term unsolicited foreign and local currency sovereign ratings on India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||As many as 23 bills to be tabled during Parliament monsoon session||As many as 23 bills will be tabled  in Parliament during the 19-day monsoon session starting next week. The focus is on the bill to amend the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and the amendment to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961. “The (insolvency) amendment is aimed at providing speedier, cost effective, semi-formal and less disruptive framework for insolvency resolution of corporate debtors in distress,” according to the Lok Sabha bulletin. There has been a growing dissatisfaction over the pace of resolution under the IBC Code. Very few cases are settled within the 270-day period for resolution. The amendment to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961 would provide immediate relief to the thousands of depositors who had their money parked in stressed lenders. Last year, the government raised insurance cover on deposit five-fold to Rs 5 lakh with a view to provide support to the depositors of ailing lenders such as Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Following the collapse of PMC Bank, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank also came under stress leading to restructuring by the regulator and the government. The other important bill is the one seeking to amend the Electricity Act. This will allow consumers to choose from multiple power distribution services. The proposed amendments prescribe the rights and duties of consumers and aim to strengthen the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity through the appointment of a member from the law background in every commission. In the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Amendment Bill, 2021, the government  intends to amend the law related to acquisition of land containing coal deposits. It aims at allowing leasing of coal and mining rights to companies, including those in the private sector, which emerge as the successful bidder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Adani Airport Holdings takes control of Mumbai International Airport Ltd||Adani Airport Holdings Ltd (AAHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd, has taken over the management control of Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) from the GVK group. The company has received the approvals from the Centre, the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) of Maharashtra and the state government. MIAL is India’s second busiest airport by both passenger and cargo traffic. The Adanis now have eight airports under its wings, making them India’s largest player accounting for 25 per cent of footfalls. With the addition of MIAL, Adani Airports will also control 33 per cent of the country’s air cargo traffic. Adani said post-pandemic demand for air travel in India and the rest of the world was expected to surge. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) expects global passenger traffic to recover to 88 per cent of pre-Covid levels by 2022 and exceed the levels in 2023. Adani Airports has forecast its share of passenger traffic to grow to 100 million by the end of next fiscal from 80 million in 2019-20 on the basis of 12 per cent compounded annual growth rate of traffic. Adani will begin the construction of the Navi Mumbai International Airport next month and complete the financial closure in the next 90 days. The new international airport will be commissioned in 2024. “Our larger objective is to reinvent airports as ecosystems that drive local economic development and act as the nuclei around which we can catalyse aviation-linked businesses. These include metropolitan developments that span entertainment facilities, ecommerce and logistics capabilities, aviation dependent industries, smart city developments, and other innovative business concepts,” Gautam Adani, chairman, Adani Group, said. He said the group’s airport expansion strategy was intended to integrate India’s larger cities with the smaller  ones in a hub-and-spoke model. In February this year, AAHL which is the flagship holding company of the group for its airports business has acquired additional 23 per cent stake in MIAL from ACSA Global Ltd (ACSA) and Bid Services Division (Mauritius) Ltd  or Bidvest for Rs 1684.25 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
14-07-2021||Business||Zomato IPO to open for subscription at price band of Rs 72-76 per share||The initial public offer of Zomato will open for subscription on Wednesday at a price band of Rs 72-76 per share. Being the first IPO from a unicorn (a start-up with valuation of more than $1 billion) and a web aggregator, the issue has generated immense buzz with analysts recommending the shares for listing gains. Some others have cautioned against its expensive valuation and have recommended the shares to those with a high appetite for risk. Investors must buy a minimum of 195 shares in the IPO which comprises a fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 9,000 crore and an offer-for-sale (OFS) of Rs 375 crore by Info Edge (India) Ltd. “The IPO is interesting considering the fact that its the first from a unicorn and also from a technology platform. The market reaction to the issue is mixed, but it does offer some listing pop as of today,” says Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment research firm. The grey market premium for the issue has reportedly dropped to Rs 9-10 per share from over Rs 20 at one point of time. Brokerage LKP Securities said the company’s food delivery business has grown rapidly since 2019, while its unit economics has improved consistently. Analysts at Motilal Oswal said Zomato operates in a highly underpenetrated market: of the total food consumption in the country restaurants make up 8-9 per cent, of which only 8 per cent is online food delivery. Analysts at Choice Broking said the Zomato issue was overpriced as the price-by-earnings-per-share multiple was 29.9 which is at a premium to the global peer average. “This initial public offer is not for the retail investor, but investors with higher risk appetite with long term investment horizon can apply,’’ the brokerage noted. MobiKwik One MobiKwik Systems, the digital payments start-up, has filed draft papers with Sebi to raise Rs 1,900 crore through an IPO. The IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares worth Rs 1,500 crore and an offer for sale of up to Rs 400 crore by promoters and existing shareholders. Meanwhile, the Securities and Exchange Board of India has reportedly begun a preliminary enquiry into the preferential issues of Barbeque Nation and LIC Housing Finance. Sebi’s move is linked to the controversial preferential allotment by PNB Housing Finance to Carlyle, which is now being heard at the Securities Appellate Tribunal. A CNBC TV-18 report on Tuesday said Sebi has asked the stock exchanges to examine the proposed preferential issues of Barbeque Nation and LIC Housing Finance and that the bourses may have issued an examination notice to both these firms on the valuation of the preference issue. Kredent fund-raising Calcutta-based startup Kredent InfoEdge has raised Rs 10 crore from Kotak Securities . The startup, which offers data analytics and equity market learning to its 2 million users, has set its sights on expanding its user base to 10 million by 2023. The company is backed by investors such as Ramesh Damani and IndiaMart founder Dinesh Agarwal. “We have created the leanings and data analytics platform. Now we will connect with all the brokers so that anyone who is consuming data analytics from us can transact through the respective brokers,” said Vivek Bajaj, co-founder and director, StockEdge & Elearnmarkets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-142
