15-07-2021||Business||Centre releases 75,000 crore GST compensation to states||The government has borrowed and given to the states Rs 75,000 crore to make up for the shortfall in their revenues because of the GST implementation. The Finance Ministry in a statement said the amount released is about half of the Rs 1.59 lakh crore that was agreed to be borrowed in the current fiscal by the Centre and passed on to the states and Union Territories on a back-to-back basis to meet their resource gap. The amount released is in addition to the normal GST compensation that is paid bi-monthly to states out of the collections made from the levy of a cess on luxury and sin goods. "The Ministry of Finance has released today Rs 75,000 crore to the States and UTs with legislature under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST compensation. This release is in addition to normal GST compensation being released every 2 months out of actual cess collection," the statement said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in a tweet said, "Almost 50 per cent of the total shortfall for the entire year released in a single instalment". The Centre has estimated the shortfall in GST compensation payable to the states in the current fiscal at Rs 2.59 lakh crore, of which about Rs 1.59 lakh crore would have to be borrowed this year. The Centre expects to collect over Rs 1 lakh crore through cess on luxury, demerit and sin goods, which will be given to the states to compensate them for the shortfall in revenue arising out of the GST implementation. Hence, the remaining Rs 1.59 lakh crore would have to be borrowed to meet the promised compensation to states under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. The ministry said in the May 28 GST Council meeting, it was decided that the central government would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore and release it to states and UTs with the legislature on a back-to-back basis to meet the resource gap due to the short release of compensation on account of the inadequate amount in the compensation fund. "This amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore would be over and above the compensation, in excess of Rs 1 lakh crore (based on cess collection), that is estimated to be released to States/UTs with Legislature during this financial year. The sum total of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the ministry said. All eligible states and UTs (with the legislature) have agreed to the arrangements for the funding of the compensation shortfall under the back-to-back loan facility, the ministry said. "For effective response and management of COVID-19 pandemic and a step-up in capital expenditure, all States and UTs have a very important role to play. For assisting the States/UTs in their endeavour, Ministry of Finance has front-loaded the release of assistance under the back-to-back loan facility during FY 2021-22 Rs 75,000 crore (almost 50 per cent of the total shortfall for the entire year) released today in a single instalment. The balance amount will be released in the second half of 2021-22 in steady instalments," it added. The release of Rs 75,000 crore being made now is funded from borrowings of the Centre in 5-year securities, totalling Rs 68,500 crore and 2-year securities for Rs 6,500 crore issued in the current financial year, at a weighted average yield of 5.60 and 4.25 per cent per annum, respectively. "Government of India's release of Rs 75,000 crore to States and UTs under the back-to-back loan facility in-lieu of GST compensation not to change the GoI's borrowing programme in the first half of 2021-22," the statement said. Icra Chief Economist Aditi Nayar said, "The release of these funds from the Government of India's borrowings raised so far, corroborates the inference that healthy tax and non-tax revenues have boosted the cash flows of the central government". Last year too the Centre had borrowed and released to the states Rs 1.10 lakh crore towards GST compensation. Besides, Rs 70,000 crore was released from the compensation fund. For fiscal 2020-21, about Rs 63,000 crore GST compensation was pending to the states/UTs as of March 30, 2021. Deloitte India Senior Director M S Mani said, The release of the compensation shortfall amounts committed to states would alleviate the fiscal position of states; however, the recovery of the amounts borrowed to make the payments would necessitate the extension of the period during which the compensation cess is levied beyond 2022 .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Tapering second wave brightened economic prospects for India: RBI||The tapering of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic coupled with aggressive vaccination has brightened the near-term prospects of the Indian economy, though a solid increase in aggregate demand may take some time, said the Reserve Bank of India on the state of economy. Attributing the rise in inflation to the supply side disruptions on account of the pandemic and hardening of commodity prices in the international market, the RBI article opined that these factors should ease over the year as supply-side measures take effect. "The tapering of the second wave, coupled with an aggressive vaccination push, has brightened near-term prospects for the Indian economy. "While several high-frequency indicators of activity are recovering, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take shape," said the article written jointly by RBI Deputy Governor M D Patra and other officials. The RBI, however, said views expressed in the article are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the views of the Reserve Bank of India. On the supply side, agricultural conditions are turning buoyant with the revival in the monsoon but the recovery of manufacturing and services sectors has been interrupted by the second wave. "The economy is struggling to regain the momentum of recovery that had started in the second half of 2020-21 but was interrupted by the second wave. "The pick-up in inflation is driven largely by adverse supply shocks due to disruptions caused by the pandemic, including increases in margins and taxes," it said. There are also specific demand-supply mismatches as in the case of protein-rich food items, edible oils and pulses, which are being addressed by specific supply-side measures, the article said. But more needs to be done, it said, and added elevated international commodity prices, especially of crude, are also imparting cost-push pressures. These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect. "Furthermore, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take shape. Even with a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in 2020-21, there will be substantial slack in the economy and demand pressures may take some more time to become evident," it said. Inflation ruled above the tolerance band during June-November 2020 and has again moved above the upper tolerance threshold in May and June 2021. The sense is that inflation will persist at these elevated levels for some months before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22 when the kharif harvest arrives in markets, it said. Sowing for the kharif season covered 499.9 lakh hectares (around 46 per cent of the total acreage) by July 9, 2021. The progress of sowing has, however, been relatively muted -- 10.4 per cent lower than a year ago on account of inroads of the second wave into rural areas, hot weather leading to power slack and break in the monsoon's progress. As of July 12, the cumulative rainfall in this season was seven per cent below the long period average (LPA) as against 13 per cent above a year ago. This is also reflected in fertiliser sales which remained subdued till May. The article also noted that pump prices of petrol in all major metros have exceeded Rs 100 per litre in the first half of July, with an average price (pump prices in the four major metros) of Rs 102.92 per litre as on July 12, 2021. Diesel pump prices were also high at Rs 93.52 per litre. After remaining steady for the past two-three months, kerosene and LPG prices have also registered increases in July so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty soar to life-time highs on rally in IT, financials stocks||Benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty on Thursday raced to close at life-time high levels on the back of gains in index majors HDFC Bank, L&T and HCL Tech amid signs of recovery in earnings. The 30-share BSE index rose by 254.75 points or 0.48 per cent to close at its life-time high of 53,158.85. It touched a record intra-day peak of 53,266.12. The broader NSE Nifty rose by 70.25 points or 0.44 per cent to a record of 15,924.20. It hit a record intra-day peak of 15,952.35. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 5 per cent, followed by L&T, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, UltraTech Cement, ITC and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, M&M, Asian Paints, Titan and Sun Pharma were among the laggards. "As global investors digest inflation data and the US Fed commentary, Dalal Street bulls were seen betting on economic recovery as IT stocks continue to power the indices to new highs, said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities. Markets seemed in no mood to oblige investors waiting on the sidelines for a correction as sector rotation played its part during the session. Capital Goods made a smart comeback across market capitalisation and the broader market was buzzing with action across cement, real estate and pharma names, he added. "Indian indices extended gains to all-time high supported by positive Asian market and rally in Reality, IT, Financials and Metals stocks, in anticipation of robust Q1 earnings & recovery in demand," Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. Asian markets were positive as China reported better than projected economic data and the global market was boosted by the accommodative stance in the Fed official's statement, reducing risk of change in rates, Nair added. Sectorally, BSE realty, capital goods, IT, industrials, metal, basic materials and bankex ended up to 4 per cent higher. On the other hand, oil and gas, telecom, energy and auto indices declined up to 0.87 per cent. Broader midcap and smallcap indices rose up to 0.43 per cent. Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities said that continued rebound in IT stocks followed by financials supported today's rally. "We note strong revenue performance and strong deal wins reported by key IT companies in 1QFY22 attracted investors toward IT pack. Baring auto, pharma and PSU Banks, buying momentum was visible in most of key sectors," Modi said. Realty stocks witnessed sustained rebound due to better-than-expected improvement in operational performance of real estate companies in the first quarter of FY22. HCLT, L&T, Tech Mahindra and Wipro were among top Nifty gainers, while ONGC, Eicher Motors, Coal India and Bharti Airtel were laggards. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were, however, trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.70 per cent to USD 74.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Zomato’s IPO oversubscribed 1.3 times on second day of offering||Zomato's initial public offering (IPO) was oversubscribed 1.3 times on the second day of the offering with retail investors continuing to bid for shares of the food delivery platform. The offer received bids for 95.44 crore equity shares against an IPO size of 71.92 crore, stock exchange data showed. Retail investors sought 3.96 times the portion reserved for them. Against 12.95 crore shares reserved for retail individual investors, 51.36 crore shares were bid by 1400 hours. Non-institutional investors put in bids for 26 per cent against their reserved portion while qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) fully took their quota of 38.8 crore shares. The portion set aside for employees has been subscribed 22 per cent. The IPO, the biggest in India this year, is open for subscription till Friday in a price band of Rs 72-76 per share. Zomato has already mobilised Rs 4,196.51 crore from 186 anchor investors on July 13, a day before the issue opened. The IPO size has been reduced to Rs 5,178.49 crore from Rs 9,375 crore earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||John Aaron Reveals The Most Important Skill You Must Master To Attain Success||The term ‘networking’ is commonly used within the business world, but what does the term actually refer to? Put simply, ‘networking’ describes the process of creating connections and relationships within your chosen industry. The overall aim of networking is to help you create a reliable network that you can use as a supportive resource as you build your career. Real estate investor John Aaron feels that networking is essential for reaching the level of clientele that you deserve. Networking, Aaron shares is one of the most important skills that an entrepreneur can master. He explains that networking goes far beyond drinks receptions and industry seminars, it is the foundation that you will build your entire business persona on. Your business persona, Aaron explains is the personal brand that you create to represent yourself to potential networking contacts and clientele, and it is essential to take the time to cultivate it. However, Aaron stresses that your business persona should be entirely authentic; personal branding doesn’t mean that you project a fake image of yourself. Genuine networking happens when you understand your product or service fully, and you know exactly what your ideals and goals are. Aaron explains that consistent and strategic networking is the most effective way to find impeccable clientele for your business. He further adds that networking can also give you a thinktank of experienced people that can offer support as your business grows. It is also a great tool for trend casting, because if the peers in your industry have caught on to a new trend, you will hear about it. Overall, Aaron says that the most beneficial result of networking is putting you and your business in the perfect position to find the clientele that you deserve. Aaron elaborates on this saying, “Networks are communities, and communities are built on trust and respect. If you become part of a network, then you will gain the trust of your prospective clientele.” John Aaron is the founder of the Aaron Organization, which is a real estate investment company established in 2012. Within its first four years, the Aaron Organization flipped over 200 single-family homes in the tri-county area of South Florida. Aaron shares that he wouldn’t have reached the success that he has within his career without trusting in the power of networking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Sensex gains over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 100 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors L&T, HDFC Bank and HCL Tech amid a largely positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 111.50 points or 0.21 per cent higher at 53,015.55 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 31.30 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,885.25.  L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, HDFC Bank, Dr Reddy's and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, M&M, Asian Paints, Maruti, ITC, Titan and Infosys were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 134.32 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 52,904.05, and Nifty advanced 41.60 points or 0.26 per cent to 15,853.95.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,303.95 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "IT results out so far including that of majors like TCS and Infosys indicate a strong order pipeline emboldening the companies to raise their revenue guidance to 14 to 17 per cent. This augurs well for the industry and can invite further investments," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  However, Nifty is likely to face resistance around 15,900, since FIIs are consistent sellers at higher levels, he said, adding that retail activity is high in mid and small-cap space, as heavy FII selling is in large caps.  Further, global support to the markets comes from US Fed chief Jerome Powell's remark that rates will remain near zero until "inflation goes persistently and materially higher". This has further emboldened the equity bulls, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.76 per cent to USD 74.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||ITC Ltd to diversify tobacco and hotel businesses ||ITC Ltd is diversifying its tobacco and hotel businesses to expand the market for each of the categories amid concerns of an economic slowdown during the second wave of the pandemic. The company is in the process of setting up a manufacturing unit near Mysore, Karnataka, where it will produce nicotine and nicotine derivative products for the exports market, especially the US and the European Union. It has formed a wholly owned subsidiary ITC IndiVision Ltd for the project. ITC invested Rs 50 crore as of March 2021 in the subsidiary, the latest annual report disclosed, adding that “steady progress” has been made during 2020-21 in the project’s construction activities. Abneesh Roy, executive director of institutional equities at Edelweiss Securities, noted that the conglomerate is diversifying its flagship tobacco business into manufacturing nicotine and nicotine salts for exports to the US and European Union markets to capture the growing demand for nicotine-based oral and vaping products there. ITC is the dominant market leader in the cigarettes business in India. The company earns close to a four-fifth of its profit from this segment, which is reeling under punitive taxation by India. The diversification may open up a new vista for growth for the company, analysts added. New hotel brand ITC will launch a boutique hotel brand under the name of ‘Storii’ to diversify its offerings for travellers. The company operates the hotels business under four brands — ITC Hotels, Welcomhotel, Fortune and WelcomHeritage. The diversification is in line with the company’s policy to focus on managing properties rather than building and owning hotels. The move comes after a devastating year for the hospitality industry, including hotels, as travellers were forced to stay home because of the pandemic. Even though there has been an uptick in hotel occupancy from October last year, the second wave hit the sector hard again. CMD’s salary ITC chairman Sanjiv Puri’s salary grew 47 per cent to Rs 10.1 crore in 2020-21 over the previous year following changes in the pay structure of the top executives of the company after BAT vetoed a stock option scheme to reward the employees in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Great Eastern Energy Corporation to invest Rs 15,000 crore for shale gas core well exploration in Bengal||Great Eastern Energy Corporation Limited (GEECL) plans to invest about Rs 15,000 crore for shale gas core well exploration after the  Bengal government clears an amendment to the mineral lease agreement. “We hope to get clearance from the state government before the end of this calendar year and will start the process of core well exploration early next year. The initial investment would be about Rs 15,000 crore,” Prashant Modi, managing director and CEO of Great Eastern, told The Telegraph. He said “based on the results of the core wells, we intend to drill an optimum number of pilot production wells”. The firm plans to start shale gas exploration along with coal bed methane in Raniganj south block. The OGIP (original gas-in-place) has been estimated at about 9.25tcf (trillion cubic feet). The company is banking on the GAIL Jagdishpur-Haldia and Bokaro-Dhamra pipeline to sell to customers in Calcutta. GAIL (India) Limited partially commissioned the  pipeline on February 6, 2021. Further work on laying the pipeline section in Calcutta is underway and is expected to be completed by August 2022. “This will provide the company with the opportunity to expand its customer base,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Promoters holding in McLeod Russel falls to 10.07% at end of June quarter||The promoter holding in McLeod Russel India Ltd (MRIL), the largest bulk tea producer in the country, has fallen to 10.07 per cent at the end of the June quarter. The Khaitan family of Williamson Magor Group is the promoter of the company, which is in some financial trouble because of a high debt overhang. The holding of the family fell 7.41 per cent during the June quarter from 17.48 per cent after creditors who held shares as collateral against loan invoked them. A year ago, the promoters held a 25.82 per cent stake in McLeod Russel. The sell-off in pledged shares mirrored the predicament of Eveready, the largest dry cell battery maker from the house of the Khaitans. As the share price rose in Eveready, creditors invoked pledged shares taking advantage of the rally in the scrip, leaving the promoters with a paltry stake of 4.77 per cent at the end of the March quarter. Creditors took advantage of a similar situation in the MRIL counter when the price more than doubled in three months. The stock closed at Rs 34.25 on the BSE on Wednesday. The company has presented a comprehensive debt restructuring proposal to lenders who are considering it. However, it is also being tried at company law court for admission into insolvency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies extended for textile exporters||Garment exporters will continue to get a rebate on central and state taxes on their outward shipments as the government on Wednesday approved the extension of the RoSCTL scheme till March 2024. “The Union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given its approval for the continuation of Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) with the same rates as notified by the ministry of textiles for the export of apparel/garments and made-ups,” information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur told reporters on Wednesday. Under this scheme, exporters are issued a duty credit scrip for the value of embedded taxes and levies contained in the exported product. Exporters can use this scrip to pay basic customs duty for the import of equipment, machinery or any other input. These scrips are tradeable. So, if the exporter does not need this for his personal use, he can transfer the same to any other importer. The textile ministry had fixed a maximum rate of rebate for apparel at 6.05 per cent while for made-ups, it was up to 8.2 per cent. The made-ups segment comprises home textile products such as bed linen, curtains, pillows and carpets. Shipping subsidy The cabinet also approved a scheme to provide Rs 1,624 crore over five years as subsidy to Indian shipping companies in global tenders floated by ministries and CPSEs for the import of government cargo, an official statement said. According to the statement, registration shall be done online within 72 hours  and this will make it easy and attractive to register ships in India and thereby help boost the Indian tonnage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-140
15-07-2021||Business||Market capitalisation of Tata Steel stock at record Rs 150,000 crore||A sustained sectoral rally has powered the market capitalisation of the Tata Steel stock to a kissing distance of Rs 150,000 crore for the first time in the history of the company on a closing basis. The scrip closed at Rs 1,244.6 on Wednesday making it the third most valuable company among salt-to-software Tata Group after Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Titan Company (see chart) The stock touched a high of Rs 1,247.40 when the market capitalisation crossed the magic number. The share  closed up 1.28 per cent, or Rs 15.75, on the BSE. The stock has given a return of 269.73 per cent in the last one year — one of the top outperformers on the benchmark Sensex and Nifty 50. Despite of the stupendous rally in the share price, most brokerages remain positive on the stock, asking clients to buy or accumulate more shares. ICICIdirect.com has a buy rating with a price target of Rs 1,500 on Tata Steel, while Prabhudas Liladhar has an accumulate target of Rs 1,400. Motilal Oswal, however, has a neutral rating on the scrip with a target price of Rs 1,210. JSW Steel is the most valuable among steel companies listed on the Indian bourses on a standalone basis. However, Tata Steel would not be far behind if the four listed subsidiaries of the company are taken into consideration. There are four listed subsidiaries of Tata Steel Ltd —Tata Steel Long Products, Tata Metaliks, Tata Steel BSL and Tinplate. The breakout in the stock came after nearly a decade of under performance as the steel cycle dramatically changed from the third quarter of the last fiscal. The margin reached unprecedented levels in the fourth quarter allowing Tata Steel to declare its highest ever dividend of Rs 25 a share, even after paring debt by over $4 billion. The stupendous performance received praise from Ratan Tata, the chairman emeritus of Tata Group, who joined the last annual general meeting of the company to appreciate the performance of the management, led by chairman N. Chandrasekaran and aided by CEO & MD T.V. Narendran and ED & CFO Koushik Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
15-07-2021||Business||RBI bars Mastercard from issuing new credit, debit and prepaid cards||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has barred Mastercard from issuing new credit, debit and prepaid cards. The Reserve Bank said Mastercard has not complied with India’s storage norms. The ban will take effect from July 22. Mastercard is the third major payment system operator after American Express and Diners Club to face restrictions for not adhering to the central bank’s guidelines on data storage. American Express and Diners Club have been barred since May 1 from issuing  cards. But unlike American Express, which is a relatively small player in India, companies such as Mastercard and Visa have partnered many Indian banks that offer cards using the US firms’ payments network. The RBI clarified that the action against Mastercard will not impact existing customers of the payments and technology company. “Notwithstanding the lapse of considerable time and adequate opportunities being given, the entity (Mastercard) has been found to be non-compliant with the directions on storage of payment system data,’’ the RBI said. In April 2018, the central bank had directed all payment system providers to store all their transaction data in India within a period of six months. A compliance report as well as a board-approved system audit report to the RBI was made mandatory . The RBI had observed that not all system providers store their payments data in the country. The compliances were meant to ensure effective monitoring of data, while ensuring unfettered supervisory access. The RBI had, therefore, said that all system providers must ensure the entire data be stored only in India, including full end-to-end transaction details. Data for the foreign leg of the transaction, if any, can be stored overseas. The payment systems providers feared this will raise the cost of their compliance requirements. Some of the overseas firms had reportedly suggested data mirroring instead of storing them only in India. In 2019, Mastercard said it was “bullish on India”, announcing $1 billion in investment over the next five years, in addition to its earlier investment of $1 billion from 2014 to 2019. “It does leave a big vacuum in credit cards and can come as a good opportunity for Visa ... Banks will have to start re-negotiating the deals and this will be a blow for Mastercard,” said Ashvin Parekh, an independent financial services consultant told Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
15-07-2021||Business||Infosys reports 22.7 per cent growth in net profits||Infosys fell short of Street expectations as it reported a 22.7 per cent growth in net profits for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, but raised revenue guidance for the full year on good deal wins and a strong order pipeline. The country’s second largest IT services firm posted a net profit of Rs 5,195 crore against Rs 4,233 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Analysts were projecting a net profit of around Rs 5,400 crore. Infosys raised its revenue guidance for this fiscal to 14-16 per cent from 12-14 per cent earlier. Analysts were expecting Infosys to raise the growth forecast to 13-15 per cent. Infosys has benefited from enterprises spending more on activities such as cloud amid the pandemic and this was reflected in its topline . “We have had a landmark first quarter with robust year-on-year growth of 16.9 per cent and a sequential growth of 4.8 per cent in constant currency terms. This has been the fastest growth we have seen in 10 years,” Infosys CEO Salil Parekh said at a conference call after the company announced the results. In dollar terms, reported revenues came in line with estimates by growing 21.2 per cent at $3,782 million compared with $3,121 million in the same period of the previous year. In rupee terms, revenues rose 17.9 per cent over April-June 2020 to Rs 27,896 crore from Rs 23,665 crore. Moreover, large deal wins (over $50 million in value) at $2.6 billion continued the momentum witnessed in the previous year. Parekh said the company has continued to gain significant market share and the growth seen during the first quarter is largely organic in nature. A key highlight was the digital business, which grew a strong 42 per cent over the year-ago period. It now contributes 53.9 per cent to Infosys’s revenues. “Growth was broad-based with seven industry segments reporting strong double-digit growth, including the two largest financial services and retail growing more than 20 per cent year-on-year,” Pravin Rao, Infosys chief operating officer, said. Financial services saw a constant currency growth of 22.6 per cent, while it stood at 22.2 per cent for retail, 21.2 per cent in life sciences and 18.5 per cent in manufacturing. In terms of geographies, North America saw a growth of 21.1 per cent, Europe 12.2 per cent and India 20.7 per cent. Parekh said pricing is also expected to remain stable during the year, though there could be an opportunity to drive higher pricing in digital. “We have had a good start to the year with good deal wins and a strong pipeline. We can support the digital transformation approach that our clients are looking for. This gives us the confidence to increase the revenue growth guidance,’’ he added. However, the quarter saw operating margins falling to 23.7 per cent from 24.5 per cent on a sequential basis. Infosys will roll out salary hikes in July after a similar move earlier in the calendar year. “As the demand for digital talent explodes, rising attrition in the industry poses a near-term challenge. We plan to expand our hiring programme of college graduates for 2021-22 to 35,000 globally,’’ Rao said. During the quarter, attrition rose to 13.9 per cent from 10.9 per cent in the preceding quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-141
