16-07-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat after scaling fresh lifetime highs||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended flat after scaling fresh intra-day peaks on Friday amid a mixed trend in global markets.  After surging to a lifetime peak of 53,290.81 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index ended 18.79 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 53,140.06, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 0.80 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,923.40.  HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Infosys, Bajaj Finserv, NTPC, ICICI Bank and IndusInd Bank.  On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel and PowerGrid were among the gainers.  Domestic equities traded in a range bound with Nifty and Sensex hitting fresh all-time highs. However, profit booking IT after witnessing sharp recovery in recent days followed by selling pressure in financials dragged Nifty, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Pharma stocks were in focus followed by metals. Notably, buying momentum in midcap and smallcap stocks sustained led by expectations of strong earnings, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong was positive.  Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.33 per cent to USD 73.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
16-07-2021||Business||Zomato IPO oversubscribed 10.7 times on final day of sale||Zomato's initial public offer (IPO) was oversubscribed 10.7 times on the third and last day of the sale with institutional buyers pouring in to garb shares of the food delivery platform. The offer received bids for 770.07 crore equity shares against an IPO size of 71.92 crore, stock exchange data showed. Retail investors sought 6.09 times the portion reserved for them. Against 12.95 crore shares reserved for retail individual investors, 78.87 crore shares were bid by 1300 hours. Non-institutional investors put in bids for 109.82 crore shares against their reserved portion of 19.42 crore. Qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) sought nearly 15 times their quota of 38.8 crore shares. The portion set aside for employees has been subscribed 42 per cent. The IPO, the biggest in India this year, opened for subscription on Wednesday in a price band of Rs 72-76 per share. Zomato has already mobilised Rs 4,196.51 crore from 186 anchor investors on July 13, a day before the issue opened. The IPO size has been reduced to Rs 5,178.49 crore from Rs 9,375 crore earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Paytm files draft papers for Rs 16,600 crore IPO with SEBI||Digital payments and financial services firm Paytm has filed a draft red herring prospectus for its proposed Rs 16,600 crore initial public offering (IPO). According to the document, the company plans to raise Rs 8,300 crore through fresh equity and another Rs 8,300 crore through offer-for-sale. The offer-for-sale proposes equity sale by the company's founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Alibaba group and its subsidiary firm Ant Financial, Elevation Capital, Saif Partners, BH International Holdings etc, according to the document. The draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) does not disclose the share price and the percentage of stake to be diluted by any of the shareholders in the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 100 points to touch record intra-day high in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ITC despite a largely negative trend in global markets.  After surging to a peak of 53,290.81 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 111.60 points or 0.21 per cent higher at 53,270.45 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 33.60 points or 0.21 per cent to 15,957.80.  ITC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, Reliance Industries and HDFC.  On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, ICICI Bank, Infosys and NTPC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 254.75 points or 0.48 per cent higher at its lifetime high of 53,158.85, and Nifty rose 70.25 points or 0.44 per cent to its all-time high of 15,924.20.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 264.77 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Domestic equities look to be modestly good as of now. Notably, dovish remarks of Federal Reserve Chairman Powell in his testimony despite surge in inflation should offer comfort to global equities including India," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Benchmark Nifty, which was consolidating in the range of 15,600-15,900 for the last couple of weeks, is set to cross 16,000 levels shortly, he said, adding that higher crude prices, spread of delta plus variant globally and weakening INR could be a near risk for markets.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was trading in the positive territory.  Equities on Wall Street too ended on a negative note in overnight sessions.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.12 per cent to USD 73.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Success Gyan hosts a power packed Super Growth Summit with 15000+ participants||The Super Growth Summit saw enthusiastic participation from 15,000+ unique users from across 50+ cities over a Zoom Webinar with Keynotes from Gaur Gopal Das, Dr. John Demartini, Ashish Vidyarthi, Blair Singer, Surendran J, Rajiv Talreja, Siddharth Rajsekar, Mac Attram, Puja Puneet, Sawan Kapoor, Dr. Meghana Dikshit, Prachi Mayekar, M V Priyank, and Thaddeus Lawrence. In life and business, the most important stage that could potentially define future courses, is the initial stage of plantation or seeding. This stage is generally attributed to struggle and immense nurturing. The human offspring is said to be amongst one of the most underdeveloped offspring amongst the mammal family. In its initial days, there is a lot of care, attention and nurturing that is required from an external source. Although, the human offspring grows up to become one of the most capable and versatile animals in terms of thinking capacity, creativity, etc., in it’s initial stages this isn’t necessarily reflected immediately. It’s only after years of nurturing, teaching and attention that the offspring moves on the stages of surviving independently and fending for itself. A business or startup, could also be compared to these stages of growth or evolution of a human offspring, according to the organizers of the Super Growth Summit, Success Gyan.  In its nascent stage, a business or company may seem to be too weak or sensitive to overcome the struggle required to survive and eventually lead to success. It is at this stage that there is a need for external nurturing, care and expert advice that could help set a strong foundation for the life ahead. Success Gyan aims to do just that by bringing together world renowned leaders, mentors, trainers and coaches under one platform. By making best-in-class learning accessible to all, Success Gyan has truly hit a chord with the young Indian population that was reflected in the sheer turnout at the event that kicked off on a Saturday morning and ran along till the mid-evening. The Super Growth Summit saw 15,000+ unique users logging into a Zoom webinar eager to listen in to the keynotes from the most prominent speakers in the domain. The event kicked off with Siddharth Rajsekar, Master Digital Coach and Author of the Amazon Bestseller Book — ‘You Can Coach’,  assuming the role of host by introducing the energetic and charismatic Actor and National Film Award winner, Ashish Vidyarthi. Ashish managed to charge up the crowd with his ‘flawsome-awesome’ & ‘power-packed’ keynote that focused on motivating the viewers to take charge of their own lives in the realms of business, relationships and success by assuming the role of the prime-player in their own lives. Game-led interactions from Transformational Coach, Prachi Mayekar, followed soon after, which got the chat box buzzing with energy and enthusiasm, on an early Saturday morning. This truly reflected the interest levels of the participants that had tuned in from across geographical locations over one true motive -- ‘To Grow and Succeed In Life’. The theme of the event was elegantly carried forward by Thaddeus Lawrence, Integral Coach® & TEDx speaker, who tuned in from Singapore, to the participants through intimate analogies that involved overcoming mentally and physically challenging situations and circumstances. He carefully weaved these interpretations to match the similarities of the struggles that we are often faced with life, business and relationships. Dr. John Demartini, drove the audience through the psychology of winning and the mindset-shift required to truly progress through the stages of struggle and survive in a often challenging and cold world around us. Wellness coach and Sound Healer, M V Priyank, led a session on ‘Sound Healing’ and ‘Meditation Techniques’ that could be used to find warmth within oneself that is required to progress through the stages of struggle and survival. His unique expertise managed to put the participants in a truly meditative state, optimized to absorb all of the knowledge, energy and wisdom on display at the day-long event. Rajiv Talreja, Asia’s leading Business Coach, further broke down the core theme of the event, elucidating the challenges one faces while advancing through the stages of Struggle, Survival and Success. “Struggle is the stage of entrepreneurial journey where one isn’t paying themselves, while survival is the stage where you are able to pay yourself but end up being comfortable due to the lack of ambition. Success is the stage where you are able to not-only pay yourself but also loop-back to the business. This is only achieved by adopting a growth-mindset that approaches business problems and challenges through a ‘Never settle attitude”, he concluded. Rajiv’s insightful speech marked the progression of the event tonality to stages of success and growth. The most anticipated speaker at the event, Gaur Gopal Das, who is an Indian lifestyle coach, monk, motivational speaker and member of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON), brought his ever calming presence and aura to the forum through his humorous, simple and impactful 21-minute addressal. “When a traveller was faced with the challenge of either giving up a raft that had previously  helped him overcome a river or get stuck in the forest that lay in front of him due to the girth of the tool. He had to let go of the raft. This is much like the learnings that you accumulate through the stages of struggle and survival. The same tools might not be applicable for the next stage of super growth. Learn to let go and detach yourself from the tools of the past and set yourself up to be ready for new and unprecedented challenges that may come your way. This is the true way to success and super growth”, the charismatic monk noted to conclude the event. Motivated by the positive turnout and feedback from the audience, Success Gyan also announced its plans to host the next Super Growth Summit on September 11th, 2021. Find out more at: https://www.supergrowthsummit.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Bengal: Rebate on stamp duty along with discount can boost realty sales||The rebate on stamp duty announced by the Bengal government, if equally matched by developers by way of discount, could boost the sales of residential properties in Calcutta, experts feel. Bengal has reduced stamp duty by 2 per cent and cut circle rate — a government pre-decided rate at which a property must be registered in a given location — by 10 per cent in its budget in July. When a similar announcement was made in Maharashtra in September, many developers extended a matching rebate to make a transaction ‘free’ of stamp duty payment altogether. The end result was record breaking sales and launches. Mumbai and Pune were the top two markets for the launch of projects and sale of apartments in India in the first six months of 2021. Most of it took place during the January-March period when the 2 per cent stamp duty rebate was effective. The last quarter of 2020-21 had a better sales volume when the rebate was 3 per cent. “Developers took steps to make it a lucrative proposition in Maharashtra,” said Shishir Baijal, chairman and managing director of Knight Frank India. Bengal became the third major state after Maharashtra and Karnataka to provide a fiscal incentive by way of a stamp duty reduction. While Maharashtra, like Bengal, announced an across-the-board reduction irrespective of the price point, Karnataka kept the sop limited to the affordable segment (up to Rs 45 lakh). Baijal argued that the Calcutta market is more likely to go the Mumbai way than Bangalore where the response was mild. In H1 2021, Calcutta witnessed sales of 5,115 residential units, a 74 per cent YoY increase over H1 2020. This is largely on account of the lower base of H1 2020 due to the washout quarter of Q2 2020 during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the uptick seen from the third quarter of 2020 got  moderated in the Q2 of 2021. Harshvardhan Neotia, chairman and managing director of Ambuja Realty, said matching cuts like Mumbai, if any, will be on a case to case basis. “The sops will encourage those who have bought a property but did not register it. It will also prompt the fence-sitters to decide by October, when the rebate window closes,” he said. Sushil Mohta, chairman of Merlin Group and president of Credai Bengal, said unsold inventory in Calcutta is much less than Mumbai, suggesting less pressure on developers to sale at a discount. “Mumbai operates with higher margins. I do not see many opting for a matching cut,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry issues draft drone rules||The civil aviation ministry on Thursday issued draft drone rules to relax some of the existing norms. Under the draft rules, no pilot licence will be required for small drones (that weigh up to 2 kg) used for non-commercial use. Also, security clearance will no longer be required before issuing any registration or a licence. Further, the number of forms to be filled to operate drones in the country has been reduced to six in the draft rules compared with 25 forms mentioned in the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, the aviation ministry’s statement said. Among other measures, the draft said there would be no restriction on drone operations by foreign-owned companies registered in India. The import of drones and drone components will be regulated by the DGFT. The fee for registration and approval has been reduced to nominal levels and de-linked from the size of the drone under the draft rules. The Drone Rules, 2021, once notified, will supersede the UAS Rules, 2021, which came into force on March 12. The ministry has sought the response of citizens on the draft by August 5. The draft comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting of top ministers to discuss the formulation of a policy for the traffic management of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) or drones. The meeting was held in the aftermath of a drone attack on the Indian Air Force base in Jammu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||LIC IPO: Centre calls for Request for Proposals to appoint advisors||The government has said the initial public offer of Life Insurance Corporation would be “larger than any precedent”. The Centre on Thursday called for Request for Proposals (RFPs) to appoint merchant bankers, legal advisers, registrar & share transfer agents and advertisement agencies for the offering. “The potential size of the IPO is expected to be larger than any precedent in Indian markets. In order to achieve a successful IPO, it is the endeavour of the GoI to attract investment from institutional investors, both domestic and global, in addition to the retail investors,” said the RFQ document released by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM). The last date for the bid submission is August 5 and  bids will open on August 6. The RFQ documents have mentioned that the listing of shares of LIC on bourses  would entail a part-sale of the government’s stake in LIC. But there is no mention of the percentage of the shares to be offloaded. “The percentage of paid-up equity to be issued/divested as part of the IPO will be determined based on the post-issue capital of LIC calculated in consonance with clause 19 (2) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 (SCRR). A part of the public offering may be reserved for employees and policyholders of LIC,” the introduction to the documents mentioned. “Not more than one bid shall be submitted by one bidder or bidders having business relationship,” the official circular said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Banks reach out to Visa Worldwide after RBI crack down on Mastercard||Banks are reaching out to Visa Worldwide (Visa) after the Reserve Bank of India cracked down on Mastercard for failing to comply with its data storage norms. Lenders that had tied up with Mastercard as their principal payment system partner are now scrambling to join Visa. On Wednesday, the RBI barred Mastercard from taking on new customers — debit, credit or pre-paid — on its card network from July 22 as it had failed to comply with an April 2018 circular directing all system providers to ensure that the entire data relating to payment systems operated by them in the country “are stored in a system only in India”. The RBI had taken similar action against American Express and Diner’s Club in late April. On Thursday, RBL Bank said it had entered into an agreement with Visa to issue credit cards to its customers.  The bank will start issuing credit cards on the Visa payment network after the technology integration which is expected to take 8 to 10 weeks. “In the interim, our bank’s current run rate of approximately 100,000 new credit card issuances per month could potentially be impacted till such time that there is clarity from the regulator on issuing new credit cards on the Mastercard network or till the technical integration with Visa is complete,” RBL Bank added. It currently issues credit cards only on the Mastercard network. The private sector bank has around 30 lakh credit card customers and is the fifth largest issuer of such cards in India with a market share of around 5 per cent. However, its debit and pre-paid cards are enabled on other payment networks in addition to the Mastercard network. According to a Nomura report, RBL Bank, Yes Bank and Bajaj Finserv will be the hardest hit by RBI's action against Mastercard. The brokerage said HDFC Bank — one of the largest credit card issuers in the country — has 60 per cent of its card schemes tied to Mastercard, Amex and Diners. In the case of Axis Bank and ICICI Bank, this works out to about 35-36 per cent. “Mastercard is fully committed to our legal and regulatory obligations in the markets we operate in. Since the issuance of the RBI directive requiring on-soil storage of domestic payment transaction data in 2018, we have provided consistent updates and reports regarding our activities and compliance with the required stipulations. While we are disappointed with the stance taken by the RBI... we will continue to work with them to provide any additional details required to resolve their concerns,” Mastercard had said in a statement after the RBI action. The RBI had set an October 2018 compliance deadline for payment system providers after it issued its original circular in April that year. It said it had sent out repeated reminders to Mastercard and grew increasingly exasperated with its foot-dragging on the issue. Visa is unlikely to face regulatory action on this score as reports suggest that it has already complied with the RBI's data localisation rules. Initially, it had lobbied the banking regulator and the government along with the others seeking a relaxation of these rules. The RBI fobbed off the pressure and did not buy the argument that there was a need to establish a back-up data centre in another geography to mitigate the risk of data loss — which they had said was a standard procedure across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Wipro clocks 35.2 per cent growth in net profits in June quarter||Wipro on Thursday surpassed analyst estimates to clock a 35.2 per cent growth in net profits for the quarter ended June 2021 gaining from strong demand amid the pandemic. The Bangalore-based company posted a net profit of Rs 3,232.10 crore during the period compared with Rs 2,390.20 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Brokerages had expected the IT services firm to report net profits in the region of Rs 2,700-2,900 crore. Revenues for the quarter far exceeded the guidance made in April. Wipro had forecast revenues from its IT services business to be in the range of $2,195-2,238 million during the April-June quarter, which translated into a sequential growth of 2-4 per cent. On Thursday, it reported IT services revenues of $2,414.5 million, an increase of 12.2 per cent over the preceding three months and a 25.7 per cent jump over the year-ago period. For the quarter ended September 30, Wipro now expects the IT services business revenue to be in the range of $2,535-2,583 million, a sequential growth of 5-7 per cent. In rupee terms, its gross revenues came in at Rs 18,250 crore, an increase of 12.4 per cent over the previous quarter and a rise of 22.4 per cent over the same period of 2020-21. Thierry Delaporte, CEO and managing director of Wipro, said revenue growth on a constant currency basis during the April-June period was the best in 38 quarters. “The demand environment is robust and the overall pipeline is better than before. We continued to increase our participation in deals in the marketplace and there was a good mix of large, medium sized and smaller deals. In terms of the underlying performance, the numbers show significant traction across all markets,” he said. Wipro disclosed that during the period, it closed eight large deals, resulting in a total contract value of over $715 million. The banking, financial services & insurance (BFSI) segment showed a growth (in constant currency) of 31.3 per cent over the same period of the previous year.while manufacturing and communications rose 5 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
16-07-2021||Business||Govt says effective corpus built to pay out GST dues this year||The Narendra Modi-government appears to have hollowed out the demand for a special meeting of the GST Council to discuss the shortfall in compensation cess payable to states after asserting on Thursday that it has built an effective corpus of Rs 2.59 lakh crore to pay out the dues this year. “The sum of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the government said in a press statement on Thursday after releasing a sum of Rs 75,000 crore to the states and Union territories under a back-to-back loan facility that has been created in lieu of GST compensation. The Rs 2.59-lakh-crore corpus will comprise borrowing by the Centre of Rs 1.59 lakh crore with another Rs 1 lakh crore expected to come out of the GST compensation cess that is levied on cars, tobacco and cigarettes, pan masalas, colas and certain grades of coal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had promised to convene a special meeting of the GST Council to discuss the contentious issue of GST compensation with states like Bengal claiming that they were not receiving their promised dues. The Centre has not explicitly said that the meeting will no longer be held. But even if it were held, it will try to cut the ground from the Opposition states’ argument that they are being short paid. The GST (Compensation to States) Act guarantees all states an annual growth rate of 14 per cent in their GST revenue in the first five years of implementation of GST beginning July 2017. It was introduced as a relief for states for the loss of revenues arising from the implementation of GST. The compensation cess is supposed to end in 2022 but states have been demanding an extension with no clearly spelt out sunset date for the levy. The quibble over the compensation shortfall is now likely to exacerbate with states scrambling to make their own calculations. Bengal finance Amit Mitra on June 5  in a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the Centre need to borrow Rs 2.13 lakh crore to make good the dues to the states. The top three recipients of Thursday’s payout are: Karnataka, Rs 8,542.17 crore; Maharashtra, Rs 6,501.11 crore; and Gujarat, Rs 6,151.10 crore. Bengal was granted Rs 3,030.73 crore. GST is a destination tax which means it has it highest incidence at the end points of consumption in the retail chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-139
