17-07-2021||Business||Ola Electric gets 1 lakh bookings for upcoming e-scoters||Ola Electric on Saturday said it has received around 1 lakh bookings for its upcoming scooter within the first 24 hours of initiating the process. The company had opened booking for its electric scooter in the evening of July 15. "I am thrilled by the tremendous response from customers across India for our first electric vehicle. The unprecedented demand is a clear indicator of shifting consumer preferences to EVs. This is a huge step forward in our mission to transition the world to sustainable mobility," Ola Chairman and Group CEO Bhavish Aggarwal said in a statement. Ola claims the electric scooter would be class leading in terms of speed, range, boot space as well as technology. The company has stated that the model would be priced aggressively to make it widely accessible. Ola plans to reveal the features and price of the scooter in the coming days. The scooter will be made-in-India for the world. It would be manufactured at the company's two-wheeler factory, being built in Tamil Nadu. The first phase of the Ola Futurefactory is nearing completion and will be operationalised soon, while the full capacity of 10 million vehicles per annum will be built by next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Reliance Retail to acquire 40.95% stake in Just Dial for Rs 3,497 crore||Mukesh Ambani on Friday took another step in his inorganic growth path with Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) set to acquire a controlling stake in local search engine platform Just Dial Ltd for Rs 3,497 crore. RRVL, which is the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd, on Friday executed definitive agreements with Just Dial and its founder V.S.S. Mani and others. Consequently, Just Dial will make a preferential allotment of 2.11 crore equity shares to RRVL at Rs 1,022.25 apiece for Rs 2,165 crore. Further, the RIL subsidiary will acquire 1.3 crore equity shares from Mani at Rs 1,020 apiece for Rs 1,332 crore. It also intends to acquire up to 2.17 crore equity shares, representing 26 per cent in Just Dial, from its minority shareholders through an open offer for Rs 2,222 crore. If the open offer is successful, the total consideration would rise to Rs 5,719 crore. The preferential offer price of Rs 1,022.25 represents a discount of almost 5 per cent to the closing price of the Just Dial share on the BSE on Friday. Sources close to RIL said the acquisition will help it in its B2B and B2C initiatives and is in synergy with some of its other buyouts such as UrbanLadder last year. “Reliance is excited to partner Justdial and V.S.S. Mani, a first-generation entrepreneur, who has created a strong business through his business acumen and perseverance. The investment in Just Dial underlines our commitment to New Commerce by boosting the digital ecosystem for millions of our partner merchants, micro, small and medium enterprises. We look forward to working with the highly experienced management team of Just Dial as we expand the business going forward,” said Isha Ambani, director of RRVL. A statement from RIL said V.S.S. Mani will continue as the managing director and chief executive officer to lead Just Dial through the next phase of growth. The company added that the capital infused by RRVL will help to drive the growth and expansion of Just Dial into a comprehensive local listing and commerce platform. The investments are expected to benefit Just Dial’s existing database of around 30.4 million listings and its consumer traffic of around 129 million quarterly unique users as on March 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||India expresses concerns over high oil prices to Saudi, UAE||India has expressed its concern over high oil prices to Saudi Arabia and the UAE as it is adding to the inflationary pressure on an economy struck by the coronavirus. Petroleum minister Hardeep Puri is in talks with the UAE to press for a reduction in the rate on long-term supply contracts. Puri’s predecessor, Dharmendra Pradhan, was rebuffed by the Saudis when he had approached them for a similar cut. A day after he spoke to his UAE counterpart, Puri spoke to Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman al Saud, minister of energy of Saudi Arabia. He had on Saturday spoken to his Qatari counterpart. Puri in a tweet said he “conveyed my desire to work with Prince Abdulaziz to bring greater predictability and calm in the global oil markets, and also to see hydrocarbons become more affordable”. Favourable terms During the talks, sources said India tried to press for favourable contract terms and also to end the Asian premium charged by Riyadh. This premium is the extra the Asian countries pay to Opec even as the oil cartel sells crude to the US and Europe at a discount. State oil producer Saudi Aramco last week had set the August official selling price for the flagship Arab light crude at $2.70 a barrel, higher than the Oman/Dubai average for Asia and up 80 cents from July. However, it is selling the light crude at a  discount of $1.10 a barrel against Brent for August compared with a discount of $1.90 for July. Indian companies buy two-thirds of their purchases on term or fixed annual contracts, which ensure assured supplies but the pricing and other terms favour only the seller.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||TCG to set up petrochemicals hub in Tamil Nadu, with B. Anand as CEO||The Chatterjee Group’s long cherished dream of building a refinery-to-petrochemical complex is finally taking wings. After acquiring the crucial assets of Nagarjuna Oil Corporation Ltd in Tamil Nadu from a bankruptcy court for Rs 600 crore, TCG has appointed B. Anand as the chief executive officer to take the project forward. Anand, who will take charge from September, was the CEO of Nayara Energy, erstwhile Essar Oil. TCG will soon launch the petrochemical project at Cuddalore, 175 kilometres south of Chennai, under the leadership of Anand, a statement from TCG said. He will also head the business of developing and implementing large scale polymer projects with sustainability focus, including oil-to-polymer complexes, across India and globally, the statement added. The development comes a year after HPL acquired Lummus Technology, a leading technology provider to process industries, including petrochemical complexes, with Rhone Capital. Cuddalore project NOCL has brought in 2,158 acres of contiguous, unlitigated land under the fold of TCG with access to a port with deep draft and railway links. The initial plan will be to build a petrochemical complex to replicate the success of HPL and MCPI (formerly Mitsubishi PTA) in Bengal. These plants will initially be based on imported raw material naphtha and paraxylene to make polymer, chemical and PTA for the local and export markets. In the second phase, a crude oil refinery will be built focusing on producing naphtha and paraxylene, in contrast to the usual practice of producing fuels. TCG is said to be in talks with global majors for a strategic tie-up, which may call for $8-10 billion in phased manner. Welcoming Anand’s appointment, Purnendu Chatterjee, founder and chairman of TCG Group, said, “His understanding of the petrochemical business and vision to bring growth and synergy within the sector with best-in-class process technologies, sustainability initiatives and managing global stakeholders is something that we are aligned with and wish to drive together.” Later Anand added: “With our first petrochemical project underway soon, the promise to bring cleaner and greener solutions to the Indian sector is encouraging.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Paytm files draft papers for India's largest IPO with Sebi||One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, has filed draft papers with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) for the country’s biggest initial public offering (IPO) of Rs 16,600 crore. The company will issue fresh shares worth Rs 8,300 crore, while the existing shareholders will offload their stakes worth another Rs 8,300 crore. The company also retains the option to undertake a pre-IPO placement of Rs 2,000 crore, subject to relevant approvals. If this placement is completed, the size of the fresh issue will be reduced to that extent. At present, Coal India holds the record for India’s largest IPO of over Rs 15,199 crore in 2010. The top five shareholders of One97 Communications are ANT Financial through Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V (29.6 per cent), SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Ltd or SoftBank Vision Fund (18.3 per cent) and SAIF III Mauritius Company Ltd (12.1 per cent), Vijay Shekhar Sharma (9.6 per cent) and Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Pvt Ltd (7.2 per cent). Some of the shareholders who will sell part of their holding are Sharma, ANT Financial, Alibaba, SAIF Partners and SoftBank, the offer document showed. One97 Communications said the issue proceeds will be utilised to strengthen its payment ecosystem. The company will utilise Rs 4,300 crore to acquire and retain consumers and merchants and provide them with greater access to technology and financial services. It will invest Rs 2,000 crore in new business initiatives, acquisitions and strategic partnerships. The company had posted revenues of Rs 3,232 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 3,281 crore in the following fiscal. However, its topline came down to Rs 2,802 crore in 2020-21. Zomato offer response Zomato’s IPO got subscribed by more than 38 times on its third and final day. Zomato received bids for 2,751.25 crore shares against 71.92 crore shares on offer, stock exchange data showed. Institutional investors, who shied away in the first two days of the IPO, bid several times over the number of shares reserved for them. While qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) bid almost 52 times the quota reserved for them, non-institutional investors sought 640 crore shares against their quota of 19.43 crore. Retail investors bid 7.45 times against the 12.95 crore shares reserved for them. The portion reserved for employees was subscribed by 0.62 times. Delhivery-FedEx deal FedEx Express, a subsidiary of leading global express transportation company FedEx Corp, will invest $100 million in e-commerce logistics platform Delhivery. FedEx Express India and Delhivery have entered into equity and commercial agreements that will utilise their combined strengths to unlock India’s international trade potential. The transaction is subject to closing conditions, including regulatory approvals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Investors will get option to block securities in demat accounts: Sebi||Investors will soon have the option to block securities on their respective demat accounts for any sale transaction. In a circular issued on Friday, market regulator Sebi said the new mechanism would be available from August 1. This is linked to the early pay-in (EPI) system where a party meets the obligation before the designated due date. In such cases, margins need not be collected from the party. With the block mechanism, shares of a client intending to make a sale transaction will be blocked in the client’s demat account in favour of the clearing corporation concerned. If the sale transaction is not executed, the shares will remain in the client’s demat account and will be unblocked at the end of the trading day. The proposed facility is optional and the EPI mechanism will also continue, Sebi said. The watchdog’s latest decision comes after it received representations from clients undertaking sale transactions. Depositories and clearing corporations will have to put in place an appropriate system  to make available the block mechanism, Sebi added. The securities lying in a demat account will be blocked either by the client using the depository’s online system or eDIS mandate or through the  depository participant based on physical DIS (delivery instruction slip) given by the  client or the power of attorney (PoA) holder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
17-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India expects retail inflation to slacken in third quarter||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expects the price situation to improve in the third quarter. Retail inflation, or inflation based on the consumer rice index (CPI), stood at 6.26 per cent June which is above the 6-per-cent tolerance level of the RBI for the second month in succession with inflation at 6.3 per cent in May. With a firm crude oil price, the apprehension in the markets is that inflation is likely to stay elevated. However, the RBI in its latest monthly report on the state of the economy has pinned its hopes on the kharif crop to temper prices. The central bank said that while inflation ruled above the tolerance range during June-November 2020 and moved above the upper bound in May and June, the “sense is that inflation will persist at these elevated levels for some months before easing in the third quarter of 2021-22 when the kharif harvest arrives in markets’’. The RBI pointed out that the pick-up in inflation was driven largely by adverse supply shocks because of the disruptions caused by the pandemic. There are also specific demand-supply mismatches as in the case of protein-rich food items, edible oils and pulses, which are being addressed by supply side measures. “Elevated international commodity prices, especially of crude, are also imparting cost-push pressures. These factors should ease over the year as supply side measures take effect,” the RBI said. “Furthermore, a solid increase in aggregate demand is yet to take shape. Even with a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in 2021-22, there will be substantial slack in the economy and demand pressures may take some more time to become evident,” it observed. Higher deficit Veteran banker K.V. Kamath said on Friday that it is time for the Centre to become ‘‘brave’’ and stretch the fiscal deficit target it set for itself in this year’s budget. He said benign interest rates of under 8 per cent and abundant liquidity are also necessary to seize what he called as a 25-year growth runway opportunity awaiting the country. Kamath was speaking at an event in Mumbai organised by the IMC Chamber of Commerce. The government has targeted to get the fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent for 2021-22 in the budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-138
