19-07-2021||Business||Cryptobiz Exchange Launches Lucrative Staking Platform for Passive Crypto Investors||Cryptobiz Exchange is a state-of-the-art trading platform for novice and ace traders alike. It's seamless interface and perturbed sale/purchase as well as trading module of cryptocurrencies is all the more reason to choose it as the solution of your trading needs. With the launch of the Advanced Exchange, CryptoBiz makes its entry to the big leagues where the bigger players of the Indian cryptocurrency trading industry dominate the markets. However, CryptoBiz has an impressive portfolio of products and along with the basic buy/sell, Bulk Trading modules, CryptoBiz Exchange has launched an exciting platform for people to earn passively, without worrying about how volatile the market gets - CryptoBiz Staking. CryptoBiz Staking is yet another product from the CryptoBiz Team. With volatility in the market, ‘staking’ provides a relatively safer model for retail and bulk investors alike. CryptoBiz Staking is a medium where the users or investors can earn passively by investing or ‘staking’ a certain amount of money. Staking is a short-term activity where the duration lasts between One Week to a maximum of Four Weeks. CryptoBiz Exchange follows a versatile method where an in-house team of expert traders use their vast network and channels to trade in different markets to churn out a profit that ensures a sizable return on the investors’ staking amount. Cryptobiz has established a perturbing business model to breach the Indian premium market. The platform is curated to encourage an increasing number of people to begin investing in cryptocurrencies and become a part of the world of virtual assets. CryptoBiz is here to intervene and build a fair market in this unjust higher premium pricing. With the focus being on a secure platform and convenient user experience, the firm pledges to serve its customers with the most reliable proactive experience the market has seen. CryptoBiz Exchange has opened up registrations for its all-new Advanced Exchange with de-fi features. With iOS and Android applications expected to launch in the coming weeks, this proudly made-in-India and made-for-India platform is set to change the||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Chief Economic Adviser hopeful about economic growth||Notwithstanding the second wave of Covid-19, Chief Economic Adviser (CEA) K V Subramanian on Monday expressed hope that economic growth during the current financial year would be around 11 per cent as projected in the latest Economic Survey. He also said the overall impact of the second wave on the economy will not be very large. "We will be in that ballpark," Subramanian said when asked if the Economic Survey's target of GDP growth will be met in the backdrop of the second wave of the pandemic. The Economic Survey 2020-21, released in January this year, had projected GDP growth of 11 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022. The Survey had said growth will be supported by supply-side push from reforms and easing of regulations, push for infrastructural investments, boost to manufacturing sector through the Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes, recovery of pent-up demand, increase in discretionary consumption subsequent to rollout of vaccines and pick up in credit given adequate liquidity and low interest rates. "We will grow at a high growth rate this year. This year growth will be from the lower base but we anticipate 6.5-7 per cent growth next year FY'23 and from thereon, growth accelerating even further," he said. Growth will be aided by various structural reforms, including labour and farm laws, undertaken by the government, he said while addressing an event organised by the Indian Construction Equipment Manufacturers' Association. Recalling the various seminal reforms introduced in 1991, he said they propelled Indian economy to a high-growth trajectory. Subramanian also said future growth would take place without runaway inflation as India has removed various supply-side friction points through structural reforms during the pandemic. With regard to meeting the Budget target, he said infrastructure spending announced will be met and the finance minister exhorted various PSUs to frontload their capital expenditure plans. The Union Budget for 2021-22 has provided a capital outlay of Rs 5.54 lakh crore, an increase of 34.5 per cent over the Budget Estimate of 2020-21. The Budget estimate of capital expenditure for FY2020-21 was Rs 4.12 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Sebi, DRI probing Adani Group firms, says Minister Pankaj Chaudhury||Markets regulator Sebi and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) are probing some Adani Group companies for alleged non-compliance with rules, the government told Lok Sabha on Monday. Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary in a written reply to a question said accounts of three of the six Mauritius-based funds, that have invested most of their money in Adani Group firms, were frozen in 2016 over the issuance of Global Depository Receipt (GDR) by certain listed firms. No freeze was ordered for their holding in other firms. “Sebi is investigating some Adani Group companies with regard to compliance with Sebi regulations,” he said without giving details. “Also, DRI is investigating certain entities belonging to the Adani Group of Companies under laws administered by it,” he added. The minister did not name which of the Adani Group companies were being investigated by Sebi and DRI. He also did not elaborate on the nature of the violation. He however said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) wasn't investigating the Adani Group. Shares of port-to-energy group nosedived last month after reports that accounts of three of the six Mauritius-based funds that have invested most of their money in Adani Group firms had been frozen by the national share depository. The three funds owned about USD 6 billion of shares across the conglomerate. The Adani Group on June 14 denied the report of the freeze, calling it "blatantly erroneous". A day later it clarified that three demat accounts of Cresta Fund Ltd, Albula Investment Fund Ltd and APMS Investment Fund were "suspended for debit", adding to the confusion over the status of the offshore funds. Shares of Adani Total Gas Ltd, Adani Power Ltd, Adani Transmission, Adani Ports & Special Economic Zone , Adani Green Energy and flagship Adani Enterprises were impacted by the reports. Prior to the episode, some of Adani Group's listed stocks had soared more than six folds in value since the start of 2020. Group's billionaire founder-chairman Gautam Adani had earlier this month blamed "reckless and irresponsible" reporting for the fall. "In a matter pertaining to issuances of GDR by certain Indian listed companies, Sebi vide order dated June 16, 2016, had directed depositories to freeze particular beneficiary accounts of certain FPIs including Albula Investment Fund Ltd, Cresta Fund Ltd, and APMS Investment Fund Ltd," Chaudhary said. “But no order in respect of other beneficiary accounts of these three FPIs has been passed by Sebi,” he said. "Six companies of the Adani Group are listed and traded on recognized stock exchanges in India. The holding of Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) in these companies is based on day-to-day trading of shares and thus dynamic," he added. Gautam Adani had on July 12 stated that the diversions caused by "twisted narrative" would not impact the group in the long run. "Unfortunately, some of our small investors were affected by this twisted narrative which seemed to imply that companies have regulatory powers over their shareholders and that companies can compel disclosure," he had said. Commenting on the issue, Adani Group spokesperson said the conglomerate has always been compliant with Sebi regulations and it hasn't received any request from the market regulator recently. On the DRI probe, the spokesperson said Adani Power was show caused five years back but the investigating agency had found "no over-valuation of equipment" and the matter is before the appellate tribunal. "We have always been transparent with all our regulators and have full faith in them," the spokesperson said. "While we have always been fully compliant with applicable Sebi regulations, we have made full disclosure to SEBI on specific information requests from them in the past. However, we have not received any communication or information requests recently." With regard to the DRI matter, the spokesperson said Adani Power was issued a show-cause notice by DRI about 5 years back. "Subsequently, DRI passed an order in favour of Adani Power confirming that there is no over-valuation of equipment," the spokesperson said. "The department has approached the Tribunal and the matter stands sub judice now." It wasn't clear which department approached the tribunal and if it was to challenge the 'clean chit' over alleged over-valuation of coal imports to get higher traffic for electricity generated from it. "Adani Group is a responsible corporate citizen and strongly believes in compliance of appliable laws and adheres to prudent corporate governance framework," the group spokesperson added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Govt plans to complete LIC IPO for current fiscal year||The government plans to complete the initial public offering of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) in the current fiscal, the Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Kishanrao Karad said on Monday. The government on Thursday had invited bids to appoint merchant bankers and legal advisors for the IPO and subsequent listing of the country's largest insurer. "The Initial Public Offer (IPO) of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) is planned to be completed during the year," Karad said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. Inviting bids from merchant bankers, the Finance Ministry had said the potential size of the IPO is expected to be far larger than any previous issue. The Budget Estimate for disinvestment in 2021-22 has been set at Rs 1.75 lakh crore. So far this fiscal, Rs 7,645.70 crore has been realised as disinvestment receipts. "Several disinvestment transactions are expected to be completed during the year," Karad added. In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that strategic disinvestment of BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, among others, and IPO of LIC would be completed in 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 500 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged over 500 points in early trade on Monday, tracking heavy losses in HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid weak cues from global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 515.54 points or 0.97 per cent lower at 52,624.52 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 146.75 points or 0.92 per cent to 15,776.65.  HDFC Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank and ICICI Bank.  On the other hand, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, Titan, PowerGrid and Reliance Industries were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 18.79 points or 0.04 per cent lower at 53,140.06, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 0.80 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,923.40.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 466.30 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  "Domestic equities do not look to be inspiring as of now. Subpar June quarter performance reported by HDFC Bank during the weekend along with visible stress in asset quality can weigh on overall financials," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Asian shares fell across the board, as pessimism took hold following rising Covid-19 infections regionally and Wall Street's first weekly loss following three weeks of gains.  Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 1.16 per cent to USD 72.74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
19-07-2021||Business||Lamborghini eyeing record sales in India in 2021 ||Lamborghini India expects to post a three-digit annual sales figure by 2025. It is eyeing a positive growth in calendar year 2021 after witnessing a 30 per cent decline in sales in 2020. The Italian supercar manufacturer, which started its operations in India in 2012, had sold 52 cars in pre-pandemic 2019. “We will be back on the same growth trajectory in 2021,” Sharad Agarwal, head, Lamborghini India, told The Telegraph after the launch of the Huracan STO last week. “Year 2020 was a challenging year with impacts both on the demand and supply side. Our factory at Sant’Agata Bolognese remained shut. But we want to have a record year in 2021. In the first half of 2021, we have had more than 50 per cent sales compared with the same period of 2019. There has been a V-shaped recovery and after the second wave impact things are turning around faster,” said Agarwal, adding a note of caution that “the market is still uncertain”. Lamborghini’s growth has been largely driven by the SUV Urus, which contributes more than 50 per cent to the business. “We are delivering one Urus every week and have already delivered the 100th Urus in India,” said Agarwal. Lamborghini commanded a 20 per cent market share in 2019 in the luxury segment of cars worth Rs 2 crore and above. “The growth story for Lamborghini lies in the tier-I and tier-II cities and we are expanding in places such as Bhubaneswar, Rourkella and other such cities. Our customer base encompasses both third and fourth generation businessmen as well as startup owners in the 40-plus age group who are eager to own a Lambo as a reward for their hard-earned success,” said Agarwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Consumable items in hospital bills now available as add-ons to health insurance policies||Consumable items in hospital bills, which were out of pocket expenses a year back, are now available as add-ons to health insurance policies as policyholders feel the pinch of rising bills during the Covid pandemic. Consumables include syringes, needles, sutures, catheters, cotton, bandages, medical gloves, gowns, masks, PPE kits, sanitisers and were excluded in base health plans. However, their requirements have shot up in hospitalisation during the pandemic, prompting a few insurance companies such as Care Health Insurance, Max Bupa, Digit Insurance to explore riders covering the cost of consumables. “Consumables used to form 2-3 per cent of the total medical bill. Health insurance by default never covered consumable items and because it used to be a small percent of the overall bill, customers also did not bother. But now due to Covid, their need has gone up significantly,” said Amit Chhabra, health business head, Policybazaar.com “Share of consumables in hospital bills is now almost 15-20 per cent. This started to pinch customers. A year back none of the policies covered consumables. There are now plans which are covering consumable items. There are additional riders which the customer has to buy,” he added. Rider cost The cost of these riders is around 5 per cent of the total premium and the coverage is up to the sum insured. For example, a 35-year-old male with a base policy having a sum insured of Rs 10 lakh, will have an annual premium of around Rs 8,000 without the rider. By paying an additional amount of around Rs 400-600, one can get a policy with a rider covering consumable items (see chart). “We are seeing at the time of renewal of policies, most customers are favouring the attachment with the base plan,” Chhabra said. On the claim pay outside, policyholders with riders are getting 10-11 per cent additional amount. Chhabra said only a handful of companies have introduced such riders. However, over time more companies are likely to consider this given the demand among policyholders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Shouldn't be treated the same as Amazon, Flipkart on antitrust probe||Walmart’s Flipkart should not be treated the same as rival Amazon in the ongoing antitrust probe as the evidence against the two firms was “qualitatively different”, Flipkart argued in a court filing seen by Reuters. Both Amazon and Flipkart have challenged the Competition Commission of India (CCI) in court as they seek revocation of an Indian court’s June decision to allow an antitrust probe against them to continue. The companies deny any wrongdoing. The Indian government has called the US firms arrogant and accused them of using legal routes to stall the investigation. In final submissions made to the Karnataka high court, the Walmart unit argued that the CCI and the court have “confused the facts” between the case of Amazon and Flipkart, and overlooked that they were “fierce competitors”. To back its arguments, it said that a business agreement examined by the CCI before ordering its probe was only between Amazon and its sellers, and there was no such evidence against the Walmart unit. “The allegations before the CCI against the appellant were qualitatively different from those relating to Amazon ... The CCI should have independently examined the case against each of the two platforms,” Flipkart said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||India’s e-retail market likely to grow seven times in 10 years||India’s e-retail market will grow seven times to touch $300 billion over the next decade. The next phase of expansion will be led by e-grocery and the smaller towns, analysts at JP Morgan said in a report. According to Euromonitor, the country’s e-commerce market has grown 13 times over 2014-21 to $41 billion with 6.5 per cent penetration. “India e-tail penetration is at the lower end of its emerging market and developed peers. This provides ample opportunity to grow at a rapid pace. Indian e-tail growth was held back by lack of online shoppers in tier-II and tier-III cities as the market was dominated by saturated metro/tier-I city users,” the JP Morgan report said. The e-grocery segment could be another area contributing to its growth. Grocery is the largest category in the country’s retail market at $410 billion in 2020 and has the lowest online penetration at only 0.9 per cent. The low penetration provides the platform to become the fastest growing segment over the next 10 years, the analysts said. Covid-19 has only led to more online buying of groceries as  the shoppers were unable to step out of their homes because of lockdowns. The trend continued throughout the last year, and  shoppers now are comfortable with online purchases. The brokerage expects e-grocery to grow 28 times to $96 billion over the next decade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||IBA to move application to RBI for setting up Rs 6,000-crore bad bank||After getting a secured licence from the Registrar of Companies, the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) will soon move an application to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to set up a Rs 6,000-crore National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL) or bad bank, according to sources. With registration of the company, the process for putting an initial capital of Rs 100 crore is on according to the guidelines, the sources said, adding that the next step will be audit and then move an application to the RBI seeking licence for the asset reconstruction company. In 2017, the RBI raised the capital requirement to Rs 100 crore from the earlier level of Rs 2 crore keeping in mind higher amount of cash required to buy bad loans. Legal consultant AZB & Partners has been engaged for seeking various regulatory approvals and fulfilling other legal formalities. The initial capital would come from eight banks who have committed, and the NARCL would expand the capital base to Rs 6,000 crore subsequently after the RBI’s nod, the sources said. Other equity partners would join after the RBI’s licence and even the board would be expanded, the sources added. The IBA, entrusted with the task of setting up a bad bank, has put a preliminary board for NARCL in place. The company has hired P. M. Nair, a stressed assets expert from the State Bank of India (SBI), as the managing director. The other directors on the board are IBA chief executive Sunil Mehta, SBI deputy managing director S. S. Nair and Canara Bank’s chief general manager Ajit Krishnan Nair. Last year, the IBA made a proposal for the creation of a bad bank for swift resolution of non-performing assets. The government accepted the proposal and decided to go for an asset reconstruction company and asset management company model in this regard. Meanwhile, state-owned Canara Bank has expressed its intent to be the lead sponsor of NARCL with a 12 per cent stake. The proposed NARCL would be 51 per cent owned by PSBs and the remaining by private sector lenders. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||India and EU set to resume free trade agreement talks after 8 years||Talks with the EU on a free trade agreement are set to begin later this month after eight years with the commerce ministry scheduling a meeting among the stakeholders this week. Sources said the dates for the first few sessions with the EU representative have been set before the end of this month. The parties have agreed to launch negotiations on key issues such as market access, investment protection and geographical indications. The preliminary talks on the Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) will be based on the initial recommendations of industry groups. India's commerce ministry has asked various export promotion councils to identify items that are sensitive and need to be protected and also the ones for which they need a greater access to the EU. Apart from the export promotion councils, industry bodies such as the CII, Ficci and the FIEO, will offer their suggestions. “There are some sectors where both India and the EU had reached a consensus when they decided to put the negotiations on hold in 2014. These include reduction in tariffs in many products for example, zero for zero in case of apparels,” trade economist Arpita Mukherjee of the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) said. “It may be easier to move forward if such sectors are not opened up again for tariff discussions. Some issues that India had raised earlier like intra-EU labour mobility related issues have been addressed by a EU Directive.  This can be resolved easily.” She said “India has discontinued its bilateral investment treaties with the EU member states and hence the focus of the EU is to have a clear and transparent investment agreement. The EU may look at EU-China as a model investment agreement to be replicated with India and the Indian side needs to see whether we are ready to discuss issues like public sector enterprises, and subsidies.” “I do not think that the negotiations are less complex now and we need to be prepared for the negotiations. There are new areas of negotiations like e-commerce or public sector enterprises or carbon tax. India needs to have industry consultations and conduct research to develop a position that is beneficial for the country,” she said. As many as 16 rounds of talks were held on the BTIA between 2007 and 2013. But they hit a wall after India decided to terminate the existing bilateral investment treaties (BITs) with 23 European countries in 2016. The EU had criticised the move while asking India to keep the individual agreements in force until a new pact was signed. The Centre has maintained that all future investment pacts will be negotiated under the framework of the model BIT issued by the government in 2015. This was meant to form the basis for individual deal agreements to be negotiated with other nations. The decision to resume talks was taken at the India-EU Leaders' meet earlier in May. The EU is India’s third largest trading partner, accounting for 62.8 billion euro worth of trade in goods in 2020 or 11.1 per cent of total Indian trade, after China (12 per cent) and the US (11.7 per cent), according to the European Commission. Among European countries, the UK was the top trading partner, accounting for bilateral trade worth $12.29 billion with India in 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||PFRDA hikes pension FDI limit to 74 per cent||Foreign firms can directly or indirectly hold up to a 74 per cent stake in pension funds with the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) notifying the new revised limit. The Union cabinet had earlier increased the FDI limit from 49 per cent. The amendment to the pension fund regulations comes on the heels of the regulator opening the “on tap” window for licences to pension fund managers on June 30. Such a window allows applicants to seek a licence at any time, speeding up the entire process of setting up a business. In March this year, Parliament had given its approval to raise the FDI limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from 49 per cent. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her budget speech this year had announced the increase in the FDI limit. With the latest move of the PFRDA, the FDI limit in pension funds is aligned with that of the insurance sector. At present, more than 4.28 crore subscribers are registered under various schemes under the National Pension System (NPS) and other pension schemes of the  PFRDA, with the total assets under management (AUM) in excess of Rs.6 lakh crore as of June this year, the regulator said. LIC Pension Fund, SBI Pension Funds and UTI Retirement Solutions are the  fund managers for the public sector. For the private sector, apart from these three, there are four others: HDFC Pension Management, ICICI Prudential Pension Fund Management, Kotak Mahindra Pension Fund and Aditya Birla Sun Life Pension Management. “Opening up the pension fund sector to a higher limit of FDI is likely to foster competition and boost growth of Indian pension fund sector. Global experience of managing billions of dollars of pension fund money can now be put to use for managing Indian national pension funds,” analysts said. They said the increase in FDI  would be beneficial as several firms needed capital for their expansion. Besides, existing fund holders will be able to sell their excess stakes, while foreign companies will provide new products, technology and help to increase the reach of pensions. The regulator had recently allowed an increase in the fund management fee. The funds, charging 0.01 per cent as management fees, have been permitted to charge up to 0.09 per cent if the assets under management is less than Rs 10,000 crore. For assets from Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 50,000 crore the fees will be 0.06 per cent. It is 0.05 per cent for funds between Rs 50,000 crore and Rs 1.5 lakh crore and 0.03 per cent for funds above Rs 1.5 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Opec to hike output from August||Major oil producers reached a deal on production increases on Sunday, as the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia resolved a dispute that had blocked an agreement this month. The pact clears the way for Opec+, as the group is known, to begin pumping more oil, a move that could help ease a potential squeeze in supplies as global economies continue gearing up after pandemic lockdowns. Under the agreement, Opec+ will increase production each month by 400,000 barrels a day indefinitely, beginning in August. Opec+ last year cut production by a record 10 million barrels per day (bpd) amid a pandemic-induced slump in demand and collapsing prices. It has gradually reinstated some supply to leave it with a reduction of about 5.8 million bpd. From August till December 2021, the group will increase supply by a further 2 million bpd or 0.4 million bpd a month, Opec said in a statement. The group had agreed to extend their overall pact until the end of 2022 from an earlier planned date of April 2022, to leave more room for manoeuvre in case global recovery stalls due to new virus variants. The arrangement gives the Emirates most of the increase in its production quota that it was seeking, although not until after next April. Other countries, including Kuwait, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Russia, will also be granted increases in their production limits, according to Opec. The agreement ends a standoff between Saudi Arabia, the de facto leader of the cartel, and the Emirates, which has invested heavily in expanding its oil production and has chafed against the group’s limits on output. The pact also appears to restore Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil producer, as the dominant influence over the 23-member group. “We are here to stay,” Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, Saudi Arabia’s oil minister, said during a news conference after the group’s meeting. “What bonds us together is way beyond what you imagine.” But how long Opec+ will hold together remains to be seen. The long series of failed negotiations this month could be a harbinger of changes that may drive wedges between the different members of the group, which includes Opec along with Russia and its allies. In the short term, countries with the ability to increase production are likely to press for the freedom to pump more oil if the pandemic’s economic effect continues to ease and demand for oil rises. The environment that Opec has long operated in is also changing. The organisation’s calculation has been that seeking higher prices by restraining production was a smart strategy because there would always be demand for the vast resources its members still have in the ground. Climate change has upset that business strategy. The deadly floods in Europe this week are just the latest weather catastrophe prompting lawmakers to call for more stringent rules on greenhouse gas emissions. Falling prices Crude oil prices have been falling over the past week because the markets were expecting a deal among the cartel members. Brent crude was last trading at $73.14 and West Texas Intermediate at $71.56. Earlier this month, oil prices had spiked, hitting a six-year high on July 6, after Opec+ failed to reach an agreement, underscoring concerns about rising gas prices and inflation in general in the US and elsewhere. In India, fuel prices are likely to fall bringing some relief to consumers. India’s new oil minister Hardeep Puri had called his Saudi, UAE and Qatari counterparts seeking price relief. This is likely to materialise now. The PSU fuel retailers have been consistently raising prices since May after the state elections were over, and petrol prices have now crossed the Rs100-mark in all the metros. New York Times News Service with inputs from Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
19-07-2021||Business||Opt out of Dividend plans and choose growth options||“One day everything will be well, that is our hope. Everything’s fine today, that is our illusion” —Voltaire Three months ago the securities regulator decided to repurpose the dividend payout option in mutual funds. Dividend has since been rechristened “income distribution cum capital withdrawal” (IDCW), an act that provides little by way of succour to ordinary investors. IDCW, which essentially cottons on to the idea of distribution, may seem to certain quarters as a move that has effectively ended an age-old practice. The concept of dividend, especially the kind that is tax-efficient, carried a definite appeal in the past. That scenario, however, has changed beyond recognition. Dividends, in the real world, happen to be a function of financial gains. Thus, in the case of a corporate enterprise, dividends are generally an apportionment of profits. When no profit is recorded during a certain period, it is typically not possible to declare dividend for the same. The theory applies by and large to investment vehicles like mutual funds as well. The regulator’s proposal on income distribution is based on the need for realism. In its earlier avatar — that is, dividend — an investor did receive his largesse by means of a payout. The latter, in many cases, was not really a slice of the cake. The practice, in fact, harked back to an era when dividend options were actively marketed to investors by eager intermediaries. “Dividend stripping”, as older investors will no doubt recall, represented a complete sub-culture in a manner of speaking. All this happened for quite a long stretch of time, despite the clear and obvious side-effect that became evident on every occasion — a decline in the fund’s valuation on the record date. Such a decline was of little help insofar as the average investor is concerned. In other words, the classical dividend offered nothing else but the satisfaction it spawned somewhere deep inside the investor’s mind. Cut to the present day, the new avatar is also not the most perfect solution for an investor who truly wants financial gains. That is because the repurposed tool is merely a distribution of income. Seen from another angle, it appears as a withdrawal of capital too. It serves nothing — neither as a distribution nor as a withdrawal. Keeping this in mind, I wish to recommend two solutions for discerning investors: Growth plan over IDCW A smart investor will quickly realise that IDCW is not quite relevant in the current context. The correct action, therefore, is to take is to avoid this option altogether and select growth instead. The latter essentially lets his money stay in a fund in the hope that it will appreciate over a period of time. This is the dedicated investor’s truest objective. He is, after all, keen to bet on the fund manager’s skill and efficiency, assuming it is an actively managed product. “Investor, pay yourself”, is the preferred dictum in this case. In other words, the unit holder concerned can work out withdrawals whenever necessary. Such withdrawals can be need-based — perhaps an emergency looming large. These may also coincide with the fulfilment of basic investment objectives — perhaps a tipping point has been reached when the investor feels the need to liquidate part of the holdings. Achievement of a pre-set profit target, for instance, can act as a trigger. All this, of course, means that he must take into account at least two vital factors — exit loads and tax implications. In a typical case concerning an equity fund, an exit load is charged if withdrawal is effected before the completion of one year of allotment. Further, gains recorded from such a move are added to the total income generated by the investor. Taxability is a serious issue at all points of time. Start an SWP Systematic withdrawals (like systematic investments and systematic transfers) can also be a way forward for many investors. An SWP is a convenient technique; an investor can execute it quite easily. There is great merit in effecting withdrawals in a methodical, organised manner. A uniform amount of money can be withdrawn every month from a fund on a pre-determined day. The investor has to set up the SWP to make sure that his bank account is credited regularly with this amount. A withdrawal represents redemption of a certain number of units. SWPs have achieved a decent level of acceptance in recent years, thanks to the practice actively followed by a section of the market. Changing preferences Recent numbers suggest that the concept of dividend has already lost its charm, a trend that may impact IDCW. Dividends do not have their tax leverage any more. A payout that gives an investor a portion of his own capital is not a payout at all in the strict sense of the term. The idea of gaining or profiting is missing here. At any rate, investors will not like the idea of additional taxability. At this stage, I am not quite sure how IDCW will be viewed by the market in the days to come. As a concept, “distribution of surplus” can still work, provided investors get convinced about its efficacy. The securities regulator has mandated a segregation and disclosure of two important concerns — appreciation in NAV and equalisation reserve. Such disclosure should be reflected in the consolidated account statement provided to investors. This underlines what can be termed as positive regulatory intent. I hope the market watchdog backs this up with adequate communication. The writer is director, Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-137
