20-07-2021||Business||Tax reduction, pandemic-driven cost cuts buoys India Inc net by 105% in FY21: Report||The steep corporate tax cut in 2019 and pandemic-driven cost-cutting boosted the bottomline of India Inc by 105 per cent in FY21 over FY20, even though the topline declined 5 per cent, according to a report. This also had 4,000 listed companies paying record corporate tax, a net increase of over Rs 50,000 crore in FY21 to Rs 1.90 lakh crore, from around Rs 1.40 crore in FY20, an analysis by SBI Research showed on Tuesday. The government had slashed the effective corporate tax rate from 35 to 26 per cent in September 2019, coupled with lower expenses due to the pandemic, has boosted their bottomline to record levels in FY21, the report said without citing the actual profit numbers. For these companies, average revenue fell only 5 per cent in FY21, but their net income grew by 105 per cent over FY20, the report said without quantifying it. The tax cut has contributed 19 per cent to the topline of these companies during the pandemic with cement, tyre and consumer durables gaining in excess of 50 per cent, it added. More importantly, 15 sectors led by refineries, steel, fertilisers, textiles, pharma, IT, mining, etc reduced their loan funds in the range of 6-64 per cent or to the tune of Rs 2.09 lakh crore in FY21, which again boosted their bottomline. Carrying on the benefit of cost cuts, arising from lower expenses by way of salary cuts (3 per cent overall for these 4,000 companies in the name of the pandemic), have come as a blessing in disguise for the government in FY22 as corporate tax mop-up in the first two months of the fiscal is the best in two decades at Rs 43,454 crore, up from Rs 16,981 crore in FY20, and Rs 1,126 crore in FY19, according to Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India. The first two months of FY22 saw the fiscal deficit at just Rs 1.2 lakh crore, only about a third of what the government has been borrowing on average at Rs 3.5 lakh crore during the same period in FY19 and FY20. The deficit reduction was on the back of higher overall tax revenue of Rs 1 lakh crore, he noted and expects the government to comfortably meet its tax revenue goals this fiscal if the tax buoyancy is maintained, which is more likely given that corporate profits are on record highs. The low-interest-rate regime has also helped companies massively deleverage, which has contributed to an average of 5 per cent to their overall topline, especially for the consumer durables, healthcare and cement sectors. For many sectors -- including engineering, reality, automobiles and trading -- the effective tax rate reduction ranged from 1 to 24 percentages in FY21. For the realty sector, it was down to 26 from 50 per cent, for automobiles it is down from 36 per cent to 33 with the least gain for FMCGs and packaging wherein it is down by only 100 bps each. Expenditure cut contributed 31 per cent to topline with most companies finding new ways to navigate the pandemic, with apparel and refineries cutting costs by 107 per cent on an average.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
20-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 355 points in closing trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 355 points on Tuesday, weighed by losses in HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Bharti Airtel amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 354.89 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 52,198.51, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 120.30 points or 0.76 per cent to 15,632.10. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech, ICICI Bank, M&M and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Asian Paints rallied over 6 per cent, followed by UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Auto, HUL and Nestle India. Domestic equities extended losses as weak global cues and continued selling pressure in financials dragged benchmark indices, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. He noted that barring FMCG and IT, most key sectoral indices contracted, with financials, metals and realty witnessing steep correction. "Strong earnings from Asian Paints during trading hours aided stock to sharp upmove, he said, adding that midcap and smallcap stocks also witnessed heavy selling pressure as weak global trend led investors to book profits. On the global front, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses, while equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.35 per cent to USD 68.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
20-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 200 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and HCL Tech amid intense selloff in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 201.61 points or 0.38 per cent lower at 52,351.79 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 58.45 points or 0.37 per cent to 15,693.95. HCL Tech was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel, M&M, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Asian Paints, PowerGrid and Nestle India were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex tumbled 586.66 points or 1.10 per cent to close at 52,553.40, and Nifty slumped 171 points or 1.07 per cent to 15,752.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,198.71 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. The 725 points cut in the Dow on Monday - the worst in 2021 - is a reflection of the risk-off in markets globally, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "Different reasons are attributed to this correction: The rising COVID cases in the US and the UK due to the delta variant, inflation concerns, and concerns about growth coming below consensus expectations. "It may be all these. The fact is that at high valuations when investors are sitting on big profits, any fear can trigger profit booking and corrections," he stated. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with heavy losses in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street too ended with massive losses in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.16 per cent to USD 68.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
20-07-2021||Business||HCL posts 9.9% rise in consolidated net profit for June quarter||IT firm HCL Technologies on Monday posted a 9.9 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,214 crore for the June 2021 quarter, and said it expected double-digit growth in constant currency revenue in 2021-22 on the back of strong deal pipeline. Shiv Nadar has stepped down as the managing director and board member of the company, a year after handing over the reins of the IT major to his daughter, Roshni Nadar Malhotra. C. Vijayakumar, president and CEO of the company, will take on the role of managing director with a title of CEO and MD for a term of five years with effect from July 20. The IT major had registered a net profit of Rs 2,925 crore in the April-June 2020 quarter (according to US GAAP). Its revenue grew 12.5 per cent to Rs 20,068 crore in the quarter under review  from Rs 17,841 crore in the corresponding period last year. Indian Bank Indian Bank expects its corporate credit demand to improve with the bank estimating a disbursement pipeline of Rs 20,000 crore over the next two quarters. The bank’s advances to corporate houses at the end of June 2021 stood at Rs 1,59,011 crore, down 3 per cent over the corresponding previous period. Managing director and CEO Padmaja Chunduru on Monday said that the Covid pandemic and deleveraging by corporate houses have slowed down corporate credit offtake. “But there are proposals that are coming in,” she said. The bank posted a net profit of Rs 1,182 crore for the June quarter, a growth of 220 per cent over Rs 369 crore a year ago. Net interest income grew 3 per cent to Rs 3,994 crore from Rs 3,874 crore a year ago. ACC profit doubles Cement maker ACC has reported an over two-fold jump in net profit at Rs 569.45 crore for June quarter of 2021 against Rs 270.95 crore a year ago, helped by a lower base, increase in sales and cost efficiency. HDFC Life net declines HDFC Life has reported a 33 per cent decline in its net profit at Rs 302 crore in the June quarter against Rs 451 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
20-07-2021||Business||Bengal opposes Andrew Yule’s shut down of Calcutta electrical division||The Mamata Banerjee government has strongly opposed Andrew Yule’s decision to close down the electrical division located in Calcutta and hand over early retirement to the employees attached to it. Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee wrote to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal expressing the state’s anguish over the decision of the central PSU. Chatterjee, who had worked in Andrew Yule before joining active politics, requested that the company continue with full fledged operations from the city units. Reminding Goyal about the nationalisation of Yule in 1974 and the PSU receiving an award from the Centre for a turnaround in 2011, Chatterjee said the closure would hurt its  iconic stature and deprive workers of their livelihood. There are about 500 people, direct and contractual, attached to the two units of the electrical division based in Khidderpore. “It would also send a disheartening signal to all employees and industry leaders involved in the turnaround. I would request you to consider the continuation of the company in its full fledged role and all its operations may be continued as usual from the Calcutta-based units,” Chatterjee wrote on June 23. Six days later Goyal replied to Chatterjee saying the letter had been “sent to the division concerned for consideration and necessary action as per rules”. However, the Yule management told the unions on Monday that the company plans to go ahead with closure of the Calcutta as well as Chennai electric divisions. The company is yet to get a nod from the Union ministry of heavy industries. The union suggested that Yule bosses should write to the Bengal government to increase offtake of transformers and other electrical items produced by the division to make the loss making unit viable. Meanwhile, minister Chatterjee said the Bengal government welcomed any investment from Tata Group in the state. “We are looking for one or two big-ticket investments,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
20-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court to pass orders on applications filed by Vodafone, Airtel and Tata on dues||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would pass orders on the applications filed by telecom players Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Tele Services Ltd raising the issue of alleged errors in the calculation of their dues that are linked to their adjusted gross revenues. The apex court in September last year had given 10 years to the telecom players struggling to pay Rs 93,520 crore of AGR-related dues. A bench headed by Justice L.N. Rao referred to the earlier order passed by the apex court in the matter and observed that they said no re-assessment of AGR related dues can be done. However, the companies submitted that arithmetical errors can be rectified and there are cases of duplication of entries. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Vodafone on Monday submitted the operators were not “raising any contentious issue, not asking for a review”. “There are arithmetic errors in AGR... if I have paid Re 1, only 50 paisa is reflected. There are cases where third check isn’t reflected,” Rohatgi said pleading that Vodafone should be allowed to place these details before the DoT. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, appearing for Airtel, said there are cases of duplication and also of payments made but not accounted for. He said these issues should be considered by the DoT. “I don’t want to pay thousands of crores on account of these errors,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
20-07-2021||Business||Lenders approve resolution plan of Reliance Commercial Finance||Lenders led by Bank of Baroda (BoB) have approved the resolution plan of Reliance Commercial Finance (RCF) and have selected non-banking finance company Authum Investment and Infrastructure Ltd as the successful bidder. RCF is a wholly owned subsidiary of Reliance Capital Ltd. Authum had made a bid of a little over Rs 1,600 crore, which will translate to a haircut of around 80 per cent for the lenders. Reliance Commercial Finance had an estimated debt of around Rs 9,000 crore. However, the lenders will get an additional cash and cash equivalent of over Rs 250 crore, thus improving their recovery. This is the second Anil Ambani group firm in which Authum has emerged as the winner. Last month, a consortium of lenders led by BoB had cleared its proposal to acquire Reliance Home Finance as part of the resolution process. PNB Housing Finance The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Monday reserved its order in the dispute related to PNB Housing Finance’s Carlyle deal. The housing finance company had filed an appeal against the Sebi order which had asked the company to put on hold its Rs 4,000-crore deal with Carlyle group. Sebi had said the preferential allotment was ultra-vires of the articles of association of the firm and that it should undertake a valuation of shares as prescribed under Section 19(2) of its AOA, for preferential allotment. Videocon takeover In another unrelated development, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Monday stayed the takeover of Videocon Industries by Anil Agarwal’s Twin Star Technologies. A two-member bench headed by its officiating chairperson Justice A.I.S. Cheema stayed the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal on June 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
20-07-2021||Business||Some Adani group companies under scan for non-compliance||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) are probing some Adani group companies for non-compliance with rules, the government told Parliament on Monday. In a written reply to a question raised by Trinamul MP Mohua Moitra, minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary spoke of the probe but did not provide details on the nature of the violations or which firms were being probed by Sebi. The TMC MP had sought details on the ultimate beneficial ownership of FPIs in the Adani group firms and whether any investigation was being done by agencies either on the foreign investors or on Adani group companies. She also sought a clarification on whether the depository accounts of three FPIs were frozen. “In a matter pertaining to issuances of GDR by certain Indian listed companies, Sebi vide order dated June 16, 2016, had directed depositories to freeze particular beneficiary accounts of certain FPIs, including Albula Investment Fund, Cresta Fund and APMS Investment Fund Ltd,” Chaudhary said. He added that no order for any other beneficiary accounts of the three FPIs have been passed by the market watchdog. “Six firms of the Adani group are listed and traded on recognised bourses in India. The holding of FPIs is based on day-to-day trading of shares and thus dynamic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
20-07-2021||Business||Centre: No plan for Covid-19 bonds to raise fiscal resources||The Centre on Monday said it has no plans to come up with Covid-19 bonds to raise fiscal resources amidst suggestions on such bonds by experts. “The government does not plan to raise fiscal resources through borrowings by issuing Covid bonds,” minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary said in the Lok Sabha on Monday to a written question. Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar earlier this month had said “well give it whatever name you like, the point is that if the government needs to borrow more money for expanding capital expenditure, it could go ahead because that will attract more private investments”. Former RBI governor D. Subbarao had also proposed Covid bonds. He said the bonds could provide relief to savers “who are short-changed by the low-interest rates on bank fixed deposits”. PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI) had also suggested the government should issue special Covid bonds to raise funds for providing stimulus. “The issuance of special Covid bonds could be an appropriate substitute to market borrowings by the government,” it said. Oil price The Opec+ pact to raise output will have little effect on fuel prices in the country. Unless the Modi government blinks on duties, consumers are unlikely to get any relief, analysts said. Government revenues ballooned 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the last fiscal from petrol and diesel excise duties. The benchmark Brent on Monday dropped 6.31 per cent to $68.63 per barrel following the agreement among the members of the oil cartel. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist of CARE Ratings, said for every $5-per-barrel drop in Brent price the final price of petrol will come down by Rs 3.58 per litre. “Quite clearly the government has to give in somewhere if we want to reduce the price significantly to have an impact on price and overall inflation. We do not believe that this will be too beneficial for us.” Vivad se Vishwas Over 1.32 lakh declarations entailing disputed tax of Rs 99,765 crore have been filed under the “Vivad se Vishwas” dispute resolution scheme, Parliament was informed on Monday. The declarations  cover around 28.73 per cent of the pending direct tax disputes. The total number of pending tax disputes as on the eligibility date was 5,10,491.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
20-07-2021||Business||Benchmark indices end deep in the red||Benchmark indices on Monday ended deep in the red as a renewed surge in Covid cases and disappointing numbers from HDFC Bank weighed on investor sentiment. The Sensex plunged 587 points and the Nifty 171 points, tracking weak global cues as the US, the UK, Australia and Japan reported a fresh rise in Covid cases. Stock markets and currencies in Asia saw heavy losses as some countries in the region tightened curbs to tackle a highly contagious Delta variant-fuelled surge of infections that sparked a sell-off in risky assets. The Indian rupee dropped to its lowest level in three months on Monday, in line with other Asian currencies. The rupee ended at 74.87/88 per dollar, compared with its close of 74.56 on Friday. The currency fell 0.4 per on the day, its biggest single-day fall since June 17. “The bias of risk appetite is gradually turning towards riskoff as markets evaluate the impact of a resurgence in Covid19 cases worldwide against a backdrop of escalating inflation environment and emergence of US-China tensions,” said Upasna Bharadwaj, economist at Kotak Mahindra Bank. In India, investors who had seen good results from IT services firms, received a jolt last Saturday when HDFC Bank failed to meet analyst estimates. The deterioration in its asset quality during the first quarter led to concerns that other banks may also see similar pressure, leading to selling in financials. Foreign portfolio investors sold stocks worth Rs 2,199 crore on Monday. The 30-share Sensex began the day on a weak note at 52606.99 and fell 734.77 points to the day’s low of 52405.89. It finally closed down 586.66 points, or 1.10 per cent, at 52553.40, while the Nifty fell 171 points, or 1.07 per cent, to 15752.40. Siddhartha Khemka, head of retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, feels it would be a tough fight between the “bulls and bears” in the coming days and one needs to remain watchful of possible movement in either direction. IPO gains Shares of speciality chemical manufacturer Clean Science and Technology Ltd zoomed over 76 per cent in debut trade to close at Rs 1,585.20 on Monday against its issue price of Rs 900. The stock opened at Rs 1,784.40, a premium of 98.26 per cent. Shares of GR Infraprojects also made a strong debut on Monday, closing the day at Rs 1,746.80, a premium of nearly 109 per cent against the issue price of Rs 837.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-136
