21-07-2021||Business||Deepak Parekh sees patchy economic recovery||HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh on Tuesday  said the effect of the second wave of the Covid pandemic on the Indian economy will be similar to the trend seen in the previous fiscal when the first half was weak and the second half was significantly stronger. Parekh was addressing shareholders of HDFC at its 44th annual general meeting. Parekh feels the unpredictability of Covid 19 will remain a key challenge even though India’s macro-economic fundamentals are strong and recovery is underway. “The key challenge remains the unpredictability of virus. The world is still susceptible to recurring waves of infections. Thus, economic recovery will remain uneven and patchy,’’ he said. ‘Skin in the game’ rule Parekh had recently sought some changes to the market regulator’s ‘skin in the game’ norms for mutual funds announced in April. The original  date for the rules to be effective have been deferred to October 1 from July 1 but mutual funds are pretty spooked. Sebi had announced that a part of the compensation (20 per cent) for key employees must be paid in the form of units of the scheme which they manage directly or are under their purview. Parekh said Sebi ought to offer greater flexibility to employees to select the set of schemes they would want to invest in based on their own risk profile within this limit of 20 per cent. He observed that the regulation does not exist even in the developed world. “I hope that they (developed countries) follow us when it comes to regulatory environment,’’ he said at the shareholders meeting of HDFC AMC. Fund houses are worried about the exodus of talent, particularly at the mid-level. Funds, therefore, want a relaxation in the eligible employees who could come under the new rule and also a reduction in the 20 per cent limit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
21-07-2021||Business||Vikram Solar sets up a 1.3GW solar photovoltaic module plant in Tamil Nadu||City-based solar module manufacturer — Vikram Solar — on Tuesday said it has set up a 1.3GW (Gigawatt) solar photovoltaic module plant at Indospace Industrial Park, Oragadam, Tamil Nadu. The capital investment for the initial phase of the plant is Rs 200 crore. With the new unit, the company’s cumulative PV module manufacturing capacity will reach 2.5GW, including its existing 1.2GW facility at Falta in Bengal. The plant will help to manufacture advanced high-efficiency bi-facial & smart modules. Proximity to the seaport will make transportation cost effective. The company plans to expand further in Chennai. “We are looking at a complete integrated play where we can insource many of the components required for solar modules. The total outlay would be about Rs 5,000 crore, including debt and equity, put together over five years,” said Saibaba Vutukuri, CEO of Vikram Solar. The expansion comes at a time the safeguard duty of 25 per cent on solar cell imports is due to end this month. The levy protected domestic manufacturers against imports, particularly from China. “Safeguard duty is sunsetting at the end of this month. It will definitely impact the manufacturers but considering the strong order book, we should be able to mitigate this,” said Gyanesh Chaudhary, managing director, Vikram Solar. Chaudhary added that the introduction of customs duty on imported solar cells and modules was a good start towards creating a domestic manufacturing ecosystem, but may not be sufficient to ward off Chinese imports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
21-07-2021||Business||Stocks close lower, led by losses in banking and metal stocks||Stocks closed lower on Tuesday, led by losses in banking and metal stocks amid a selloff in the global markets sparked by a surge in the Delta variant of the coronavirus. The BSE Sensex closed down 0.68 per cent at 52198.51, while the NSE Nifty fell 0.76 per cent to 15632.10 . The Nifty Bank Index was a major drag, down 1.89 per cent, with HDFC Bank, IndusInd, ICICI Bank and AU Small Finance Bank among the losers. Metal and realty also ended down at 2.34 per cent and 2.53 per cent, respectively. European shares bounced back from their worst day of the year on Tuesday, but Asian stocks were down, as the fast-spreading Delta variant raised fears that further lockdowns could upend global economic recovery. On Monday, the 30-share gauge had tumbled by 587 points on these factors. Market circles feel stocks are likely to remain under pressure even as investors will focus on India Inc’s results. The Sensex on Tuesday opened lower at 52432.88 and hit an intra-day low of  52013.51 — a drop of 539.89 points — and later closed down 354.89 points at 52198.51. “Bears dominated D-street following overnight selling in global markets. A sharp fall in crude prices and US bond yields reflected the rising concern over a fall in future growth. Vulnerability from premium valuations, the upcoming FOMC meeting and selling by foreign investors exposed the Indian market. However, western markets attempted to recover from the selloff which provided some comfort to the domestic market but the selling continued,’’ Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said. Gaurav Udani, CEO & founder, ThincRedBlu Securities, warned that a further fall below 15600 can take the Nifty to 15400 levels. Meanwhile, the rupee reversed early losses to close 27 paise higher at 74.61 against the dollar on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Pension fund managers to be allowed to invest in initial public offerings||Pension fund managers (PFMs) will soon be allowed to invest in initial public offerings, and also in a broader list of stocks, a top official from sector regulator PFRDA said on Tuesday. The Pension Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) is aiming to increase the number of subscribers looking to build a retirement corpus by 1 crore in 2021-22, its chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay told reporters. At present, there are restrictions under which PFMs can invest the equity component of a corpus only in scrips traded on the options and futures segment with a market cap of over Rs 5,000 crore. Officials said this restricts the opportunities for fund managers, who have been able to deliver a compounded annual growth rate of 11.31 per cent on equity investments since the beginning of the new pension scheme. They pointed out Avenue Supermarkets as a case in point, where PFMs were not able to enter because of the restrictions. “In two or three days, we will be notifying new rules which take a more liberal view on categories where equity investments can be made,” Bandyopadhyay said. There will be some specifications which will be brought in to reduce the risk associated with equity investments, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Finance minister seeks Parliament approval to spend Rs 1.87 lakh crore as gross additional expenditure||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday sought Parliament’s approval to spend Rs 1.87 lakh crore as gross additional expenditure. Of this, the actual cash outgo will only be Rs 23,675 crore, or 12.6 per cent, as the remaining Rs 1.64 lakh crore will be met through savings and higher receipts and recoveries. A sum of Rs 17,000 crore has been earmarked for the health ministry in the current financial year, according to the first batch of supplementary demands for grants tabled in the Lok Sabha. A substantial chunk of the total gross spending is towards transfer to states for shortfall in GST compensation cess. An amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore will be transferred to the states as back-to-back loans in lieu of the GST compensation shortfall. However, this will not involve any cash outgo. “As the back-to-back loans are to be met from equivalent capital receipts, the expenditure will not entail additional cash outgo,” the supplementary demands for grants said. Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said, “It appears that the outgo of more than Rs 90,000 crore for the free foodgrain provision in May-November 2021 is being absorbed by the cushion created in this year’s budget on account of the prepayment of the FCI’s loans to the NSSF (National Small Savings Fund) in 2020-21.” “With healthy revenues amid a modest increase in the expenditure outlay, the cash flow position of the government appears to be quite comfortable, which allowed the release of Rs 75,000 crore of GST compensation loans from the Centre’s own borrowings. However, the pending GST compensation for the April 2020-March 2021 period has been pegged at a sizable Rs 81,179 crore. “The financing options for the pending dues remain unclear. The balance Rs 84,000 crore of back-to-back loans related to the GST compensation gap appear likely to be raised in the second half of FY22 as part of the GoI’s borrowing calendar,” Nayar added. ADB forecast The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has downgraded India’s economic growth forecast for the current financial year to 10 per cent on Tuesday, from 11 per cent projected earlier this year, mainly on account of the adverse impact of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Tata Motors to raise up to Rs 500 crore through issue of securities||Tata Motors on Tuesday said its board has approved a proposal to raise up to Rs 500 crore through the issue of securities on a private placement basis. The company will issue up to 5,000 rated, listed, unsecured, redeemable, non-convertible debentures (NCDs) E30-B Series of face value of Rs 10,00,000 each, aggregating up to Rs 500 crore. However, Tata Motors did not share the details of how it will use the capital. The Tata Motors shares ended lower by 2.15 per cent, or Rs 6.65, at Rs 302.05 apiece on the BSE on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
21-07-2021||Business||Swiggy closes $1.25-billion funding rounded led by SoftBank and Prosus||Food delivery platform Swiggy on Tuesday announced that it has closed a $1.25-billion funding round led by SoftBank Vision Fund 2 and its long-term investor Prosus. After the funding, Swiggy will be valued at around $5.5 billion (Rs 41,125 crore). The development comes at a time rival Zomato is set to list on the bourses with a valuation of Rs 64,365 crore. Its initial public offering (IPO), which concluded last week, was subscribed over 38 times. Indian start-ups continue to see strong interest from private equity players and have raised $12 billion in the first six months of this calendar year, according to Venture Intelligence. For Swiggy, the funding will give it more firepower to take on Zomato and grow its non-food business. A statement from Swiggy said this will be the first investment in the Indian food delivery category by SoftBank Vision Fund 2. Besides Prosus, other existing investors such as Accel Partners and Wellington Management participated in the funding round. Swiggy added that the latest fundraise was heavily subscribed following strong interest from investors and it follows the start-up’s rapid recovery from the impact of Covid-19 and subsequent growth in 2020-21. “The participation of some of the most visionary global investors is a huge vote of confidence in Swiggy’s mission and ability to build an enduring and iconic company out of India,’’ Swiggy CEO Sriharsha Majety said while commenting on the development. Majety added that the scope of food delivery in India is massive and over the next few years, Swiggy will continue to invest aggressively in growing this category. “Our biggest investments will be in our non-food businesses that have witnessed tremendous consumer love and growth in a short span, especially in the past 15 months of the pandemic,” he said. Swiggy has diversified from food delivery to pick-up and drop through its “Swiggy Genie” facility where customers can get items such as over-the-counter medicines, home food, documents and items from the supermarket, stationery and pet shops. It is also bullish on e-grocery delivery from its Instamart offering Speaking to a television channel, the Swiggy CEO said the company was also considering an IPO but added that there was nothing “actionable” just now. The latest round of investment is expected to accelerate Swiggy’s multi-year strategy of growing its core food delivery business and building new food and non-food segments in 2021 and beyond. The company plans to enhance its capabilities in technology and artificial intelligence and strengthen teams across engineering, product, data science and analytics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-135
