22-07-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 639 points in closing trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 639 points on Thursday, propelled by index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 638.70 points or 1.22 per cent higher at 52,837.21, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 191.95 points or 1.23 per cent to 15,824.05. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finserv, L&T, Tata Steel and Infosys. On the other hand, HUL, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto and M&M were the laggards. According to Milind Muchhala, Executive Director, Julius Baer, Indian markets have made a smart pull-back, supported by the positive global set-up and a decent start to the Q1FY22 earnings season. "Markets are clearly rewarding the stocks/sectors where the earnings momentum is strong (such as IT - especially midcap IT, cement, metals) or where growth visibility remains good (such as chemicals, healthcare, etc.). Moreover, with the flurry of IPOs, which are seeing a very healthy response from investors, the related sectors are seeing interest due to benchmark valuations. Also with the headline index remaining steady at elevated levels, the broader market (Midcaps/Smallcaps) continues to witness a lot of excitement/participation," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with strong gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 1 per cent to USD 72.95 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
22-07-2021||Business||Financial bids for Air India likely to be received by September 15, says Aviation Minister||Financial bids for Air India are likely to be received from qualified interested bidders (QIBs) by September 15 this year, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Thursday. The Centre had invited Expression of Interests (EoIs) for Air India on January 27, 2020. The last date of submission -- after multiple extensions due to COVID-19 pandemic -- of EoIs was December 14, 2020. "Multiple EoIs were received by Transaction Advisor. The EoIs were evaluated by the Transaction Advisor for selection of QIBs. Request for Proposal (RFP) along with draft Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) have been shared with QIBs by the Transaction Advisor on March 30, 2021, for submission of financial bids," Singh stated. "The financial bids are likely to be received by September 15, 2021," he added in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. The Centre has not revealed the names of QIBs as yet. Of the airline's total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle, stated the EoI floated in January 2020. Singh told Lok Sabha on Thursday: "Monetization proceeds of non-core assets of Air India are to be used to offset the debt of Air India transferred to AIAHL." Currently, Air India has been trying to sell a couple of its properties to reduce its debt. The reserve prices of Air India's properties were fixed by the airline's Oversight Committee as the highest value received from three valuers, the minister stated. "The Oversight Committee approved 10 per cent reduction in the reserved prices of 16 properties after previous attempts to auction the properties failed to attract bidders," Singh noted. The Centre had announced in October 2020 that the bidding for Air India would be done based on enterprise value instead of equity value. Enterprise value of a company includes the equity value, debt as well as cash with the company. Equity value measures the value of a company's shares. The Centre had said in October 2020 that whatever enterprise value the bidder quotes, minimum 15 per cent of that has to be given in cash to the government and remaining value has to be taken as debt along with Air India. After its unsuccessful attempt to sell Air India in 2018, the government in January last year restarted the divestment process and invited bids for selling 100 per cent of its equity in the state-owned airline, including Air India's 100 per cent share holding in Air India Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. In 2018, the government had proposed to off load 76 per cent equity share capital of the national carrier as well as transfer the management control to private players. However, the offer failed to attract any bidder when the deadline for initial bids closed on May 31, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
22-07-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 444.17 points or 0.85 per cent higher at 52,642.68 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 129.15 points or 0.83 per cent to 15,761.25. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, HUL, ICICI Bank and Infosys. On the other hand, Asian Paints, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex ended 354.89 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 52,198.51, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 120.30 points or 0.76 per cent to 15,632.10. Stock markets were closed on Wednesday on account of Bakri Id'. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,834.96 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities are likely to see some amount of recovery during the day. "Selling pressure especially in financials due to concerns over asset quality dragged the market in the last couple of days. Further, mounting concerns over global growth due to recent rise in delta variant coronavirus cases in different parts of the world have weighed on sentiments. "However, we continue to believe that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact and therefore any meaningful correction in the market should be taken as an opportunity to get in quality stocks," he stated. On the global front, US equities recovered sharply in the last two days as strong earnings reported by corporates and buy-on-dips in an improving economy trend overshadowed concerns with regards to spread of delta plus variants in various parts of the world, Modi added. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.40 per cent to USD 71.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
22-07-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries Ltd promoters to plough Rs 100 crore into company ||The promoters of Kesoram Industries Ltd are ploughing Rs 100 crore into the company by way of preferential allotment of shares, laying the ground for multiple rounds of equity issues over the next 12-18 months. A promoter group entity will pay Rs 105 apiece for shares and fully convertible warrants, which are nearly at 20 per cent premium to the closing price of Kesoram on the bourses. The stock had closed at Rs 87.9 on BSE on Tuesday. The preference offer will be the first of the multiple tranches of equity issues the Basant Kumar Birla flagship plans to undertake. The board of the company, led by chairperson Manjushree Khaitan, younger daughter of late B.K. Birla, had earlier set a ceiling of Rs 600 crore on raising capital to retire debt. “Seeing the confidence reposed by the promoter group in the company, we expect Kesoram will get rerated. There is obviously a lot of value in the company,” P. Radhakrishnan, CEO and wholetime director of Kesoram, said. The preference shares to the promoters will increase their holding a little over 5 per cent. The Birla family holds a 45.97 per cent stake in Kesoram as on June 30, down from 53.13 per cent it held as on December 30. During this interim six month period, Kesoram undertook a massive debt rejig exercise whereby it paid off Indian lenders fully by taking on high cost debt from private investors such as Edelweiss and Goldman Sachs. As part of the one-time settlement, the Indian lenders also converted part of their loan into equity, which brought down promoter holding. The preference share at a premium could work in favour of Kesoram at multiple levels. It might give confidence to general investors about its prospects apart from egging on the credit rating agencies to look at the debt more favourably. The company has now over Rs 2,200 crore of debt which carries a steep interest rate of close to 20 per cent. It hopes to bring it down to Rs 1,400 crore and interest rate to 10-11 per cent over the next 24 months. Given the strong demand for cement, Kesoram may also be able to operate the two plants close to its nameplate capacities of 10 million tonnes. It is expected to generate an EBIDTA of Rs 600 crore annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Bajaj Finserv reports over 31 per cent decline in consolidated net profit||Bajaj Finserv on Wednesday reported an over 31 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 833 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 1,215 crore a year ago. Consolidated total income also fell to Rs 13,949 crore from Rs 14,192 crore. The consolidated figures of Bajaj Finserv include results of its wholly owned subsidiaries Bajaj Finance (BFL), Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company (BAGIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company (BALIC). According to the break-up, Bajaj Finance saw a 4.2 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,002 crore during the quarter. BAGIC reported an 8.4 per cent decline in net profit at Rs 362 crore, while BALIC’s net profit declined by 35.4 per cent to Rs 84 crore. Jubilant profit Jubilant Foodworks on Wednesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 69.06 crore in the first quarter ended June 30, aided by higher revenues despite the second wave of Covid-19 disrupting operations. The company, which operates popular fast-food chains Domino’s Pizza, had posted a consolidated net loss of Rs 74.47 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 893.19 crore compared with Rs 388.41 crore a year ago. ICICI Securities ICICI Securities has reported a 61 per cent jump in profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 311 crore in three months ended June 2021 on account of a growth in revenue and improvement in margins. The company had posted a PAT of Rs 193 crore a year ago. Revenue rose 37 per cent to Rs 748 crore from Rs 546 crore  a year ago. Ceat net Tyre major Ceat on Wednesday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 23 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, 2021. The company had reported a net loss of Rs 35 crore for the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Airtel announces collaboration with Intel for 5G network development||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Wednesday announced a collaboration with Intel for 5G network development by leveraging virtual and open radio access network technologies and making indigenous solutions. This is Intel’s second 5G-related partnership in India. It recently joined hands with Reliance Jio to help the telco with its 5G network development, including in the areas of 5G radio, core, cloud, edge, and artificial intelligence. Bharti Airtel and other telecom operators are at present conducting 5G trials in select cities across India. “The collaboration is part of Airtel's 5G road map for India as it transforms its networks to allow its customers to reap the full possibilities of the hyperconnected world where Industry 4.0 to cloud gaming and virtual and augmented reality become an everyday experience,” Airtel said in a statement. As part of the collaboration, Airtel will deploy Intel’s Xeon Scalable processors and other components across its network to build a foundation for rolling out wide-scale 5G, mobile edge computing and network slicing. “Airtel is delighted to have Intel as a part of its rapidly expanding partner ecosystem for 5G. Intel’s cutting-edge technologies and experience will contribute immensely to Airtel's mission of serving India with world-class 5G services. “We also look forward to working with Intel and home-grown companies to unlock India's potential as a global 5G hub,” Bharti Airtel chief technology officer Randeep Sekhon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Byju’s acquires US-based digital reading platform Epic||Edtech major Byju’s has acquired Epic, a US-based digital reading platform, for $500 million (around Rs 3,729.8 crore), just months after its $1-billion buyout of Aakash Educational Services. Byju’s, which ranks among the highest valued startups in the country, will also invest an additional $1 billion (about Rs 7,459.7 crore) in the North American market. Epic is a digital reading platform for kids aged 12 years and under. The acquisition will help Byju’s expand its footprint in the US by providing access to more than two million teachers and 50 million kids on  Epic’s existing global user base, which has more than doubled over the last year. Epic CEO Suren Markosian and co-founder Kevin Donahue will remain in their roles, the statement noted. Epic has a collection of over 40,000 books, audiobooks and videos from more than 250 of the world’s best publishers. It has made access free to educators, and more than 2 million teachers have signed up for classroom use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Investors clued in to quarterly results of Hindustan Unilever and Reliance Industries||After a rather mixed start to the earnings season, investors are clued in to the quarterly results of two giants Hindustan Unilever Ltd  and Reliance Industries Ltd to be released later this week. While the FMCG major will declare its numbers for the quarter ended June 30 on Thursday, RIL will announce them on Friday The scorecards come at a time expectations have been sullied by the disappointing show of HDFC Bank last week. RIL had topped Street estimates during the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, on the back of its oil to chemicals (O2C) and retail businesses. Analysts said Reliance’s  02C business will continue to do well in the last quarter, though its overall performance will be impacted by the retail and telecom businesses . According to  BofA Securities, the O2C business is expected to show a sequential improvement of 6 per cent in EBIT (earning before interest and taxes) inspite of a weakness in domestic demand.  The brokerage expects RIL to post a net profit of Rs 13,075.4 crore against Rs 13,227 crore in the preceding three months — a decline of 1.1 per cent. It expects revenues to come  in at Rs 1,66,401 crore, an increase of 7.4 per cent over the January-March period . Centrum Broking said RIL will report another quarter of strong year-on-year improvement, even as the sequential improvement would be more muted. It expects a consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 23,900 crore a growth of 42 per cent over the year ago period and 2.4 per cent compared with  the previous three months and a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 14,700 crore, a sequential increase of 3.2 per cent. In telecom, brokerages are of the view the sector could report a muted quarter. “The first quarter is likely to be a soft quarter for telcos as the lockdowns that followed the second wave of Covid resulted in lower smartphone shipments and subscriber additions,” IIFL Securities said. Margins will be affected by the benefits extended to low-income users. IIFL expects Jio to report a flat revenue growth on a sequential basis at Rs 17,494 crore. Net profit is forecast to fall 5.8 per cent sequentially. In consumer goods, companies are expected to report steady results though they could also feel the impact of rising input costs. HUL is expected to report net profit between Rs 2,200 crore and Rs 2,500 crore with brokerages such as Emkay projecting revenue growth of around 19 per cent at Rs 10,560 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Centre to seek financial bids for Shipping Corporation next month||The Centre is expected to seek financial bids for Shipping Corporation sometime next month after the potential investors have had the chance to pore over the state-owned company’s books, a senior finance ministry official said. “The data room has been opened to potential bidders and we are planning to call the financial bids as early as next month and hope that the deal could be closed before the end of the financial year, if the market conditions were favourable,” the official said. The government is selling its entire 63.75 per cent stake in the company along with the transfer of management control. SCI owns a fleet of bulk carriers and crude oil tankers. It has a fleet strength of 59 vessels and is India's top cargo carrier. Though the names of the bidders were not available officially, three entities have been reportedly shortlisted by transaction advisors RBSA: US-based Safesea, a consortium led by NRI businessman Ravi Mehrotra and Hyderabad-based Megha Engineering for access to the virtual data room. The access to the data room will allow the bidders to obtain detailed financial information about the company as well as scrutinise its financial liabilities, contracts and other relevant material. The SCI had reported a 23 per cent decline in its consolidated profit to Rs 85.76 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The state-owned company had clocked a consolidated profit of Rs 111 crore for the corresponding quarter in 2019-20. Analysts said the recent decision by the cabinet to offer subsidy to domestic shipping companies will sweeten the deal for the privatisation of SCI and help boost the valuation of the national carrier. The subsidy support to local fleet owners is also an indication that the government will not allow the private buyer of Shipping Corporation to re-flag the ships to tax friendly nations. SCI was one of the first public sector companies that the government had identified for privatisation along with Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Container Corporation of India (Concor) in November 2019. In 2021-22, the government has set a disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore and has raised Rs 7,645.70 crore so far. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. A failure to execute the LIC initial public offer and the BPCL strategic disinvestments last fiscal saw the Centre collecting only Rs 32,835 crore last fiscal against a target of Rs 2.1-lakh-crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry forms three advisory groups to resolve challenges||The civil aviation ministry has formed three advisory groups to deliberate and resolve challenges faced by the sector, an official statement said on Wednesday. The group will include airlines, airport operators, cargo carriers, ground handling companies, flying training organisations and maintenance, repair and overhaul companies. The ministry said: “The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues.” Apart from minister of civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia, the groups will include officials from the ministry and organisations such as AAI, DGCA and representatives from the private sector. The airline group has among its members three promoters — IndiGo’s Rahul Bhatia, SpiceJet’s Ajay Singh and GoAir’s Ness Wadia; CEO/CMDs — AirAsia India’s Sunil Bhaskaran, Vistara’s Bhaskar Bhat, Air India’s Rajiv Bansal. The airports group includes GMR Group chairman  G.B.S. Raju; Bangalore Airport CEO Hari Marar and Adani Group vice-president (group finance) Jeet Adani. The third group has people from MROs, cargo and flying training organisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Infosys tells employees to resume work from offices||Indian outsourcing giant Infosys told employees last week they could resume work from offices, according to a memo seen by Reuters that offers an early sign of the country’s $190 billion technology services sector moving to get back on track. The Bangalore-based IT services company stopped short of calling all employees back to work, reflecting wider caution across the sector as Indian officials warn about the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. After a devastating second wave of infections in May, the country’s daily numbers are roughly a tenth of the peak, with infections falling to the lowest in four months on Tuesday. However, health experts have appealed to state governments and citizens to not lower their guard, saying a third wave was inevitable. In its memo, Infosys said the country’s safety situation seems to be improving, with growing vaccination coverage. Infosys did not respond to Reuters’ request for comment on the memo. The company said it had been operating in emergency mode for months but noted that the situation in the country was now improving. “We have been getting requests from certain accounts to allow their team members to work from Infosys campuses. In addition, some of our employees have also been asking to come back and start working from office, as a personal preference.” After reporting results last week, Infosys executives told analysts that roughly 99 per cent of its staff was working from home, and the company would make efforts to get “more and more people to come to office” over the next couple of quarters. However, many companies are holding off and focusing on getting more employees vaccinated. TCS said earlier this month that it hoped to vaccinate all its employees and their families by September. Wipro has said it will wait until September to get staff back to office. The software services sector, which offers critical services for some of the world’s biggest companies, struggled when the pandemic first hit the country last year. Thousands of tech employees have grown comfortable with working from home since and some managers in the sector privately say they are worried about their ability to get workers back on site if and when the situation improves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
