23-07-2021||India||Road ahead more daunting, need to recalibrate priorities: Manmohan Singh on 30 yrs of liberalisation||The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 economic crisis and the nation would need to recalibrate its priorities to ensure a dignified life for all Indians, said former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Friday. In a statement marking the 30th anniversary of economic liberalisation, Singh said he was deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the loss of millions of fellow Indians and livelihoods. Recalling that as finance minister in 1991, he ended his budget speech by quoting Victor Hugo, 'No power on Earth can stop an idea whose time has come', and said, "Thirty years later, as a nation, we must remember Robert Frost's poem -- 'But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep'." "It is not a time to rejoice and exult but to introspect and ponder. The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis," Singh said in the statement. "Our priorities as a nation need to be recalibrated to foremost ensure a healthy and dignified life for every single Indian." He said that on this day, 30 years ago in 1991, the Congress party ushered in significant reforms of India's economy and paved a new path for the nation's economic policy. Over the last three decades, successive governments have followed this path to catapult the nation to a USD 3 trillion economy and into the league of the world's largest economies, the former prime minister noted. More importantly, he said, nearly 300 million fellow Indians have been lifted out of poverty in this period and hundreds of millions of new jobs have been provided for the youth. Singh said the reforms process unleashed the spirit of free enterprise which has helped produce world-class companies and help India emerge as a global power in many sectors. "The economic liberalisation process in 1991 was triggered by an economic crisis that confronted our nation then, but it was not limited to crisis management. The edifice of India's economic reforms was built on the desire to prosper, the belief in our capabilities and the confidence to relinquish control of the economy by the government," he said. Singh said he was fortunate to play a role in this reform process along with several of his colleagues in the Congress party. "It gives us immense joy to look back with pride at the tremendous economic progress made by our nation in the last three decades. But I am also deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of millions of fellow Indians," he said. The social sectors of health and education have lagged behind and not kept pace with our economic progress. Too many lives and livelihoods have been lost that should not have been, Singh lamented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
23-07-2021||Business||Jio Platforms posts nearly 45% year-on-year jump in its net profit ||Jio Platforms on Friday posted a nearly 45 per cent year-on-year jump in its net profit for the June quarter at Rs 3,651 crore, fuelled by robust subscriber adds and a surge in data usage. Revenue from operations of Jio Platforms -- that houses India's youngest but largest telecom firm Jio and apps -- came in at Rs 18,952 crore in Q1 FY22, up 9.8 per cent over the year ago period. Jio said it remains optimistic about overall demand scenario despite challenges, and exuded confidence that it will be the first to launch full-fledged 5G services in India. “This was a tough quarter for the business because of COVID related disruptions...on-the-ground situation was not good, especially April and May both months, and even now recovery is just about beginning. “Hopefully things will keep getting better...However, we are very optimistic about overall demand scenario and our ability to service that demand,” Reliance Jio Head of Strategy Anshuman Thakur said in a post-earnings call. During the June quarter, average realisation per customer measured in terms of ARPU -- a key metric for telcom firms -- was stable Rs 138.4 per subscriber per month, against Rs 138.2 in the March quarter. The value of services in the quarter was at Rs 22,267 crore, an increase of 9.8 per cent year-on-year. “Quarterly operating revenue was Rs 18,952 crore, growth of 19 per cent adjusted for IUC, driven by continued subscriber traction in connectivity business,” the company said in a statement. Reliance Jio Infocomm's net profit for June quarter stood at Rs 3,501 crore, against Rs 2,520 crore in the same period of the previous year. Jio said the subscriber additions continued at a “healthy pace” despite the severe second wave of COVID, and the customer base surged to 440.6 million in the June quarter, with net add of 42.3 million users year-on-year. The total data traffic was 20.3 billion GB in the quarter, growing at 38.5 per cent year-on-year, while the total voice traffic logged 19.5 per cent growth. Spectrum investments have created capacity to onboard the next 200 million customers on Jio's network, the company said.      Jio has received necessary approvals and trial spectrum for initiating 5G field trials, it said, adding the converged and future-proof architecture that the company is giving shape to will enable Jio's network to quickly and seamlessly upgrade from 4G to 5G. In a detailed presentation on the Q1 scorecard, the company said JioFiber now has over 3 million connected homes with improving momentum in recent months. “Jio's optical-fiber network is physically present outside more than 12 million premises,” the presentation said. Thakur acknowledged that while there have been challenges and delay in incremental monetisation of fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) and digital platforms, the company sees a “long runway” ahead of it, both on mobility side with network capacity and devices and on FTTH and enterprise side “where demand has been extremely strong”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Reliance Retail reports increase of 79.88 per cent in tax profit at Rs 1,941 crore for first quarter||Reliance Retail on Friday reported an increase of 79.88 per cent in its pre-tax profit at Rs 1,941 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021. The retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) had posted a pre-tax profit or EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 1,079 crore in the April-June quarter a year ago. Revenue from operations of the organised retail segment of RIL during the quarter was at Rs 33,566 crore, up 19.04 per cent, against Rs 28,197 a year ago. While its gross revenue, which includes the value of sales and services, was up 21.90 per cent at Rs 38,547 crore in Q1/FY201-22 as against Rs 31,620 crore of the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal. "Net profit for the quarter was Rs 962 crore, higher by 123.2 per cent Y-o-Y," it added. However, sequentially, Reliance Retail gross revenue in April-June was down 18.09 per cent at Rs 38,547 crore, against Rs 47,064 crore of the January-March quarter on account of restrictions on store operations during the second wave of Covid-19. RIL Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh Ambani said: "COVID-related restrictions on store operations during the quarter impacted our retail business operations and profitability. This is a temporary phenomenon." "We remained focused on ensuring supplies of necessities, including food, grocery, health & hygiene products through a combination of online-offline channels. We stepped up our efforts in creating partnerships with small merchants and digital engagement with consumers. This is creating a newer and inclusive model of growth. I am confident that the retail business is poised to create exponential value and growth," he said. During the quarter, store expansion was constrained as the business opened 123 stores taking the total count to 12,803, it said. "Another 700+ stores in the pipeline will be commissioned as curbs are lifted," it added. The area of retail operation operated by Reliance Retail was also up 18.96 per cent at 34.5 million sq ft as compared to 29 million sq ft in the corresponding quarter. Besides, Reliance Retail also scaled up digital commerce venture and merchant partnerships, which helped it to get 20 per cent of the sales during the second wave impacted quarter. "The focus on scaling up digital commerce and merchant partnerships helped partially alleviate the loss of business due to store closures. These streams contributed a sizable 20 per cent of retail sales in the quarter," it said. Store operations were disrupted through the quarter starting from mid of April and after second week of June, there were sporadic signs of easing with continued restrictions varying across geographies. "Operating efficiency was impacted due to the restrictions across the network as stores were operating for 70 per cent, 25 per cent, 38 per cent of normal working hours during April, May and June respectively," it said adding "retail stores and digital commerce could sell only essentials for the most part of the quarter". Over the sales performance, the company said grocery was resilient, connectivity sustained its consistent performance but Consumer Electronics and Fashion & Lifestyle saw significant growth given a less constraining operating context relative to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The new businesses such as pharma, in which the company entered after acquiring Netmeds, Reliance Retail said it "continues to expand its portfolio and saw 60 per cent growth in orders over the previous quarter. The hyperlocal capabilities were extended to over 150 stores for same-day deliveries. While Zivame delivered double-digit growth over the previous quarter despite supply-side challenges. "Urban Ladder exit daily online orders grew 2.5x over last quarter. It developed an assisted sales channel through video calls and launched a multi-brand business in furnishing and d cor across 40 sub-categories," it said. Reliance Retail has invested in online pharmacy Netmeds, online furniture retailer Urban Ladder and online lingerie retailer Zivame, stepping up its play into the fast-growing e-commerce segment. According to the company, the business remains "strongly focused" in augmenting its capabilities across channels, building its compelling proposition for customers and merchant partners and developing its product portfolio to stay on trend with emerging preferences. "Whilst the current operating environment is uncertain, we remain cautiously optimistic and committed to restoring the strong growth momentum that was seen pre-pandemic, as operating curbs are lifted," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||How Does Indus Multi Currency Forex Cards Make Travel Abroad Hassle-free?||In the 21st century, the world has transformed into a well-knit global village. More and more people are travelling abroad and exploring new destinations. If you are also planning to visit an exotic locale, an important point that you need to consider is how to carry the currency you will use there. If you haven’t quite considered the currency factor, this article has you covered. The reason is having a reliable, hassle-free, and convenient method of carrying foreign currency is a crucial part of foreign travel planning. Being the dynamic and aspirational multitasker you are, you wouldn't want to pay more than you should for a purchase, let alone wait in long queues to count cash or switch between multiple cards. This is where Forex (foreign exchange) cards seal the deal. IndusInd Multicurrency Forex Card presents an easy, safe, and cashless way of carrying and using foreign currency on your trip abroad. Read on to explore how IndusInd Bank’s multi-currency travel card can make your travel effortless. Spend More Time Discovering the World There are so many destinations to tick off your bucket list when you travel overseas. When looking to accommodate as many activities in your day, scouting for currency exchange booths or ATMs isn’t one. With its innovative features, the Indus Forex card irons out your issues in a flash. How? You can make quick vendor payments across the globe. Why, yes! You can load up to 14 currencies on your IndusInd Bank travel card, namely: Forget Worrying About Exchange Rates When you buy a forex card online or offline with IndusInd Bank, you are protected against currency fluctuations since the exchange rate doesn’t change after you load your card. Plus, you can make international transactions at restaurants, stores, ferry rides, hotels, shopping malls, airports, and petrol pumps through your travel card at zero extra charges. Spend At Ease When you are finally fulfilling your unachieved travel goals, spur-of-the-moment purchases are never off the table. You wouldn’t want the lack of funds to stop you from chasing your next adventure or realising a sudden plan. That’s where the Indus Multi Currency Forex Card becomes your perfect travel companion. Its InstaReload feature enables you to reload your card 24x7. You can add funds up to Rs. 49,000 within minutes, twice a month. The card packs an absolute knockout punch with the following features: But that’s not it! IndusInd Bank also guarantees easy encashment once you return to India. Track Your Account On The Go With IndusForex, IndusInd Bank’s online retail forex portal, you don’t just buy a forex card online; you also track your international spending digitally. Besides, you can check your transaction history and use periodic statements to stay up to speed with your expenses. Make Payments Securely By carrying a forex card, you already do away with the troubles of keeping your cash safe during your travels. IndusInd Bank’s multi-currency travel card comes with numerous firewalls to prevent fraud, including PIN and password protection, card chip, and instant transaction alerts. Moreover, if your card ever gets stolen or lost, you can opt for immediate hot-listing, which means your card will be blocked to freeze the funds. Wrapping Up Irrespective of whether it’s a business trip or a family vacation, travel smartly with your IndusInd Forex card on your next foreign escapade. Score exciting cashbacks, discounts, and offers on your frequent travels as well. Save time by skipping ATM queues and money on currency conversions, buy Forex cards online and enjoy happy trails!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Techila Global Services Wins The Prestigious “Salesforce Company Of The Year” Award From Asian News||Techila Global Services, a noted Salesforce development company was awarded as the “Salesforce Company Of The Year” by Asian News, a leading online news portal. The company was awarded for its seamless Salesforce development services and the reputation it managed to garner in the IT industry. On getting this recognition, Techila Global Services joins the ranks of some of the most trusted Salesforce implementation companies in the country catering to clients across the globe. According to Asian News, “Techila Global Services is a highly pro-active Salesforce development company that keeps updating itself to be in sync with the latest technological requirements. What sets the company apart from its peers is the fact that it undertakes thorough research and prepares an execution plan that is unique to the clients it caters to. This adds to the personalized nature of its services, resulting in happier and more satisfied clients.” Techila Global Services made the cut as the winner owing to its focus on helping smaller businesses adopt Salesforce. The company was successful in busting the myth that Salesforce is limited to large-scale enterprises that are willing to automate complicated business processes. Techila Global Services made a mark for itself by customizing Salesforce according to the specific requirements of its clients, providing them with exactly what they want. Another aspect that impressed the AsianNews.in jury was the employee-centric nature of the Salesforce development company. While IT companies across the board pushed their employees to work more in order to compensate for the COVID doldrums, Techila Global Services encouraged its remote employees not to take any work-related calls/emails beyond the dedicated work hours. Moreover, the company recently rolled out Salesforce job opportunities for young graduates, IT professionals wanting to switch to Salesforce, and the professionals who lost their job during the pandemic. This initiative to aid the employment drive in the country served as a feather in the company’s cap, making it win the prestigious award. Chitiz Agarwal, the founder and CEO of Techilaservices.com believes that this win would inspire IT companies in the country to be more employee-centric in nature. He says, “We are extremely grateful and humbled to have received this honor. This reinstates our faith in the fact that it is important to have your company’s heart at the right place. Apart from all the hard work, it is important for an organization to be considerate towards its employees and cater to all their needs on a priority basis. We sincerely hope this inspires companies across the board to give utmost preference to the well-being of their employees.” About Techila Global Services Techila Global Services is a Salesforce development company and a Salesforce Consulting Partner based in Pune, Maharashtra. It provides Salesforce development, implementation, and consultation services to clients belonging to all major industries, including Finance, Real Estate, Retail, Education, Healthcare, Marketing/Sales, and E-commerce. The company was founded by Chitiz Agarwal on the 5th of August, 2012. It is composed of more than 250 employees working from different parts of the world. Techila Global Services is ISO 9001:2015 certified and is currently undergoing CMM certification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Sensex ends 139 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 139 points on Friday following gains in ICICI Bank, ITC and SBI amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 138.59 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 52,975.80, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 32 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,856.05. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by ITC, SBI, HCL Tech, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, L&T, HUL, Reliance Industries and NTPC were among the laggards. Domestic market traded range-bound but extended gains moderately on sustained rebound in financials, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Improved prospects of credit growth rebound with visible pickup in economy and comfortable valuations bode well for financials. However, it was not a broad-based rally as midcap and smallcap indices lagged as profit booking was visible in many counters," he noted. A sharp recovery in global markets along with buying on dips propelled domestic equities to see sharp rebound in the last two days, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.01 per cent to USD 73.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Zomato shares soar with nearly 53 per cent premium on debut||Shares of fast-growing food-delivery start-up Zomato rocketed as they made their stock exchange debut, bolstering the outlook for a string of new Internet-based firms set to hit the market. Zomato shares opened at a 53 per cent premium over the issue price of Rs 76 and extended their gains to trade up as high as 82.2 per cent. The stunning trading start by Zomato, backed by Jack Ma’s Ant Group and the first of a series of Internet unicorns aiming to tap the Indian market, came after the company’s Rs 93.75 billion initial public offering (IPO) was 38 times oversubscribed. “Today is a big day for us. A new Day Zero,” said Zomato's co-founder and Chief Executive Deepinder Goyal, who kept his role in the company’s launch a secret from his teacher parents for a long time, fearful they would disapprove of the risk he was taking. “The tremendous response to our IPO gives us the confidence that the world is full of investors who appreciate the magnitude of investments we are making, and take a long-term view of our business,” Goyal wrote on the company’s website. Shares of Zomato stormed 82.2 per cent higher in early trade, giving the company a market capitalisation of about $12 billion, more than pharmaceutical giant Dr Reddy’s or food heavyweight Britannia. The company was trading at a massive 65 per cent premium to its IPO issue price on Friday afternoon. The blistering market debut came despite concerns expressed by some analysts that the loss-making firm was overvalued. Zomato lost Rs 812 crore in the last financial year. But those losses were down by 65 per cent from the previous year. Zomato’s also flipped its performance on each order to earn an average of Rs 20.5 on every order in the last financial year from a loss of Rs 30.5 in the previous financial year, thanks to better efficiency Zomato’s performance is seen as a barometer of investor appetite for the country’s fast-multiplying unicorns – start-ups that have a value of at least $1 billion. (According to Bloomberg, India is spawning unicorns at the rate of three a month). In fact, while many businesses hit rock-bottom during the devastating Covid-19 second wave, India added 11 new unicorns, bringing its total to 48. Only the US and China have more unicorns. Other Internet-based companies being lined up for IPOs include digital payment service PayTM, hospitality company OYO, ride-hailing platform Ola and Mobikwik. Pavan Pai, who’s a founding partner of the VC firm 3one4 Capital, notes that “over a dozen companies are planning IPOs now,” Loss--making Paytm, which is also backed by China’s Ant Group is expected to seek to raise as much as $3 billion Zomato, whose other blue-chip venture-capital investors include Tiger Global and Kora, has been favoured by investors thanks to its “first-mover advantage” in the food-delivery segment that puts it “in a sweet spot as the online food-delivery market is at the cusp of evolution,” said Motilal Oswal brokerage analyst Sneha Poddar. It’s already been a blockbuster year -- in fact the busiest in 12 years -- for IPO listings on Indian exchanges with $5.6 billion raised so far from investors in the red-hot Indian share market’s defied gravity throughout the pandemic. Analysts project that the total capital raised this year from IPOs could be close to $10 billion, Zomato, which was founded in 2008, operates in 525 Indian cities and is present in 23 other countries though it says going forward it plans to focus on India. It’s now the market leader in terms of its gross order value or GOV and it plans to use the money raised to focus on organic and inorganic growth. As for investors in IPOs this year, they’re smiling all the way to the bank with their shares up by an average of 62 per cent, according to Bloomberg. Investment bankers in charge of Zomato’s IPO are also happy -- they reaped Rs 93.75 billion in fees, one of the richest payouts from an Indian initial offer, according to documents. Some analysts warn that the Indian market is hugely overvalued and that investors should be cautious about this new generation of Internet-based IPOs which are still cash-burning operations. Stock market valuation expert Aswath Damodaran, who teaches at NYU’s Stern School of Business, valued Zomato at just Rs 41 per share, way below its offer price of Rs 76 and listing price of Rs 115. “Zomato is a money-losing,cash-burning enterprise now, but it has immense market potential… and a viable business model,” Damodaran said in a blog post. Still, he added, “I would have no qualms about investing in the stock, if the price drops in the near future, with the full understanding that this is a joint wager on a company, a sector and a country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||SC dismisses plea of telecom majors alleging errors in calculation of AGR-related dues||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the applications filed by telecom majors, including Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel, raising the issue of alleged errors in calculation in the figure of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues payable by them. All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed, a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao said while pronouncing the order. The telecom companies had submitted before the apex court that arithmetical errors in the calculation be rectified and there are cases of duplication of entries. The top court had on July 19 said it would pass orders on the applications filed by the telecom majors. The top court in September last year had given a time of 10 years to telecom service providers struggling to pay Rs 93,520 crores of AGR-related dues to clear their outstanding amount to the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 100 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and L&T amid sustained foreign fund outflow. After opening over 150 points higher, the 30-share BSE index pared all gains to trade 141.67 points or 0.27 per cent lower at 52,695.54 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty declined 42.05 points or 0.27 per cent to 15,782. L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Titan and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 638.70 points or 1.22 per cent higher at 52,837.21, while Nifty surged 191.95 points or 1.23 per cent to 15,824.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 247.59 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, a sharp recovery in global markets propelled domestic equities to see sharp rebound on Thursday, while concerns over global growth due to recent rise in delta variants of coronavirus cases in different parts of the world continues to persist. "However, we continue to believe that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact," he said. On the global front, US equities extended gains for the third consecutive day despite weak employment data as investors focused on strong report cards of corporate earnings, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.33 per cent to USD 73.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Centre expects to receive financial bids for Air India by September||The Centre expects to receive the financial bids for Air India by September, minister of state for civil aviation V.K. Singh informed Parliament on Thursday. The minister, however, did not disclose the names of the qualified institutional bidders (QIBs). The government, Singh said, has received “multiple” expressions of interest for the privatisation of the cash-strapped national carrier. The government also clarified that the lawsuits filed by Cairn Energy and Devas in an US court would not have any impact on Air India’s disinvestment . ‘‘Cairn Energy and Devas Multimedia have filed lawsuits in the US District Court for Southern District of New York seeking declaratory and money judgement against Air India Limited as an alter ego of the Republic of India,’’  Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Air India is a separate corporate entity with its own management and board and so there is ‘‘no likely impact’’ of the lawsuits on its ongoing disinvestment process, the minister said. Cairn Energy and Devas Multimediare seeking $1.725 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, from India as part of lawsuits won in international arbitrations. The Centre had invited expressions of interests for Air India on January 27, 2020. The last date of submission — after multiple extensions because of the Covid-19 pandemic — of EoIs was December 14, 2020. ‘‘Multiple EoIs were received by the transaction adviser. Requests for proposal along with a draft share purchase agreement have been shared with the QIBs by the transaction adviser on March 30, 2021, for submission of the financial bids,’’ Singh stated. ‘‘The financial bids are likely to be received by September 15, 2021.’’ The Centre has not revealed the names of the QIBs as yet. After the consortium of Air India employees, backed by NRI businessman Laxmi Prasad and his New York-based Interups Fund, was disqualified, the Tata group and SpiceJet are the two buyers reportedly left in the race to buy the national carrier. Of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. Singh said the ‘‘monetisation proceeds of the non-core assets of Air India are to be used to offset the debt of Air India transferred to AIAHL.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Faceless tax assessment draws flak||The faceless assessments of income tax payers have got mired in procedural lapses leading to litigations throughout the country. The e-assessment scheme for income tax assessees was initially notified in 2019 and was later renamed to faceless assessment scheme. The scheme was subsequently codified into the Income Tax Act in 2020 through the insertion of Section 144B. The faceless mode of assessment was introduced to eliminate the interface between the assessing officer and the assessee with the use of technology and with an aim to impart transparency and accountability. According to government data disclosed in Rajya Sabha, till March 10, 2021, a total of 82,072 assessment cases have been completed in faceless manner. As part of the faceless assessment procedure, the assessment unit is required to write a draft assessment order based on all the relevant information available. The National Faceless Assessment Centre (NFAC) upon examining the draft assessment order may decide to either finalise the assessment or provide an opportunity to the taxpayer in case there is a variation which is prejudicial to the interest of the assessee. In case of the latter, a showcause notice will be issued to the assessee as to why the proposed variation in assessment should not be made. If a taxpayer has received the show-cause notice, he may furnish his response to the NFAC within the stipulated timeline. The assessment unit is required to make a revised draft assessment order and send it to NFAC after taking into account the response furnished by the taxpayer. Tax practitioners however point out that in many cases assessment has been done hurriedly without strictly following the procedures laid down in the Act which has led to filing of writs in various courts challenging the assessment orders. The Covid pandemic coupled with late issue of notices of extensions and technical glitches have further compounded the issues of faceless assessment. At a session organised by PHDCCI, Rohit Jain, partner, Vaish Associates, highlighted some of the procedural concerns. “In many cases, we are seeing that the draft assessment order and the show cause notice is not received by taxpayers. As a consequence, the important right available to the taxpayer to object to the draft assessment order and seek an opportunity of hearing is denied to taxpayers,” Jain said. The provisions of faceless assessment under Section 144B also allows taxpayers to request for a personal hearing which can be conducted through a video conference. However, there have been instances where such opportunity has been denied. Writ petitions have also been filed in instances where final assessment order has been passed before filing of reply and in cases where final assessment does not factor in the objections filed in response to show cause notice. “It is high time that the matter needs to be seriously looked into so that officers who are handling faceless assessment should work as per law and as per the principles of natural justice. Otherwise people will be losing faith in faceless assessment,”  tax advocate Narayan Jain told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Competition Commission of India pulls up Amazon||India’s competiton regulator has accused Amazon.com Inc of concealing facts and making false submissions when it sought approval for a 2019 investment in a Future Group unit. In the letter dated June 4, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) said Amazon hid factual aspects of the transaction by not revealing its strategic interest in Future Retail when it sought approval for the 2019 deal. Future on Thursday submitted a copy of the show-cause notice before the Supreme Court. Amazon confirmed the notice but said as the matter was sub-judice “we are unable to comment on the merits or substance of any allegations at this stage”. In the Supreme Court hearing, Amazon said the Biyanis are bound by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award restraining its Future Retail Ltd from proceeding with the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium who argued for Amazon said that the EA had rightly held the group of companies doctrine is applicable in the case and the Future group company cannot take the plea that the award was not enforceable as it was not party to the arbitral proceedings or the agreements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Naveen Patnaik inaugurates Tata tea packaging unit at Gopalpur Industrial Park||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday inaugurated a tea packaging unit of Tata Consumer Products Limited at Gopalpur Industrial Park in Ganjam district. The plant has been commissioned in a span of 18 months with an investment of Rs 100 crore. The unit is expected to provide employment to more than 900 people in the district of Ganjam. “It will be developed as the largest tea packaging plant in the country,” a press release issued by the chief minister’s office said. At present, the unit has a production capacity of 15 million kg tea which will be ramped up to 50 million kg. The unit will cater to the needs of  Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Telangana and central India. It will be operated by Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited, an associate of TCPL, the second-largest tea producer in India. Patnaik said the Tata group has been playing a vital role in the industrial development of Odisha, adding that the state has been successful in mobilising investments in diverse sectors such as petro chemical, food processing, apparel and garment. Tata Steel managing director T.V. Narendran said Tata Steel has invested over Rs 60,000 crore in Odisha in the last five years. He added that Tata Steel has invested Rs 500 crore for infrastructure development of the Gopalpur special economic zone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Bajaj Auto net profits more than double during June quarter||Net profits at Bajaj Auto more than doubled during the first quarter ended June 2021 as the company gained from strong export growth even as the domestic markets were impacted by lockdowns in various states. Bajaj Auto posted a standalone net profit of Rs 1,061.18 crore during the quarter under review compared with Rs 528.04 crore in the April-June period of the previous year. Revenues grew to Rs 7,386.04 crore from Rs 3,079.24 crore in the year-ago period. In a separate announcement, Bajaj Auto said that it will be foraying into the electric vehicle (EV) space. The board of directors  has approved the incorporation of a wholly owned subsidiary to help the company venture into the manufacturing of electric and hybrid vehicles in the two, three and light four-wheeler categories. UltraTech Cement Aditya Birla group firm UltraTech Cement Ltd on Thursday reported an over two-fold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 1,700 crore in the first quarter ended June 2021, helped by volume growth and increased operational efficiencies. The leading cement producer had posted a net profit of Rs 793.08 crore in the April-June quarter a year ago. Its revenue from operations was up 54.21 per cent to Rs 11,829.84 crore against Rs 7,671.05 crore in the a year ago. Mphasis numbers IT firm Mphasis on Thursday reported a 23.4 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 339.6 crore in the April-June 2021 quarter. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 275.1 crore in the year-ago period. Mphasis said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations grew 17.5 per cent to Rs 2,690.8 crore in the reported quarter from Rs 2,288.2 crore in the year-ago period, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever posts standalone net profit of Rs 2,061 crore||Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has missed Street estimates for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 as rising raw material costs hit margins. The FMCG giant posted a standalone net profit of Rs 2,061 crore against Rs 1,881 crore a year ago — a rise of 9.56 per cent. Analysts were expecting HUL to post a net profit of around Rs 2,200 crore. During the period, the company reported an underlying volume growth of 9 per cent, which was lower than the 16 per cent growth seen in the preceding three months. In the year-ago period, it had seen a contraction of 7 per cent. The quarter saw sales coming in at Rs 11,730 crore compared with Rs 10,406 crore in the corresponding previous period — a rise of 12.72 per cent. However, the company faced inflationary pressures that saw palm oil rates rising to record levels even as tea and crude prices remained firm. This saw its EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) falling by 110 basis points to 24 per cent during the quarter. “The second wave of Covid-19 brought upon us a severe humanitarian crisis… Looking forward, we remain cautiously optimistic about the demand recovery. Our focus firmly remains behind delivering volume led competitive growth and margins in a healthy range,’’ said Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director, HUL. Unilever view Unilever on Thursday said the second wave of the pandemic and subsequent restrictions in India impacted its sales in the country. The operating environment across its markets in H1 (January-June) has seen some improvements, but broadly it remains “volatile”, the company said in its post earning statement for the first half.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Centre allows 100% FDI in BPCL privatisation||The government has sweetened the BPCL privatisation offer by tweaking the foreign direct investment policy to allow 100 per cent ownership of a state-owned refinery by global players through the  automatic route. The cabinet has approved the proposal to allow 100 per cent foreign direct investment in state-run refineries in which a strategic stake sale is announced, officials said. Mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta and US-based private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital’s arm Think Gas are in the race to buy the government’s stake in BPCL. The government at present allows 49 per cent FDI through the automatic route in petroleum refining PSUs, while permitting 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in the private sector. The officials clarified the limit will stay at 49 per cent for refiners not lined up for asset sales. The winning bidder for the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL will have to make an open offer to buy an additional 26 per cent stake from other shareholders at the same price according to the takeover rules. The Centre has approved the sale of its entire 52.98 per cent shareholding in BPCL, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. Specialty steel incentives The cabinet also approved a Rs 6,322-crore production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for specialty steel. Under the scheme, valid from 2023-24 to 2027-28, eligible producers will get a 4 per cent to 12 per cent incentive on the incremental production. The government expects the scheme to add 25 million tonnes (mt) to the existing capacity and bring investments of Rs 40,000 crore. “We shall consider the scheme while deciding our next capex cycle and product-mix,’’ according to SAIL chairman Soma Mondal. T.V. Narendran, CEO & MD, Tata Steel, said the PLI scheme “will boost investment in the high grade steel sector and drive global competitiveness of the Indian manufacturers. The scheme will provide an added advantage to our future plans where value-added products will be a major focus”. “Most of the imports into India are in the value-added and specialty segment. The PLI scheme will boost manufacturing capacities by Indian mills in this segment and MSMEs will be able to source from them directly. JSPL will definitely register for this scheme,” V.R. Sharma, MD of  JSPL, said. Bhaskar Chatterjee, secretary-general of the Indian Steel Association, said: “This scheme will play a pivotal role in enabling growth by promoting investments for the steel industry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India plan for central bank digital currency||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is drawing up a plan for a central bank digital currency and examining use cases that can be implemented with little or no disruption, deputy-governor T. Rabi Sankar said on Thursday. However, legal changes would be necessary as the present provisions have been made keeping in mind currency in a physical form under the RBI Act, 1934. Moreover, consequential amendments would be required in the Coinage Act, Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) and Information Technology Act. “These are some of the things that.. we are looking at internally,” he said. Sankar was speaking at a webinar on central bank digital currency (CBDC). According to the RBI deputy governor, CBDC is a legal tender issued by a central bank in a digital form. It is the same as a fiat currency and exchangeable one-to-one with the fiat currency. Only its form is different. “It is important to understand what a CBDC is not. CBDC is a digital or virtual currency but it is not comparable to the private virtual currencies that have mushroomed over the last decade. Private virtual currencies sit at substantial odds to the historical concept of money,’’ he said. Sankar said many central banks in the world were working on their own digital currency to protect consumers from the “frightening level of volatility’’ seen in some of the virtual currencies that have no sovereign backing. A few countries have also moved to the testing stage, he noted. In India, a high-level inter-ministerial committee of the finance ministry has delved into the policy and legal issues and  recommended the introduction of CBDC. “Like other central banks, the RBI has been exploring the pros and cons of CBDC for quite some time,” Sankar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Pauls of Apeejay Surrendra Group sell interest in UK-based Typhoo Tea||The Pauls of Apeejay Surrendra Group have sold their interest in the 120-year old UK-based Typhoo Tea which was the first to launch ready-packaged tea in the world. The group, which acquired the storied British tea brand 16 years ago, has sold its stake to a clutch of private equity players. Zetland Capital, a private equity firm in London, has become the majority shareholder of the Merseyside, Liverpool-based company which has been battling heavy losses in the past few years that have exacerbated during the pandemic. The Apeejay group has interests in real estate, hotels, shipping, tea plantations and logistics. It bought Typhoo from Premier Foods for £80 million in 2005. The Indian operations will remain for the time being with the Apeejay Surrendra Group which owns 17 tea gardens in Assam. Based out of Calcutta, the Pauls launched Typhoo packet teas and herbal infusions in India in 2008, building on its famed British legacy. Typhoo Tea, founded in 1903, was also the first to launch a green tea blend in the UK. It has a number of other brands in its portfolio, including Glengettie, Melrose’s, instant tea brand Lift, organic brand Heath & Heather, and speciality tea brand Ridgways of London. Confirming the transaction, Karan Paul, chairman of Apeejay Surrendra Group, told The Telegraph: “We have exited from Typhoo UK Ltd. However, the licence to sell teas under the Typhoo brand in India remains with us for the foreseeable future. It is going to be business as usual here.” He refused to divulge the terms of the transaction. Industry sources said Typhoo Tea has been steeped in losses and the sale will mean that the Apeejay group will no longer have to stump up money at regular intervals to support the British venture. The Pauls decided to exit Typhoo Tea when it became apparent that they would have to make a very significant cash infusion into Typhoo Tea. In a statement, Des Kingsley, CEO at Typhoo Tea Ltd, said: “This deal marks a new era in the ownership of Typhoo Tea. It has secured major investment that will enable us to re-assert our brands both in the UK and internationally to deliver profitable growth.” Ahmed Hamdani, founder and chief Investment officer at Zetland Capital, added: “We are delighted to support Des and the rest of the team. Our partnership will enable investment at an important time for the company and we are confident that Typhoo can regain its reputation as one of Britain’s most loved brands and drive innovation in the sector.” Recent struggle Typhoo Tea’s troubles began after its strategy to ramp up sales at its private label business floundered badly. The prolonged uncertainty over Brexit also weighed heavy because of rising material sourcing costs and the wild fluctuations in the dollar which was used to purchase teas, amplifying currency risks. A new executive leadership team was put in place in 2019 and the company was forced to change its strategy, after acknowledging that the 12-month period prior to it had been a ‘watershed’ in Typhoo’s history. Net loss at Typhoo Tea Ltd surged by almost 50 per cent as on March 31, 2019 (see chart). The accounts since that date have yet to be prepared and filed. While preparing the accounts for the year ended March 2019, the directors made an assumption that the company would be able to meet all the liabilities, including loan instalments by April 30, 2021. There was a breach of covenants on the loan facility for the year ended March 31, 2019 but the company had met all repayments and interest payments on time. Moreover, Apeejay Tea (Panama) had signed a letter of support to provide all support to keep Typhoo afloat as a going concern for 12 months since the date on which the directors signed off on the annual accounts. However, the directors had warned that “whilst there is confidence that a solution to re-finance will be achieved, this could be impacted by events outside the firm’s control”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
