24-07-2021||Business||Why Zomato’s red-hot market debut is a pathbreaker for Indian start-ups||Here’s a question for every retail investor who bought shares in food delivery company Zomato’s IPO: The shares of India’s first Internet unicorn to list on the stock market rocketed 82 per cent from their Rs 76 offer price after trading began Friday so should people have made a quick killing and sold within hours? Or was it better to hang on to the shares of the first Internet start-up to list on the Indian market? “If you sold the first day, you may regret selling too early when it possibly rises 150 per cent six months later,” says Pranav Pai, founding partner, 3one4 Capital, who adds: “Zomato is not an ‘I will buy today, I will flip tomorrow’ story. Investors are saying, ‘I am buying your five-year story, your 10-year story. I am buying a company that is likely to inevitably grow.’ Of course, there’ll be crashes, there will be corrections. But this is a fundamentally solid story.” Aswath Damodaran, a professor at New York’s Stern Business School and known as a ‘valuation guru,’ meanwhile, is more sceptical about what he sees as loss-making Zomato’s “expensive” valuation. He considers Zomato to be a strong company but he puts its value per share at around Rs 41. He says: “I think it is hubris to dismiss those who invested in Zomato at 72 INR per share or higher as speculators or ill-informed. That said, I think that at a 70-75 INR per share price, the stock looks overvalued to me.” The company ended its first day of trading at Rs 126, up 66 per cent from its IPO price, giving it a market capitalisation of Rs 980 billion or $13 billion. As a test of investor appetite for more Indian IPOs of loss-making Internet start-ups, Zomato passed with flying colours. At the same time, Damodaran reckons an investment in Zomato, which incidentally is backed by Chinese billionaire Jack Ma’s Ant Group, is “a joint wager on a company, a sector and a country.” Elaborating, he explains he believes Zomato is a good company and that India’s food-delivery sector can only grow. But beyond that, buying into Zomato is also a bet on India doing well as a country and as a market. One thing that’s important to underline: Zomato’s red-hot market debut could be a pathbreaker for Indian start-ups. Pai and others believe it fundamentally changes in a positive way the outlook for the ambitious start-ups waiting in the wings to stage their own IPOs. Already, at least 12 companies are lined up for investors to take a stake in. First off the block is expected to be financial services giant PayTM, valued at $15 billion even before its IPO (the valuation could go higher). Others are already well-known companies including Flipkart; Nykaa, India’s leading fashion and beauty online store; and PolicyBazaar, an online insurance marketplace. PolicyBazaar’s aiming for a Rs 6,500 crore valuation. Most analysts view these as strong companies with a great future ahead. Three winners Friday’s Zomato listing created three immediate winners. First, there’s Zomato co-founder and CEO, Deepinder Goyal, who has a 4.7 per cent stake in the company and is now worth around $650 million. He also has a further 368 million stock options. Then, behind-the-scenes, there’s Sanjeev Bikhchandani, one of the silent lynchpins of the Indian start-up eco-system. Bikhchandani’s Info Edge had an 18 per cent stake in Zomato and has invested around $162 million in it. It’s not clear exactly how much he has sold but he still has a large stake in the company. “Great things take time to build. Thank you for making us look like smart investors,” Bikhchandani tweeted to Goyal soon after Zomato’s market debut. Bikhchandani’s also a primary backer of PolicyBazaar which is getting its prospectus ready and could be looking at a December listing. Info Edge has also set up an investment fund with Singapore’s Temasek that will initially have around Rs 375 crore. Pai praises Bikhchandani unreservedly: “He is one of the guys who has taken a long 25-year view of India. And he has delivered even though it has been hard for him. I would say this is his biggest win.” Uber happy too Finally, one surprise winner is Uber. The US company sold Uber Eats, its Indian food delivery subsidiary to Zomato in January 2020, for around Rs 13.76 billion when it was leaving the country. Happily for Uber, it was an all-stock deal that gave the company a 9.19 per cent stake in Zomato. Now, that’s worth Rs 90.84 billion. The Zomato listing also ends a fierce debate that has been raging amongst Indian venture capitalists and banks. Should Indian start-ups like Zomato list in India or should they head to New York’s Nasdaq? Were Indian investors too unsophisticated for companies that were racking up huge losses and whose profit payday lay far in the future? Pai reckons that the Zomato listing has conclusively ended that argument. Bikhchandani agrees: “Zomato has shown that a start-up does not need to domicile or list overseas to succeed.” What’s more, Pai argues, this gives Indian investors a chance to buy companies they’re familiar with. “These are products we use every day. Now we can be part of the growth story. We are using Zomato to get food delivered home. We are using PayTM for our bill payments. This is similar to how Facebook, Google, Snapchat, and more became iconic stocks in the US”. Viable business model While “Zomato is a money-losing, cash-burning enterprise now,” Damodaran says it has “immense market potential and is on track to delivering on a viable business model. Damodaran expects Zomato to face “plenty of challenges on that path” and he adds that he “would have no qualms about investing in the stock if the price drops in the near future.” Zomato lost Rs 812 crore in the last financial year. But those losses were down by 65 per cent from the previous year. Zomato’s also flipped its performance on each order to earn an average of Rs 20.5 on every order in the last financial year from a loss of Rs 30.5 in the previous financial year, thanks to better efficiency. At another level, the Zomato listing is extremely good news for the venture capitalists and the financial sector money players who’ve invested heavily in India’s start-up sector. India has been minting unicorns – companies with a valuation of over $1 billion -- at a furious pace and now has around 48, which puts it in third place behind the US and China. New unicorns were making their appearance at the rate of about three a month even at peak pandemic times. Capital market boom Money has been pouring into these Indian start-ups even though none of them have been able to go public. That meant that the only way to get out at a profit was to sell onwards. In Flipkart, for instance, Walmart came along and bought everyone out. But the Zomato IPO and the slew of IPOs slated dramatically changes the picture. Once exits via IPOs start happening, that will free a great deal of cash which will start hunting for new good buys. Pai points out that big Indian players like Tata, Reliance, Mahindra and Wipro are looking to make sizeable investments. Also, he says, “Large funds are now coming back to the market to invest in the early stage.” He adds: “It’s a clear shift to maturity and I think that is a huge sign of positive evolution for the whole ecosystem.” He’s convinced that the start-ups will trigger a boom in the Indian capital markets over the coming decade. Pai notes that if 10 companies manage a valuation of Rs 50,000 crore each, that will add Rs 5 lakh crore to the stock markets. Also, he adds, many traditional investors from Mumbai and middle India stayed away from the Zomato launch. He’s convinced they’ll now be rethinking their positions. Many investment houses may also look at larger allocations for the start-up sector. Outlook positive Longer term, whether Zomato's share price continues to gain ground will depend on how the company's profitability plays out, analysts say. Its market share has consistently risen and it’s a market leader in terms of gross order. "With economics of scale starting to play out, the losses have reduced substantially," says Sneha Poddar, research analyst at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. "Predicting the growth trajectory at this juncture is a little tricky, but it’s a good bet from a long-term perspective,” she adds. Jyoti Roy, equity strategist at Angel Broking, recommends that short-term investors looking for listing gains "can exit the stock while long-term investors can book partial profits." One investor who has made a fast profit already was headhunter Dony Kuriakose who tweeted: “Richly priced”? That’s rich! I just made 50k in an opening punt on it and got out.” He added: “Nope, I’m not ordering in. Heh heh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Reliance Industries net profit drops 7.92 per cent in Q1||Reliance Industries (RIL) on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 13,806 crore for the first quarter ended June 30 — a sequential fall of 7.92 per cent as its businesses felt the impact of the second Covid wave. Its numbers were largely in line with estimates as analysts had anticipated a subdued April-June period with retail and telecom dragging an otherwise good performance from its oil-to-chemicals business (O2C). However, compared with the previous year, the net profit represented a rise of 4.2 per cent after exceptional items. Net profit attributable to shareholders stood at Rs 12,273 crore, a decline of 7.21 per cent over Rs 13,227 crore in the preceding three months. In the same period of the previous year, this number stood at Rs 13,233 crore. Brokerages such as BofA Securities had expected RIL to report a profit of Rs 13,075.4 crore while a Bloomberg consensus estimate put this at Rs 11,889 crore. During the quarter, RIL reported revenues of Rs 144,372 crore against Rs 91,238 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year and Rs 154,896 crore in the preceding three months. Jio Platforms Ltd (Jio), its digital and telecom subsidiary, posted a 45 per cent growth in net profits at Rs 3,651 crore against Rs 2,519 crore a year ago even as its value of services rose 9.8 per cent to Rs 22,267 crore (Rs 20,277 crore). The average revenue per user (ARPU) stood at Rs 138.4 per subscriber per month during the period — largely stable from Rs 138.2 in the preceding quarter. The O2C business saw a 75 per cent rise in revenues to Rs 103,212 crore against Rs 58,906 crore in the first quarter of last year and a segment EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 12,231 crore — a 49.8 per cent growth over the previous year. RIL said the rise in the topline was primarily on account of a sharp increase in product prices on the back of higher crude prices. The retail business was hit by the second wave of the pandemic, though its numbers were better than those projected by some analysts. Revenue declined to Rs 33,566 crore from Rs 41,296 crore in the January-March period, though it was higher than Rs 28,197 crore in the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court dismisses pleas of telecom majors alleging errors in calculation of AGR-related dues||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the applications filed by Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices seeking the rectification of the alleged errors in the calculation of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) related dues payable by them. “All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed,” a bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said while pronouncing the order. The telecom companies had submitted before the apex court that arithmetical errors in the calculation be rectified and there were cases of duplication of entries. The top court in September last year had given 10 years to the operators struggling to pay Rs 93,520 crore of AGR related dues to clear their outstanding amount to the government. Telecom stocks plunged after the verdict was announced: Vodafone Idea fell 9.62 per cent to Rs 8.36 on the BSE, while Tata Teleservices fell 4.92 per cent to Rs 37.65. Bharti Airtel surprisingly rose 0.38 per cent to Rs 548.55. Vodafone health The verdict is expected to adversely hit Vodafone Idea (Vi), with some analysts fearing the company could face a “financial crisis”. Banks with an exposure to the joint venture would also feel the pinch. The operators would now have to explore funding options, including the monetisation of assets and a tariff hike. Vodafone Idea is reportedly set to mobilise $3 billion from Apollo Global. In a recent note, Deepti Chaturvedi of CLSA said in the absence of any relief, Vodafone Idea’s obligations will drive it to a “financial crisis”. The telecom player needs to have average revenue per user (ARPU) of around Rs 170, which is a huge 40 per cent higher than ARPU of 2020-21. “This in turn will accelerate and mandate multiple tariff hikes or compel shutdown in absence of relief on AGR dues. Besides AGR, Vodafone Idea also has annual spectrum payments of Rs 16,000 crore ($2.2 billion) in 2022-23, Chaturvedi said. 5G auctions The government plans to refer all issues relating to 5G spectrum auction to regulator Trai, minister of state for communications Devusinh Chauhan told the Rajya Sabha on Friday. The move is expected to speed up 5G auctions. DoT officials said they could refer all issues to the regulator, including the review of the base price and the radio waves to be allocated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Zomato shares close nearly 66 per cent higher over issue price||Food delivery platform Zomato made a lip-smacking debut on the stock exchanges on Friday with its shares ending nearly 66 per cent higher over the issue price and its market valuation crossing the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark during intra-day trading. The scintillating show on the opening day is a reflection of investor appetite for technology companies even if they are loss making. This could encourage others to tap the primary market. Zomato’s initial public offering (IPO) was subscribed over 38 times and it had come in the price band of Rs 72-76 per share. On the BSE, its shares opened at Rs 115, a huge gain of 51.31 per cent against the issue price of Rs 76. It then hit a high of Rs 138 that saw its market capitalisation go past the Rs 1-lakh-crore-mark. The counter, however, gave up some of its gains to close at Rs 125.85 — a premium of almost 66 per cent to the issue price, giving it a market capitalisation of Rs 98,731.59 crore. Zomato is now among the top 50 companies on the BSE in terms of market capitalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Auction for new 10-year govt bond devolves as bidders consider RBI’s cut-off yield inadequate||The auction for the new 10-year old government bond (6.10 per cent 2031 bond) devolved on the primary dealers as the bidders considered the RBI’s cut-off yield of 6.15 per cent inadequate. Against the notified sum of Rs 14,000 crore for the 6.10 per cent 2031 bond, the RBI accepted bids worth Rs 2,855.55 crore, leading to the devolvement of 11,144.145 crore on the primary dealers. Bond prices — which are inversely related to their yields — have come under pressure in recent weeks because of inflation fears as crude oil prices have remained firm. The benchmark 2030 paper paper on Friday closed at 6.23 per cent. The central bank had earlier tried to cap it at around 6 per cent. However, on July 9, it had fixed a coupon of 6.10 per cent for the new 2031 paper, indicating some tolerance for higher yields. The other two papers that figured in the auction included the 4.26 per cent GS 2023 and the 6.76 per cent 2061 bond for an amount of Rs 3,000 crore and Rs 9,000 crore, respectively. The RBI fixed a cut-off yield of 4.25 per cent for GS 2023 and accepted bids of Rs 3,750 crore. In GS 2061 paper, it fixed a cut-off of 7.19 per cent and accepted bids of Rs 11,259 crore. Retail inflation in June at 6.26 per cent was above the central bank’s tolerance band for the second straight month, having ticked off at 6.3 per cent in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Nasscom opposes ban on flash sales by e-commerce platforms||Nasscom has opposed the ban on flash sales by e-commerce platforms in the draft rules proposed earlier this month by the ministry of consumer affairs, arguing that the restrictions on these entities should be proportionate to the underlying risks. Offering its suggestions to the proposed amendments in the Consumer Protection (e-Commerce) Rules, the industry forum said the fallback liability on marketplace e-commerce entities arising from mis-selling by vendors or botched transactions should be  limited to “ensuring timely refund if the consumer has already paid for such goods and services”. It called for the need to strike a balance between the compulsions of ensuring consumer protection and the need to weed out ambiguities in the rules and onerous obligations on e-commerce players in order to foster trust in the digital marketplace. The rules should “focus on strengthening consumer protection, ensuring that the obligations are proportionate to the underlying risks and are unambiguous”. The draft e-commerce rules released by the government on June 21 propose to ban fraudulent flash sales and mis-selling of goods and services on e-commerce platforms. Appointments of chief compliance officer/grievance redressal officer are among the key amendments proposed under the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020. Nasccom said the fallback liability should be limited to the extent of ensuring timely refund to consumers if the consumer has already paid for such goods or services. There should be an obligation on the seller not to mis-sell — and it provides a definition of mis-selling. The government also needs to remove the provision under proposed Rule 6(7) that bars marketplace entities from offering any goods or services to registered sellers. The obligation ought to be removed as this is not an unfair trade practice per se.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
