26-07-2021||Business||India's GDP growth expected to be 8.8-9 per cent in FY22: Care Ratings||The country's gross domestic product (GDP) growth is likely to be 8.8 to 9 per cent in the current financial year, driven by agriculture and industry sectors, Care Ratings said in a report. The country's economy had contracted by 7.3 per cent in fiscal 2020-21. The agency said the outlook for the Indian economy on almost all counts in FY22 would look seemingly better than FY21 on account of the negative base effect. "GDP growth for the year (FY22) is expected to be 8.8-9 per cent with GVA (gross value added) growth of 7.8 per cent. The main drivers of the economy would be agriculture and industry," the ratings agency said in its Economic Outlook for 2021-22. Services sector will not be able to reach its potential even at 8.2 per cent growth as the second lockdown has affected sectors like hotels and restaurants, tourism, retail malls and entertainment in particular, it said. While a lot has been done on the supply side by both the RBI and the government, the malaise is on the demand side which has been a problem even before the pandemic, Care Ratings pointed out. A critical factor this time will be the spending pattern of the rural households, the report said, adding that the monsoon forecast is good and ideally a stable Kharif harvest should bode well for rural incomes. There could be some pent up demand which surfaces this time too from urban India, but it may just about maintain the level of last year and not really be a breakthrough. "Higher consumption should stimulate investments. The crux will be an investment which has a multiplier effect on demand and investment," it said. The report also said the fiscal deficit for FY22 is projected between Rs 17.38 lakh crore to Rs 17.68 lakh crore. "For a nominal GDP of Rs 222.9 lakh crore, the increase in quantum of fiscal deficit would potentially push up the fiscal deficit ratio to 7.8-7.9 per cent of GDP," the report said. It also said the cost of services has increased across all components, which combined with the fuel-led impact would keep CPI (consumer price index-based inflation) elevated at around 6 per cent by March-end. Wholesale price index-based inflation will be in double digits mainly due to the low base effect as well as rising global commodity prices. "Given the high inflation numbers witnessed so far and our expectation of CPI inflation to remain elevated, it does not look likely that there can be any rate cut at least in the 2021 calendar year," the agency said. It also expects the non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks to be at 10-10.5 per cent for March 2022. The current account will turn into a deficit this year with a higher trade deficit and stable invisible flows, it said. "We do expect a deficit of 0.5-1 per cent of GDP in FY2021-22," it said. The report further said FPI flows to the country would be lower than last year and be in the region of USD 18-22 billion. It estimates the country's foreign exchange reserves to be around USD 620-630 billion by March-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Sensex slips 123 points to close at 52,852||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 120 points on Monday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance, SBI and HDFC twins amid a largely subdued trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 123.53 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 52,852.27, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 31.60 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,824.45. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Tech Mahindra, M&M, L&T, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank and HDFC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma, Titan, Tata Steel and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. "Indian markets started marginally in red following negative Asian market cues as China tech and education shares plunged and Singapore's manufacturing output declined 3 per cent in June on a seasonally adjusted, month-on-month basis. During the afternoon session markets swung between positive and negative territory with lacklustre trade as traders were concerned as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded Indian equities to the tune of over Rs 5,689 crore in July so far as they continued to adopt a cautious stance in view of various domestic and global factors," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers. Also, the European stocks were seen retreating as investors watch corporate earnings, coronavirus cases and German business sentiment, which fell unexpectedly in July as supply chain constraints and rising COVID-19 infections dampened recent optimism, Solanki added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant losses, while Tokyo closed in the green. Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in the mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.34 per cent to USD 73.85 per barrel. The rupee closed 2 paise lower at 74.42 (provisional) against the US dollar. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 163.31 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||No plan to print currency notes to tide over crisis, says Sitharaman||The government has no plan to print currency notes to tide over the current economic crisis triggered by the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed Parliament on Monday. To a question on whether there is any plan to print currency to tide over the crisis, the Finance Minister said, "No Sir". Many economists and experts have suggested to the government to print more currency notes to tide over the difficult economic situation with a view to support the economy ravaged by the spread of COVID-19, and protect jobs. In economic parlance, printing of money is called monetisation of the deficit. In other words, monetisation of the deficit happens when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) buys government securities directly from the primary market to fund the government's expenses. India's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to have contracted by 7.3 per cent during 2020-21, Sitharaman said in a written reply to Lok Sabha. This contraction reflects the unparalleled effect of the pandemic and the containment measures that were taken to control the pandemic, she said. "The fundamentals of the economy remain strong as gradual scaling back of lockdowns, along with the astute support of Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission has placed the economy firmly on the path of recovery from the second half of FY 2020-21," she said. The government had announced a special economic and comprehensive package of Rs 29.87 lakh crore under AtmaNirbhar Bharat (ANB) to combat the impact of the pandemic, to revive economic growth and to bolster employment during 2020-21, she said. The Union Budget 2021-22 announced a number of measures to support broad-based and inclusive economic development including a 34.5 per cent increase in capital expenditure and 137 per cent increase in health expenditure, she said, adding, the government announced a relief package of Rs 6.29 lakh crore in June 2021, to strengthen public health and provide impetus for growth and employment measures. Replying to another question, Sitharaman said, the impact of the second COVID-19 wave is expected to be muted given localised containment measures and rapid upscaling of the vaccination drive. The Union Budget 2021-22, estimates India's nominal GDP growth at 14.4 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022. The RBI, in its latest Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) resolution of June 4, 2021, has projected India's real GDP to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021-22, after accounting for the impact of the second wave as compared to its earlier projection of 10.5 per cent, she said. In reply to another question, the Finance Minister said the RBI has announced Special three-year Long-Term Repo Operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore at repo rate for the Small Finance Banks (SFBs), to be deployed for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower to provide further support to small business units, micro and small industries, and other unorganised sector entities adversely affected during the current wave of the pandemic. The first auction under the SLTRO was conducted on May 17, 2021, she said, adding, the unutilised portion of notified Rs 10,000 crore is being carried forward in each subsequent auction, until fully utilised or till the last auction to be conducted in October 2021, whichever is earlier. Three auctions under this scheme have been conducted so far, and SFBs have availed a total amount of Rs 1,640 crore under the scheme, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Sensex slips over 192 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 192 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid unabated foreign fund outflows.  After slipping over 192.17 points lower, the 30-share BSE index pared some of its losses to trade 54.98 points or 0.10 per cent lower at 52,920.82 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 11.55 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,844.50.  Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding more than 1 per cent, followed by Maruti, SBI, HDFC and ICICI Bank. Reliance was trading 0.41 per cent lower.  On the other hand, ITC, Titan, Infosys, Sun Pharma, NTPC and Tata Steel were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 138.59 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 52,975.80, and Nifty advanced 32 points or 0.20 per cent to finish at 15,856.0.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 163.31 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo was trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.51 per cent to USD 73.72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Audi launches three all-electric SUVs in India||German luxury car maker Audi has made its debut in India in the EV space with the launch of three electric SUVs — the Audi e-tron 50, Audi e-tron 55 and Audi e-tron Sportback 55. The e-SUVs will be retailing at a price range of Rs 99.99 lakh to Rs 1.17 crore. Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India, said, “It is a big day for us as we launch the e-tron brand in India. Under the e-tron brand, we are launching not one, but three electric SUVs that begin our electrification journey.” Meanwhile, Mercedes-Benz has said by 2022, it will have battery electric vehicles in all the segments the company serves. From 2025, all new vehicle architectures will be electric- only and customers will be able to choose an all-electric alternative for every model the company makes. In India, the German marque will continue to offer only the EQC SUV for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Reliance to start gas production from MJ field in Oct-Dec 2022||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) will start natural gas production from the MJ field — the third and the last set of discoveries that the company is developing in the eastern offshore KG-D6 block — in the last quarter of 2022 to raise the overall output by about two-thirds. In an investor presentation announcing first-quarter earnings, RIL said it has completed its first offshore installation campaign and a second one would begin in November. “Drilling and completions of wells (are) underway,” it said. “First gas expected by Q3 of FY23.” Financial year 2023 starts in April 2022 and the third quarter would be October-December 2022. RIL and its partner BP plc of the UK plan to use a floating production system at high-sea in the Bay of Bengal to bring to production the deepest gas discovery in the KG-D6 block. The MJ-1 gas find is located about 2,000 metres directly below the Dhirubhai-1 and 3 (D1 and D3) fields — the first and the largest fields in KG-D6 block. MJ-1 is estimated to hold a minimum of 0.988 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of contingent resources. The field also has oil deposits which would be produced using a floating system, called FPSO. “FPSO and subsea production systems (are) on track,” the company said. RIL-BP are developing three deep-water gas developments in block KG-D6 — R Cluster, Satellite Cluster and MJ — which together are expected to produce around 30 million standard cubic metres per day of natural gas by 2023, meeting up to 15 per cent of India’s gas demand. R-Cluster started production in December 2020 and the Satellite Cluster came onstream in April. While R-Cluster is expected to reach plateau gas production of about 12.9 mmscmd in 2021, Satellite Cluster will have a peak output of 6 mmscmd. The MJ field will have a peak output of 12 mmscmd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||ICICI Bank's chief Sandeep Bakhshi forfeits Covid year salary ||Sandeep Bakhshi, the managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank, did not take his salary in Covid-hit 2020-21, the annual report of the private sector lender showed. Bakhshi is perhaps the only instance of a non-promoter CEO taking a salary cut. His peers in the technology sector — Rajesh Gopinathan of TCS and Salil Parekh of Infosys — have both taken hikes, though the IT industry benefitted from the pandemic in terms of greater spending in the digital domain. However, many big name promoters did not take salaries last fiscal, including Uday Kotak and Mukesh Ambani. Besides Bakhshi, “material risk takers’’ of the bank including its executive directors, group chief financial officer and company secretary voluntarily opted for a 10 per cent reduction effective May 1, 2020, in their basic salary, retirals and supplementary allowances for fiscal 2021. The ICICI Bank CEO “voluntarily relinquished’’ his fixed compensation of basic, supplementary allowances and retirals for 2020-21 and was paid an honorarium fee of Re 1 for the year. Bakhshi, however, received allowances and perquisites amounting to over Rs 38.38 lakh, the annual report said, adding he got Rs 63.60 lakh as  performance bonus from ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company as deferred variable pay for 2016-17 and 2017-18. On the other hand, the percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees of the bank during the financial year was around five per cent, while the average increase in the remuneration of middle and senior management, including key managerial personnel, was zero per cent. The annual reports of the top three private sector banks — HDFC Bank, ICICI and Axis — showed HDFC Bank’s former MD & CEO Aditya Puri as the highest earner with total emoluments of Rs 13.82 crore. Sashidhar Jagdishan, who took over from Puri in late October, earned Rs 4.77 crore for the fiscal, which included payments as a group head till his elevation. Puri’s overall payments included Rs 3.5 crore as post retirement benefits. In HDFC Bank, the percentage increase in median remuneration of employees was 7.45 per cent and this included front line sales and overseas staff. The average percentage increase for key managerial personnel was 6.84 per cent. The annual report of Axis Bank showed  managing director and CEO Amitabh Chaudhry earning Rs 6.52 crore. The median remuneration of employees of the bank decreased 3.66 per cent in 2020-21 over the previous fiscal. Average remuneration increase for non-managerial personnel of the bank during the financial year was 5.8 per cent (annualised) and  around 0.67 per cent for managers. When compared with the bank’s median salary, Jagdishan earned 139 times the median and Chaudhry, 104 times. In ICICI Bank, it stood at 96 times for executive directors — Anup Bagchi, Vishakha Mulye and Sandeep Batra. According to a PTI report, HDFC Bank had 200 executives earning above Rs 8.5 lakh a month, including key management personnel, serving officials and those who left the bank midway last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Finance ministry moves file for extension of 3 MDs of govt-owned banks||The finance ministry has moved a file to extend the tenure of three public sector banks’ managing directors, including Punjab National Bank (PNB), according to sources. Besides, the sources said the ministry has recommended the department of personnel and training (DoPT) for extension of 10 executive directors (EDs) of various public sector banks. The three-year term of S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao, MD and CEO of PNB, is coming to an end on September 18 but the finance ministry has recommended extension for four months till January 31, 2022, when Rao attains his superannuation age of 60 years. Atul Kumar Goel’s term as MD and CEO of Uco Bank has been recommended for a two-year extension beyond November 1 this year. A. S. Rajeev, MD and CEO of Bank of Maharashtra, has been suggested for an extension of two years beyond December 1. The finance ministry has simultaneously forwarded the name of S. L. Jain for the appointment of MD and CEO of Indian Bank. The Banks Board Bureau had recommended the name of Jain in May after the interview.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||JSPL receives revised Rs 7,401 crore offer for Jindal Power arm||JSPL on Sunday announced it has received a revised offer of Rs 7,401 crore from Worldone Private Limited for divesting its subsidiary company Jindal Power Limiter (JPL). Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) had earlier announced accepting a Rs 3,015-crore offer from Worldone Private Limited to divest the 96.42 per cent stake it holds in subsidiary company JPL. The divestment is in line with JSPL’s strategic objective to continuously reduce its debt and carbon emissions and focus on the steel business. “After various rounds of discussion, JSPL and its transaction advisers have negotiated a revised and improved binding offer from Worldone accommodating all investor feedback received by the company. Worldone will (now) buy out all the equity shares and redeemable preference shares of JPL held by JSPL for approximately Rs 7,401 crore,” JSPL said in a statement. JSPL further said it has taken a decision to undertake a competitive bidding process to realise the highest possible value for the stake sale. In the bidding process, if JSPL receives a higher offer compared with that of Worldone’s offer of Rs 7,401 crore, the company will accept it. The transparent bidding process will be advertised in public domain and will present an equal opportunity for interested bidders from around the world to come forward and improve the offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Piaggio to offer all fuel options in India||Piaggio India will remain fuel agnostic and offer its customers the choice of diesel, petrol and CNG powertrains. “We are going to let the customer be free to decide what to use as it is a question of his livelihood. We have to be sensitive to the ownership cost and acquisition cost,” Piaggio India chairman and MD Diego Graffi said after the launch of the 300cc HT Ape range in both petrol and CNG fuel options. On why the company did not launch an electric powertrain, Graffi said: “EV is a revolution waiting to happen but right now there is a mental barrier against it. The company is investing in EV and BS-VI and alternative fuel to expand its current market share of 30 per cent.” The biggest roadblock to EV, Graffi feels, is the cost of acquisition and the swappable model of battery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank's digital currency plan generates mixed response||The Reserve Bank of India’s plan for a central bank digital currency (CBDC) has generated a mixed response from digital currency exchanges. These exchanges hope the existing cryptocurrencies can co-exist with CBDC, with the RBI currency getting traded on their platforms. They are also seeking clarity on regulations around crypto assets . Some observers also see a limited upside in CBDC in an already robust digital payments ecosystem. “It is a great step forward in building a completely digital economy and we believe other crypto assets can also co-exist with this digital currency. It is the regulation of other crypto assets that will benefit investors, businesses and the economy,” said Avinash Shekhar,  co-CEO of   Zebpay. “We believe the Indian government will come up with clear regulations around crypto assets and it will be a well calibrated one after discussion with various stakeholders. We are optimistic that the government will come up with guidelines that allow all Indians to participate in this technological revolution,” Shekhar said. “This is a significant development for the global crypto space and is great news for crypto exchanges and investors in India. With countries like Russia and China also making similar moves, the launch of our country’s own CBDC accords India the leadership position in this space,” a Coin DCX spokesperson said. With CBDC promising a lower volatility while offering the same promise as that of crypto-assets, exchanges will be eager to include them as part of their portfolio, the spokesperson said. Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO and co-founder Unocoin: “Different countries have different infrastructure when it comes to domestic payments and we have a very robust stack already provided by the RBI. This means the advantage that we can get out of CBDC is limited.” He said 80 per cent of  countries have a poor payment structure where crypto-currencies are making the transactions free and fast, which explains the high value of the crypto-currencies. “In India, we can take advantage of this value growth by participating through investing in them. CBDC does not seem to be the need of the hour in India in any way,” said Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO and co-founder Unocoin. The RBI, however, has questioned the need for having private virtual currencies (VCs). “Developing our own CBDC could provide the public with uses that any private virtual currencies can provide and to that extent might retain public preference for the Rupee. It could also protect the public from the abnormal level of volatility some of these VCs  experience,” RBI deputy governor T Rabi Sankar had said last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Trai likely to review grey areas in 5G||The government plans to refer all issues relating to the 5G spectrum auction to the telecom regulator, which could pave the way for the much awaited auctions in this fiscal itself. “The government is considering sending a reference to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), seeking its recommendations on issues involved in the auction of spectrum available for International Mobile Telecommunications (read: 5G) services,” minister of state for communications Devusinh Chauhan told the Rajya Sabha. DoT officials said they could refer to all contentious issues, including the review of the base price, the radio waves for sale and the appropriate standards. The officials expect the auctions of 5G spectrum in the current fiscal itself if the recommendations arrive from the regulator and other clearances obtained from the concerned authorities. 5G networks are capable of data speeds at least 20 times faster than 4G and seen as vital for emerging technologies such as self-driving cars and artificial intelligence. “We hope the government will also look into the industry’s call for revisiting the 5G spectrum pricing,” S.P. Kochhar, the director-general of the Cellular Opeartors Association of India, said. The referral to the telecom regulator could provide clarity to whether the 26 Ghz millimeter wave band would be put up for auction. The reserve price for 5G spectrum has been set at Rs 492 crore per Mhz of spectrum in the 3,300-3,600Mhz bands, which are considered ideal for 5G telecom services. Trai had recommended the 5G spectrum base price in August 2018. The suggestions were accepted by the Digital Communications Commission, the highest decision-making authority at the DoT. The industry has been lobbying the DoT to refer to Trai reserve prices for all spectrum bands cleared for 5G trials, including 26 Ghz, 3.3-3.67 Ghz and 700 Mhz. This could lead to Trai cutting the earlier base price of the premium-sub-Ghz 700 Mhz band that went unsold for the second auction in succession in March as well as mid-band 5G spectrum that have been termed by telcos as exorbitant.  The DoT is also likely to ask the regulator to set a base price for the 600 Mhz sub-Ghz band, which has not been auctioned previously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Infrastructure demand keeps steel prices high||JSW Steel recorded its highest profit (Rs 5,900 crore) and revenue (Rs 28,902 crore) in a quarter marred by the brutal second wave of Covid-19. The company’s joint MD and CFO Seshagiri Rao tells The Telegraph that spending on infrastructure and decarbonisation across the world is keeping the demand and prices of steel at an elevated level in the US, Europe and China despite the supply uptick. Unlike the last commodity boom, which was led by oil and gold, this time metals, including steel, are leading the charge. India will also consume 110 million tonnes (mt) of steel compared with 94mt last fiscal, Rao predicts. An excerpt: Profits have gone up 40 per cent even though sales are down 11 per cent. Is this because the sales realisations are up? Of course, sales realisations are up by 19 per cent on a blended basis. There are multiple factors. Cost push on account of iron ore and coking coal price jump was not fully reflected in the first quarter because we had inventory. The change in overseas operations also played a part. Compared with a Rs 325-crore loss, there is Rs 282-crore EBITDA profit this quarter, which reflects a Rs 600-crore swing. Indian subsidiaries also played a part with profit up at Rs 1,125 crore compared with Rs 825 crore in the fourth quarter. Positive contribution from exports also came along, which contributed 35 per cent compared to 25 per cent in Q4. HR coil prices are Rs 5,000-6,000 a tonne more in the export market. BPSL also made a profit of Rs 745 crore. Will the cost push be reflected in the second quarter? There will be a cost push on account of raw materials. Coking coal prices for us will go up by $32 a tonne during this quarter which translates to $20 a tonne cost push per tonne of steel. In iron ore, there will be a cost push in this quarter because we have bought and built inventory at high prices. Coking coal cost will go up further in the third quarter but not in iron ore as prices are softening. What is your outlook on prices and demand? Prices will follow the cost. Internationally, 1004mt of steel was produced in January-June of 2021 compared with 878mt in the corresponding period of 2020 and 928mt in 2019 when there was no Covid. China produced 563mt in the first six months compared with 504mt in 2020 and 491mt in 2019. There is an 18 per cent growth over last year in the rest of the world. So, steel supply has gone up everywhere, not only in China but in all the geographies, most significantly in the US and the EU in the last six months and in the last quarter too. This indicates very strong demand because prices are up despite the increased supply. Where is this demand coming from? Governments across the world are pouring money into infrastructure. Moreover, there is a $2-trillion investment committed till 2050 to renewable energy and infrastructure for decarbonisation. This is translating into a 3 per cent incremental capital expenditure as a percentage of GDP. Last time, the commodity boom was led by oil and gold, this time it is metal. So, we are pretty confident of steel demand in the world and in India. So I don’t see prices crashing, they may fluctuate. Where do you see India demand playing out in the next few quarters? We have given an estimate that India will consume 110mt steel this fiscal compared with 94mt last year. I have no doubt we will reach that number or even surpass it marginally. The second quarter, though sluggish, will be better than Q1, when we consumed 24.7mt compared with 30mt in Q4, (12mt in Q1 of last fiscal). We are seeing demand from yellow goods, appliances, solar, packaging and residential construction. Infrastructure will be back from Q3 too. Let’s turn to JSW Steel now. Mixed signals from Odisha. Some say JSW will give up two mines. Is that true? The state will also put up 10 mines for fresh bid. This is completely wrong. We are investing in a beneficiation plant, digitisation and buying equipment to operate on our own. In fact, JSW will also participate for more mines in the latest round of auction. There are 10 mines put up for bid, three of them are large. We will definitely participate in them. You are also bidding for NINL in Odisha? The government has shortlisted the bidder and opened the data room. It looks to be an interesting opportunity. Roadshow for Nagrnar (NMDC steel plant) is on too. These two we are examining. Your take on the Centre’s PLI scheme for high grade steel. Will JSW look at it? The Centre has offered 12 per cent incentive on grain oriented electrical steel, which is 100 per cent imported to India today. We have already announced JSW is exploring a JV with JFE of Japan in this segment. We are studying it. The maximum a company can get is Rs 200 crore a year. So, a company can maximum get Rs 1,000 crore in five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Investing in cryptocurrencies? Know tax implications in India||The back-to-back lockdowns over the last one-and-a half years have made people realise the importance of having a passive income source. Indians tried many ways to generate good money in search of a good passive income source. Some started their own business from home and some started investing in IPOs and real estate. However, a lot of people choose to invest in cryptocurrencies. According to a report, a growth of over 10 million crypto investors has been reported in India in 2021. The hesitation and dissatisfaction with the cryptocurrency culture in India is declining at a steady pace. People are finding great opportunity to make good RoI with it. However, even after an enormous growth in the number of cryptocurrency traders and investors, people are worried about taxation on cryptocurrency in India. They are worried about its future here. In this article we are going to talk about the tax implications on cryptocurrency in India. Taxability issues The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not yet granted bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency the status of legal tender in India. Hence, there are no clear rules or guidelines defining the taxability of cryptocurrencies, which calls for specific clarification from the income tax (I-T) department. However, it is not a good idea to skip paying taxes on profits from the sale of cryptocurrencies. All income except the explicitly exempted income is liable to income tax. This means that investors will be liable to pay taxes on cryptocurrency investments. Nature of investment In regular income tax parlance, the taxation on cryptocurrencies should depend on the nature of investment, whether it is held in the form of currency or in the form of assets. Profits from the sale of cryptocurrency can be taxed as business income if traded frequently, or as capital gains if held for investment purposes. However, it needs to be noted that, if considered as business income, the profit can be taxed according to the applicable slab rate. But if it is held for investment purpose, the taxation can be the same as tax gain in the form of capital gains. It also means that if taxpayers utilised their investments within three years, short-term capital gains according to the relevant tax slabs will be applicable. However, if the redemption happens after three years, it can be treated as long-term capital gains and taxed at 20 per cent with indexation. Meanwhile, some experts believe that profits from cryptocurrencies can be treated as income from other sources, whereas we can also consider profits from frequent trading as income from speculative business income. However, more details and discussions will be required to understand it better. What about mining? Cryptocurrency generated by mining is a self-generated capital asset and can be taxed as capital gains but Section 55 of I-T Act 1961,  which deals with the cost of acquisition and improvement, does not recognise it. However, according to some online sources, cryptocurrency mining can be considered as a taxable event. The fair market value or cost basis of the coin is the price at the time the miner mined it. It needs to be noted that you can avail a business deduction for the equipment and resources used in mining. The nature of those deductions varies depending on whether you mined the cryptocurrency for personal or business gain. If you are running a mining business, you can get deductions to cut your tax bill. But you cannot avail these deductions if you have mined cryptocurrencies for personal gain. Disclosure of income It is a well-known fact that taxpayers having income over Rs 50 lakh annually are required to disclose their assets and liabilities in the Schedule to Assets and Liabilities along with the cost of acquisition. As cryptocurrencies can also be considered as assets, taxpayers have to include cryptocurrencies in the above schedule. Additionally, taxpayers who are resident and ordinary residents also have to disclose foreign income and assets on their tax filing or tax returns. If we also consider the tax and penal consequences under the Act and the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, it may be a good step for taxpayers to disclose cryptocurrency holdings in the foreign assets or Income Schedule. In India, there are no official guidelines till now about the adoption of cryptocurrency and the tax imposition on it. Thus, we have to wait for government guidelines to know more details about the taxation on cryptocurrency. The writer is managing director, SAG Infotech||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
