27-07-2021||Business||Recruitment Mantra launches campaign ‘HIRE EMPLOYEE @999/- ONLY’ for recruitment||Leading recruitment firm, Recruitment Mantra is launching an encouraging campaign ‘HIRE EMPLOYEE @999/- ONLY’ to serve the recruitment needs of different companies and firms.  The brand new campaign which is considered as highly economical and feasible will enable these firms to save their cost as well as encourage them to hire more people. The budget-friendly package is proven to benefit the firms and corporates in preventing them from hiring internal HR teams or to spend large amounts on different portals and advertisements. Their in-house team provides expertise on all aspects of recruitment and retention ranging from creative development, traditional and digital media advertising, national and local outreach, and information technology solutions. Speaking about the launch, the CEO Mr. Arghya Sarkar says, "As the pandemic has worstly affected our economy, now most of the organisations are opting for cost cutting. Earlier the recruitment process was different where for hiring manpower the companies had their internal recruitment team. Some companies used to pay for different portal subscriptions. Some of them even used to hire a consultant who charged at least 8.33% on annual CTC. Therefore, this campaign will be beneficial for all these organisations to hire skilled manpower as per their requirement at Rs. 999/- only." The young and dynamic entrepreneur, Mr. Arghya Sarkar is a successful businessman with hands-on experience in multiple fields and domains that include recruitment, HR consulting, brand management and image consulting. He is also associated with Iapetus Coach De Vie Pvt Ltd as its Managing Director which is one of the fast growing start up businesses in the field of image consulting. As per Mr. Sarkar, 25% profit from this campaign will be used for charitable purposes for those needy children who suffered the most during this pandemic. With simplified processes and accessibility, the campaign will likely bring an ease in the recruitment process by generating high volume and quality enrollments for multiple firms and organisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Block Beats Company emerges as the new sun-rise in the block chain technology||A blockchain is a form of a database that keeps information different from a traditional database. Blockchains store data in blocks linked together. As new data arrives, it is added to a new block. Once the block has been filled with data, it is chained onto the preceding block, resulting in the data chained chronologically. A blockchain may hold several sorts of data. Its most frequent application to date has been as a transaction ledger. Dr Sahil Kadari has worked in the blockchain technology field for over five years. He has top administrative positions in several organisations, making significant contributions to the development and growth of new enterprises. Blockchain, according to Sahil, is the future of the next generation and one of the finest investment opportunities of this age. He is still researching the uses and development possibilities of blockchain technology. He is also the recipient of a lot of awards including Nelson Mandela Award, Indian Iconic business Award, Indian Glory award to name a few. He is also India's 1st youngest Doctorate in Blockchain technology certificate. Block Beats was founded by him. The creators of the business, Block Beats Genesis, feel that their purpose is to create a civilization united by a shared desire to understand how to manage complex technology, which is changing more and more of our world. They regard the digital gap as a worldwide challenge to humanity, which they are quickly addressing. Their contribution to addressing this issue is their one-of-a-kind offering, a high-tech platform that makes sophisticated technologies publicly available and promotes them. They are creating a strong platform based on cutting-edge technology. Using a blockchain is cryptographically safe since the ledger is spread among all nodes in the system, making hacking difficult. There is no one governing authority, and the network cannot be twisted or controlled by a single controlling authority. There is no intermediary. It's a novel hybrid proof-of-work. Why choose BlockBeats? It operates at a high speed and a low cost, making the whole process affordable and cost-effective. It further protects against hacking and maintains a real-time database ensuring easy entry and fair competition by eliminating middlemen. Their Trading assists clients in the management and transformation of their front, middle, and back-office trading activities. They offer a comprehensive range of services to buy-side, sell-side, and market infrastructure businesses, including systems integration and technology consultancy, to help them achieve high-performance trading and settlement capabilities across all asset classes. Strategy, architectural design, operating model work, process improvement, system development, and trading package integration are all part of this, as are application management, application outsourcing, and business process outsourcing. Benefits of using BlockBeats: Blockbeats offers BANKS PAYMENT SYSTEMS that are simple to use and set up. Everything from an AI-created portfolio to automatic payments is included. Blockbeats contribute to the growth of the Token's value. We live in a world where DIGITAL CURRENCY EVOLUTION is taking place. Everything is building up to the launch of big cryptocurrencies. It is jam-packed with cutting-edge blockchain technology. It saves time and allows you to cash out anytime you want. Blockbeats also has FAVORABLE REGULATIONS such as untraceable transactions, anti-hacking capabilities, three layers of encryption, and automatic payments. One should feel at peace because the data is stored in a decentralised manner. It is encrypted data with Blockchain protection and Fast Calculation. Blockchain is a game-changing technology that will have a significant influence on every industry. Now that you understand the significance of blockchain technology, Block Beats can assist you in making informed decisions and investing in cryptocurrency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||IMF slashes India's growth forecast for FY22 to 9.5 per cent||The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Tuesday cut its economic growth forecast for India to 9.5 per cent for the fiscal year to March 31, 2022 as the onset of a severe second Covid-19 wave cut into recovery momentum. This forecast for 2021-22 is lower than the 12.5 per cent growth in GDP that IMF had projected in April before the second wave took a grip. For 2022-23, IMF expects economic growth of 8.5 per cent, larger than the 6.9 per cent it had projected in April. “Growth prospects in India have been downgraded following the severe second COVID wave during March-May and expected slow recovery in confidence from that setback,” IMF said in its latest World Economic Outlook (WEO). India’s economy is gradually recovering from a deep contraction in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 (7.3 per cent) and a subsequent severe second wave of Covid-19. IMF joins a host of global and domestic agencies which have cut India's growth estimates for the current fiscal. Last month, S&P Global Ratings projected a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in the current fiscal and 7.8 per cent in 2022-23. While World Bank sees GDP growth at 8.3 per cent from April 2021 to March 2022, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) last week downgraded India's economic growth forecast to 10 per cent from 11 per cent estimated in April. Another US-based rating agency Moody's has projected India clocking 9.3 per cent growth in the current fiscal ending March 2022. For 2021 calendar year, Moody's has cut the growth estimate sharply to 9.6 per cent. The GDP, which shrank from USD 2.87 trillion in 2019-20 to USD 2.66 trillion in the following year, is estimated to reach around USD 4 trillion in 2024-25. Overall, the global economy is projected to grow 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022. The 2021 global growth forecast is unchanged from the April 2021 WEO, but with offsetting revisions, the report said. The global economic recovery continues, but with a widening gap between advanced economies and many emerging markets and developing economies. “Our latest global growth forecast of 6 percent for 2021 is unchanged from the previous outlook, but the composition has changed,” IMF’s Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said in a blog post released along with the WEO. Gopinath said, “IMF estimates the pandemic has reduced per capita incomes in advanced economies by 2.8 per cent, relative to pre-pandemic trends over 2020-2022, compared with an annual per capita loss of 6.3 per cent a year for emerging market and developing economies (excluding China).” “These revisions reflect important extent differences in pandemic developments as the delta variant takes over. Close to 40 percent of the population in advanced economies has been fully vaccinated, compared with 11 percent in emerging market economies, and a tiny fraction in low-income developing countries,” she wrote. “Faster-than expected vaccination rates and return to normalcy have led to upgrades, while lack of access to vaccines and renewed waves of Covid-19 cases in some countries, notably India, have led to downgrades,” Gopinath added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 273 points||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 273 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Dr Reddy's and Axis Bank amid a massive selloff in Chinese markets. Despite opening on a positive note, the 30-share BSE index turned red to end 273.51 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 52,578.76, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 78 points or 0.49 per cent to 15,746.45. Dr Reddy's was the top loser in the Sensex pack, plunging over 10 per cent, after the company reported s 36 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 380.4 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, on account of higher expenses. Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Kotak Bank, HDFC and ITC fell up to 3.19 per cent. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bajaj Finance and Tech Mahindra were among the gainers. "Stocks gave up gains as investors were nervous on the selling across Chinese markets by global funds coupled with the policies of the Chinese authorities and the likely impact on Indian markets despite knowing that it is also a positive for India," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP securities. While we did see profit booking across banks and the pharma pack on account of negative news flow on few pharma names, certain pockets across the broader market like textile exporters and coffee stocks posted smart gains on the back of rising coffee futures, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong witnessed massive selloff as data safety and other enforcement actions weighed on Chinese internet and other companies. Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.30 per cent to USD 73.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 150 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Tata Steel amid a positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 155.51 points or 0.29 per cent higher at 53,007.78 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 48.15 points or 0.30 per cent to 15,872.60.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising more than 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Maruti, Titan and SBI.  On the other hand, Axis Bank, L&T, HCL Tech, Nestle India and HDFC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 123.53 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 52,852.27, and Nifty slipped 31.60 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,824.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,376.79 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic markets look to be modestly good as of now. Notably, 1QFY22 corporate earnings have been strong so far and commentary of most management also have been encouraging, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "While asset quality worry for banks and NBFCs post 1QFY22 earnings cards of HDFC Banks and ICICI Banks weighed on investor sentiment, it is likely to improve with the reopening of the complete economy and faster job creation," he stated.  While concerns over global growth due to the recent rise in delta variant coronavirus cases in different parts of the world continue to persist, we believe that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact, Modi added.  US equities extended gains ahead of corporate earnings report cards of heavyweights and Federal Reserve policy meeting outcome.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.41 per cent to USD 74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Byju’s acquires Singapore-based Great Learning||Edtech major Byju’s on Monday announced the acquisition of Singapore-based Great Learning in a transaction valued at $600 million, comprising cash, stock and earnout. The company has also earmarked an additional $400 million investment in the professional and higher education segment to accelerate Great Learning’s growth, a press statement said. “The acquisition marks Byju’s strong push into the professional upskilling and life-long learning space globally with a total commitment of $1 billion, expanding its offerings beyond the K12 and test prep segments, and further accelerating the company’s growth plans,” it added. Great Learning will continue to operate as an independent unit under the Byju’s group under the leadership of its founder and CEO Mohan Lakhamraju and co-founders, Hari Nair and Arjun Nair. The acquisition comes only days after the firm bought Epic, a digital reading platform for kids, for $500 million (Rs 3,729.8 crore). The company is planning to invest an additional $1 billion in North America to accelerate its vision of “helping students fall in love with learning”. The acquisition is expected to help Byju’s expand its footprint in the US by providing access to the more than two million teachers and 50 million kids in Epic’s existing global user-base, which has more than doubled over the last year. Epic CEO Suren Markosian and co-founder Kevin Donahue will remain in their roles. “Our partnership with Epic will enable us to create engaging and interactive reading and learning experiences for children globally. Byju’s has aggressive plans for the international and US market expansion. The acquisition with Epic will not only lead to significant investments in technology that will help to further personalised learning for students but also enable Byju’s to become a natural part of America’s learning culture,” the company had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Paytm expects to launch IPO at end of October||Indian digital payments firm Paytm expects to launch its initial public offering (IPO) at the end of October, pending regulatory approvals, a source familiar with the matter said on Monday. Paytm, which has filed for a Rs 16,600 crore ($2.2 billion) IPO that will likely be the largest ever in India, also expects to break even in 18 months, the source said, declining to be named as the matter is not public. Paytm’s IPO plan comes at a time several first-generation homegrown start-ups in India prepare to go public on the domestic bourses, led by food delivery firm Zomato, which made a stellar stock market debut last week. “Hopefully Paytm will be able to go out before Diwali,” the source said. The startup, which counts China’s Ant Group and Japan’s SoftBank among its backers, narrowed its operating loss to Rs 1,655 crore in the financial year to end-March 2021 from Rs 2,468 crore a year before. “Paytm is on the path to profitability now,” the source said. “If the company continues the way it is doing right now 18 months is quite reasonable, assuming there is no Covid-related impact to the business.” Paytm declined to comment. JSW Cement Private equity funds Apollo Global Management, Advent International and Synergy Metals and Mining Fund are in the race to pick up a stake in JSW Cement, part of the $12 billion JSW Group, according to a source. The three funds have moved to the next round of the minority stake sale of JSW Cement at valuation of around $1.5 billion. JSW Cement is divesting a stake worth Rs 1,500 crore ($200 million) to fund its capital expenditure, the source said. This could be a combination of debt and equity, though it is yet to be finally decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||British court grants bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya||A British court on Monday granted a bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya, paving the way for a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order to seek repayment of debt owed by the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. “As at 15.42 (UK time), I shall adjudicate Mallya bankrupt,” Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) judge Michael Briggs said in his ruling during a virtual hearing of the Chancery Division of the High Court. “I have to decide if there is a real prospect of payment of petition debt in full within a reasonable period of time… there is insufficient evidence that (Mallya’s asset realisations in India) will pay the debt in full within a reasonable period of time,” Judge Briggs noted, in reference to defence arguments pointing to a restoration process in India following a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court order for the attachment of Mallya’s assets. “In my judgment, the sums provided to date are conditional… there is no evidence  Mallya will return to India to deal with the criminal trial and seek to unlock the allocation of realisations which have been made,” the judge concluded. The 65-year-old businessman, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges, remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings. During the course of Monday’s hearing, Judge Briggs asked Mallya’s barrister, Philip Marshall, if there was any “indication” if his client intended to return to India to deal with the criminal proceedings and was told that there was no such indication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra and Axis Bank meet analyst estimates of asset quality||Two private sector lenders — Kotak Mahindra Bank and Axis Bank — on Monday met analyst estimates of their asset quality, providing some relief amid renewed concerns of a rise in bad loans because of the second Covid wave. Axis Bank reported a gross non-performing asset (NPA) ratio of 3.85 per cent during the first quarter ended June 30. Though it marked a slight deterioration over 3.70 per cent in the previous three months, it was in line with the 3.9 per cent  projection by Emkay. The brokerage had expected Kotak Mahindra Bank to report a gross NPA ratio of 3.5 per cent. The percentage of gross NPAs to gross advances at the bank came in at 3.56 per cent which was, however, higher than 3.25 per cent in the preceding January-March quarter. Observers said though the percentage of bad loans in both these banks have risen on a sequential basis, it is not as bad as feared. Worries about the banks’ non-performing loans have risen because of the impact of the second Covid wave after HDFC Bank, known for its stable asset quality, reported a higher gross NPA ratio of 1.47 per cent compared with 1.32 per cent in the January-March quarter and 1.36 per cent in the April-June 2020 quarter. Bajaj Finance also reported a 19.15 per cent gross NPA ratio in its auto finance business, a huge jump over 9.31 per cent in the preceding quarter. During the period under review, Kotak Mahindra Bank reported a standalone net profit of Rs 1,641.91 crore against Rs 1,244.45 crore in the year-ago quarter, a rise of almost 32 per cent. The lender disclosed that it has implemented a one-time restructuring for 6,522 accounts where its exposure stood at almost Rs 227 crore. The bank’s net interest income rose 6 per cent to Rs 3,942 crore from Rs 3,724 crore in the April-June quarter of the previous fiscal. Axis Bank disclosed that it has undertaken a one-time restructuring for 8,162 accounts where the exposure stood at Rs 2,124 crore. The specific loan loss provisions for the quarter was Rs 3,151 crore compared with Rs 3,512 crore in the previous year. The bank’s net profit almost doubled to Rs 2,160.15 crore in the June quarter from Rs 1,112.17 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||Centre has no plan to ask RBI to print money to finance deficit ||The Centre has no plan to ask the Reserve Bank of India to print money to finance its deficit for the current fiscal even as the interest rates on government paper show little signs of softening with those on the benchmark 10-year paper at 6.16 per cent at close on Monday. “The fundamentals of the economy remain strong as the gradual scaling back of lockdowns, along with the astute support of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission (stimulus package) has placed the economy firmly on the path of recovery from the second half of 2020-21,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in the Lok Sabha on Monday. She was replying to a question by Lok Sabha member Mala Roy of the Trinamul Congress on the state of the economy during the coronavirus pandemic. When asked “whether there is any plan to print currency to tide over the crisis”, the finance minister, in her written statement, replied “no”. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and former finance minister P. Chidambaram had suggested that printing money was an appropriate way to support rising expenditure during the pandemic. While Banerjee said the government should print money to support direct cash transfers to the poor, Chidambaram wanted the Centre to “act boldly and spend” by borrowing or printing more money. “This is not the time to worry about the fiscal deficit. So what if the deficit widens to 6.5 per cent. We can’t lose another year like we lost the last year. My advice to the government is to act boldly and spend. Borrow or print money and spend,” Chidambaram said. A section of the economists was opposed to the idea as this would lead to higher inflation and a decline in the value of the rupee. Sitharaman introduced the insolvency amendment bill in the Lok Sabha which is meant to provide a pre-packaged insolvency resolution to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The bill — Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (amendment) Bill 2021 — will replace an ordinance promulgated in April this year. Tax collection The net direct tax collection in the first quarter of 2021-22 is Rs 2.46 lakh crore against Rs 1.17 lakh crore a year ago, the minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary informed Lok Sabha in a written reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||Tata Motors reports greater than expected loss in the first quarter||Tata Motors on Monday reported a greater than expected loss in the first quarter with its Indian operations coping more effectively than overseas arm Jaguar Land Rover to the twin challenges of the pandemic and a semiconductor shortage. The Indian auto major reported a consolidated loss of Rs 4,450.92 crore against a loss of Rs 8,437.99 crore in the year-ago period. While JLR was a drag, the performance of the domestic operations was better than estimates. Analysts had expected the company to report a net loss of around Rs 2,000 crore during the period. In the preceding quarter, Tata Motors had posted a net loss of Rs 7,605.40 crore. During the period, its consolidated revenues stood at Rs 65,535.38 crore, up from Rs 31,481.86 crore in the same period of the previous year. It was, however, lower than the Rs 87,772.31 crore earned in the January-March period. Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), which contributes a significant part of Tata Motors’ topline, reported revenues of around £4.97 billion, which was a 73.7 per cent jump over the previous year. Retail sales of JLR rose 68.1 per cent year-on-year to 124,537 units, while wholesales jumped 72.6 per cent to 84,442 vehicles. But the semiconductor constraint meant wholesales fell short of targets by around 30,000 vehicles. According to JLR, the production constraint resulted in a pre-tax loss of £110 million  compared with £413 million in the same period of the previous year. The company reported a free cash outflow of £996 million, which it said was better than £1.6 billion at the peak of the pandemic  a year ago. On the road ahead, the Tata Motors subsidiary said that despite the spread of the Delta variant, a higher vaccination coverage is an encouraging trend. However, it added that the shortage of semiconductors is very difficult to forecast. The company reiterated that the semiconductor supply shortages in the quarter ending September 2021 will be greater than in the first quarter, potentially resulting in wholesale volumes coming in  about 50 per cent lower than planned. “JLR expects the situation will start to improve in the second half of the financial year. In the second quarter, JLR expects a negative EBIT margin with a free cash outflow of less than £1 billion. “As the semiconductor supply improves, JLR expects to achieve a positive EBIT margin and positive free cash flow in the second half of the financial year,’’ it said. Tata Motors’ standalone revenues, which largely represent its domestic & joint operations, came in at Rs 11,818.31 crore against Rs 2,634.14 crore in the year ago period — a 349 per cent rise. However, it posted a loss of Rs 1,320.74 crore, which was lower than Rs 2,190.64 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Tata Motors expects demand to improve but warned of rising input prices. The results should improve on a sequential basis from the second half, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
