28-07-2021||Business||Covid-19: IMF forecasts 6% global growth this year as economies reopen||The International Monetary Fund is sharply upgrading its economic outlook this year for the world's wealthy countries, especially the United States, as Covid-19 vaccinations help sustain solid rebounds from the pandemic recession. But the 190-country lending agency has downgraded its forecast for poorer countries, most of which are struggling to vaccinate. Overall, the IMF said Tuesday that it expects the global economy to expand 6% this year — a dramatic bounce-back from the 3.2% contraction in the pandemic year of 2020. The IMF's forecast, unchanged from its previous estimate in April, would mark the fastest calendar-year global growth in records dating to 1980. Beneath the worldwide number, however, a gap between the vaccine haves and have-nots is widening. The IMF expects advanced economies to grow 5.6% this year, an upgrade from the 5.1% it forecast in April, fueled by the swift recovery of consumers and businesses. But it downgraded its 2021 forecast for emerging market and developing countries to 6.3% from its April forecast of 6.7%. Advanced economies, in which close to 40% of the population has been vaccinated, are largely reopening after last year's Covid-19 lockdowns. But in developing and emerging market countries, the vaccination rate is just 11%. Moreover, the governments of poorer countries cannot match the outpouring of government spending that rich countries have been using to propel their economic recoveries. The United States is expected to register 7% growth this year, a sharp reversal from last year's 3.5% drop and an upgrade from the 6.4% growth the IMF had forecast for 2021 back in April. President Joe Biden's ambitious spending plans are expected to fuel growth this year and next. The IMF predicts that the U.S. economy will grow 4.9% in 2022, up from the 3.5% it projected three months ago. The 19 European countries that share the euro currency are forecast to grow 4.6% collectively this year, versus last year's 6.5% contraction. Japan, which endured a 4.7% drop in economic growth in 2020, is expected to expand 2.8% this year. But the 2021 forecast for Japan marks a downgrade from what the IMF expected in April, reflecting a resurgence of Covid-19 cases earlier this year. In the developing world, the outlook for China, the world's second-largest economy after the United States, was marked down to 8.1% after the government scaled back spending and investment. Despite the brighter outlook for major economies, the outlook across the world has been clouded by uncertainty over the delta variant of the coronavirus and the uneven progress of vaccination campaigns. “The recovery is not assured until the pandemic is beaten back globally,'' Gita Gopinath, the IMF's chief economist, wrote in a blog post.     In the update to its World Economic Outlook, the IMF expressed concern that any major resurgence of inflation would pressure the world's central banks into raising interest rates and thereby threatening the global recovery. Still, it expects inflation to return to pre-pandemic levels in most countries next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Cabinet approves amendment to DICGC Act||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved amendment to the DICGC Act to provide account holders access to up to Rs 5 lakh funds within 90 days of a bank coming under moratorium to ensure timely support to depositors. Last year, the government raised insurance cover on deposit five-folds to Rs 5 lakh to provide support to depositors of ailing lenders like Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Following the collapse of PMC Bank, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank too came under stress, leading to restructuring by the regulator and the government. The amendment to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) Act, 1961 is the budget announcement made by the Finance Minister. The Bill is expected to be introduced in the current monsoon session, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said, while sharing details about the Cabinet meeting. Once the Bill becomes law, it will provide immediate relief to thousands of depositors, who had their money parked in stressed lenders such as PMC Bank and other small cooperative banks. As per the current provisions, the deposit insurance of up to Rs 5 lakh comes into play when the licence of a bank is cancelled and the liquidation process starts. DICGC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India, provides insurance cover on bank deposits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 135 points in closing trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped 135 points on Wednesday, weighed by losses in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Kotak Bank. The 30-share BSE index ended 135.05 points or 0.26 per cent lower at 52,443.71, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 37.05 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,709.40. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, M&M, PowerGrid, NTPC, Nestle India and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel, IndusInd Bank and Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers. "Domestic equities extended losses as weak cues from global markets triggered by selling pressure in Chinese tech stocks due to regulatory overhang weighed on sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, persistent selling pressure in financials led by concerns over asset quality dragged the benchmark index. However, positive cues from European markets and buy on dips helped market to recover from the day's low in the second half, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended with losses, while Hong Kong and Seoul closed with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.76 per cent to USD 74.08 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Centre's stimulus package for economic revival inadequate, says Parliamentary Panel||The stimulus package announced by the government for the revival of the pandemic-hit economy has been found to be "inadequate", according to a Parliamentary panel report. The report of the department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Industry on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector has noted that in the process of economic recovery post-first wave of the pandemic, the second wave has even more vigorously ripped the economy particularly the MSME sector. "The committee observes that the stimulus package announced by the government for the economic revival from the pandemic hit economy has been found to be inadequate as the measures adopted were more of loan offering and long-term measures instead of improving the cash flow to generate demand as immediate relief," it said. It has recommended that the government should immediately come out with a larger economic package aimed at bolstering demand, investment, exports and employment generation to help the economy, including MSMEs to recover from the pandemic fall-out. In their submission to the committee, various MSME associations have stated that due to a sharp fall in business, most of the MSMEs faced an acute cash crunch and needed immediate liquidity to cope with the unprecedented circumstance. "It is estimated that almost 25 per cent of MSME loans could slip into default as several MSMEs are finding it tough to draw working capital from banks," the associations told the committee, as per the report, which was released on Tuesday. Expressing concern over the grim situation of small enterprises due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the committee has recommended that to ensure the survival of small enterprises, it is imperative for the government to provide them with much-needed liquidity support to keep their businesses running and generate job opportunities for the workforce. It said that a detailed study needs to be conducted to make an assessment of the actual losses suffered by the MSME sector so as to chalk out an effective plan for revival of the sector. Observing that a large number of jobs were lost due to the pandemic, the committee said that a new National Employment Policy may be considered along with exploring the feasibility of establishing a National Electronic Employment Exchange and building a skill-based database to provide employment to skilled manpower in their area of expertise. Further, it suggested that strict provisions against delayed payments need to be put in place to ensure timely release of payments by CPSEs which will immensely help the MSMEs to meet their working capital/credit requirements. "... necessary guidelines should be issued for mandatory reporting of the delayed/pending payments (beyond 45 days) to MSMEs, by CPSEs/PSUs in their Annual Reports, in a separate section, as it would impress upon the CPSEs/PSUs to make payments to MSMEs in a time-bound manner," it added. On the Emergency Credit Linked Guarantee Scheme, it stated that the scheme has recorded a high success rate, yet, around 50 per cent of the total guarantee amount only has been issued to MSMEs. The banks should be more liberal at this juncture in extending credit facilities to MSMEs and ensure that loans are disbursed without delay after sanction, it suggested, adding the 90 days limit fixed by RBI for classifying overdues of MSMEs should be increased to 180 days. On e-commerce, it said that the MSME ministry may study the working of big e-commerce players to adopt efficient and successful practices for strengthening the entry and survival of the sector in e-commerce. "Availability of soft loans to MSMEs at a minimal interest rate of 3-4 per cent with extended repayment tenure, easy land acquisition, less parameters of compliances etc could help in developing import substitution in the country," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 250 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 259.75 points or 0.49 per cent lower at 52,319.01 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 77.15 points or 0.49 per cent to 15,669.30. Nestle India was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, HDFC twins, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, TCS, Reliance Industries and Infosys. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 273.51 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 52,578.76, and Nifty fell 78 points or 0.49 per cent to 15,746.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,459.08 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there is a mild risk-off sentiment in equity markets globally as reflected in the rising dollar. "The selloff in Chinese tech stocks on Beijing's regulatory crackdown has triggered concerns about whether this selloff will spread to other segments. China is too big now. It can cause flutters in global markets," he said. A significant trend in the market now is sectoral shifts, he noted, adding that there has been across the board selling in pharma stocks in the previous session. "Profits booked in this segment are moving into other sectors. The relative outperformance in frontline financials indicates a sectoral shift." Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street too ended on a negative note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.54 per cent to USD 73.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||IndiGo reports net loss of Rs 3,174 crore for June quarter||InterGlobe Aviation, parent of the country’s largest airline IndiGo, on Tuesday reported a net loss of Rs 3,174 crore for the quarter ended June 2021, primarily because of a sharp decline in revenues amid the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The airline, which had a fleet of 277 planes at the end of June 2021, incurred a net loss of Rs 2,844 crore in the year-ago period. The carrier’s consolidated total income increased 177.2 per cent to Rs 3,170 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal from Rs 1,143 crore a year ago. The airline’s total expenses increased  59.2 per cent to Rs 6,344 crore from Rs 3,986 crore in the year-ago period. CEO Ronojoy Dutta said: “Our financial results for the first quarter were severely impacted by the second Covid wave. The number of passengers travelling declined sharply in the months of May and June. With the second wave receding, IndiGo is seeing a measured recovery in bookings for July and August.”. “Notwithstanding the industry’s present challenges, we remain firmly optimistic about IndiGo’s future. Our entire focus during this pandemic has been to manage our cash balances, run a high- quality airline and to continue to build our capabilities and be prepared for the post Covid environment,” he stated. The carrier had reported a net loss of Rs 1,147 crore in the last quarter of 2020-21. The airlines said revenues from operations at Rs 3,006.9 crore, however, increased 292.2 per cent from the year-ago period due to a low base. The year-ago quarter (Q1 FY21) was also hit hard by the first wave of Covid-19 that led to a nationwide lockdown. Passenger ticket revenues at Rs 2,297.6 crore increased by 292.5 per cent YoY and ancillary revenues at Rs 668.3 crore rose by 296 per cent compared with the same period last year. InterGlobe Aviation has a strong balance sheet with a total cash of Rs 17,067.9 crore, including free cash of Rs 5,620.7 crore. Given the current cash position, the company continued to evaluate the timing and the size of any QIP. The airline operated a peak of 1,262 daily flights and a minimum of 318 flights during the first quarter of FY22, including non-scheduled flights, the statement said. “We provided scheduled services to 66 domestic destinations and various international locations through passenger charters and air bubble flights,” it added. Capacity for the quarter was up by 433.2 percent compared to the same period last year, the airline said. With the number of infections decreasing in India, IndiGo said air traffic has started showing signs of recovery since the last week of May but the revenue environment remains uncertain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation preparing list of large manufacturing companies||The West Bengal Industrial Development Corporation, the nodal body to facilitate industry in the state, is preparing a list of large manufacturing companies which are operating in Bengal. WBIDC chairman Rajiva Sinha on Tuesday said at a meeting organised by the Calcutta Chamber of Commerce that more than 150 large industries are present in the state. “Bengal has always been known as a sector leader in MSME. But many of us even in industry are not aware of the prowess of the state in terms of large industry. I am not talking about jute or tea. At WBIDC, we have started an exercise to identify the top 50 companies in Bengal ... and large industries by definition have a turnover of over Rs 250 crore. Today I was evaluating this with my officers, and already 156 companies are there and all are in the big bracket. You take a name and it is here,” he  said. The list is likely to be finalised soon and be available by the middle of August. While the state is open to all investors, the best prospects for investment however is from those who are already operating in the state. “Those who stay invested in Bengal, who are local industry leaders are the best people to expand and invest further in the state,” he said adding that these industries are already aware of the business, social and cultural environment and all these contribute to a business decision. Sinha further said that it is the industry’s role to identify the prospects, strengths and weaknesses and decide to invest. “Our role is facilitation. The experience of doing business in Bengal should be happy,” he said. HM Bangur, managing director of Shree Cement, who was also present at the event, expressed interest in putting up a unit in the state. He said that the company is in the process of completion of formalities with the company having taken land at Purulia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||ShareChat raises $145 million (about Rs 1,078.3 crore) in funding||Mohalla Tech — the parent company of social platforms Moj and ShareChat — on Tuesday said it has raised $145 million (about Rs 1,078.3 crore) in funding from Temasek, Moore Strategic Ventures (MSV) and Mirae-Naver Asia Growth Fund at a valuation of $2.88 billion. The latest fund infusion is an extension of the Series F round and is in addition to the $502 million investment received in April this year, a statement from the company said. “Investments raised this year, including this additional capital infusion, will help the company double down its strategic priorities of building best in class AI Feed, attracting and incentivising a diverse creator base and amplifying platform health and safety,” it added. The company said it has hired senior executives in the artificial intelligence/machine learning spaces in recent months in the UK and the US. It continues to aggressively look for more senior talents in this space. Moj and ShareChat together, with a 340 million-strong user community, envision building a cohesive AI-powered content ecosystem to address India's growing digital needs. The latest fund raising reflects the interest shown by overseas investors in the Indian start-up universe. In the first half of 2021, investors have reportedly put at least $ 11 billion into Indian tech start-ups. Recently, Zomato made headlines with its bumper listing even as rival Swiggy raised $ 1.25 billion from SoftBank and others. Mirae-Naver Asia Growth Fund is jointly set up by Mirae Asset and South Korean web portal Naver Corp. Ankush Sachdeva, CEO and co-founder of Mohalla Tech said this additional investment for Series F is a reflection of investor trust in the company's execution capabilities. “We are immensely proud of what we have been able to achieve with Moj and ShareChat in the last 12 months. With a monthly active user base of 160 million and over 50 million-strong creator community, Moj in a year has grown into India's number one short video app," he added. To strengthen its leadership position, the company will continue to invest in AI capabilities, scaling global AI setup, building advanced editing tools and helping creators monetise on the platform, Sachdeva said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Adani Ports and SEZ raises $750 million through issues of bonds||Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd (APSEZ) on Tuesday said it has raised $750 million (around Rs 5,582 crore) through the issues of bonds, including a 20-year unsecured bond issue, from the global markets. According to the company, it has thus become the first and the only infrastructure firm in India to successfully raise 20 years money from international markets. While APSEZ mobilised $300 million due in 2032 and $450 million due in 2041, the fund raising is expected to bring down its cost of capital. APSEZ disclosed that the coupon rates for the 10.5-year and 20-year dual-tranches bonds were fixed at 3.8 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. “The issuances were closed on July 26, 2021 and was subscribed by over three times. APSEZ has continued to receive exceedingly strong participation (for its successive bond offerings) from its high-quality real money investors across all geographies,’’ it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Bank trio report mixed non-performing asset trend||Canara Bank and Uco Bank on Tuesday reported a drop in their gross non-performing asset ratios for the quarter ended June but IndusInd Bank reported an increase in the ratio. Canara Bank reported an NPA ratio of 8.50 per cent for the first quarter against 8.84 per cent a year ago, while Uco Bank’s gross NPA ratio fell sharply to 9.37 per cent from 14.38 per cent. In IndusInd Bank, the NPA ratio rose to 2.88 per cent from 2.53 per cent. Canara Bank said it has started receiving payments from accounts that opted for restructuring under the RBI’s second resolution framework for Covid announced in May. Canara MD and CEO L.V. Prabhakar said a little over 3.5 lakh accounts have been restructured across agriculture (allied activities), retail, MSME and small businesses covering a liability of Rs 13,234 crore. Prabhakar said the bank’s fresh slippages at Rs 4,253 crore during the April-June quarter were in line with the expectations. Net NPA ratio was 3.46 per cent as of June 2021 against 3.95 per cent a year ago.  Canara Bank’s net profit during the quarter was Rs 1,177 crore against Rs 406 crore for the corresponding period a year ago. Uco profit up Uco Bank has posted a net profit of Rs 101.81 crore during the quarter ended June 2021 against Rs 21.46 crore a year ago. Net interest income of the bank for the quarter was Rs 1,460.24 crore, growing 15.27 per cent from Rs 1,266.78 crore a year ago. The bank said a total of 29,787 accounts in the MSME segment had opted for restructuring under the second resolution framework with an exposure of Rs 880.89 crore. IndusInd show IndusInd Bank on Tuesday reported doubling of its net profit to Rs 1,016 crore in the June  quarter, on a dip in provisioning and a surge in other income.  The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 510.39 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year. Its total income during April-June 2021 rose to Rs 9,362.76 crore from Rs 8,682.17 crore in the year-ago period. Interest income was up at Rs 7,574.70 crore, against Rs 7,161.73 crore a year ago.  The bank face asset quality issues, with fresh slippages of Rs 2,762 crore during the three-month period, driven by its consumer finance business at Rs 2,342 crore. However, it said that the deductions were also very high through write-offs, recovery and upgrades of assets at Rs 2,372 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-127
28-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court to vet EA’s Future Retail verdict||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it would decide whether Singapore’s Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award, restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with its merger deal with Reliance Retail, was valid under Indian law and if it can be enforced. US-based e-commerce giant Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC and FRL are embroiled in a bitter legal fight over FRL’s Rs 24,713 crore merger deal with Reliance Retail. “We will decide whether EA award falls under section 17 (1) (which deals with interim award by arbitral tribunal) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. And if yes, then whether it can be enforced under section 17 (2) (of the Act),” said a bench comprising justices R F Nariman and B.R. Gavai. The provisions of the Act deal with the interim measures ordered by an arbitral tribunal and section 17 (1) says: “Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the arbitral tribunal may, at the request of a party, order a party to take any interim measure of protection as the arbitral tribunal may consider necessary in respect of the subject-matter of the dispute.” Status quo in Kirloskar case The Supreme Court Tuesday ordered status quo in the Kirloskar Brothers Ltd family feud related to assets wherein KBL’s CMD Sanjay Kirloskar has challenged the Bombay High Court order directing arbitration in the case. The apex court’s status quo will also extend to the proceedings in the Pune civil court on KBL seeking damages for violation of the family deed. Asking the parties involved in the case to explore the possibility of mediation, a bench comprising Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant issued notice on the appeal by Sanjay Kirloskar and asked them to file replies within six weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
28-07-2021||Business||Dr Reddy’s Lab reports 36 per cent drop in net profit for first quarter||Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) on Tuesday disappointed the Street as it reported a 36 per cent drop in net profit for the first quarter ended June 30. The Hyderabad-based pharma major also disclosed that it has received a subpoena from the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the production of documents pertaining to certain CIS geographies. The two developments sent the DRL stock crashing on the bourses. DRL’s lacklustre scorecard follows a tepid performance from Alembic Pharmaceuticals on Monday. Their numbers sent other pharma shares into the red as investors had priced in a better performance for the sector. Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said bleeding pharma companies pulled down the market. During the quarter, DRL reported a net profit of Rs 380.4 crore (as per Indian Accounting Standards) compared with Rs 594.6 crore in the year ago period. The bottomline also represented a 32 per cent decline over Rs 557.3 crore in the January-March period. Revenues came in at Rs 4,945.1 crore over Rs 4,426.5 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts tracked by Bloomberg had expected the company to report net profit of Rs 668.5 crore. The company had to take a Rs 193-crore knock vis-a-vis a settlement order in favour of Australia’s Hatchtech Pty. DRL was also hit by an anonymous complaint which alleged that healthcare professionals in Ukraine and potentially in other countries were provided with improper payments by or on behalf of the company in violation of the US anti-corruption laws, particularly the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The company has started investigating the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
28-07-2021||Business||IMF lowers growth forecast for India to 9.5 per cent||The IMF has lowered its growth forecast for the country to 9.5 per cent for this fiscal from its earlier projection of  12.5 per cent in April, which is the same as the RBI forecast of 9.5 per cent but lower than the World Bank projection of 8.5 per cent growth. “Growth prospects in India have been downgraded following the severe second Covid wave during March-May and expected slow recovery from that setback,” the IMF said in its latest World Economic Outlook (WEO). The Indian economy had contracted 7.3 per cent in the last fiscal on account of the pandemic. The  IMF joins a host of global and domestic agencies which have cut India’s growth estimates for the current fiscal. Last month, S&P Global Ratings projected a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in the current fiscal and 7.8 per cent in 2022-23.  Another US-based rating agency Moody's has projected India clocking 9.3 per cent growth in the current fiscal ending March 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
28-07-2021||Business||Covid: Parliamentary committee terms stimulus inadequate||The Modi government came in for stinging criticism for cobbling an economic stimulus package that was “grossly inadequate to deal with the crisis brought on by the pandemic”. In its report assessing the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on small and medium businesses, the parliamentary standing committee on industry said the poorly funded stimulus had merely offered  loans and some long-term measures but had failed to crank up cash flows to generate demand which would have provided “immediate succour” to a hobbled economy. The committee recommended that the government should immediately come out with a larger economic package aimed at bolstering demand, investment, exports and employment generation to help the economy, including MSMEs to recover from the fall-out of the pandemic. It urged the government to provide MSMEs with much-needed liquidity support to keep businesses running and generate job opportunities for the workforce. The report called for a new National Employment Policy and said the government should explore the feasibility of establishing a National Electronic Employment Exchange and build a skill-based database to provide employment to skilled manpower in their area of expertise. The report said the second wave of the coronavirus had smothered the nascent recovery after the first wave, with the MSME players hurt the most. The government had announced a stimulus package of Rs 20.97 lakh crore in tranches last year and in June, it offered another one worth Rs 6.28 lakh crore. It said the Reserve Bank of India should extend the tenure of classifying MSME loans as overdue to 180 days from 90 days at present so that working capital is not diverted towards paying loans and attention is not turned towards clearing dues at the cost of normal business operations. The panel said the biggest concern for the MSMEs was the availability of raw materials on time and at the right price as it alleged hoarding by the traders. K.E.Raghunathan, convenor, Consortium of Indian Associations (CIA) said “at last, we have a neutral report accepting the reality of the situation. Time and again the CIA has been maintaining that the life of  micro and small entrepreneurs are shattered and the government did not recognise their pains adequately”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
