29-07-2021||Business||Govt permits 100 per cent FDI in oil PSUs approved for disinvestment; to aid BPCL sale   ||The government on Thursday permitted 100 per cent foreign investment under the automatic route in oil and gas PSUs which have received in-principle approval for strategic disinvestment. The move would facilitate privatisation of India's second biggest oil refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL). The government is privatising BPCL and selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in the company. According to a press note of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), a new clause has been added to the FDI policy for oil and natural gas sector. “Foreign investment up to 100 per cent under the automatic route is allowed in case an 'in-principle' approval for strategic disinvestment of a PSU has been granted by the government,” it said. The decision regarding this was taken by the Union Cabinet last week. Two out of the three companies that have put in an initial expression of interest (EoI) for buying out the government's entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL are foreign entities. The FDI limit in PSU-promoted oil refineries will continue at 49 per cent -- a limit that was set in March 2008. As of now, the government is selling the stake in only BPCL. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the nation's largest, is the only other oil refining and marketing company under direct government control. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) is now a subsidiary of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). The government had in March 2008 raised the FDI limit in oil refineries promoted by public sector companies from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. The firm acquiring the government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL will also have to make an open offer to buy an additional 26 per cent stake from other stakeholders at the same price, as per the takeover rules. Mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta and US-based private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital's arm Think Gas are in the race to buy the government's stake in BPCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
29-07-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 209 points to close at 52,653||Snapping its three-session losing streak, equity benchmark Sensex rose 209 points on Thursday following gains in Tata Steel, SBI and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index climbed 209.36 points or 0.40 per cent to close at 52,653.07, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.05 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,778.45. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, SBI, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Maruti, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto and ITC were among the laggards. "Domestic equites recovered as positive global cues and strong buying in metal and IT stocks supported markets," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, short-covering in select heavyweights also aided rebound. Auto, FMCG and pharma remained sluggish, while most key sectoral indices traded in green. Notably, strong buying was seen in quality mid-cap and small-cap stocks after the recent fall, while volatility index contracted by 5 per cent, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.43 per cent to USD 74.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HCL Tech amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 224.95 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 52,668.66 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 62.05 points or 0.39 per cent to 15,771.45. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Titan, Tech Mahindra, M&M, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, HDFC and PowerGrid were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 135.05 points or 0.26 per cent lower at 52,443.71, while Nifty slipped 37.05 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,709.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,274.77 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a major trend that has emerged post-COVID is the rise of the retail investor. Retail investors now account for 45 per cent of cash market transactions on Indian exchanges, a big jump from 33 per cent five years ago. "During this period the share of FIIs has fallen sharply - from 23 per cent to 11 per cent. This domination of retail over FIIs is the reason why markets are not correcting sharply even when FIIs sell continuously. FIIs have sold shares worth Rs 6,100 crore this week. "But it is a fact that most retail investors are driven by sentiments and momentum, not fundamentals," he said. Meanwhile, in another boost to the bulls, the Fed has kept the rates unchanged and reiterated that it is "nowhere near considering a rate hike." Also, the bounce back in Hong Kong and Shanghai indices suggests that the Chinese tech sell-off is a temporary issue and unlikely to become a contagion impacting global markets, he added. In a statement issued after its latest policy meeting, the US Fed said it's keeping its benchmark short-term rate pegged at nearly zero, where it has remained since the pandemic tore through the economy in March 2020. Equities on Wall Street ended on a missed note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.30 per cent to USD 74.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||West Bengal government amends realty rules||The Mamata Banerjee government has notified rules to fill up the vacuum created by a Supreme Court  judgment that struck down the state legislation governing the real estate industry in Bengal. A gazette notification framing rules under West Bengal Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Rules, 2021 kicked off the process to establish regulatory and appellate authorities to monitor and govern real estate activity in the state. Once the authorities become fully functional over the next few weeks, they would bring relief to both the buyers and the sellers. While the buyers will have a forum to get redressal of their grievances, builders will be able to register new projects and bring them to the market. In May, the apex court struck down as “unconstitutional” the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017 (HIRA) on the grounds that it has encroached into existing parliamentary enactment RERA (Real Estate Regulation Act) 2016 for regulating real estate activities and protecting the interests of home buyers. However, the court did not revoke the projects registered or approved before the judgment. Confirming the development, Onkar Singh Meena, secretary, housing department, said: “Rules have been published. Safeguarding the interests of homebuyers has always been a priority and will continue to do so.” Experts said the rules appeared to plug the gap between the state legislation and the model central Act. “WBHIRA had narrowed the ‘force majeure’ provision with the addition of ‘or any other circumstances as may be prescribed’ clause which could have otherwise defended the promoter in the case of non-performance of a contractual obligation. This additional latitude provided by WBHIRA is no longer available to the builders,” said Sucharita Basu, managing partner of Aquilaw. “Key modifications by WBHIRA included an expanded definition of the garage/parking space, which could impact common area availability. With the state having conformed to the central Act, these issues are no longer present,” Mahi Agarwal, sector head and assistant vice-president of Icra, added. Nandu Belani, president of builders’ body Credai Bengal, said the Act would allow builders to tap central funds under the SWAMIH scheme which allows bridge funding to complete delayed projects. Till now, only RERA-approved projects could get funds from the scheme. Now projects in Bengal will also get access to it,” Belani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Sanofi India to sell nutraceuticals business to Universal Nutriscience||Drug firm Sanofi India on Wednesday said its board has approved its plan to sell the nutraceuticals business to Universal Nutriscience for Rs 587 crore. “The board of directors of Sanofi India has approved a transaction for the slump sale and transfer of the company’s nutraceuticals business on a going concern basis to Universal Nutriscience for a consideration of Rs 587 crore, including debt like obligations,” the company said in a communication to the bourses. Sanofi added the transaction is likely to be completed within the next three months, subject to the fulfilment of conditions as set out in the business transfer agreement. Sanofi’s nutraceuticals business comprises 16 brands and 30 stock-keeping units (SKUs). “These, along with related business assets and liabilities, including contracts, intellectual property rights, inventory, and all employees associated with this business will transition to Universal Nutriscience,’’ the company added. Shares of Sanofi India on Wednesday closed 1.80 per cent, or Rs 142.95, higher at Rs 8,102.85 on the BSE. The company said the decision to divest will help it to invest and focus on the strategic growth pillars, while allowing the nutraceuticals business and the people associated with it to significantly benefit in a firm specialised in nutraceuticals and wellness. Sanofi India added that it undertook a thorough competitive auction process with a view to obtain the best possible transaction terms. “We have carefully selected Universal Nutriscience whose mission is to grow the business to provide more patients with increased access to the range of nutraceuticals,’’ said Rajaram Narayanan, managing director of Sanofi India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki reports consolidated net profit of Rs 475 crore||The country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) has reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 475 crore for the first quarter ended June 30 despite the double whammy of the second Covid wave and a shortage of spare parts affecting production. The auto major had suffered a consolidated net loss of Rs 268 crore in the April-June quarter of 2020-21. “While all the parameters this quarter were substantially better than Q1 of 2020-21, a comparison is not meaningful because Q1 last year had a higher degree of disruption because of the pandemic,” the company said in a statement. The car maker said during the first quarter its sales and production were adversely impacted because of the second wave. However, the situation was not as bad as the April-June quarter of the last fiscal. While sales have picked up compared to the peak days of the pandemic last year, they remain far below the previous high in the first quarter of 2019. During April-June 2021, the company sold 3.43 lakh cars. More than 3 lakh of these were sold within India, while about 45,000 units were exported. MSI’s total revenue from operations stood at Rs 17,776 crore in the first quarter against Rs 4,111 crore in the year-ago period. Shares of the company closed 1.26 per cent down at Rs 7,150.20 apiece on the BSE. Meanwhile, MSI said its board has decided to confer the title of “Honorary chairman” on Osamu Suzuki, who retired from the board of Suzuki Motor Corporation in June 2021. He, however, continues to remain on the board of MSI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Jewellers ask govt to extend deadline for mandatory hallmarking of old stocks||Jewellers have asked the government to extend the deadline for mandatory hallmarking of old stocks by a year till August 21, 2022, because of the fewer number of hallmarking centres in the country. The All India Jewellers & Goldsmith Federation (AIJGF), in a communication to commerce minister Piyush Goyal, said it was impossible to obtain hallmark on each piece of the old stock because of the discrepancy between the huge number of jewellers and the limited number of hallmarking centres. AIJGF national president Pankaj Arora said there are 933 hallmark centres and about 65,000 registered jewellers. Even if all the centres work in full swing, a huge number of the old stock will not be able to get the mandatory hallmark within the stipulated timeline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel scraps entry-level prepaid plan of Rs 49||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday scrapped its entry-level prepaid plan of Rs 49, with the minimum recharge now fixed at Rs 79, the first entry-level tariff hike in two years. This move by the country’s second largest telecom operator comes just days after it increased the cost of some of its postpaid plans. In the Rs 79-pack, Bharti is offering 200MB data and talk time worth Rs 64 at the rate of one paise per second for both STD and local calls. It comes with a validity of 28 days. The revision is effective from July 29. Airtel had 352.9 million subscribers in April, according to Trai data. “The company’s prepaid packs will now start from Rs 79  and offer up to four times more outgoing minutes of usage along with double data. The change is in line with the company’s focus on offering superior connectivity solutions,” Bharti Airtel said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges. The announcement sent Airtel’s shares rising over 5 per cent. On the BSE, the Bharti Airtel scrip ended 5.08 per cent, or Rs 27.45, higher at Rs 567.90. With pre-paid customers accounting for 95 per cent of its subscribers, the higher entry-level package should raise Airtel’s average revenue per user (ARPU). Analysts said it could also result in other players such as Vodafone Idea following suit. It is not immediately clear whether Jio will do the same. The cheapest plan under Reliance Jio is Rs 75 — for its JioPhone users — which comes with a validity of 28 days and 3GB data. Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal has been saying that the industry’s tariffs need to go up amid “tremendous stress” in the telecom sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala to launch ultra-low-cost airline||Ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala is planning to enter India’s aviation sector by launching an ultra-low-cost airline. In an interview to Bloomberg Television, he said  the new airline will be called Akasa Air and he would invest $35 million in the venture. The aim is to have 70 aircraft over the next four years for the airline. Jhunjhunwala said he would hold a 40 per cent stake in the carrier and he expects to receive an approval from the aviation ministry in the next 15 days. The move comes at a time the aviation sector is adversely hit by the restrictions on travel during the pandemic. However, even before Covid-19 struck, domestic airline companies were in a difficult situation. Fuel is a large part of their costs and the carriers were unable to fully pass on any increase in prices to their customers. Kingfisher Airlines stopped operations in 2012 and Jet Airways, which has been revived recently, has not been flying since 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Union cabinet approves amendments to Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act ||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved amendments to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act that assures a payoff of up to Rs 5 lakh within 90 days after a moratorium is imposed on a bank. At present, depositors have to wait for liquidation or passage of a resolution to get insurance. This can take up to 8-10 years. This will not be the situation now and payment has to be made within 90 days, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. “First 45 days will be taken by the banks to collect the information and the next 45 days to check. Then on the 91st or 92nd day or around that time, the payment will be made,” Sitharaman said while announcing the cabinet decision here. The Bill will be tabled during the current session. Last year, the government raised the insurance limit after 27 years. The payoff is effective from February 4, 2020. The finance minister said the new limit will cover 98.3 per cent of bank accounts and 60.9 per cent of deposits, which is higher than the global average. Sitharaman said the premium charged for giving the cover is currently 10 paisa for every Rs 100 of deposits. This is being raised to 12 paisa now and can be changed further up but with the concurrence of the RBI and the finance ministry within a limit. H.V.R Iyengar, the sixth governor of the RBI who served from March 1, 1957 to February 28, 1962, introduced deposit insurance in 1962, making the country one of the earliest countries to experiment with such a cover. The government raised the limit five-fold to provide support to the depositors of Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Following the collapse of PMC Bank, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank came under stress, leading to the restructuring . The cover is provided by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the RBI. LLP changes The cabinet on Wednesday also cleared amendments to the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Act, to decriminalise various provisions under the law and foster the ease of doing business in the country. The Lok Sabha approved the first batch of supplementary demands authorising the government to spend an additional Rs 23,675 crore, including Rs 17,000 crore on health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Sebi toying with the idea of scrapping the concept of promoter||The securities market regulator is toying with the idea of scrapping the concept of promoter in favour of a new classification defining ownership of companies: the controlling shareholder. “The concept of promoters has existed in India for years and concentrated ownership still predominant in our country. But over time, with high levels of private equity or venture capital funding, increasing startup culture and the rise of new age companies, there is a rising trend of companies with diversified shareholding, ” said Ajay Tyagi, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi). “In many cases, these have resulted in professional management with no promoter. In these circumstances, the concept of a controlling shareholder will be a more logical way to identify the person in charge,” Tyagi said. The Sebi chief is really pushing for an idea that the market regulator had articulated in a discussion paper floated in May. Titled “Review of the regulatory framework of promoter, promoter group and group companies”, the paper suggested that the concept of promoter ought to be replaced with a new cognomen — person in control. The discussion paper had said that the investor landscape in India was changing rapidly and, unlike in the past, the concentration of ownership and controlling rights do not vest completely in the hands of the promoters or the promoter group. There has been a significant increase in the number of private equity and institutional investors who invest in companies and take up substantial shareholding and, in some cases, control by arming themselves with some special rights. “We are analysing the feedback to our paper before we take an appropriate view,” Tyagi said at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci). He admitted that there were some legacy issues that would need to be sorted out before the new concept was adopted. Tyagi said the regulator was also contemplating reforms in initial public offerings (IPOs), particularly with respect to book building, the provisions relating to price bands and new regulations of preferential issues. Similarly, its primary market advisory committee (PMAC) is considering whether it ought to issue a framework for SPACs (special purpose acquisition companies). SPACs have no commercial operations but are established to raise capital through IPOs with the purpose of using the proceeds to identify and merge with a target company. SPACs are usually formed by private equity funds or financial institutions, with expertise in a particular industry or business sector, with investment for initial working capital and issue related expenses. Such companies have recently become popular in the US. In India, a SPAC was recently allowed for the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT). Tyagi said some concerns had been raised about these vehicles and the PMAC was examining what safeguards could be introduced to prevent irregularities. Tyagi said companies once used to float IPOs to raise project financing. That is rarely the case now. A very large number of IPOs are really meant to provide an exit option to existing investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
