30-07-2021||Business||Govt introduces Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill in Rajya Sabha||The government on Friday introduced the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill in the Rajya Sabha, which aims to provide timely support to depositors of stressed banks.  Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad introduced the Bill, which seeks to provide immediate relief to thousands of depositors who have their money parked in stressed lenders.  The Bill has proposed that even if a bank is temporarily unable to fulfil its obligations due to restrictions such as moratorium, depositors can access their deposits to the extent of the deposit insurance cover through interim payments by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). For this, the Bill seeks to insert a new Section in the DICGC Act, 1961.  It also seeks to amend Section 15 of the DICGC Act to enable the Corporation to increase the ceiling on the amount of premium, with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  Besides, it will also provide that the DICGC may defer or vary the receipt of repayments due to it from the insured bank and to empower the Corporation to charge penal interest in case of delay in repayment by the banks to the Corporation.  Though the RBI and the central government keep monitoring the health of all banks, there have been numerous recent cases of banks, especially cooperative banks, being unable to fulfil their obligations towards depositors due to the imposition of moratorium by the RBI.  Earlier this week, the Union Cabinet cleared amendments to the DICGC Act.  Last year, the government had increased insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Centre's fiscal deficit touches 18.2 pc of annual target at end of June ||The central government's fiscal deficit stood at Rs 2.74 lakh crore or 18.2 per cent of the full year's Budget estimate at the end of June, according to data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) on Friday. The fiscal deficit at the end of June 2020 was 83.2 per cent of the Budget Estimates (BE) of 2020-21. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit was at Rs 2,74,245 crore at the end of June. For the current financial year, the government expects the fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent of GDP or Rs 15,06,812 crore. The fiscal deficit or the gap between expenditure and revenue for 2020-21 was 9.3 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), better than 9.5 per cent projected in the revised estimates in the Budget in February. As per CGA data, the government received Rs 5.47 lakh crore (27.7 per cent of corresponding BE 2021-22 of total receipts) up to June 2021. The amount comprises Rs 4.12 lakh crore of tax revenues, Rs 1.27 lakh crore of non-tax revenues and Rs 7,402 crore of non-debt capital receipts. The receipts were 6.8 per cent of BE at the end of June 2020. Non-debt capital receipts consists of recovery of loans worth Rs 3,406 crore and disinvestment proceeds of Rs 3,996 crore. Further, Rs 1,17,524 crore was transferred to state governments as devolution of share of taxes by the Government of India up to June 2021. At the end of June, CGA said that total expenditure incurred by the government was Rs 8.21 lakh crore (23.6 per cent of corresponding BE 2021-22). Out of the total amount, Rs 7.10 lakh crore was on revenue account and Rs 1.11 lakh crore was on capital account. Out of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 1.84 lakh crore was for interest payments and about Rs 1 lakh crore was on account of major subsidies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's low-cost airline to revive Boeing in India||Billionaire Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's plan to launch an ultra-low-cost airline could give planemaker Boeing a chance to regain lost ground in India after the fall of one of its biggest customers, Jet Airways, two years ago, industry executives say. Mr Jhunjhunwala, known as India's Warren Buffett for his successful stock investments, plans to team up with former CEOs of IndiGo, the country's biggest carrier, and Jet Airways to tap into demand for domestic air travel. While plans to launch Akasa Air come at a time when India's aviation industry is reeling from the impact of the pandemic, with airlines losing billions of dollars, the sector's long-term prospect makes it a hot market for planemakers Boeing and Airbus. "There will be a big fight between Airbus and Boeing," said Nitin Sarin, managing partner at law firm Sarin & Co, which advises lessors and airlines. "For Boeing this is a great opportunity to step in and up their game, considering they don't have any other major operator for their 737 aircraft in India apart from SpiceJet," Sarin said, referring to Boeing's narrowbody aircraft. Boeing did not comment on Akasa's plans, but in a statement to Reuters said it always sought opportunities and talks with current and potential customers about how it can best support their fleet and operational needs. Details of the venture, including any decision on plane orders, have not been formally disclosed, but Mr Jhunjhunwala told Bloomberg he plans to have a 40 per cent stake in Akasa, which will have 70 aircraft of up to 180 seats within four years. Mr Jhunjhunwala, valued at $4.6 billion by Forbes, did not respond to an interview request. Indian skies are dominated by low-cost carriers (LCCs) including IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoFirst and AirAsia India, with the majority of them operating a fleet of Airbus' narrowbody planes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Microsoft in talks to buy stake in OYO, claims sources||Microsoft is in advanced stages of discussions to pick up a stake in OYO that would value the hospitality firm at about USD 9 billion (around Rs 67,000 crore), according to sources. While the deal size is not known, sources close to the development said it will not be a significant stake. The transaction is likely to be completed before the proposed initial public offering (IPO) planned by OYO, for which no definitive timeline has been given. OYO and Microsoft did not respond to queries seeking comments on the matter. Earlier this month, OYO had raised a term loan B (TLB) funding of USD 660 million (nearly Rs 4,920 crore) from global institutional investors. The capital will be used for paring debt and other business investments. The offer was oversubscribed by 1.7 times and the company received commitments of close to USD 1 billion from leading institutional investors, OYO had said in a statement. TLB refers to a tranche of senior secured syndicated credit facility from global institutional investors. OYO is backed by marquee investors like SoftBank Vision Fund, Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Ventures and Hero Enterprise, among others. Earlier this year, OYO Founder and Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal had said the company "is on a steady path of resurgence in 2021" and is seeing signs of recovery across India, Europe, and Southeast Asia. OYO's survival through the COVID crisis and resurgence shows that it is a company with strong fundamentals and high value potential, he had stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Sensex closes modestly lower on fag-end sell-off||Equity benchmark Sensex slipped over 66 points to close at 52,586.84 on Friday, hit by fag-end selling in finance and metal stocks following sluggish investor sentiment in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index fell 66.23 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 52,586.84, while the broader NSE Nifty dipped 15.40 points or 0.10 per cent to 15,763.05.  The market remained range-bound for the most part of the session as investors kept their exposure lower due to weak global cues, traders said.  The selling pressure was witnessed towards the fag-end when European markets opened in the negative zone, they added.  Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2.5 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Tata Steel, Asian Paints and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, Power Grid, Bajaj Auto NTPC and HCL tech were among the gainers.  Sun Pharma surged over 10 per cent after it reported a net profit of Rs 1,444.17 crore for the quarter ended June.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant losses.  Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.  The rupee fell 13 paise to close at 74.42 against the US dollar.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.21 per cent to USD 75.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Bill to amend general insurance law introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill to amend the general insurance law to allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday, but Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman insisted that it will not lead to privatisation. Introducing the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, Sitharaman said its passage will help generate required resources from the Indian markets so that public sector general insurers can design innovative products. Several Opposition members had opposed the introduction of the bill, saying it will bring in foreign investors and entail total privatisation of PSU general insurance companies. Sitharaman said, "The apprehensions mentioned by the members are not well-founded at all. What we are trying to do in this is not to privatise. We are bringing some enabling provision so that the Government can bring in public, Indian citizens, and common people's participation in the general insurance companies." As per the statement of objects and reasons of The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, it seeks to remove the requirement that the central government holds not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer. With a view to provide for greater private participation in the public sector insurance companies and to enhance insurance penetration and social protection and better secure the interests of policyholders and contribute to faster growth of the economy, it has become necessary to amend certain provisions of the Act, as per the bill, which was introduced amid the din. Sitharaman said public-private participation in the general insurance industry will help get more resources. "Why do we need to raise the resources from the market? Our market can give the money from the retail participants who are Indian citizens. Through that, we can have greater money, bring in better technology infusion and also enable faster growth of such general insurance companies. We need money to run them," she said in the Lok Sabha. The minister said general insurance companies in the private sector have greater penetration, they raise more money from the market and therefore give a better premium for insuring the public and also have innovative packages. "Whereas public general insurance companies are not able to perform because they are always short of resources," Sitharaman said. Sitharaman in the Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. "We propose to take up the privatisation of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments," she had said. As of date, there are four general insurance companies in the public sector - National Insurance Company Limited, New India Assurance Company Limited, Oriental Insurance Company Limited and the United India Insurance Company Limited. Now, one of these will be privatised for which the government is yet to finalise the name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 125 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 125 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Tech Mahindra, TCS and HDFC twins. In a very volatile start at the markets, both the indices Sensex and Nifty - were oscillating frequently between the green and red. The 30-share index was trading 125.81 points or 0.24 per cent higher at 52,778.88 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 38.55 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,817.00. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 8 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Power Grid, HDFC, Dr Reddy and M&M. Tech Mahindra on Thursday reported a 42.91 per cent growth in June quarter consolidated net profit at Rs 1,365.7 crore on higher revenue and an expansion in profit margins. Besides, TCS and HDFC Bank gained up to 0.45 per cent in early deals. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bharti Airtel and Asian Paints were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 209.36 points or 0.40 per cent to close at 52,653.07, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 69.05 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,778.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 866.26 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red. Equities on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.68 per cent to USD 75.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Tech Mahindra reports 39 per cent rise in consolidated net profit||Tech Mahindra on Thursday reported a 39 per cent rise in consolidated net profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 on positive growth across its key markets and verticals accompanied by strong deal wins. The IT services firm posted a net profit of Rs 1,353.2 crore compared with Rs 972.3 crore in the same period of the previous year. During the period, the company’s total income rose to Rs 10,485 crore from Rs 9,522 crore in the year-ago period. In US dollar terms, its revenues came in at $1,383.6 million, a sequential rise of 4.1 per cent and a year-on-year rise of 14.6 per cent. In constant currency terms, revenue growth stood at 3.9 per cent over the preceding three months. However, margins stood at 18.4 per cent, a fall of 160 basis points over the January-March period. Cognizant income at $512m Cognizant has reported a 41.8 per cent increase in June quarter net income at $512 million (around Rs 3,801.7 crore). It expects to hire about one lakh people this year as the IT major looks to arrest high attrition rates in the company. The US-based company, which posted a net income of $361 million in the June 2020 quarter, has raised its FY2021 revenue growth guidance to 10.2-11.2 per cent (9-10 per cent in constant currency) on the back of strong booking momentum. Cognizant’s revenue rose 14.6 per cent (12 per cent in constant currency) at $4.6 billion from $4 billion a year ago. This is higher than the guidance of 10.5-11.5 per cent revenue growth for the June 2021 quarter. UTI AMC profit up 53% UTI Asset Management Company has reported a 53 per cent jump in its profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 155.03 crore in the June 2021 quarter. In comparison, the company had posted a PAT of Rs 101.36 crore in the same quarter of the preceding fiscal, UTI AMC said in a regulatory filing. The company reported a total income of Rs 350.11 crore compared with Rs 270.37 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Average assets under management was Rs 1,87,210 crore. LIC Housing Fin net declines Mortgage financier LIC Housing Finance on Thursday reported an 81 per cent decline in its standalone net profit at Rs 153.44 crore in the June quarter because of increased provisioning for non-performing loans. The lender had reported a profit of Rs 817.48 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Regulatory changes can enable institutions to tap corporate bond market further||Certain regulatory changes could enable banks, insurance companies and pension funds to tap the corporate bond market further and widen its appeal among investors. Speaking at an Assocham organised event on Thursday, Sebi wholetime member G. Mahalingam said changes such as the inclusion of corporate bonds as part of eligible assets under Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) and as collaterals under RBI’s liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) could create a ready market for these bonds. SLR is the percentage of total demand and time liabilities that banks have to keep in certain specified assets, including cash, gold, treasury bills, dated government securities and state development loans. LAF is a facility extended by the RBI to scheduled commercial banks to avail liquidity or park excess funds with the RBI in case of excess liquidity on an overnight basis against the collateral of G-Secs, including SDLs. “While Basel guidelines provide for AAA -rated bonds to be included, today the banks are flooded with government bonds. So, they hardly ever take this as part of the liquidity coverage ratio. This mentality has to change,” Mahalingam said. Insurance companies and pension funds whose liabilities extend over a longer period of time can also consider investing in high rated corporate bonds. “Insurance companies have a liability profile which extends over a space of time. So, they are well positioned to take this kind of risk,” he said. Development of corporate bonds could play a key role raising capital at a time when banks are finding it difficult to extend long term credit due to asset liability mismatches and overburdened by stressed assets overhang. For the quarter ended June, the net outstanding amount of corporate bonds was Rs 3627667.18 crore. “I think there are quite a few things which need to change and if these changes do not take place, we cannot really hope that the corporate bond market is going to gain traction,” Mahalingam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Business must advance wider common good||Ben & Jerry’s, the ice cream maker, announced last week that it was ending sales in the Israeli-occupied territories, drawing a backlash from Israeli politicians and triggering one of the most contentious debates on the international stage. On Thursday, Ben & Jerry’s founders Bennett Cohen and Jerry Greenfield wrote a guest essay, titled “We’re Ben and Jerry. Men of Ice Cream, Men of Principle” in The New York Times. Cohen and Greenfield are Jewish Americans and they support the State of Israel. Yet, they thought it necessary to take a stand — a largely alien concept for businesses in India. The following is the guest essay Cohen and Greenfield wrote in The New York Times. We are the founders of Ben & Jerry’s. We are also proud Jews. It’s part of who we are and how we’ve identified ourselves for our whole lives. As our company began to expand internationally, Israel was one of our first overseas markets. We were then, and remain today, supporters of the State of Israel. But it’s possible to support Israel and oppose some of its policies, just as we’ve opposed policies of the US government. As such, we unequivocally support the decision of the company to end business in the occupied territories, which a majority of the international community, including the United Nations, has deemed an illegal occupation. While we no longer have any operational control of the company we founded in 1978, we’re proud of its action and believe it is on the right side of history. In our view, ending the sales of ice cream in the occupied territories is one of the most important decisions the company has made in its 43-year history. It was especially brave of the company. Even though it undoubtedly knew that the response would be swift and powerful, Ben & Jerry’s took the step to align its business and operations with its progressive values. That we support the company’s decision is not a contradiction nor is it anti-Semitic. In fact, we believe this act can and should be seen as advancing the concepts of justice and human rights, core tenets of Judaism. Ben & Jerry’s is a company that advocates peace. It has long called on Congress to reduce the US military budget. Ben & Jerry’s opposed the Persian Gulf war of 1991. But it wasn’t just talk. One of our very first social-mission initiatives, in 1988, was to introduce the Peace Pop. It was part of an effort to promote the idea of redirecting 1 per cent of national defence budgets around the world to fund peace-promoting activities. We see the company’s recent action as part of a similar trajectory — not as anti-Israel, but as part of a long history of being pro-peace. In its statement, the company drew a contrast between the democratic territory of Israel and the territories Israel occupies. The decision to halt sales outside Israel’s democratic borders is not a boycott of Israel. The Ben & Jerry’s statement did not endorse the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement (which calls for boycotts of all Israeli products and investments). The company’s stated decision to more fully align its operations with its values is not a rejection of Israel. It is a rejection of Israeli policy, which perpetuates an illegal occupation that is a barrier to peace and violates the basic human rights of the Palestinian people who live under the occupation. As Jewish supporters of the State of Israel, we fundamentally reject the notion that it is anti-Semitic to question the policies of the State of Israel. When we left the helm of the company, we signed a unique governance structure in the acquisition agreement with Unilever back in 2000. That structure is the magic behind both Ben & Jerry’s continued independence and its success. As part of the agreement, the company retained an independent board of directors with a responsibility to protect the company’s essential brand integrity and to pursue its social mission. We believe business is among the most powerful entities in society. We believe that companies have a responsibility to use their power and influence to advance the wider common good. Over the years, we’ve also come to believe that there is a spiritual aspect to business, just as there is to the lives of individuals. As you give, you receive. We hope that for Ben & Jerry’s, that is at the heart of the business. To us, that’s what this decision represents, and that is why we are proud that 43 years after starting an ice cream shop in a dilapidated gas station in Burlington, Vermont, our names are still on the package. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court reserves verdict in Amazon suit||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on Amazon Inc’s  appeal challenging the Rs 24,713-crore acquisition of Future Retail Limited (FRL) by Reliance Industries. “So we close the case now. The judgment is reserved,” a bench of justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai said after senior advocates Harish Salve and Gopal Subramanium, appearing for FRL and Amazon, respectively, concluded their submissions in the case. The crucial judgment which would have a huge bearing on the enforceability of foreign arbitral emergency awards on Indian entities is expected to be pronounced over the next fortnight. Summing up the arguments, Salve told the bench that the concept of emergency award as passed by the Singapore arbitrator was alien to the Indian concept and the same cannot be enforced on Indian companies. However, Amazon through Subramanium had maintained that FRL, which had prior enforceable contracts and arbitration agreements, was bound to implement the award passed by the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator. On February 22, the apex court had restrained NCLT from passing any final order on the Reliance-Future deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||RBI cancels licence of Goa-based Madgaum Urban Co-operative Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday cancelled the licence of Goa-based The Madgaum Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd with immediate effect. The RBI said the bank did not have adequate capital and earning prospect. Further, it would not be able to refund its existing depositors in full. Public interest would be adversely affected if the lender is allowed to carry on its banking operations. The Madgaum co-op bank will cease to carry on its operations with effect from the close of business on July 29. The banking regulator has also requested the Office of Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Goa, to issue an order to wind up the bank and appoint a liquidator. In a statement, the RBI said according to data submitted by the bank, about 99 per cent of the depositors will be fully refunded by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). Under the DICGC Act, a depositor can get up to Rs 5 lakh as a claim amount . The RBI had earlier put restrictions on the co-operative bank’s operations on May 2, 2019, for a period of six months. The validity of these directions was extended from time to time, with the last extension for  two months till August 2. Earlier, in September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under regulatory restrictions, including a cap on withdrawals by its customers, after detecting certain financial irregularities and mis-reporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL. Last month, the central bank granted an in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services and Resilient Innovations Pvt Ltd (which operates fintech startup BharatPe) to set up a small finance bank (SFB). After the SFB is formed and approval is received from the RBI, PMC Bank will be merged with the entity. Kotak view Kotak Mahindra Bank MD and CEO Uday Kotak on Thursday asked lenders not to window dress their accounts by deferring recognition of stressed assets in their books. Lenders have been blamed in the past for putting off recognition of souring assets which, in the end, blows up into a system-wide crisis. The comments in the annual report come at a time the pandemic has triggered concerns around the asset quality, but the RBI has expressed some relief after seeing lower than expected impairments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Govt probing price of imported steel wire rods from China||The government is probing the price of imported steel wire rods from China to assess whether it should continue with the anti-dumping duty on the item. Indian companies such as RINL, SAIL and JSW have formally stated that the withdrawal of duties would lead to more dumping. In a gazette notification, the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), under the commerce & industry ministry, said: “The domestic producers namely RINL, SAIL and JSW Steel have provided the prescribed information in the application. Further, Tata Steel Long Products and Jindal Steel and Power have supported the application,” the notification said. Domestic steel producers have said  dumping from China has continued even after the imposition of the duty and it would increase or recur if the government lifts the levy. The sunset review investigation will undertake a “likelihood analysis of dumping and injury”. A period of investigation of 18 months from October 1, 2019 to March 31, 2021, has been fixed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel reports 50 per cent jump in earnings||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS) India, formerly Essar Steel Ltd, has reported a 50 per cent jump in earnings for the second quarter of 2021 at $607 million (Rs 4,500 crore) compared with the preceding three months and a 450 per cent jump over the same period last year, demonstrating a strong demand and a widening margin. The parent, ArcelorMittal, also posted its strongest quarter since 2008, reporting a 74 per cent spike in net income to $4 billion over the first quarter, backed by an all- round improvement in profitability across Europe, North America, CIS and Brazil. It had a net income of $2.28 billion in the first quarter and a loss of $559 million in the same period last year. ArcelorMittal announced a decarbonisation programme that pledges to reduce carbon-dioxide  by 25 per cent in the group and 35 per cent in Europe by 2030. Arcelor Mittal will invest $10 billion to achieve this target. India performance AM/NS India focused on the buoyant export market during the June quarter like its peers as the country faced localised lockdowns. Steel shipment was nearly flat at 1.72 million tonnes (mt) in the second quarter compared with 1.7mt in January-March . By the end of the second quarter, the business saw encouraging signs of domestic demand revival, particularly from the automotive, white goods and infrastructure sectors. Earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation (EBIDTA) stood at $607 million compared with $403 million in the first quarter and $107 million in the same period of last year, which was severely affected by the nationwide lockdown. Aditya Mittal, chairman of AM/NS India and CEO of AM, said, “AM/NS India’s progress in the 18 months since its inception is an excellent foundation to advance our plans to pursue both organic expansion and strategic opportunities in support of India’s growing economy.” The joint venture plans to expand capacity to 30mt in the country, including immediately expanding the Hazira, Gujarat plant to 8.4mt from 7.3mt. AM/NS plans to expand capacity to 14mt in the medium- and 18mt in the long-term. It has also signed an MoU with the Odisha government to set up a 12mt plant. At present, the company is expanding a pellet (an iron ore intermediary) plant in Odisha to 12mt allowing it to use low grade iron ore and reduce the cost of steel production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Panatone Finvest to acquire 43.35% in Tejas Network||Panatone Finvest, a subsidiary of Tata Sons, is acquiring 43.35 per cent in Tejas Networks, a global optical, broadband and data networking products company, for Rs 1,850 crore. The multi-step deal will also see Panatone and some other companies of the Tata group make an open offer to acquire up to 4.03 crore equity shares of Tejas Networks, or 26 per cent of its emerging voting capital. As part of the agreement, Bangalore-based Tejas will make a preferential allotment to Panatone Finvest of 1.94 crore equity shares at a price of Rs 258 per share, aggregating Rs 500 crore. It will also issue 3.68 crore warrants (Series A warrants), each carrying a right to subscribe to one equity share at an exercise price of Rs 258 per share, aggregating Rs 950 crore. Tejas said Panatone can exercise the rights in one or more tranches over 11 months from the date of the allotment of the warrants. Panatone will be allotted another 1.55 crore warrants (Series B warrants), each carrying a right to subscribe to one equity share at an exercise price of Rs 258 per equity share, aggregating to Rs 400 crore. These warrants may be exercised in one or more tranches after 12 months of their allotment and till the 18th month. In a regulatory filing, Tejas said the Tatas will pay in cash for the preferential shares. The subscription share price will be payable at the time of subscription and the allotment of the shares. In warrants, the Tatas will pay 25 per cent of the warrant exercise price on their subscription and allotment, while the rest will be paid at the time of the allotment of the equity shares. Panatone will also acquire up to 13 lakh shares from the Tejas management at a price not exceeding Rs 258 per equity share aggregating Rs 34 crore, subject to such terms and conditions as mutually agreed between the parties, the company disclosed. Shares of Tejas Networks on Thursday got locked at the upper circuit on the announcement of the news. On the BSE they closed at Rs 246 — a gain of Rs 11.70 or 4.99 per cent. “This association provides us the necessary financial resources, global relationships and strong ecosystem to innovate and scale our business,’’ Tejas Networks chairman V. Balakrishnan said while commenting on the development. Tejas said it sees a very large opportunity in 5G and fiber-based broadband rollouts. Tejas Networks CEO and MD Sanjay Nayak and the rest of the management team will stay on with the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
