31-07-2021||Business||Ralson acquires marketing rights of Dunlop brand in India||The iconic Dunlop tyre brand is all set for a resurrection. Ludhiana-based tyre maker Ralson has acquired the marketing rights to the century-old brand and the company said it would launch “super premium” tyres for two- and three-wheelers under the Dunlop name. If successful, this will be one more attempt at bringing back the now-defunct brand which used to rule the Indian roads once. Founded by Scotsman John Boyd Dunlop in 1888, the Dunlop brand started marketing in India in 1896. After many glorious years, the company suffered setbacks in the 1980s. In the past four decades, the ownership of the Dunlop brand has changed hands three times. It came into the fold of Rama Prasad Goenka’s RPG Group in 1984 but within four years Manohar Rajaram Chhabria’s Jumbo Group took control of it. Pawan Kumar Ruia acquired Dunlop India Ltd, along with Falcon Tyres in 2005 from Jumbo, promising to revive the company and the brand multiple times but failed on every occasion. While the company faced liquidation,  Ruia shifted the ownership of the brand —  on which he had exclusive India rights —  to a promoter group company. Last year, Ruia came out with N95 masks with the Dunlop tag. Ralson seems to be taking a big bet in a fiercely competitive two- and three-wheeler tyre market. The company manufactures and sells tyres for bikes, scooters, mopeds, three-wheelers and tractors through a 2,000 plus pan-India dealership network. With this agreement, Ralson will  strengthen its position in the premium two- and three-wheeler tyre market, which is at present niche but growing at a very fast pace, Ralson India said in a statement. The company intends to first roll out the Dunlop branded tyres from its manufacturing plant in Kot Panech, Ludhiana. “The combined strength of Ralson and Dunlop will create huge possibilities to target a large share of the market with global quality products,” Ralson (India) vice-president Yogeshwar Sharma said. Ralson is also planning a foray into bus and truck tyres where the Dunlop brand name may come in handy. The company had set up a 91.8 per cent subsidiary, Ralson Tyres Limited, in 2019-20. Though the company had put on hold further investments because of the uncertain market conditions, the management may re-initiate the project in the near-term, Icra said in a report last December. A generation of Indians have been familiar with the Dunlop brand for their premium quality and technically advanced products and this will drive the inherent demand for this legacy brand, he added. Established in 1974, Ralson started with manufacturing bicycle tyres and tubes, and later forayed into automotive tyre space as well. Currently the company is among the leaders in the segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
31-07-2021||Business||Eight core sectors' output up 8.9 per cent in June||The output of the eight core sectors grew 8.9 per cent in June, mainly because of a low base effect and uptick in the production of natural gas, steel, coal and electricity. The eight infrastructure sectors had contracted 12.4 per cent in June 2020 because of the lockdown restrictions. The production of coal jumped 7.4 per cent against (-) 15.5 per cent; natural gas output was up 20.6 per cent compared with (-) 12 per cent. Output of steel rose 25 per cent against (-) 23.2 per cent last year, while cement production rose 4.3 per cent against (-) 6.8 per cent last year. Fiscal deficit The Centre’s fiscal deficit in the April-June quarter was at an eight-year low of Rs 2.74 lakh crore, which is 18.2 per cent of the budgeted amount, because of better revenue collection and slower government spending For the current financial year, the government expects fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent of GDP, or Rs 15,06,812 crore. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit was at Rs 2,74,245 crore at the end of June. For the current financial year, the government expects the fiscal deficit at 6.8 percent of GDP or Rs 15,06,812 crore. The fiscal deficit or the gap between expenditure and revenue for 2020-21 was 9.3 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), better than the 9.5 per cent projected in the revised estimates in the Budget in February. As per CGA data, the government received Rs 5.47 lakh crore (27.7 percent of corresponding BE 2021-22 of total receipts) up to June 2021. The amount comprises Rs 4.12 lakh crore of tax revenues, Rs 1.27 lakh crore of non-tax revenues and Rs 7,402 crore of non-debt capital receipts. The receipts were 6.8 percent of BE at the end of June 2020. Non-debt capital receipts consist of recovery of loans worth Rs 3,406 crore and disinvestment proceeds of Rs 3,996 crore. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said, “The sharp jump in tax and non-tax receipts and mild contraction in revenue expenditure, curtailed the Government of India's (GoI’s) fiscal deficit to an eight year low Rs. 2.7 trillion in Q1 FY2022, less than half of last-year's level of Rs. 6.6 trillion recorded during the nationwide lockdown.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said, “Revenue generation has been better this year which is a comfort. Tax and non-tax revenue collections have been more buoyant this year. The RBI transfer which came in has also helped to attain over half of the target for non-tax revenue. The government has been slower on total expenditure which includes even capex. In terms of proportion of budgeted amounts, the spending has been lower for fertilizers, roads, while that for agriculture and food has just about been maintained.” Further, Rs 1,17,524 crore was transferred to state governments as devolution of share of taxes by the Government of India up to June 2021. At the end of June, CGA said that total expenditure incurred by the government was Rs 8.21 lakh crore (23.6 percent of corresponding BE 2021-22). Out of the total amount, Rs 7.10 lakh crore was on revenue account and Rs 1.11 lakh crore was on capital account. Out of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 1.84 lakh crore was for interest payments and about Rs 1 lakh crore was on account of major subsidies. “Change in accounting year of Reserve Bank of India has helped in higher non-tax revenue collection and its growth jumped to 738.4% in 1QFY22 which is 52.4% of FY22 (BE). If government fails to achieve big-ticket disinvestment programme in FY22, the gains visible in the 1QFY22, may not hold and government would find it difficult to attain FY22 fiscal deficit target of INR15.07 trillion,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research said. Core The output of eight core sectors grew 8.9 per cent in June, mainly due to a low base effect and uptick in production of natural gas, steel, coal and electricity, official data released today showed. The eight infrastructure sectors of coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity had contracted by 12.4 per cent in June 2020 due to the lockdown restrictions imposed to control the spread of coronavirus infections. In May this year, these key sectors had recorded a growth of 16.3 per cent, while it was 60.9 per cent in April. According to the commerce and industry ministry data, production of coal, natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement and electricity jumped by 7.4 per cent, 20.6 per cent, 2.4 per cent, 25 per cent, 4.3 per cent and 7.2 per cent, respectively, in June 2021, as against (-) 15.5 per cent, (-) 12 per cent, (-) 8.9 per cent, (-) 23.2 per cent, (-) 6.8 percent and (-) 10 per cent in the same month last year. The crude oil output contracted by 1.8 per cent during the month under review as against a negative growth of 6 per cent in June 2020. Fertiliser segment recorded a growth of 2 per cent in June. During April-June period this fiscal, the eight sectors grew by 25.3 per cent against a contraction of 23.8 per cent in the same period last year. “While the core index rose in MoM terms in June 2021, it remained below the April 2021 level, particularly on account of cement, electricity and petroleum products, consistent with the picture of an incomplete recovery revealed by various other high frequency indicators. Moreover, the core sector index in June 2021 was a moderate 4.7% lower than the pre-covid level of June 2019, on account of all the components except fertilisers and natural gas,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said. She said, “We expect the IIP to expand by 12-17% in June 2021, exceeding the core sector growth, as some of the other high frequency indicators such as GST e-way bills and auto output have displayed a solid sequential uptick in that month, engendered by the relaxation of state level restrictions. Continued unlocking by the states, improved mobility and higher electricity demand, pushed up in part by the lull in rainfall, are expected to boost the core sector growth to 11-14% in July 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
31-07-2021||Business||Sun Pharma posts Rs 1,444.17 crore net profit in June quarter||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Friday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,444.17 crore for the June 2021 quarter, mainly on account of robust sales across markets. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 1,655.60 crore for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. The better-than-expected results saw its shares surging over 10 per cent on the bourses. On the BSE, the Sun Pharma stock ended 10.06 per cent, or Rs 70.75, higher at Rs 774, leading to a market cap of Rs 1,85,703.94 crore. Consolidated sales during the period stood at Rs 9,669.4 crore, a growth of 29 per cent over the corresponding period last year and 14 per cent over the January-March quarter. Bandhan Bank profit declines Bandhan Bank has reported a 32.1 per cent lower net profit for the April-June quarter of 2021-22 at Rs 373.1 crore compared with Rs 549.8 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. The bank provisioning was higher with the rise in stressed assets. Gross non-performing asset (NPA) during the quarter was 8.2 per cent against 1.4 per cent in the year-ago period. Net NPA was 3.3 per cent compared with 0.5 per cent in the year-ago period. The bank saw fresh slippages of Rs 1,661 crore during the quarter. The bank also restructured its emerging entrepreneurs business portfolio consisting of microfinance loans worth Rs 4,057 crore and housing portfolio worth Rs 604 crore during the quarter. Exide back in the black Exide Industries on Friday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 31.81 crore for the quarter ended June 30. The company had reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 13.56 crore in the April-June period of the previous fiscal. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 3,543 crore during the quarter against Rs 2,526 crore a year ago, Exide Industries said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
31-07-2021||Business||Indian Oil Corporation posts three-fold jump in Q1 profit on refining margins, inventory gains||Indian Oil Corporation has reported a three-fold jump in net profit during the April-June quarter of 2021 because of higher margins from the refining business and inventory gains. The PSU behemoth said its joint venture with Malaysia’s Petronas would diversify into natural gas and fuel retailing. The two decade-old joint venture, Indian Oil Petronas Pvt Ltd (IPPL), at present sells LPG to commercial customers at market rates. In the first quarter, IOC’s standalone net profit was Rs 5,941.37 crore against Rs 1,910.84 crore a year ago when the pandemic hammered fuel demand and squeezed margins. The profit was down 32 per cent in comparison with the preceding quarter, mostly because of the second wave of the coronavirus. IOC chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya said the company earned $6.58 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel in the June quarter compared with a loss of $1.98 per barrel in the same period last year. The refining margins included a component of inventory gain, IOC director (finance) Sandeep Gupta said without elaborating. Revenue from operations was up 74 per cent at Rs 1.55 lakh crore from a year ago. Petronas pact Vaidya said IOC and Petronas have not finalised the details of the new arrangement. IOC owns 32,303 out of 77,709 petrol pumps in the country. It also has licences to retail CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to households in several geographical areas. IPPL will have its own branding and marketing. The IOC chairman ruled out the possibility of IPPL cannibalising on IOC’s business. India’s energy demand is growing and will have space for all players. “The energy pie is increasing. There is place for everybody. IOC’s market share is intact and IPPL will capture new opportunities,” Vaidya said. The government, meanwhile, has launched bids for 75 small oil fields with discovered reserves across 32 areas in 11 basins and locations.  The estimated hydrocarbons is approximately 232 million tonnes of oil and oil equivalent gas. In the earlier two rounds, the government had awarded 54 contracts to 27 companies including 12 new entrants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||Business||International commercial flight ban extended till August 31||The ban on international commercial flights has been extended till the end of August because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Modi government in June had announced its plan to issue 5 lakh free visas to foreign tourists.  With the extension of the flight ban, the scheme remains only on paper. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said dedicated cargo flights and flights under the bilateral air bubble pacts with select countries will continue in August. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020. Special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. India currently has the bilateral agreements with about 28 countries, including the US, UK and France. Domestic outlook The number of active Covid-19 infections has dropped sharply since the March-May period, which has resulted in a gradual increase in domestic traffic. Aviation consultancy firm Capa India expects about 80 million domestic air passengers and 16 million international during 2021-22, up from 53 million domestic passengers and 10 million international passengers during the last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||Business||Ssangyong Motor Company receives nine bids for acquisition||Troubled auto maker Ssangyong Motor Company (SYMC) has received nine bids on the final day of submitting letters of intent for its acquisition. These include US-based Cardinal One Motors, the Samra Midas (SM) group and Edison Motors Co. Ssangyong said in a statement on Friday that many of the bidders want to expand their electric vehicle business. However, it did not disclose their names. In April this year, SYMC was placed under court receivership — a mechanism in South Korea where a court decides how to revive a cash strapped company. This came after Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) failed to find a buyer for the car maker. Reports had said US-based vehicle importer HAAH Automotive Holdings had backed down on its initial plan to acquire SYMC. M&M holds 75 per cent in SYMC and last year it had decided to stop investing in the company and reduce its stake to less than 50 per cent or even cede control in full or part. Quoting officials from the SM Group, Korean media reports said the chemicals to shipping enterprise had submitted an LoI for Ssangyong. The company had evinced interest in acquiring Ssangyong back in 2010 as well, but got pipped by the Mahindras. These reports also said that Edison Motors, the electric bus manufacturer, has joined hands with a private equity fund to jointly bid for SYMC. Cardinal One Motors is also understood to have submitted an LoI. Duke Hale, who leads Cardinal One Motors, had founded HAAH Automotive Holdings earlier to import vehicles into the US. However, it had filed for bankruptcy because of growing US-China tensions. and he set up Cardinal One Motors to implement the plan of acquiring SsangYong. Switch Mobility Switch Mobility, the electric commercial vehicles arm of Ashok Leyland, on Friday said Dana Incorporated, a global leader in drivetrain and e-propulsion systems, has picked up 1 per cent stake in it for $18 million. Switch Mobility has signed a strategic agreement with Dana under which the latter will also be a preferred supplier of electric drivetrain components for its e-bus and EV commercial vehicle offering, including e-axles, gearboxes, motors, inverters, software and controls, and electronics cooling, the company said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||Business||IT giant Microsoft likely to pick up stake in Oyo||IT giant Microsoft is likely to pick up a stake in Oyo that could value the hospitality company at around $9 billion (Rs 67,000 crore). While the details of the deal are under wraps, an agreement is likely before Oyo’s initial public offering. Oyo is yet to fix a date for the IPO. Observers said the investment by Microsoft could only quicken the exercise. Oyo recently raised $660 million, which is nearly Rs 4,920 crore, from global institutional investors as a term loan. The capital will be used to pare debt and for other business investments. Oyo said in a statement that the offer — a term loan B funding — was subscribed 1.7 times, with the company receiving commitments of close to $1 billion from leading institutional investors. Term loan is a senior secured syndicated credit facility. Oyo is backed by marquee investors such as SoftBank Vision Fund, Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Ventures and Hero Enterprise. The hospitality industry has been amongst the worst hit during the pandemic, but the company’s founder and Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal sounded optimistic. Agarwal earlier this year said the company “is on a steady path of resurgence in 2021” and is seeing signs of recovery across India, Europe, and Southeast Asia. Oyo’s survival through the Covid crisis and its resurgence shows a company with strong fundamentals and high value potential, he had said. The news of the Microsoft investment comes at a time of strong interest among overseas investors in domestic start-ups. Swiggy for instance had mobilised $1.25 billion from SoftBank and others, while rival Zomato had a bumper listing on the bourses. The primary market is set to witness further action with players such as One97 Communicatons, Nykaa and Policybazaar ready to file their papers with the market regulator. The deal may involve Oyo shifting to use Microsoft’s cloud services, Reuters said citing a TechCrunch report. Oyo is one of India’s largest start-ups. Founded by Agarwal in 2013, it aggregates bookings for budget hotels around the world. The hotel aggregator has endured months of layoffs, cost cuts and losses since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
