01-03-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine at 10 private hospitals and 15 govt hospitals from March 1||Covid-19 vaccination will be available for two groups of civilians from at least 10 private hospitals and 15 government hospitals in Calcutta from Monday. The Cowin 2.0 app will be activated at noon on Monday in the city so that those eligible can register themselves. Registrations will be accepted from all who will be 60 years or older on January 1, 2022, and those aged between 45 and 59 on January 1, 2022, with any of 20 specified chronic health disorders. They can register “anytime and anywhere”, the Centre said. The vaccination will be free at government hospitals while Rs 250 a dose will have to be paid at private hospitals. The private hospitals in Calcutta are AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria and Mukundapur, Apollo Gleneagles, Belle Vue, Medica Hospital, Fortis, Ruby Hospital, Sri Aurobinda Seva Kendra (EEDF), GD Hospital and Diabetes Institute and Woodlands. The government hospitals where the vaccine will be available are IPGMER & SSKM Hospital; NRS Medical College and Hospital; Calcutta Medical College and Hospital; RG Kar Medical College and Hospital; Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital; MR Bangur Hospital; Vidyasagar State General Hospital; Garden Reach State General Hospital; ESI Hospital, Maniktala; ID & BG Hospital; Lady Dufferin Victoria Hospital; Dr BC Roy PGIPS; Sambhunath Pandit Hospital; Chittaranjan Seva Sadan Hospital; and Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. Officials said the lists were dynamic and might undergo changes after multiple rounds of meetings. The list from the Union home ministry includes names of some other hospitals in the city. The ministry released an initial list of over 8,600 private hospitals across the country. The Union health ministry said on Sunday that appointments can be booked from 9am on Monday. The noon launch was decided for Calcutta after a meeting between senior Bengal government officials and hospitals. The private hospitals have been asked to vaccinate 50 people each on Monday. The target includes 30 beneficiaries above the age of 60 and 20 with co-morbidities. The drive is expected to start from around 12.30pm at the private hospitals in Calcutta. Eligible persons may register via the Co-Win2.0 portal through mobile phones or through the Aarogya Setu app, the ministry said. With one mobile number, a person may register up to four beneficiaries, but the photo ID card for each beneficiary has to be different. The slot for the second dose will be booked at the same Covid vaccination centre on the 29th day of the appointment for the first dose. If a beneficiary for some reason cancels the first dose, appointments for both doses will be cancelled. People unable to register in advance may seek spot registrations using any of the photo IDs — Aadhaar card or letter, electoral photo ID card, passport, driving license, PAN card, pension document, or NPR smart card — required for advance registration. The Centre is currently using two vaccines in the campaign — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine made by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Robotic arm reduces margin of error in knee-replacement surgery||A robotic arm has significantly reduced the margin of error in knee-replacement surgery, doctors at a city hospital said on Saturday. In a traditional surgery, doctors remove the damaged surface of the knee joint and replace it with an implant made of metal and plastic. In a robotic knee replacement, surgeons build a virtual model of the patient’s knee. The model is fed into the robot, which is used by the surgeon to insert the implant with precision. “In the standard knee-replacement surgery, the human eye of a surgeon can detect errors over three degrees. Deviations of three degrees and below go undetected. The robot has reduced that error margin to 0.5 degrees,” said Rakesh Rajput, director, department of orthopaedics, CMRI. The surgeon, who has led close to 50 robot-assisted knee-replacement operations since January last year, spoke about the technology at a news conference on Saturday. Rajput reiterated that the robot only assisted the surgeon, who was still very much in control of the procedure. “The arm allows a surgeon to place the implant with a greater degree of accuracy, preventing accidental damage of the surrounding tissues, a common problem in traditional knee-replacement surgeries,” he said. Increased precision leads to a reduced rehabilitation period. The robot is imported and costs around Rs 5 crore, said an official of the hospital. The cost of a traditional knee-replacement surgery at the hospital is around Rs 2 lakh and a robot-assisted surgery costs around Rs 2.3 lakh, he added. On Saturday, some of the patients who have undergone robot-assisted knee replacement at the hospital shared their stories. Prasanta Das, 55, was one of them. Das used to be a trekker and was dejected in the run-up to the surgery because he thought he had to let go of his passion permanently. “I was amazed that I could walk just two days after the surgery. I have not given up hope and want to go on a trek again,” said Das.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination for comorbid people to start from Monday||The Bengal health department has said Covid-19 vaccination for people above 59 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities is set to start across the state on Monday. The Co-Win 2 app, the digital platform for Covid vaccination across the country, should be up and running from around Monday noon, officials of the department said. The app has to be used for online registration to get vaccinated. Health department officials said they were not expecting all designated hospitals and clinics to start administering the doses to the two groups from Monday because of technical and logistical issues. The state government has prepared a document with answers to some frequently asked questions. Metro takes a look at those questions and the answers. Who are eligible for the doses? People who turn 60 by January 1, 2022, and those between 45 and 59 and are suffering from comorbidities. How to register? One can register online by downloading the Co-Win 2 app. There is an option for on-the-spot registration in government hospitals. Facilitators at helpdesks in government hospitals will help you register through Co-Win. Prior registration is must for getting the doses at private hospitals. Appointments will close at noon on the day prior to the vaccination date. If I cannot pre-register online, how do I register on the spot? You can contact local government health workers, who will guide you to any government vaccination centre for on-the-spot registration and vaccination on the same day. Is it necessary for a person who has recovered from Covid to take a vaccine? It is advisable to receive the complete schedule of a Covid vaccine irrespective of past history of infection. This will help develop better immune response against the disease. How many doses do I need to take? Two doses at an interval of 28 days. Can I choose a vaccine? Covishield and Covaxin are the two vaccines approved in India for emergency use. You cannot choose your vaccine. Which vaccine will be given to you will be decided according to allocation. Will I get the vaccine for free? Vaccines will be given for free at government hospitals and clinics. Private hospitals can charge up to Rs 250. Can I cancel my appointment? Yes. But if you cancel the appointment for the first dose, the appointment for the second dose, too, will be cancelled. The option for cancellation of the appointment for the second dose will not be available. What documents are needed for registration? One of the following: Aadhaar card/letter; electoral photo identity card; passport; driving licence; PAN card; NPR Smart Card; pension document with photograph. Carry the document used for registration to the vaccination centre. How do I get to know the sites of vaccination? The list of sites will soon be uploaded on the website www.wbhealth.gov.in. Besides, the list can also be seen during registration through Co-Win. What are the comorbidities that make one eligible for the vaccine? ⚫ Heart failure with hospital admission in past year ⚫ Persons with devices implanted in the heart ⚫ Congenital heart disease ⚫ Coronary artery disease and other cardiac ailments ⚫ Angina and hypertension /diabetes on treatment ⚫ CT/MRI documented stroke ⚫ Pulmonary artery hypertension ⚫ Diabetes (more than 10 years or with complications) and hypertension on treatment ⚫ Kidney/liver/hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients or those on wait-list ⚫ End-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis/CAPD ⚫ Current prolonged use of oral corticosteroids/immunosuppressants ⚫ Decompensated cirrhosis ⚫ Severe respiratory disease with hospitalisations in last two years ⚫ Lymphoma /Leukaemia/ Myeloma ⚫ Diagnosis of any solid cancer on or after July 1, 2020, or currently on any cancer therapy ⚫ Sickle cell disease/bone marrow failure/aplastic anemia/Thalassemia major ⚫ Primary immunodeficiency diseases/HIV infection ⚫ Persons with disabilities due to intellectual disabilities /muscular dystrophy/acid attack with involvement of respiratory system/persons with disabilities having high support needs/multiple disabilities including deaf-blindness. Who can certify that a person has comorbidity? A medical practitioner registered with the Medical Council of India and the West Bengal Medical Council. Do I need the certificate while taking the vaccine? Yes, the recipient must carry the certificate to the vaccination centre. Can I change/correct details later? Details required during registration can be amended or deleted until the first dose of the vaccine has been given. After the first dose, no changes can be done except the date of the second dose (up to 42 days from the first dose). Do I need to wear a mask after taking the vaccine? Yes, one should continue to practice Covid-appropriate behaviours like wearing masks, washing or sanitising hands frequently and maintaining a physical distance of 6ft from another person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Canteens set to reopen on Shibpur's IIEST campus||Canteens and stores on the IIEST campus in Shibpur are set to reopen on Monday, said an official of the institute. The four canteens on the campus and the stores have been ordered to reopen “with immediate effect” as employees have been attending office since February 22. An order signed by the acting registrar on February 25 contains instructions for reopening of the canteens and shops. The official said all teachers and other employees have been asked to attend office on the campus. “We have decided to reopen the canteens so that these employees don’t face any inconvenience,’’ said Nirmalya Bhattacharyya, the deputy registrar (academic) and PRO. The canteens have remained shut since March last year with the onset of the lockdown. An official of the institute said the research scholars and postgraduate students had also been brought to the campus in compliance with Centre’s guideline and they, too, would need canteens. “The canteens and the stores have been sanitised. They will reopen tomorrow,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Kolkata Moto Fest: Machines battle it out in Singur's Shyam Business Park||A lot of heat and dust was raised over the weekend of February 21-22 at Shyam Business Park in Singur as two-wheelers and four-wheelers spun across mud tracks, raced through circuitous routes and recorded best timings, at Kolkata Moto Fest 2021 in association with The Telegraph. Known names from the eastern India rally circuit beat the corona blues to participate in this mudfest with their machines ranging from the capable Gypsy to the rally veteran Cedia, to the modified Swifts, Ignises, Citys, Balenos and even a Chevy Sail. It is often said those who love their cars won’t take them to rally, but it is here in the dirt tracks of Singur that the capabilities of both men and machines came to be tested. Participants competed in eight categories depending on the engine size and whether the vehicles were two-wheel drives or four-wheel drives. There was a ladies’-only category, too and there was an open category where anyone could participate irrespective of the engine size. The motor fest was not so much about speed as it was about skill and negotiating the soft earth with wheels. As engines revved, vehicles roared through in a haze of dust often with the headlights on as daylight was eclipsed by the dust raised by the speeding wheels. “It was a test of skill, knowing which gear to engage and when to step up acceleration. Many got stuck as wheels spun over soft earth without moving an inch,” said Debasish Bhattacharjee, of the Kolkata Automotive Sports Association. Two-wheelers also had eight competitive categories based on engine size and whether they were two-stroke or four stroke vehicles. There were a number of Hero Impulses, Karizmas and Royal Enfields pitted against each other. The most challenging was the 80-metre sand track in the circuit. Two-wheelers had a tough time negotiating the stretch as riders used their legs to propel the vehicles as the tyres remained ineffective on sand. “It’s a lot of hard work riding through sand,” said a rally veteran. “You have to negotiate sand on first gear and keep moving the vehicle to avoid getting stuck.” Four-wheelers, too, slowed down on the sand track and put on speed only when wheels hit the gravel. While there were a number of winners with many ties particularly in the four-wheeler category, the overall best performer at the moto fest was Subir Roy among four-wheelers and Uday Ganguli among two-wheelers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town authorities issue advisory to set up bicycle docking stations||The New Town authorities have issued an advisory to all residential and commercial buildings to set up bicycle docking stations, an officer of New Town Kolkata Development Authority said. “Hidco has constructed bicycle docking stations near the Nazrul Tirtha bus stand and in front of Hidco Bhavan. We want all residential and commercial buildings to build such stations and ensure that those using bicycles don't park them on pavements or thoroughfares,” the official said. The bicycle has made a comeback on the city’s streets with many preferring to pedal to work and avoid travelling on overcrowded buses amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In New Town, unlike parts of Calcutta, cycle tracks run along the service lanes of the Major Arterial Road in several places. And now the authorities will make more space for bicycles by placing orange traffic cones along the extreme left flank of the service roads in the township. According to another NKDA official, a meeting was held to discuss ways to promote bicycling in New Town and to ensure that residents as well as office-goers choose bicycles as a means of last-mile connectivity. A committee comprising NKDA officials, representatives of NGOs and educational institutions, and cycling enthusiasts has been formed. The committee will help promote bicycling by holding regular workshops, where novices will be taught how to ride and experienced riders will be taught good practices and road behaviour. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said they would also give out freebies such as Eco Park tickets to those riders who observe proper traffic rules and use bicycle tracks. “Cycling has zero carbon footprint and we want to encourage this mode of transport,” said Sen. According to him, a number of women participants have stepped forward to learn cycling at the sessions held in New Town. New Town has a dedicated 17-km-long bicycle track and an app-based public bicycle sharing scheme was relaunched last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Government schools advance higher secondary practical exams||Government schools are advancing the higher secondary practical exams because of the possibility of central forces taking over the campuses in the run up to the Assembly elections, which will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. The state HS council had earlier announced that the practical exams would be held from March 10 to 31. The announcement of the election dates prompted the council to allow the schools to bring forward the exam schedule. Days after the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education granted the relaxation on February 24, Uttarpara Government School announced that they would start the practical exams on March 1. Saugata Basu, a teacher of the school, said the practical exams would be over by March 11. “Cops from the local police station have visited our school twice to conduct preliminary inspections ahead of the entry of central forces. Once the forces come, the students and the teachers will be barred from entering the campus. So, we had no option but to bring forward the exams,” said Basu, the general secretary of the government school teacher’s association. Tapan Samanta, the headmaster of the school, said the practical exams would start with physics. A school in North 24-Parganas said the exams would start on March 4 and be over by March 14. “Students will miss out on the bare minimum preparatory classes if the schedule of the practical exams is brought forward. But we have little choice,” said the head of the institution. Shampa Nayek, the headmistress of Alipore Multipurpose Government Girls School, said they were planning to start the practical exams on March 8. In Bengal, the schools reopened for the students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 following a Covid-induced closure for 11 months. One of the objectives behind the resumption of in-person classes was to enable the HS students in the science stream to get some hands-on training before they appear in the practical exams. “The council had announced the exam dates in late December and the topics to be covered in the practical papers on January 18, without saying whether the schools could reopen for practical classes,” said Basu, of the government school teacher’s association. “The delay in announcement on reopening by the school education department will now cost students dear.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid impact: Online setback for pre-primary school students ||Children in pre-primary schools are missing out on key lessons on social and conversation skills and how to share attention in the absence of in-person classes. The Covid pandemic has not only impacted the senior students but also children who had just started going to school or were about to. Teachers point out that students learn a lot more in school than letters and numbers — they learn from the environment, pick up vocabulary by listening to teachers, develop a work habit and take the first steps towards becoming independent. In the absence of in-person classes, which have been suspended since March last year as a precaution against Covid, the little learners are being deprived of the much-needed hand-holding by teachers. Across schools teachers are taking classes online but several of them said they were noticing areas where children are falling behind. Classrooms are designed in a way that they become learning spaces, said teachers. Suman Sood, the mentor of the Calcutta, Odisha and Kerala territories of Early Childhood Association, a forum of pre-schools, said there was “a prepared environment in school” that is missing in homes. Loreto House, for example, has a book corner, from where a child can pick up any book. Similarly, the school has a nature corner for the children to plant seeds. All these are part of the learning process. “Children are split into smaller groups and each group does a different activity. Teachers monitor them. In an online class, on the other hand, all of them do the same activity,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. “For example, in an online class, all children are involved in making play dough, which helps hand-eye coordination. But this is not always possible for teachers to gauge virtually,” she said. In a school environment, children pick up a lot of things such as vocabulary automatically by listening to teachers or from observations. “Spoken English skills, making conversations, pronunciation and enunciation have been compromised. Earlier, too, they would make mistakes but continuous feedback from teachers in school would help them get corrected,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. The school acts as a leveller. Though children come from various environments, there is a “uniformity in school”, which is missing across homes. Many children come from nuclear homes, where they are surrounded by adults and are often the sole object of attention. “In school, they are in the company of other children of their age and they learn to share the attention of one teacher. They are one in many and that motivates them to do things,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Children also learn by imitating each other. “The school is a space for social interaction and making friends. They learn how to behave in front of outsiders or strangers,” said John Bagul, the principal of South City International School. “In school, she would have learnt with other children, but at home I have to sit with her... so that she finishes her work,” said the mother of a four-year-old. “Social and interactive skills are getting impacted but parents can give stimulation at home with certain kinds of toys, blocks, puzzles that will help the child to learn and pick up things,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
01-03-2021||Calcutta||Two killed  in separate road accidents,  one arrested||Two men died in separate road accidents in the city since Saturday evening. A man riding a motorbike died after the two-wheeler was hit by a lorry on BT Road early on Sunday. Two others who were riding pillion got injured. They have been admitted to hospital. The lorry driver has been arrested, police said. On Saturday evening, a  man travelling in a small truck died after the truck was hit by a bus on Basanti Highway. Four others travelling in the truck got injured. Drivers of both the vehicles are absconding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-128
