02-03-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals create help-desks to register senior citizens||Private hospitals that started giving Covid jabs to people above 59 and those above 45 with comorbidities on Monday created help-desks so the elderly are spared the hassle of online registration. Others who plan to start vaccinating the general public from Tuesday said they, too, had set up similar help-desks where hospital employees could help senior citizens register for the doses through the Co-Win 2 app. A person can receive a Covid-19 vaccine only after registering through Co-Win 2. On Monday, hundreds of elderly people were unable to register because of glitches in the app or were unable to go through the technicalities. They either queued up at private hospitals or called health-care units seeking assistance. The health ministry has made it mandatory for people to register with the Co-Win 2 for Covid-19 vaccine doses. The chief executive of a private hospital in Calcutta said the rigidity did cause harassment for many. They had apprehended such hassles and so decided to set up help-desks. Alipore resident Shankar Poddar, 68, and his wife Sarita, 61, wanted to take the doses on the first day of the vaccination of the general public. “We are not tech savvy and so asked our son to do the registration for us. He tried but the app was not working,” said Poddar, a businessman. The elderly couple went to Belle Vue Clinic in the morning. “We met hospital officials. They said they would get us registered and administer the doses if slots were available,” Poddar said. The couple waited till afternoon and finally around 4, personnel at the hospital’s help-desk got them registered through the Co-Win 2 app. They got their doses around 4.30pm. At Belle Vue, 50 persons were administered the doses on Monday. Of them, 11 had walked in without prior registration, said officials. “We have nine laptops dedicated to helping people get themselves registered. It is done on a first-come-first-served basis,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, 150 people from the general public were administered Covid shots. Of them, more than 100 went to the hospital for spot registration, said officials. Six employees were posted at the registration help-desk, while three to four others were moving around, helping people fill in the forms. “Because of frequent glitches in the Co-Win 2 portal, it was taking 20 to 25 minutes on an average for a registration,” said an official of Medica. The hospital was flooded with calls from elderly people and their relatives, seeking help to get registered. Medica plans to vaccinate 500 people on Tuesday. Till late on Monday evening, more than 200 got themselves registered through the help-desk, either by visiting the hospital or over the phone. “We are taking down the contact details of those interested to take a vaccine. We are contacting them, asking for details to get them registered. They are receiving a one-time password which they are sharing with us to get registered,” said the official. After the registration, the recipients were told when they should visit the hospital on Tuesday. AMRI Hospitals received at least 300 calls from people throughout Monday, who sought to know whether the hospital could help them get registered. Sixty-nine persons were vaccinated at the hospital's Dhakuria unit and 80 at the Mukundapur unit on Monday, said an official. Around half the recipients opted for spot registration through help-desks. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences is scheduled to start giving doses to the general public on Tuesday. “In order to ensure a seamless online registration on the Co-Win app for senior citizens who are not tech savvy, we have earmarked an exclusive counter on our campus, with a helpline number to assist them in enrolling for the same. This contact number will be disseminated to public vide our website, call centre and all other means of communication…” said R. Venkatesh, director, eastern region, Narayana Health. Chetan Shah, 58 ,a diabetic with three coronary artery stents The businessman had stopped going to his office on Canning Street in March last year. The first time he went to his office since then was on Diwali, “because it was an auspicious occasion”. Since February, he has been going to the office every day but for only three hours. “I need to visit many places for my business. I could not do that for a year,” said Shah. He said he would start visiting more places only after the 14th day from the second dose. “I will still wear a mask and maintain distance from others, but I can visit a few more places,” said the resident of Bhowanipore. Chetan’s wife Mita, 55, a schoolteacher, also got a dose on Monday. She is diabetic and has hypertension. Vandana Mohta, 65 and Gyan Prakash Mohta, 70, residents of Alipore Vandana was trying to log into Co-Win simultaneously from three mobile phones and one laptop from 8.55am on Monday. She did not give in till she could register her and her husband’s names around 9.20am. “I was desperate to get the vaccine on the first day,” she said. Gyan Prakash has an autoimmune disorder and was hospitalised in February 2020. “He did not step out of home for once through the pandemic. I was scared every time I had to step out,” she said. The Mohtas had fever in December. “We lived in constant fear for several days, till the Covid tests returned negative. This vaccine will at least allow me to go out more often for some essential work that I have been delaying. It will also give him some protection”, Vandana said. Shivashish Paul, 62, a chartered accountant Paul had been trying to log into Co-Win intermittently since Sunday light. He could log in and register himself for vaccination at 9.30am on Monday. But Paul, like many others, had first downloaded the Co-Win app from Google Playstore. “The app does not work at all. While I was trying to register through the app, an acquaintance sent me the link of the Co-Win portal. I could finally register myself from here,” said Paul. The Golpark resident said he took the vaccine because he believed that Covid could be defeated only if more and more people got inoculated. “We have to break the chain and taking the vaccine will help break the chain,” he said. Ranjan Kumar Lahiri, 84 and Anjali Lahiri, 76 The couple’s son had successfully registered his parents but did not receive any text message confirming their registration. “There was a message on the screen and a reference ID was created. I did not know if this meant my parents had been registered, but yet I took them to the hospital,” said Utathya Lahiri, a teacher at Calcutta Boys School. “I did my father’s registration first but did not note down the reference ID thinking I would receive an SMS. I did not make the mistake when I registered my mother. I noted down the reference ID,” said Utathya. The result of not having his father referenced was that officials at AMRI Hospitals initially said only his mother would receive a dose. Utathya had to explain to hospital officials the problem and they got his father inoculated, too. “If I had received an SMS, it would have been so much easier. There were problems in the Co-Win portal,” he said. Siddhartha Chakravorty, 67 a schoolteacher There was some error — this was the message that appeared on Chakravorty’s screen as he opted for Aadhaar card as his photo identity. When he tried with his PAN, the Co-Win portal said: “It already exists”. “I tried for 30 minutes from 9.30am but could not register myself for vaccination. There was a glitch in the portal. I tried with Aarogya Setu app but it redirected the traffic to the Co-Win portal,” said Chakravorty. “I was disappointed because I wanted to take the vaccine,” he said. The chemistry teacher said that since he had to go to school nowadays with the ISC exams approaching, he wanted to get vaccinated. “It is a safety measure. If it is available for people of our age, why not take it and stay safe,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
02-03-2021||Calcutta||CU BTech seats for domiciled students||An engineering aspirant has to be a domicile of Bengal to enroll in Calcutta University’s BTech programme, CU officials said. Being domicile means one has to reside in Bengal continuously for at least 10 years as on 31.12.2020 or his or her parent has to be a permanent resident of Bengal. A candidate who will take part in the counselling, to be conducted by the JEE board, for admission to CU’s BTech courses has to fulfill either of these conditions. The state joint entrance examination can be written by candidates from across the country. While till last year CU had admitted students to the BTech programme through the JEE board’s  counseling from any part of the country, this year an engineering aspirant has to be domiciled in Bengal. A CU official said the criteria that needed to be fulfilled to become eligible for domicile quota seats would be the same as what had been spelt out in the information bulletin of the JEE board. “Only those candidates will be treated as domicile of West Bengal who are either, a) residing in….; b) whose parent (s)is/ are permanent resident(s)….,” the rules read. The joint entrance examination board has sought to know from the institutes, including Calcutta University, as to whether there would be any change to the admission norms. “The board will be informed about the domicile clause,” said another official. The rationale for the reservation is that students from Bengal were being elbowed out by candidates from other states in engineering courses. “The same rationale was cited while introducing the quota in Jadavpur University in 2019,’’ said an official of CU. In JU, 90 per cent of the BTech seats in the general category were reserved for candidates domiciled in Bengal. “CU can follow this model while keeping certain percentage of seats open for outstation candidates,” said an official. The dean of technology and engineering faculty, Debasish Das, said in a text message: “I don’t have any news regarding the same.” CU had introduced the domicile clause in December while enrolling students through decentralised (independent) counselling for 89 of the 237 BTech seats that remained vacant after centralised counselling by the JEE board ended. A CU official said the university had not set any such condition in the centralised counseling last year although a proposal on domicile was approved at the meeting of the department heads of engineering and technology faculty held in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC exams to start on May 5||The ICSE (Class X) exams and the ISC (Class XII) theory papers will begin on May 5, the ICSE council announced on Monday evening. The ISC computer science (Paper 2) practical-planning session is scheduled for April 8 and the ISC home science (Paper 2) practical-planning session and Indian music carnatic (Paper 2) practical is scheduled for April 9. The ICSE exam will end on June 7 and the ISC on June 16. Candidates will have to be seated in the examination hall/room five minutes before the time “fixed for the start of the examination in the subject”, but they must reach the examination centre well ahead of time to ensure “staggered movement and smooth entry into the school, to avoid overcrowding,” according to a statement issued by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the CISCE. The council has said candidates must follow the Covid-19 safety protocols strictly.They must “wear a face mask, carry a hand sanitiser, and avoid touching the face with their hands”. The use of gloves is optional.Candidates must carry their stationery/art material and avoid sharing the same with other candidates. They must carry their water bottles and must not share food or water with others. The Covid-19 Safety Instructions to be followed by candidates at examination centres say: “Candidates should follow respiratory etiquette strictly while coughing or sneezing. This involves the practice of covering one's mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing.... Candidates need to inform the Supervising Examiner/Invigilator and follow the protocol laid down by the school in case they are not feeling well.” The candidates have also been instructed to avoid overcrowding at all places on the school campus, including washrooms, laboratories, classrooms, corridors, library, playground etc. The candidates need to strictly follow any additional safety instructions issued by the examination centre. The ISC theory papers will start at 2pm and the ICSE papers at 11am. For both Class X and XII exams, the art papers will begin at 9am. The ICSE exams will begin with English Language-English Paper 1 and ISC theory papers with Business Studies. The council has said that the date and time for practical examinations (for ISC) of physics, chemistry, biology, biotechnology, Indian music (Hindustani), fashion designing, physical education, computer science (examination session) and home science (examination session) will be announced by the schools concerned. The council had earlier announced that the ISC practical exams would have to be scheduled between April 1 and May 31. Several schools said they would try to schedule the practicals before the start of the theory papers. The results of both exams would be published in July, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said. The announcement of the schedule has brought relief to thousands of students and parents across the state who had been waiting for the timetable of the board exams, which are usually held in February-March. About 35,000 students will appear in the ICSE and 25,000 in the ISC exams from Bengal. This year the exams have been delayed because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||Bike skids, rider under truck wheels on Ekbalpore Road||A 40-year-old man riding a motorcycle died after his two-wheeler skidded on Ekbalpore Road and he came under the wheels of a truck late on Sunday night, police said. Bikramjit Kori, 40, a resident of Thakurpukur, Pashchim Barisha, was wearing a helmet at the time of the accident at the Ekbalpore Road-Diamond Harbour Road crossing around Sunday midnight. Kori was taken to SSKM Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries early on Monday, the police said. Officers of the fatal squad of the traffic department said after analysing CCTV footage  that it was apparent that the motorcyclist had lost control and he  fell on the road. A truck that was trailing the two-wheeler ran over the motorcyclist before he could react or recover. The offending vehicle has been seized and the driver has been arrested, the police said. The incident happened a day after a 24-year-old motorcyclist died in an accident on BT Road in front of Rabindra Bharati University after being hit by a lorry. A considerable number of people who died in road accidents in Calcutta last year were motorcyclists and pillion riders. Out of the 201 reported deaths on road in the city last year, 64 people were either riding a two-wheeler or riding pillion in two-wheelers, according to police records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta|| Bus and lorry operators seek 2019 Lok Sabha dues||A forum of bus and lorry operators in Bengal has written to the state’s chief electoral officer telling him that they would not give their vehicles for election duty if their dues from the 2019 Lok Sabha elections are not cleared. In a letter addressed to the chief electoral officer on Monday, the forum demanded full payment of “hiring charges of the vehicles that were engaged in the 2019 Parliamentary Election duty immediately". The letter states that members of the forum were yet to receive 50 per cent of their expenses from Calcutta North and Calcutta South districts each. The two-page letter also states that the dues were 100 per cent in North 24-Parganas, 20 per cent in South 24-Parganas and 10 per cent in all other districts. The outstanding amount, members of the forum said, was close to Rs 5 crore. The letter goes on to demand 100 per cent advance payment of hiring charges for the 2021 elections. “We, the operators and the workers concerned will stay away from the entire election process in protest,” the letter states. Signed by five representatives from different unions of bus, minibus, school bus and lorry operators, the letter demands revision of the daily hiring charges from Rs 1,910 to Rs 2,500 for buses and from Rs 1475 to Rs 2,500 for six-wheel lorries. The expenditure for holding Lok Sabha polls is borne by the Centre. According to guidelines laid down by the Union ministry of law and justice, transporting election materials, including ballot boxes and EVMs, to the polling and counting centres are among several items that are treated as expenditure incurred for the actual conduct of elections. Buses, minibuses, school buses and even lorries are requisitioned to carry these items and the polling personnel. The payment is made after bills that have been submitted by owners are scrutinised by the “transport cell” in each of the election offices in the districts and in Calcutta. Senior officials in the state election commission said the amount for respective states during the Lok Sabha polls is disbursed from the Union home ministry. Bengal chief electoral officer Ariz Aftab was not available for a reaction. Calls went unanswered and so did text messages. “There are around 45,000 buses and close to two lakh lorries in the state,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “That would be several lakhs of voters.” Bus operators from Calcutta said around 1,900 buses were requisitioned for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||Fun and prayer streamed live||Birla High School, Mukundapur Birla High School, Mukundapur, celebrated Saraswati Puja online. The puja was streamed live on the school’s official Facebook page. Students and staff members, who could not be physically present, took part in the rituals online as well. Bhog was organised for the teaching and non-teaching members in the school. “The students were missing, but live streaming connected them with the celebrations. Parents had appreciated the initiative, and their positive feedback boosted the faculty’s morale. Hopefully, situations would become favourable enough to open the gates of the school for the kids,” said headmistress Hira Prasad. Principal Minnie Sengupta said: “Saraswati Puja without the students was a lonely experience. After all, we missed the gleeful laughter and happy faces.” Teachers and staff members of the Dum Dum branch of Aditya Academy organised Saraswati Puja for the first time. The school and the pandal area were decorated with flowers, bright papers and candles. The guests included Aditya Group managing director Roshni Aditya and education director of Aditya Group of Schools Sabita Saha. Prasad was distributed among all. “The puja was special as it was held for the first time in our Dum Dum branch. A cultural programme, in which the teachers took part, followed the rituals. Everybody had a great time, despite the current situation,” said Saha. Indus Valley World School celebrated Saraswati Puja, keeping the festive spirit intact. Principal Reshma Bhattacharya performed the puja in presence of the school director and some teachers. Although the students were at home, they presented music and dance performances online. It was shared with everyone on the school’s YouTube channel and Facebook page. There were songs and dances dedicated to the goddess of knowledge. Teachers, too, presented a cultural programme where they sang and danced on songs. “We have given undivided attention to both curricular and extracurricular activities and through Saraswati Puja students showcased their talent in the field of performing arts, albeit virtually. This year’s experience was definitely different, because we could not have the students on the school premises. But the spirit was there,” said the principal. B.D.M International celebrated Saraswati Puja on the school premises with teachers. They also organised an online programme, displaying a compilation of videos of student performances. The puja rituals in the school were streamed live on Facebook, and the students even offered pushpanjali, virtually. The online programme commenced with a rendition of the Saraswati Vandana by the school choir, followed by a compilation of videos of student performances and classroom activities. The secondary and senior secondary students presented song and dance performances for the day. “As change is inevitable, and evolution mandatory, we sought blessings from the goddess of knowledge, virtually this year, to give us profound wisdom and the power of acceptance. I have missed my dear students a lot, however, I hope to celebrate Saraswati Puja with them next year. I wish them and their families a healthy year ahead,” said principal Vijaya Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||Humble kits for 500 widows by Rotary Club of Calcutta||A 65-year-old woman who lost both her sons and is raising her grandchildren came to receive a kit of basic necessities of food, clothing and bed linen. A 57-year-old woman who lives alone and earns a living by making paper packets was among the many in the queue. Widows above the age of 55 from financially deprived families who are abandoned or striving hard to make a living for their families but have nobody to turn to received a mosquito net, bedsheet, sari, food packets and hygiene kit among other things. Over 500 women received the kit and many of them broke down while talking about their plight, in the programme on Sunday. Raising funds to give out kits to so many women was a challenge this year. “It has been a hard year for many and for many of these mothers their children have no jobs and it was essential that we reach out. The kind of heartfelt response we received from many of them was unprecedented,” said Shubadip Roy, chairman of the Maa (Mother’s Apt Appreciation) project this year. The initiative started in 2016 with 200 women. The numbers kept swelling each year because the need was so acute and reached 1,000 in 2019, said Roy, a part of Rotary Club of Calcutta North East District 3291. The number was reduced to 500 this year  because of the pandemic and the organisers held it at the grounds of Simla Byayam Samity to maintain distancing. Suchitra Ghosh, mother of Bandhan Bank managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, was present on Sunday to hand over the kits. The struggle to raise money or organise a programme was worth the effort when 85-year-old woman Sokhi Naskar who is bedridden was wheeled in a cycle van. The women got the kit against a coupon that was issued to them. The lockdown and the pandemic has hit many of these women hard. Sabita Das, 57, whose husband worked in a shop lost her husband to a kidney ailment about a year back. Her daughters are married and Das took to making paper packets (thongas) and would stitch a sari fall to earn a living. She would get Rs 40 for 220 thongs. “The lockdown turned everything upside down,” said Das in between tears. But Das has not given up. Neither has many women like her. The kit is worth Rs 2,500 but for many of them who are struggling to make ends meet it is much more. “My daughter does a small job and we somehow manage. For us buying a mosquito net or a bedsheet is not easy. We have to save for months to be able to do that," said K Pal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
02-03-2021||Calcutta||One arrested for helping cocaine case accused flee||A man named Suraj Shah, who lives close to BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s Orphangunge house, has been arrested in the cocaine case for allegedly helping an associate of Singh to flee the spot where Pamela Goswami’s car was parked the day she was arrested. A senior police officer said on Monday CCTV footage from the spot where BJP youth leader Goswami was arrested showed Shah waiting with a scooter near the leader’s car on NR Avenue, in New Alipore, minutes before the police had reached the spot. Cocaine was allegedly seized from the car. “Rakesh Singh’s associate Amrit Singh was seen coming out of the car and fleeing on a scooter parked a few yards away,” the officer said. Another officer said Amrit Singh had vomited on the scooter while fleeing. The two-wheeler allegedly hit a traffic cop on Diamond Harbour Road. Shah and Amrit Singh went to Rakesh Singh’s house, from where Amrit allegedly fled. He was at large till Monday. Officers said that a day before Goswami was arrested, she, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and Amrit Singh had met in Amrit Singh’s office in Minto Park and then gone to Rakesh Singh’s house in Orphangunge. Shah — along with Rakesh Singh and Jitender Singh, who had earlier been arrested in the case - was produced in the Alipore narcotic drugs psychotropic substances act court on Monday. Shah has been remanded in police custody till March 5. The police custody of both Rakesh Singh and Jitender Singh was extended till March 5. The prosecution lawyer mentioned before the court about the alleged involvement of Shah and how he had allegedly helped Amrit Singh escape the spot. The prosecution also mentioned that the police wanted to examine all the accused in the case face to face to corroborate their versions. Rakesh Singh told media persons on his way to the court on Monday that he had been framed by a Trinamul leader and a senior police officer in Calcutta. He named the two and also alleged that Shah, who worked at his house, had been arrested so Singh could be framed in the cocaine case. Lawyers representing Rakesh Singh submitted a prayer for his bail, which was rejected. One of the lawyers, Kailash Tamoli, alleged that the police were manipulating facts as there was no mention about the scooter or anyone fleeing the spot in the FIR lodged with New Alipore police station. “When New Alipore police station started the case, they did not mention anything about the scooter or Amrit Singh. But now that another wing of the police are investigating, they have come up with new facts which found no mention in the original FIR,” Tamoli alleged. Investigators said the FIR was registered based on preliminary facts, and findings of subsequent investigations were mentioned in the case diary, which was maintained by the investigating officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-127
