03-03-2021||Calcutta||Accident victim’s heart for Odisha teenager||A 13-year-old boy from Odisha’s Kendujhar district who was suffering from a condition that severely weakened the heart’s ability to pump received a new heart at Narayana Multispeciality Hospital in Howrah on Tuesday. The heart that Badal Paida received was retrieved from a 22-year-old man who was declared brain dead at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals in Calcutta on Monday. Basudev Das Adhikari, the donor, suffered an accident while returning home on his two-wheeler in West Midnapore’s Sabong on Saturday. “After Basudev was declared brain dead on Monday, a doctor at Apollo approached us asking if we wanted to donate his organs. His father was present and he instantly agreed. If someone else is able to lead a normal life with his organs, we will be happy,” said Nanda Das Adhikari, a cousin of the deceased. The transplant ended around 8pm and the teenager was kept on ventilator support in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital. A doctor who was part of the transplant team said Badal’s condition was stable. “The boy suffered from a congenital heart condition called Ebstein’s anomaly, which can be treated by a valve repair if the patient comes early. But this boy came to us at an advanced stage. The only option left was a heart transplant,” said Debasis Das, a cardiac surgeon who led the team that conducted the surgery. An official of Narayana Multispeciality Hospital said the patient was treated in January but the family was told they would have to come at a short notice if a heart was available for transplant. “We came to know around 1.30am on Tuesday that the heart of a brain dead man could be retrieved. We immediately informed the boy’s family and they left their home in Kendujhar,” said the official. Badal was admitted to the hospital around 8.30am. A team from Narayana left Apollo with the retrieved heart at 4pm. “It took 16 minutes to cover the 15km between the two hospitals because we were given a green corridor,” said the official. The surgery began around 4.25am and ended around 8.30pm. Das said the boy would have to be on regular follow-up to see if his body was rejecting the heart.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Option soon to pay traffic fine online||Calcuttans may soon be able to pay their traffic fines online against compound cases which have already been sent to court. Earlier, a person had to visit the court to pay these fines. Calcutta police are collaborating with Calcutta High Court to initiate this project through an e-court where motorists will be able to transfer the fine amount sitting in their homes. There would also be an option to “contest” the imposed fine and fight it out by physically appearing before the court. Officers from Lalbazar have held multiple meetings with the high court officials who are part of the project, sources said. Senior police officers said the project would enable Calcuttans to check their pending traffic cases through the police’s website like they could do earlier and pay the fines online even if the case had been forwarded to the court. The existing practice allows a vehicle owner to make online payment of fines only for citation cases that are pending with the police. Cases that are forwarded to the court have to be settled in court only. According to rulebook, a case is sent to the court if the fine amount remains unpaid for a stipulated time frame. Cases may also be forwarded to the court if a motorist contests prosecution by police on the spot. In such cases, the documents are seized by cops till the court decides either in favour of or against the motorist who would get back the documents after disposal of the case. “We are fine-tuning the details of the project. Once the case is disposed, the seized documents may either be delivered to the motorists’ home with some extra charge or can be collected by the motorist from the respective traffic guard — this is yet to be finalised,” said a senior police officer. Officers said the process of online payment would be the same as that of making payments while paying traffic fines through the police’s website. “We are contemplating making it user-friendly. Just as people can pay their fines online, they will be able to dispose of their fines for cases pending with the court by the click of a button. And in case, someone wants to contest, he or she will have that option too. They will have to go to the court physically,” said a senior police officer. The idea behind the project is to reduce people’s harassment in queuing in courtrooms to clear their pending fines. Courts can send summons to the motorists whose cases remain pending for years. However, once the project is launched, pendency may go down, a section of the police feel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Amul head to talk on leadership at Bengal Chamber of Commerce event||A man at the helm of one of the stronger Indian brands will talk on leadership in the city on Friday. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, the managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation, which manages Amul, will be the speaker at the Bengal Chamber of Commerce Leadership Lecture Series, in association with The Telegraph. Sodhi has been at the helm of the dairy behemoth for over a decade. “Amul is an iconic Indian brand. It is also a purely India-bred FMCG. A lot of credit for that goes to R.S. Sodhi,” said Smarajit Purkayastha, the deputy director-general of the chamber. The theme of Sodhi’s talk: Amul: Dairy to the World. The event will be held at Williamson Magor Hall, Bengal Chamber of Commerce, from 6.15pm. Amul is the biggest producer of packaged milk in the organised sector and the biggest exporter of dairy products in the country. It supplies around 10 lakh litres of milk to Calcutta and its adjoining areas every day. Past speakers in the series include the likes of Montek Singh Ahluwalia, Shashi Tharoor and Sourav Ganguly. “In 2020, we could not have a lecture because of the pandemic,” said Purkayastha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||IIEST alumni raise Rs 30 lakh for volleyball court||The batch of 1989 of Bengal Engineering College, now IIEST, has raised Rs 30 lakh to develop a volleyball court on the Shibpur campus. The court has been set up at the south-west corner of the ground named Lord’s. The campus has two grounds — Oval and Lord’s. The idea to gift the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology a volleyball court was floated when the batch of ’89 had held a reunion in 2019 on the occasion of the 30th year of their graduation. Chinmoy Jana, the convener of REUNION 30 of the batch, said they decided to develop a volleyball court following consultations with the IIEST authorities. “The former students based in other countries and in India chipped in with their contribution and the court is ready. We will soon hand over the facility to the institute,” said Jana, who had completed BTech in mechanical engineering. The facility would have been developed last year had there been no pandemic. The court has been developed in accordance with the technical specifications set by the Sports Authority of India and International Volleyball Federation, said an alumnus. The basic playing court size measures 18mX9m. The overall court size, including the mandatory free playing area, measures 24mX15m. The enclosed area measures 24mX17m. The 1.5m concrete pedestal all around the enclosed playing area has been covered with paver tiles. Work is under way to install flood lights. “We want the volleyball court to be opened once all students return to the campus following resumption of in-person classes,” said Chaitali Roy, who had graduated in civil engineering. Some of the alumni hoped that the renovation of the Lords’ ground would start with the inauguration of the volleyball court. “The condition of the ground is not what it should be. We hope the launch of the facility will lead to better upkeep of the iconic ground,” he said. Konika Das, a professor of electrical engineering at the IIEST who had graduated from then BE College in 1989, said there was a need for adding a sport facility as the number of students had increased following the upgrade of the institute. In 1989, the institute was known as Bengal Engineering College, a government institution. Later, it became a state university. In 2014, it was rechristened IIEST. “Since becoming a central academic institute, the flow of students from outside the state has increased. They needed an additional sporting facility and we are proud to provide that,” said Das. IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti said: “The gesture by the batch of ’89 will inspire alumni of other batches to give it back to their alma mater. We have plans to renovate the Lord’s ground.” Bivore Das, an assistant registrar of IIEST, said alumni of another batch had earlier gifted a basketball court to the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||CCTV cameras at  Rakesh Singh’s house  tampered before collection||Footage from CCTV cameras installed at BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s Orphangunge house had allegedly been tampered with before they were collected by police, a senior police officer in Lalbazar said. The footage from the day before Pamela Goswami was arrested was missing from the hard disk, he said. “CCTV footage from a neighbouring house showed one of Singh’s associates, Amrit Singh, visiting the house that day,” the officer said. Amrit Singh is suspected to be inside Goswami’s car the day she was arrested. He allegedly fled when the police surrounded the car. He is still at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Patuli coaching centre for the pandemic-hit||A coaching centre that started a month ago from the ground floor of a Patuli apartment block has enrolled close to 50 children whose right to education has been robbed by the pandemic. The students of Rokeya Siksha Kendra live mostly in slums in and around Patuli, off EM Bypass. Their religions are different but lives similar. Their parents are masons, drivers, domestic help or from some other unorganised sector. On paper, all of them are students of government schools. But virtual education is uncharted terrain for most of them. If there is a smartphone at home, there is no data. Some children have older siblings preparing for bigger exams and they get priority when it comes to using the smartphone. With earnings going down and prices going up, the parents are bogged down with survival, not education of their wards. But since February 9, when the centre started, their children have been spending at least a couple of hours in a “classroom” every day. The centre has around 20 teachers, offering lessons on all subjects to students of Classes I to X and only English and Bengali to students of Classes XI and XII. On Friday, Metro visited the centre, a five-minute drive from Patuli fire station, in the evening. The 5pm-to-6pm slot was for a “drawing class”, attended by around 20 students of various age groups sitting on a mat and scribbling on their drawing books. The teacher sat in the middle. It was followed by a session on English grammar, this time for students of Classes V to VIII. Three students, each taller than the previous one, were made to stand as another teacher explained “degrees of comparison”. The centre has two rooms and a mini library. The monthly fee for students under Class VIII is Rs 50 and for those above, Rs 100. Named after Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain (1880-1932), Bengal’s pioneering Muslim feminist writer, educationist and activist, the centre has been set up by a group called the Humans of Patuli, formed in 2019 to resist the Centre’s citizenship thrust at the grassroots level. Covid-19 stalled the campaign in Patuli, as it did in the rest of the country. During the lockdown, Humans of Patuli had supported hundreds of poor families with dry ration. A campaign to provide new saris to women from the families of unorganised workers in and around Patuli before the Puja had become very popular. “Our aim is to live together along with our neighbours. Education and health are two inseparable parts of that shared living. We had been in constant touch with families who were struggling to survive during the lockdown.The students (of Rokeya Siksha Kendra) are from such families. So far, it has been an organic growth for us, with one thing leading to another,” said Dwaipayan Banerjee, one of the founder-members of Humans of Patuli. Since January 24, the group has also been running a free health check-up centre. Named after Kadambini Ganguly, the first Indian woman to become a practising doctor, the clinic is held every Sunday. “The school is getting word-of-mouth publicity. We can take around 100 students. We do not want to compromise on the quality of education....We also plan to have book reading sessions and screen films,” said Banerjee. On Friday evening, this correspondent met a homemaker who lives nearby. She had gone to the centre to enrol her daughter, a student of Class VIII. Her husband is a priest, whose income “has taken a substantial hit” over the past year. “A friend of my daughter already studies here,” said the woman. “This is the only formal education that my daughter is getting,” said another woman. Her 14-year-old daughter is a student at the centre. “Many of the students are first-generation learners. They are keen to learn,” said Manas Bose, 59, who teaches mathematics at the centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Rs 25cr heroin seized from car in East Burdwan||Heroin worth more than Rs 25 crore was seized from a Hyundai Creta while it was travelling through a crowded Rasulpur market in East Burdwan’s Memari late on Monday, police said. Officers of the special task force of Calcutta police said the operation was carried out based on specific information they had got while probing a narcotics racket unearthed in Calcutta last month. A man named Sunil Howlader, who was allegedly inside the car, has been arrested on the charge of possessing the banned psychotropic substance. He has been remanded in police custody. The police suspect the consignment was meant for Calcutta. However, they are yet to ascertain to whom it was to be delivered and where. “A team from the Special Task Force (STF), acting on a specific tip-off, intercepted a car at Rasulpur market in the Memari police station area around 11.35pm on Monday. The team found 5.01kg of heroin in the car and seized it,” said a senior officer of the STF. “The operation was based on leads we got while investigating a racket we had busted in the middle of February. A gang, whose members were from Bengal, Assam and Manipur, was captured. They had managed to smuggle heroin into the heart of the city and got arrested. In this case, too,  the consignment was meant for Calcutta.” In February, STF sleuths had arrested five persons in the Cossipore area on the charge of smuggling heroin and yaba drugs worth Rs 17.5 crore into the city. STF officers said yaba drugs — commonly known as party pills — act as stimulants and have a target audience in the cities. “Yaba tablets are a composition of amphetamine and caffeine and act as brain stimulants. Items from large consignments are distributed to peddlers, who in turn sell them to targets. We are trying to ascertain the chain and the people involved in the trade,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||No-break summer for ISC Class XI||A number of city schools are set to scrap the summer break for students who will be promoted to Class XI this year to make up for the loss of days resulting from delayed start of the session. The examinees are also set to have a shorter break between the end of the ICSE (Class X) exams and the start of Class XI session — five to 10 days in most schools, instead of the usual two to three weeks. The Class X board exams are usually over by the end of March and the Class XI session starts towards the middle of April. This year, because of the Covid pandemic, the ICSE exams will start on May 5 and continue till June 7. The results are likely to be announced in July. In previous years Class XI students would get a month-long summer break from the middle of May. A number of city schools Metro spoke to said they were planning to scrap the break to ensure they had enough time to cover all the topics. The heads of the schools feel the delay in board exams had already encroached on the academic months and they needed to “get on with the next level of learning”. “The Class X students will be busy with the boards. After that is over, there will be about a weeklong break and the new session will start. There will be no separate summer break for Class XI,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy. Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission High School, said they, too, were having similar plans. “The Class XI session will start within a week of the end of the Class X board exams. There will be no separate summer break for them. By the time the Class XI session starts, in all probability the summer break for the rest of the school will be over.” Usually, ICSE candidates get three weeks before they start Class XI in April. This year the gap is likely to be reduced. Modern High School for Girls, St James’ School, The Heritage School, Sri Sri Academy and St Augustine's Day School in Calcutta are some of the institutions that are planning to start the Class XI session days after the end of the Class X exams. At many schools the gap will be five to 10 days. “We will start Class XI after a reasonable break from the last paper of Class X boards. So far there is no intimation whether there will be any reduction in syllabus and we will proceed with the assumption that students are expected to study the entire syllabus,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. Teachers believe curtailing the syllabus might not be prudent for the plus II students. “There has to be a linear progression and when they move to college they will be expected to have the basic knowledge of certain things,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Teachers said the reduced break would only help students complete the syllabus and move ahead. “Normally, students get about three weeks’ break. But this time it will be a week-long break,” said Shunglu, of Sri Sri Academy. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School, too said they would have a reduced break this year for Class XI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
03-03-2021||Calcutta||Elderly wait for hours or return without Covid vaccine ||Hundreds of elderly people in and around Calcutta waited for hours on Tuesday for a Covid-19 vaccine shot and many went back without getting one because of glitches in the registration portal and other technical problems. Several private hospitals, including those that are planning to start vaccinating senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities on Wednesday, said they would record the personal details of a recipient and administer the shot if the technical problems persist. They will later upload the details on the Co-Win2 app when it will function without glitches. “The portal’s issues were not resolved and it was not functioning properly throughout the day. Session sites could not be created according to the plan. Because of that the vaccination programme suffered today, too,” said a health department official. “We have informed the Centre about the portal issue. Central government officials told us they are working on the problems. From Wednesday, all private hospitals have been asked to start vaccinating senior citizens,” health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam said. Some private hospitals said they had to refuse doses to many people as the number of individuals who had registered for Tuesday's vaccination was far more than their capacity. Also, the Co-Win2 portal, where all intended recipients from among the general public will have to register for Covid vaccines, was not functioning for hours in the morning, leading to long queues. On Tuesday, the second day of vaccination for people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities, the Co-Win2 portal did not function between 10am and 12.30pm, said officials of several hospitals. When it finally started functioning, it was too slow. “There is no system in the Co-Win2 portal to know how many people have registered and slotted for a particular day,” said an official of a private hospital. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, 546 people had turned up, though the hospital was prepared to administer only 200 doses. At the hospital's Mukundapur unit, 384 recipients had queued up, against the 200 doses the authorities had planned to administer. “We had uploaded on the portal that our capacity is 200 but still it allowed registration of so many people. We will be administering the vaccine to all in phases over the next few days,” said an official of AMRI. “The process of verification is done through the Co-Win2 portal. After it’s complete, a person can pay and get the dose. The verification was taking more than 30 minutes,” he said. Amit Sharma had taken his 85-year-old father Hanuman Prasad Sharma to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria twice on Tuesday, once at 10.30am and again at 3pm. But the elderly man could not be vaccinated. “I was advised by security personnel to come back later when we went to the hospital at 10.30am. When we went back around 3pm, they did not allow us in. There were still 40 people inside waiting to be vaccinated and another 30 were in the queue outside,” Sharma said. A board was put up announcing that vaccination had closed for the day. “My father was disappointed. He has been mostly at home since the beginning of the pandemic. I lost my mother recently and he has become very lonely at home,” Sharma said. AMRI officials advised him to check the hospital’s website, where they said they would announce the schedule for vaccinating those who did not get their shots on Tuesday. Sushil Sethia, 57, a diabetic, had registered himself, his wife Neha Sethia, 50, also a diabetic and his father J.R. Sethia, 83. The three reached AMRI Dhakuria at 2pm only to find a long queue of vaccine hopefuls. They were told to come back another day. Yet the three took a chance and went to the hospital again at 4.30pm. “I could do this because I live on Iron Side Road, not very far from the hospital,” said Sushil. They finally got their doses around 8pm. Shibani Ghose, 62, and Apurba Ghose, 68, reached the Dhakuria hospital at 10.30am. They left the hospital after receiving their jabs at 4.30pm. “The authorities need to speed up the process. There were people older than us who had to wait for a long time. At this age, it is very difficult to wait for so long. I do not know why it took six hours to get a dose,” said Shibani. The couple had registered through the Co-Win2 portal on Monday evening. They were among the handful who received text messages confirming their registration. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, where around 600 persons were vaccinated, officials said they were overwhelmed by the turnout. “There is no way to know when or how many people are coming for the vaccination. We are allocating slots to those who are getting registered at our hospital through the help desk. But those who are registering independently are not getting any slot, causing congestions,” said an official of Medica. The hospital in the afternoon started giving doses to people after taking down their details and registered them in the evening. Many hospitals that will start the drive on Wednesday said they would follow the similar process to reduce confusions and delays.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-126
