04-03-2021||Calcutta||Cochlear tips from parent and doctor||A two-and-half-year-old girl underwent a cochlear implant in February 2020 at SSKM Hospital and within a month of the surgery, the nationwide lockdown was imposed. The mother, a 22-year-old woman, thought her daughter would immediately start speaking but soon realised that was not how it worked. Her daughter would need speech and language stimulation. Despite the lockdown, the mother would travel to the hospital with her daughter once a month from a village in Nadia, about 140km from the city. “I had thought that after the implant my daughter would start speaking. This is a mistake that most parents make. She needed therapy and after a year of that she now can respond if I call her, calls out family members by their name,” said the mother. She was sharing her experience at the Institute of Otorhinolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery-Centre Of Excellence, IPGMER-SSKM Hospital on Wednesday morning at a programme organised by the institute on World Hearing Day. The institute has conducted cochlear implants on 67 children free of cost since 2016. Usually, each implant costs around Rs 14.5 to 15 lakh. Of the 67 children, 40 attended the programme. In a cochlear implant, the sound is converted into electrical energy and is transmitted to the brain, explained Arunabha Sengupta, the professor of ENT at SSKM’s Institute of Otorhinolaryngology and Head & Neck Surgery. “Early detection is very important. We are happy for these children and their families. There are 50 more for whom it will be done,” said Sengupta. According to the World Health Organisation, four out of 1,000 children globally are born with complete hearing loss, said Sengupta. Often families overlook the signs as it happened with the two-and-half year old girl. “I realised it when she was only 22 days old. She did not wake up when there was a loud noise outside our house. I told my mother and subsequently, others but nobody paid any heed. But by the time she was one I realised that we needed to consult a doctor who told us to get screenings done. After two screenings, we found that she had profound hearing loss. The family was not ready for a cochlear implant but I was determined to get it done,” said her mother. She gets her daughter for therapy to the hospital once a week even now. “After the implant the child hears sounds and without speech and language stimulation the child wont be able to discriminate between words. Children need to have Auditory Verbal Therapy,” said Md Sahidul Arefin, audiologist and speech language pathologist. Arefin said the auditory training includes listening to words from behind or by covering one’s mouth so that the child cannot lip read. The 40 children came on Wednesday morning, some of them recited poems to a full house. But while they can now speak, the road is not easy for most who have to fight families and circumstances to identify and acknowledge the issue. “It took us almost six months to decide whether we could get the implant done but we are happy that we did it,” said a mother, whose daughter got operated when she was two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra’s PA found hanging||Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra’s personal assistant Pintu Dey, better known as Bappa, was found hanging from the grille of the washroom window in his aunt’s house in Narkeldanga on Tuesday. Family members found him hanging from a towel. No note was found. Ankush, who made his debut in 2010 with Kellafate, said Dey, 36, had been working for him for close to a decade and was “more than a family member”. Dey’s relatives have told police that he was apparently under pressure after he started receiving threats from an unknown person last month. They said the man would regularly threaten Dey saying he would make public a private video featuring him and kept demanding money. “The family has alleged that in the last call the offender claimed to be the city detective chief and threatened to get Pintu (Dey) arrested within two hours if he did not pay Rs 10,000,” said an officer of Narkeldanga police station. “We have started a case of unnatural death. Depending on the findings of the post-mortem report, we may draw up a case of abetment to suicide,” the officer said. Officers of the cyber crime wing said they had been receiving complaints along the same lines. The offender would first strike friendship on social media and then threaten to release some videos unless the victims paid up. A popular face on film sets in Tollygunge, several actors joined Ankush in expressing grief at Dey's death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta opts for virtual convocation||IIM Calcutta will hold its convocation online on May 15. According to an official of the institute, a meeting of the academic council on Wednesday discussed the possibility of holding the event on the campus but ruled against it eventually. A member of the council said that as students would leave the hostels after completion of their final-term exams in April, holding the ceremony on the campus would have meant recalling the outgoing batch to the campus amid the pandemic. “We wanted to avoid the situation and settled for the online mode,” said the member. Last year, the institute did not have any convocation at all and the degree certificates were mailed to the residential address of the recipients. “This year, too, the certificates will be dispatched in the same way after the online event,” said another council member. At the IIM, students were called back to the campus in batches from September so they could use the institute’s network facility to attend online classes. Classes at the Joka B-school have been held online since August last year. Over 550 students will be graduating this year from the two-year MBA and one-year MBAEx programmes together. An official of the institute said usually they allowed parents to accompany the students to the convocation ceremony. “But this year we cannot allow that. So the online mode was preferred,” he said. Many of the students stay in far-off places. If they had to be recalled, they would have to follow a detailed standard operating procedure and the institute did not want students to undergo the hassle again, said an official. Last month, IIT Kharagpur had held the convocation virtually, but the medal winners were invited to the campus to receive the honours. Will the IIM follow this mode of limited attendance while holding the ceremony offline? “The convocation committee will look into this. However, chances are less. At the IIT, apart from a handful of research scholars, the students were not staying in hostels,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Amid app hiccups, city hospitals opt for spot-registration||Several private hospitals that started giving Covid-19 vaccine jabs to senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities on Wednesday got the recipients registered with the Co-Win2 portal at their help desks, instead of having them self-register, to avoid delays and long waits. However, many private hospitals could not start vaccinating the two categories because of glitches in the registration portal. To get vaccinated, prospective recipients need to register with a particular hospital for a date through the Co-Win2 portal. However, since Monday, the first day of vaccination of the elderly and people above 45 with comorbidities, the portal has been developing glitches frequently. So on Tuesday, many of the hospitals helped prospective recipients register themselves through the portal on their premises. At Peerless Hospital, 63 elderly persons were vaccinated on Wednesday and all got themselves registered at the hospital. Hospital officials said that since Tuesday night, they had been calling up senior citizens who are registered patients of Peerless to visit the hospital and get vaccinated against Covid on Wednesday. “We have set up help-desks and our employees helped the recipients get registered with the portal. Shots were given after that. This way, there was no confusion about timing. Nor were there long queues,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said no one who had pre-registered for vaccination turned up. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 55 elderly people were vaccinated and all the registrations were done at the spot, said officials. “We had initially planned to do manual recording of the details of elderly people because there were problems with the functioning of the portal on the first two days (Monday and Tuesday). This way the recipients would have been spared long waits. But this morning we saw the portal was functioning and so decided to first get the recipients registered and then give the doses,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. Spot registration, he said, was taking 15 minutes to half an hour because the portal was slow. “We will be continuing with the spot registration on Thursday, too,” said Venkatesh. Metro reported on Tuesday and Wednesday how the malfunctioning of the Co-Win2 portal was leading to long waits for elderly people at hospitals and also created confusion. Many people had to go back without taking a jab, while others waited for hours to get one. The situation was better on Wednesday. “Despite some initial glitches with the Co-Win platform, the situation improved by noon and we could vaccinate a sizeable number of people,” said Rupak Barua, Group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. However, the vaccination could not start at the hospital’s Salt Lake unit because of glitches, said an official of AMRI. At Charnock Hospital, vaccination could not start on Wednesday because of the same reason. “We could not get access to the portal. Also, payments to buy the vials needed to be done through the portal, which could not be done,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of the hospital. She said the hospital received hundreds of calls from elderly people who wanted to know whether the vaccination had started. An official of the state health department said the functioning of the Co-Win2 portal improved on Wednesday and expressed the hope that all hospitals would be able to administer the doses on Thursday. The hospitals, he said, will be allowed spot-registration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Fuel price rise drives city buses off roads||Private bus operators from over a dozen routes in and around Calcutta have either withdrawn their vehicles or reduced their numbers because of the rising cost of fuel. Many others are planning to do the same, unable to bear losses around the time when the transport sector is struggling to cope with the aftermath of the pandemic. The price of diesel has increased from around Rs 65 a litre a year ago to around Rs 85. The expenses on fuel account for the biggest component of the daily expenses of running a bus. The blow has been particularly hard for private bus operators, who do not have subsidies to fall back on unlike their government counterparts. Only about five of the 27 buses on route 34C, which connects Noapara in north Calcutta to Esplanade, are now operational. A little over 14 of the 50 buses on route 201, which connects Belghoria with Sector V, are now on the roads. About 12 of the 23 buses on route 222, which stretches from Bonhooghly near Dunlop to Behala Chowrasta, are now available to passengers. A number of private buses that ran between interiors of South 24-Parganas and Calcutta and its adjoining areas have been out of circulation for some time. The returns are too low to pay daily wages of the staff and spend on maintenance, the owners said. Over 70 buses used to ply on route 12C, which connects Pailan in South 24-Parganas to Howrah. Operators said about 30 of them are now plying. The vehicle count has also been drastically reduced on the routes connecting Bosepukur in Kasba to Sarsuna, Howrah Maidan to Salt Lake and Barasat to Botanical Garden. Owners said that earlier a private bus would ferry around 900 passengers throughout the day, making three or four trips. A bus would consume around 40 litres of diesel a day.. “The average take-home per day would be around Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,500. That has come down to around Rs 300 or Rs 400,” said Pradip Narayan Bose, of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners Association. “So bus owners have either withdrawn their vehicles or cut down the number of daily trips.” Last August, the state government had declared a waiver of all taxes and fines on lapsed fitness certificates for bus and minibus owners. The waiver, with retrospective effect from April 1, came at a time operators of private buses and minibuses had been struggling to survive from the twin blows of a steep hike in the diesel price and a drop in the passenger count because of the pandemic. “Fuel accounts for the highest expenditure among all other components. Despite resumption of suburban trains and opening of schools, there hasn't been any significant rise in the number of passengers. And bus fares have remained the same. How do we survive?” asked Tapan Bandyopadhyay, of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Symposium on varied topics in Calcutta||A two-day symposium in the city is set to host a series of sessions on a range of topics like education, art production and policy, mental health, commerce, activism and the environment. The third edition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, partnered by The Telegraph, will be hosted by the Kolkata Centre for Creativity. The sessions will be held on physical and virtual platforms on Saturday and Sunday. The programme has been co-curated by Reena Dewan and Shwetal A. Patel. To register, one has to visit https://bit.ly/3dyMz7I. “The Covid-19 pandemic swept the whole world to a virtual standstill…. We aim to look back together to rediscover the treasures that could arise from those moments of gloom and desperation, allowing us the possibility to build a better and more equitable future,” said a spokesperson for the Kolkata Centre for Creativity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Be at your best against virus, advises Kunal Sarkar||A lookback at the whistleblower doctor who sounded the alarm on the virus to a comparison between women and men world leaders' handling of the pandemic, a cardiac surgeon and public health enthusiast spoke on the past, present and future of Covid-19 at Calcutta Club on Wednesday. “Is the worst over?” a talk by Kunal Sarkar, partnered by The Telegraph, was the “first awareness talk” at the club in the wake of Covid-19. Excerpts from the session. Sarkar paid tributes to Li Wenliang, the Chinese ophthalmologist said to have been the first medical professional to sound the alarm on the coronavirus weeks before he contracted the illness and died. "He is an absolute hero," Sarkar said, calling out the Chinese government for "suppressing information for two months”. Sarkar said planes propelled the journey of the disease from an epidemic to a pandemic. “The past pandemics spread through physical movement of people. The coronavirus spread through flights,” he said. He spoke how around 30 lakh people flew into India through Mumbai in the week before flights were suspended. "Going by the then prevalent infectivity rate, we let around six lakh potential infections into the country," he said. Pitting the likes of New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and German Chancellor Angela Merkel against US and Brazilian Presidents Donald Trump and Jair Bolosonaro and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sarkar said “countries led by women have done much better in handling the virus compared to countries with similar characteristics led by men” The “restrained” Durga Puja celebrations in Calcutta was an “exemplary success story” in the fight against the virus, said Sarkar. “If the worst is to be over, we have to be at our best," said Sarkar. India, he suggested, was in a reasonably better position because unlike other countries, the “first wave here lasted some seven months”. The vaccination needs to speed up, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Hands that ‘helped’ snatch bag||A Class X student and her mother whose scooter had broken down at Ballygunge Place while returning home on Sunday night were offered help by a youth, who later tugged at a bag the girl was holding and dragged her till she let go of it. The youth ran to a friend who was waiting for him with a motorcycle a few yards away and the two sped off. Police said the two youths were arrested with the help of CCTV footage, from where the cops learnt the registration number of the two-wheeler. The accused are Sheikh Fardin Ali, 20, of Kustiya Road in Tiljala, and Sheikh Imran Ali, 22, of Tiljala Road. Officers said Imran had snatched the bag, while Fardin was waiting for him with the motorcycle. The young girl’s struggle to hold on to the bag - which contained three mobile phones, including one that had details of her approaching board exams - brought back memories of homemaker Vidya Desai, who was shot at when she lunged at a bike and thwarted an attempt by three men to snatch her mangalsutra in Kasba in 2012. Sunday’s incident happened near South Point High School around 11.30pm, when the girl was returning home with her mother from her tuition class. “When the scooter broke down, I gave my handbag to my daughter and both of us were pushing the vehicle. A young man approached us and offered to help. I did not suspect anything at first and allowed him to push the vehicle. But after a few metres, when he started asking where we were headed, I felt uncomfortable and asked him to leave,” said the woman, a resident of Picnic Garden Road. The woman said the youth left but she did not notice that he was trailing them from a distance. “Suddenly I heard my daughter scream. When I turned back I saw the man trying to snatch my bag from her. She was struggling to hold on to the bag but the man first dragged her and then pushed her with a jerk. She fell. The man ran with my bag and hopped on a motorcycle, which then sped off,” the woman said. The stretch where the incident happened is lined with apartments and shops, some of which were open. “But no one stepped forward to chase the bike,” the woman said. The woman reported the matter to Gariahat police on Tuesday evening. Within hours, the police collected CCTV footage from the spot and could zero in on one of the accused, in whose name the motorcycle was registered. Fardin, who owns the bike, and Imran have been booked under IPC sections related to theft and common intention. An officer said they intended to carry out a test identification parade of the accused, which is possible if they are in judicial remand. A senior officer of Gariahat police station emphasised the role of CCTV cameras and said the case could be detected within hours only because of the cameras installed in the area. “This is the reason we request people to install CCTV cameras. They should understand the crucial role a camera can play in tracking down a criminal,” the officer said. A man riding a motorbike and the pillion rider were injured after the two-wheeler went out of control and rammed into a lamp post along Basanti Highway, near Chowbaga, on Tuesday night, police said. Manirul Zaman Mullick and the pillion rider, Rahaman Mullick, are from Bhangar. They have been admitted to the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
04-03-2021||Calcutta||Torture cry in homemaker’s suicide||The parents of a young woman has alleged that their daughter was “compelled to commit suicide” because of “inhuman torture” at her in-laws’ home. Rashika Jain, 25, suffered critical injuries, possibly from a fall from the third-floor terrace of her in-laws’ home in Alipore on February 16, and died in hospital. She got married to industrialist Kushal Agarwal barely a year ago, on February 9, 2020, in an opulent ceremony in Jodhpur. Rashika’s family has alleged an initial delay in the police probe at the local level, after which the case was shifted to the women’s grievance cell of the detective department at Lalbazar. A fortnight after the homemaker’s death, police officers for the first time spoke at length to the Jains at their Raja Santosh Road home in Alipore on Wednesday. Kushal or his parents were not at their DL Khan Road home. The Agarwals are said to have told the police that they are at their other home in Purulia. Joint commissioner (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said during the day: “The case has been taken over by the DD. CCTV footage has been collected. We are in the process of collecting other evidence as well.” Rashika’s parents said they had succumbed to alleged demands made by their daughter’s in-laws thinking she would be happy to be married in a “well-known business family”. The Jains’ complaint to police says they had given jewellery and accessories worth Rs 7 crore to the Agarwals. The riches were given “partly at the time of Roka ceremony on November 8, 2019, partly at the Ring ceremony on December 14, 2019, and partly at the time of marriage on February 9, 2020”, according to the complaint. The Agarwals own multiple businesses, including a resort in Purulia and a cement manufacturing unit. Rashika’s father Mahendra Jain runs a logistics company that has its corporate office on Hemanta Basu Sarani. None of the members of the Agarwal family could be contacted for their reaction. Rashika’s father wrote in a complaint submitted to Alipore police station a day after her death: “We all are in a tremendous mental shock right now and are not in a position to comprehend and narrate all the facts and incidents in a nutshell right now. However, it is beyond any doubt that my daughter Rashika was compelled to commit suicide owing to inhuman torture meted out to her at her matrimonial home.” Based on the letter of complaint, officers of Alipore police station had on February 17 drawn an FIR against “Kushal Agarwal and others” and charged them under sections related to abetment to suicide, cruelty by husband and others and common intention. The charges, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail. On February 25, Jain submitted a fresh seven-page complaint letter with details of allegations he had against the Agarwals. It lists several alleged vices that Kushal had. “All our hope and trust that the accused persons are respectable persons, were shattered to pieces when my daughter started reporting regularly to me that her husband is… and he and his parents had intentionally suppressed such facts from our family,” the Jains have written in their complaint. Several people close to the Jains said they had spent beyond their immediate means for their daughter’s wedding but the demands did not stop with the wedding ceremony. The letter submitted to the police on February 25 also had a detailed mention of the alleged demand to make arrangements for the “marriage at Umaid Bhawan Palace, Jodhpur, Sangeet Night at ITC Welcomhotel, Jodhpur, a safari at Khimsar Sand Dunes Resort, Khimsar, and Tilak ceremony at Mehrangarh Fort, Jodhpur.” Jain alleged that “in the month of August 2020, Mr Kushal Agarwal hit my daughter on her face due to which my daughter could not see properly for a period of 3 days and had to consult Dr Nandini Roy”, an ophthalmologist. Asked what prompted the bereaved parents to remain silent if they knew that their daughter was being “tortured,” Rashika’s mother Sangita said: “In our community we do not involve the police unless we really have to. We kept on hoping that things would improve. But after losing my daughter I am making an appeal to all mothers to help their child instead of thinking what people will think or say.” Rashika’s family members said she was a good student, who won several academic accolades when she was a student at Mahadevi Birla Girls Academy. She did her BBA from St Xavier’s College and then went to Singapore for further studies. Elder among two siblings, her younger brother Rishav has recently returned to Calcutta after completing his studies abroad, a relative said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
