05-03-2021||Calcutta||Organic claim for sweets||Even sweets can be organic. That is the claim being made by a shop that has opened in HA Block. Sundarini Naturals Mishti has opened an outlet where more than 40 varieties of sweets are being sold that are promoted to be preservative-free and naturally flavoured. The chain is an outlet of a farmers’ co-operative from the Sundarbans and is a collaboration of the National Dairy Development Board and the state government, under which more than 5,000 farmers grow things organically. “Our base is organic. Everything that is grown in the fields are organic. Even the cows are fed organic food and herbal medicine, which leads to organic milk production. This also brings a different taste to our products. The flavours used in the sweets are also natural, which may not make it look as attractive as those using artificial flavours, but are more beneficial for our health. Even the bottles our milk is sold in are of glass and not plastic,” said Arijit Mukherjee, the franchise owner. “We also plan to bring organically grown mangoes this summer,” he added. Apart from regular sweets like rosogolla, they have a large variety including Baked Mihidana, Nolen gurer Rabdi, Kalakand, Dab Kalakand, Ice cream Butterscotch Rosogolla and more. The shop also sells organic cow milk, wild Sundarban honey, ghee,  kalabhat  (black rice), radhatilak rice and sona mug dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Toilets in cargo containers||Abandoned cargo containers from shipyards have been converted into pay-and-use toilets in New Town. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has set up nine containerised toilets across the township. The recycled containers, each about 8ft high, 8ft wide, and 20ft long, have a bright and cheerful look with bold signage. The toilets were inaugurated on February 22. There are solar panels on top of each toilet. The lights inside are sensor-based. The sensors allow the lights in the toilet to get dimmed when the toilet is not in use, thereby saving energy. The charges for the pay-and-use facilities are Rs 2 and Rs 5 for urinal and toilet respectively. They remain open from 9am to 10pm every day. Pay and Use The  locations in New Town where the containerised toilets have been set up: 1. At New Town Smart Plaza 2. Inside NKDA Bus Terminus near Pride Hotel 3. Inside Tank No.1 4. Opposite Sonar Kella Park 5. Opposite Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute 6. Behind Central Mall 7. In front of Candor Tech Space 8. Near NBCC Complex 9. Near Restello, AI Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town residents observe Bhasha Diwas ||A shahid bedi was at the centre of the programme being held by New Town 1CA - 1CD Block Residents Welfare Association to pay tribute to the martyrs of the 1971 language movement across the border. The coat of white cement over thermocol had been given such a stone-like finish with the paintbrush that it looked its part when guests — Debashis Sen, chairman, Hidco, Anup Matilal, curator, Rabindra Tirtha and Animesh Bhattacharya, CEO, NKDA — garlanded it. It was the work of an artist couple, Piyali and Saumik Chakraborty. “We shifted here six months ago. It is nice to be involved in a new neighbourhood,” said Soumik. Residents performed songs like Amar bhai-er rokte rangano ekushe February, Moder gorob moder asha and Ami Banglay gan gai. “We use language to express ourselves but to what extent one can go for its sake is evident in the sacrifices made in East Pakistan. The Unesco’s declaration in 1999 making February 21 the international mother language day is a recognition of that,” said Tapas Sengupta, the event anchor. “New Town has a cosmopolitan population, speaking different languages. We have started Radio Newtown where with the help of an internet-based app, we are running programmes for and by New Town residents,” said Sen. “We have been planning to celebrate Bhasha Divas for years but things never fell in place. We always try to celebrate every occasion together,” said Nakul Chandra Guin, vice-president of the association. “This is our first programme after the pandemic-hit year,” said Sujit Banerjee, a member. “Nowadays everyone talks in a strange mix of a language. The new generation needs to appreciate how beautiful our mother-tongue is,” said Ritam Banik, 78, a CB Block resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||A day for the mother-tongue||The Bhasha Diwas celebrations of New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum began on the eve of February 21 when members drew an elaborate alpona, led by Deepsikha Das of DA Block, at the Rabindra Tirtha side of Biswa Bangla Gate. A prabhat pheri was taken out the next morning from Rabindra Tirtha. It took two hours to reach Nazrul Tirtha. In the evening, a programme was held at Nazrul Tirtha, starting with a speech by author Sushnato Das. He talked for an hour about the historical relevance of the day. “We salute the people who gave up their lives for the establishment of Bengali as their  official language. They could not bear to have Urdu imposed on them as the state language in a province where 40 million people spoke and wrote in Bengali,” said Das. Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen was also present. “We should remember February 21 is International Mother Language Day and not just Bangla Bhasha Divas. It is a day we celebrate all languages across the world. Let us be more open to things we don’t know and more tolerant and appreciative of languages across the country,” he pointed out. Samir Gupta, joint convenor of New Town Residents Welfare Forum felicitated the guests and requested the Hidco authorities to set up a shahid bedi to mark the contributions made by language activists both in West Bengal and Bangladesh. This was followed by cultural programmes by representatives of several blocks. The performances took place in a packed auditorium where most women were dressed in red and white saris and men in ethnicwear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town Book Fair comes of age||There is no New Town Fair this year but the New Town Book Fair is happening, though much later than usual. The two fairs usually are held in conjunction. “Fairs are connected to winter. This time, winter is over but at least our book fair is happening,” said Hidco and NKDA chief Debashis Sen. The organisers are raising a toast to an achievement. “Till last year, we were dependant on NKDA, the organisers of the New Town Fair. Once the fair ended, we used the same infrastructure by paying the decorator for the extension. NKDA got the administrative permissions for us. This time, when we realised that the New Town Fair would not happen, we tried to do it on a small scale at Nazrul Tirtha. But so robust was the response from publishers that we dared to take on the challenge to do it here by ourselves,” said president of the organising committee Urmila Sen. “Book fairs are a part of the Bengalis’ intellectual make-up. Even Kerala, the state with the highest literacy rate in India, does not have so many fairs. The then chairman of National Book Trust U.R. Ananthamurthy was stunned to see the crowd at our Book Fair. That is why it was prudent to postpone the international fair,” said poet Subodh Sarkar, who attended the inauguration of the fair’s seventh edition last Friday. He commented on the reduced assembly at the event. “Last year, the seats were all taken, prizes of contests were being given out to so many residents and there were dhakis playing. It was a completely different atmosphere,” he recalled. General secretary of Publishers and Booksellers Guild Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey was also present. “We had held a meeting in November to decide whether the international fair could be held as scheduled. Elderly residents of Salt Lake requested us not to shift the venue from Central Park but hold it later. The Covid situation then was precarious. So we had to postpone it,” he said, urging people to gift books and keep books in their drawing room. Poet Joy Goswami was also present. The fair will continue till March 7, 2pm to 9pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Cricket tournament to dismiss Covid fear||After close to a year of being largely confined at home, AA Block Welfare Association in New Town organised a seven-a-side tennis ball cricket tournament on a winter Saturday to enjoy a day in the sun. “The year 2020 had been very difficult for everyone, so we wanted to welcome the new year by bringing some normality to our lives. Every year, we used to gather  and play badminton and cricket, but this year nothing could be done. So we decided to organise a tournament,” said Biswajit Das, an organising committee member. New Town Premier League had five teams taking part — Seven Warriors, Seven Musketeers, Swat Fighters, Ramdhonu and Downtown, comprising players from different blocks of New Town. There were two senior citizen teams too. Diamond and Silver played a match at the beginning of the day. “It has been more than 16 years since I last played cricket, but it was fun coming together after all these years, specially after the lockdown. More than playing the game, today is about celebrating survival and reinforcing the faith that we can overcome the Covid crisis,” said Manoj Kumar Kundu of Diamond. At 78, he was the senior-most player in the tournament. The auction The players were selected through an auction but this involved no money. Each of the five captains was given 1,000 points which they had to use instead of cash to select a player for his team. Debodyuti Sarkar fetched the highest bid at 420 points and was selected by Downtown. “I am really excited to play after all these months and I am very happy with my team. I have played with my team’s captain since our childhood so we know each other’s strengths,” said the middle-order batsman who was surprised to find himself at the top of the players’ bidding list. The base price of each player was 70 and bidding happened on the basis of performances in the practice matches held earlier, an organiser said. Santanu Biswas and his family had contracted Covid-19 in August. Now after full recovery, the AA Block resident had been picked up to play for Seven Musketeers. “We all are going through a very difficult time but we have to look at the positive side. We cannot stay inside and have to return to our regular lives but we also need to be cautious and take protections,” he said. The game The day-long tournament saw a series of league matches since the morning. A small crowd of onlookers gathered on the sidelines. “It has been ages since we got to see people playing cricket on the field on weekends. Just by watching them play makes us feel that things are now slowly going back to normal,” said Debottam Banik, a resident of CD Block in New Town, who had come to watch the match after visiting a friend in AA Block. CB Block resident Mainak Chatterjee, taking the field for Seven Wonders, chose to play barefoot after he twisted his foot in the second match. “I got hurt while running and had a little swelling. So I chose to take off my shoes for the rest of the match. But such was the fun of playing with friends that it made me forget my pain.” “It took us three weeks to organise this tournament. It is our first attempt at sports event organisation. Now we want to make this an annual affair,” said Subhabrata Kundu, another committee member. The excitement among the players was high as they were all coming out to play after months. Some even forgot about their age. “I used to be a regular player but have not played in eight years. The match got so exciting that at one point I dived to stop the ball from crossing the boundary,” smiled 61-year-old Sujit Majumder. Seven Warriors emerged champions after beating Ramdhonu by 47 runs. “I was confident of reaching the final as we had a strong team but did not expect to win the tournament. Times have changed and we had to be cautious while playing, sanitising things every now and then. But the day was all about the fun of meeting friends and winning made it even more special,” said Soumit Patra, captain of Seven Warriors. Tourja Saha of BE Block was adjudged the man of the match and Kaustav Pradhan of CE Block was the highest scorer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Much more than books||The Book Fair at Central Park may have been pushed back to July but residents of New Town are getting their fill of browsing thanks to the New Town Book Fair that is underway at the fair ground near Biswa Bangla Gate. There are 73 book stalls including Deb Sahitya Kutir, Dey’s Publishing and Penguin. Other kinds of stalls, selling garments to decorative items to food, total 77 in number. 1. Comics Stalls 40-42: Amar Chitra Katha and Tinkle signages over the entrance of Book Readers catch the eye. The ACK spread is rich, though the titles, each at Rs 50, are only in English. “Our mythological and leaders collections are doing well,” said Kartik Chandra Manna, pointing to omnibus boxes containing multiple titles on the subjects, costing Rs 6,600 (plus 20 per cent discount) and Rs 850 (plus 15 per cent discount). 2. Wooden nameplates On the floor beside Gate no. 1: Names with or without design, in a variety of fonts and sizes are eliciting enquiries in a township where most residents are new settlers. “I have got close to 3,000 orders,” said Sankar Karmakar on Day 3, He is a Hastashilpa Mela regular but is attending a private fair for the first time. While the ones requiring ready-made letters to be affixed are being readied on the spot, those requiring carving are being offered the next day. Costs vary from Rs 250 to 6,000 depending on design and size. 3. Burnt clay water bottle On the floor, third to the right from gate 1: One litre bottles made of clay promise to keep drinking water naturally cold, just as pitchers do. Zarina Chitrakar has sold off most of her stock at Rs 250 a piece but has promised to get more from her Midnapore home before the weekend. “Earlier the bottle cap used to be of clay as well but we have replaced that with plastic cap for the sake of convenience,” she said. 4. Chocolate Table to the left of gate 1 in food court: Chocolates, made in her Sukhobrishti home, are being sold by Monideepa Roy. Single-piece big ones are variously shaped like crayons, colour palette, tictactoe and chess boards, costing Rs 160 to Rs 185. “We can make them in both white and dark chocolate and can add names on them too,” she said. Smaller pieces come in eye-popping flavours like rasmalai, rabri, amsattwa and rajbhog. “We even have ones with gur filling,” she said. These come in packets of four, priced Rs 80. 5. Painted jeans Stall 2: Denim trousers hang outside the stall with bright hand-painted motifs near the waist catching the eye from a distance. The charge is Rs 600-700 for the painting and another Rs 600 for the trousers. If one requires branded trousers, that can be painted upon too. “We started work with jeans just a year ago. We can write slogans or customise a painting on request,” said the stall-keeper at Atreyee Handicraft. 6. Jute necklace Stall 21: Jute ropes have been made into necklaces with eye-catching chunky lockets of a variety of material.  The ones spotted were with tribal masks on bamboo mat, or wooden elephant or coloured jute ball. “We launched one with clay pradip during Deepavali,” said Sanchita Biswas of Sristi Designer Studio. 7. Painted film posters Stall 11: Satyajit Ray and Hollywood classics are the staple of the stall that sells framed film posters. “These are not prints but are hand-painted,” confirms Abhishek Sarkar of Craftique.  They sell for Rs 450 each. 8. Birds on mug and magnets Stall 44: Pictures of birds, many of them clicked at New Town’s own Eco Park, have been used on coffee mugs, magnets and coasters. If Black Cape Oriole and Flamingos are on the Rs 180 mugs, Buffy Fish Owl and Short-Eared Owl are included in the owl-themed coaster set of four, costing Rs 80. The magnets cost Rs 100. Nature Environment and Wildlife Society offers to make these items with other pictures in their albums too. 9. Sculpture and painting Stall 46: Small sculptures are coming to shape on a table in front of the stall of Montmartre at the hands of veteran artistes. “We plan to hold a free painting workshop for children on Saturday,” said Debashis Mullick Chowdhury, the founder. Pictures: Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Authors turn sellers, students cashiers in CK-CL block book fair||The CK-CL Block Residents Forum hosted a book fair with a difference on their community hall premises on Saraswati Puja. Manning the counters at the programme, titled Boier Adda, were the writers themselves. Arna Seal, who was present with her published collection of lyrics titled Prithibir Chabi and other books, recited her Dekhechho ki takey oi neel nodir dhare, which is known as a popular sing by Subhomita, set to melodious tune by Joy Sarkar. Tanmoy Chakraborty recited his poem Sreepanchami Valentine, which had been published in the magazine Unish Kuri on the day of Saraswati puja. The poem deals with nostalgic memories of this day. The programme had started with the release of a book of poems by Onkar Banerjee, a local resident. “I am writing poetry since my school days and have published in different magazines. This is my first book,” he said. The book release was followed by a story-telling session. Writer Dipanwita Roy read out Madhyarater Chhayamurti, a ghost story where the story concluded with the message that there is no existence of ghosts in reality and it is our mind that imagines an evil force.  Sangeeta Dasgupta  Roy read out her short story Abani Sir. Saikat Mukhopadhyay read from his short story Chiraduar. Manjir Ghosh, who has been writing both in English and Bengali for 22 years, had taken a major initiative to organise the innovative book fair. “In such meets, readers can get access to writers and there can be free interaction. There are some authors who are writing well but not well-known. Such programmes will create opportunities for their exposure and growth. Another major aim of ours was the involvement of young generation learners in such activities which would enhance their interest for reading books, especially Bengali books,” he said. Sangeeta Dasgupta Roy, who is writing short stories and poems for children since 2007, was very happy with the opportunity.  “When publishers organise a book fair, they stock books of various writers and amid the lot, our books get lost. But here the reader is getting acquainted both with me and my creation exclusively and there is scope for me to suggest him books according to his likings. Popular lyricist Arna Seal, who is a sociologist by profession, had a different objective. “I am more interested in finding out what the local community is thinking about Bengali literature, because the love for the mother tongue is gradually on the wane faced with the onslaught of globalisation. Moreover amid the pandemic, the emotion of touch, feel and warmth of interaction is necessary for all of us to rejuvenate.” Debojyoti Bhattacharjee, who had brought an array of novels, folktales and short stories, was present both as writer and publisher. “My books are mostly published by my own publishing unit Jaidhak, so I really appreciate such a venture,” he said. Block resident Dilip Dutta’s research-oriented publication Saraswati: The Cradle of Ancient Civilisation, with a picture of goddess Saraswati on the cover, generated interest in several visitors. While some of the poets recited their work, theatre personality and writer Sandeep Ghosh, who participated with his compilation of theatre and an encyclopaedia on theatre, conducted a quiz. Residents of different blocks of Salt Lake attended the event. Mahua Basu Chowdhury, a teacher of a preschool, bought children’s books for her students from Dipanwita Roy and got it signed by the author. BK Block resident Rishan Ghosh visited the fair with his parents and bought Mahidadur Antidote, a science fiction by Dipanwita Roy. “I was very excited when I heard that I could meet and talk to the writers directly,” said the Class VIII student. Sangeeta Saha from CJ Block was delighted. “The Book Fair, which happens every winter at Central Park, has been postponed this year. The hankering for it was partially satisfied today on coming here. The writers asked about my choice and helped me select a book to buy,” said the lady who bought Birupakkha’s Ora Thake Andhakare. Ujjaini Basu Mitra from KB Block usually purchases books online. “But here we had the opportunity to touch and feel and select books and speak to the authors,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||State bid to rechristen Metro stations||The state transport department wants to rename two Metro stations on the Airport-Garia line near Sector V, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. The station, that was named Bowlers’ Den earlier as it is close to Nicco Park and Bowlers’ Den, according to a memo issued in February, will be renamed Nalban. The last station which has been built just before entering New Town from the Sector V side,  near the Webel intersection, now called Salt Lake Sector V, is proposed to be renamed Nabadiganta. NDITA chairman Debashis Sen said Sector V was officially known as Nabadiganta and NDITA provided all the civic services to the state’s IT hub. “For a long time we, at NDITA, have been trying to have one of the Metro stations named after the township as it passed through the NDITA area. Now the state transport department has also agreed and given a go- ahead,” said Sen. The renaming of the Nalban and Nabadiganta stations is in continuation of renaming the nine stations of the New Garia-airport route that was started in January. Officials said that a lot of changes and development had been happening in both Sector V and New Town since the Metro construction began. “The provisional names were given by the railways after the nearest landmark or place. But with the development of the area, these names were not matching the place,” the official added. According to another official, the Metro authorities too were being kept in the loop. A Metro spokesperson on the other hand said that they had yet to receive any formal request for renaming the stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Devasish Jana joins BJP||Devasish Jana, former councillor of Ward 34 who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday, claimed to have felt “shock” and “insult” at his assistant being asked to vacate the room assigned to him at Poura Bhavan and the room being locked on Tuesday. “People would say this is a fishy reason and he meant to switch anyway. But once you throw a stone that doesn’t come back,” the four-time councillor, who was with Trinamul Congress since 1998, told The Telegraph Salt Lake on Wednesday morning. He had not yet made up his mind about his next step, he had said then. He was handed the party flag by BJP state president Dilip Ghosh later in the afternoon. Jana, who was a mayor-in-council member in the Trinamul Congress-run Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, resigned from his post on Tuesday in the Board of Administrators (BOA) which is running the civic body after the board's term ended last October. Jana told The Telegraph Salt Lake that his Trinamul colleagues had started treating him differently as he was known to be close to Suvendu Adhikari, the former transport minister who shifted to the BJP in December. “My native place is in Tamluk. We are from the same district. He attends social occasions in my family. But there were insinuations about my proximity with him. Tyara chokhe takay tia…,” he said, quoting a nursery song. Jana said he used to attend the Corporation regularly and was in office till Monday. But the incident on Tuesday was the proverbial last straw. “I was given a room as a member of the BOA. On Monday, I learnt that my official work assistant, who received documents addressed to me in my absence, had been asked to vacate the room which was then locked. She was told to sit outside. It is an insult to me,” he said. Jana said he was “shocked” by the incident. “I resigned at 4pm yesterday, sending my letter to the municipal affairs department, with a copy to the BMC municipal commissioner so that the chairperson (Krishna Chakraborty) gets to know. No one has called me since then,” he said. Jana claimed Adhikari had “never interfered” in his decision. “He must have got to know of my resignation from the grapevine,” he said. Counterpoint Though former mayor and BOA chairperson Krishna Chakraborty did not respond to calls from The Telegraph Salt Lake on Wednesday night, former deputy mayor Tapas Chatterjee lashed out at his former colleague. “If some incident happens, does that mean I take the extreme step straight away? Is there no ideology left in politics? I may have some grievances but that should be raised in the right forum. It does not mean I go and join a communal party!” he said, recalling how he himself was left without a portfolio by the erstwhile mayor Sabyasachi Dutta for six months. Chatterjee said he learnt of Jana’s resignation from BOA in the media and called him on Wednesday morning. “I offered to raise the matter with him with the chairperson or even speak to Bobby (minister Firhad Hakim). Who knew he would join the BJP in a few hours?” He claimed the decision to lock rooms was an administrative one taken by officials. “Even my room was being locked but I called the finance officer and asked that my assistant be allowed to use it. The matter ended there. Why did he not do the same? This cannot be the only reason for quitting the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Left out of jab list||Healthcare workers associated with hospitals, who were willing to take the shot, have mostly received the first round of vaccine that was offered to frontliners on a priority basis. Even as the facility has been extended to the public, with senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities currently being inoculated, a significant section of doctors, who are private practitioners, has been left out of the fold. Doctors who are neither senior citizens nor associated with big hospitals are worried about the process of registering for a Covid-19 vaccine. Nearly all the doctors The Telegraph Salt Lake spoke to, who provide consultation in chambers across Salt Lake and New Town sitting in medicine shops, clinics or portions of houses, said that they had not been contacted to receive the vaccine. The Co-WIN portal, that is open to the general populace now, does not have the window for individual doctors to register themselves. State health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam admitted that some doctors were still left outside the vaccine fold. “Their names were supposed to have been entered. We had requested Medical Council of India and Indian Medical Association for names. We enrolled more than seven lakh healthcare workers, which included a lot of private practitioners. A few have been left out here and there. They will be included as healthcare workers. We are talking to the government of India. The doctors can walk in and it will be arranged. The local CMOH (chief medical officer health) and the district administration can coordinate,” Nigam told The Telegraph Salt Lake on Tuesday. The doctors’ group Protect The Warriors, too, has appealed to the state health department to help reopen the registration of healthcare workers on the Co-WIN2 portal. Fending for themselves Bimal Chandra Kundu, a general practitioner who sits in chambers in AD Block and CK Block, makes his patients sit more than six feet away and does not face him. The routine practice of checking a patient with a stethoscope is given a miss except in serious cases when he must check the patient physically. No word has reached him about vaccination and he is worried. “Sitting like this is the least I can do to protect myself,” Kundu said, adding that he has stopped attending chambers that did not have enough space or ventilation. The discussion among his colleagues these days mostly centres around how to get themselves vaccinated. “Most of my friends who are associated with hospitals have received the shot. We too are providing service to our patients but are not being provided the vaccine shield,” said Kundu. Doctors in the smaller non-Covid facilities too are left out. Pratik Dasgupta, a cardiologist staying in Rosedale Garden, New Town, has to keep up with the ritual of bathing on reaching home, however long his hours may have been at Iris hospital in Gangulybagan. “We have an unoccupied servant’s quarter where I sanitise myself before entering our apartment. Often I don’t feel like it but I cannot put my family at risk.” At 48 and without comorbidities, Dasgupta has no chance to get a vaccine appointment with the rest of the general populace now. Shield before the surge Though initially he was hesitant, Dasgupta is now eager to get the vaccine. “We need the cover and fast. Cases are again on the rise. In January, out of 10 patients who came to me with fever and cough, one or two tested positive in the RT-PCR screening I sent them for. Now the figure has risen to four or five.” Though he was using PPE till January, he now sees patients in mask and gloves. “Being in PPE is too uncomfortable. One cannot even go to the toilet wearing one.” But there is no scope for complacence, he reminds himself, adding that he had already got tested thrice though so far he has tested negative for Covid-19. He now pins his hope on his hospital’s initiative. “Our medical superintendent has approached the health department, requesting permission to set up a vaccination centre at our hospital. But we hear only Covid hospitals are being allowed to vaccinate.” Another cluster of doctors who are left out are last year’s MBBS pass-outs who are preparing for MD entrance. Sreya Chatterjee of Purbachal had given up her housestaffship at Nilratan Sircar Medical College and Hospital to focus on the April 18 examination. “Only those of us who are continuing as housestaff have got the vaccine,” said she, wondering when her turn would come. CL Block resident Dipsha Chakraborty, a former student and housestaff of SSKM, too is preparing for the MD entrance. For the last two and half weeks, she has been trying to get herself and her 70-year-old general physician aunt enrolled. “My hospital said since I was not currently enrolled there, my name had not been enlisted for the vaccine and I'd need to contact local centres. The Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital, the vaccination centre closest to us, asked us to contact the office of the district chief medical officer of health (CMOH). But that is in Barasat. The CMOH staff refused to speak over phone and asked us to come. Travelling 25km without a guarantee of getting the vaccine that day is too much,” she said. Six members of her family, including herself, got infected with Covid-19 in August. Her aunt, who has resumed seeing patients from January, has managed to get a shot this week, as a senior citizen, but Dipsha is  stuck. “My antibodies are unlikely to last. I too will join a hospital in a couple of months. I need the vaccine before that,” she said. Those practising alternative medicine are completely in the dark about when they would qualify, or if at all. “Homeopathy doctor der ekta alada tokma lege jay,” rued Tapas Gan, whose chamber is in AL Block. He has an extra reason at feeling disappointed at not getting registered as a frontline worker by the health department and getting a call-up. “I visited containment zones in the slums of Ultadanga, Chetla and Bowbazar with the civic medical team on invitation from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, at the height of the coronavirus crisis in the middle of 2020, distributing Arsenicum album and Bryonia Alba to affected families. I did not even charge consultation fees,” he recalls. He continues to see patients in his chamber as he did through last year. “Ei damadoler bajare amra etoi nogonyo, keu amader prayojon bodh koreni,” he says, adding that he has taken his own medicines as a prophylactic. “So far, it has kept Covid at bay for me.” Bikash Das, who has a chamber in Purbachal, had tried to register on the CoWin App but could not do so as the app has a field that needs to be filled with the name of a hospital or a nursing home the medical practitioner is associated with. Das said he had heard that the Indian Medical Association was drawing up a list of doctors enrolled with them but is unsure about the progress of the process. “My registration is at least 25 years old and I have switched houses. I am now using a cellphone whereas the IMA database has the landline number of my old house. I don’t know how they will contact me, even if they try,” Kundu said. Bridge the gap IMA state assistant secretary Anirban Dalui, who was also the coordinator of the state’s Covid protocol monitoring committee and was the link between IMA and the health department, said: “We have no data on how many doctors do private practice. About 10 per cent of them are also attached to hospitals and got the vaccine. We tried to reach out to the other private practitioners through social media, asking them to reach out to us. At the IMA, we had started registration for members and then extended the facility to non-members too. Associated doctors’ organisations like Protect the Warriors and Association of Physicians of India collected names too. Close to 7,000 doctors contacted us from across Bengal like this.” A minimum of 5,000 to 7,000 doctors are left unvaccinated in Bengal, in his estimate. “I am certain that they did not miss out due to lack of awareness. They must have had misgivings and wanted to wait and watch. They must have thought that they could get the vaccine at any time. No one expected the Co-WIN portal to be closed for registration on January 29, soon after vaccination started on January 16. This sudden unannounced closure is what has caused them to be left out.” IMA also organised eight special vaccination sessions at SSKM and Sambhunath Pandit Hospital for private practitioners, especially of Dum Dum, Salt Lake and Behala, whose names they had collected. But once the portal closed for registration in end-January, about 5,000 doctors still got left out from the list. “We are not accepting new names till we can arrange for the vaccination of those who are already enlisted with us,” Dalui said. Though doctors are unable to register themselves anymore on the portal, unless they can do so as senior citizens, an official at the Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital confirmed that their registration as healthcare workers was still possible through an institutional log-in ID. “Doctors who need the vaccine should contact the district CMOH,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Frame-up email’ in cocaine case||Police have made a submission before the court in connection with the cocaine case that they had received an email two days before the arrest of BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami mentioning that BJP leader Rakesh Singh was trying to frame a woman in a narcotics case. Police sources said the sender of the mail, identified as Sandip Agarwal, has been examined by the police and his statement has already been recorded before the magistrate under section 164 of the CrPC. Senior police officers feel this could be a vital lead in proving Singh’s alleged role in a larger conspiracy. Sources said the submission has been made last month. Till Thursday, the magisterial statement of two persons — Sandip Agarwal and Rajesh Kumar Prasad — has been recorded before the magistrate as witnesses in the case. While Agarwal had sent the email to the police, Prasad was purportedly promised a ticket in the ensuing Assembly elections by one of Rakesh Singh’s associates and was apparently expected to join Goswami at New Alipore from where Singh’s associate had promised to take them to meet a central minister. The police have submitted a prayer to record the magisterial statement of three other persons who could be witnesses in the case. BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Dey and her driver Somnath Chatterjee were arrested in connection with a cocaine case on February 19. All three had been in police custody since their arrest for alleged illegal possession of 90grams of cocaine in her car. They have been remanded to judicial custody till March 18. Reacting to the police’s submission of the email before the court, Goswami’s defence lawyer Kailash Tamoli said the email only corroborated the defence’s theory that Goswami was being framed in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Calcutta Municipal Corporation doubles vaccine sites||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has more than doubled the Covid-19 vaccination sites from Thursday, with 50 ward health clinics inoculating people above 60 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities. A senior official of the civic body said that all the sites will have the option of spot-registration. One need not be a resident of the ward where the vaccination site has been opened to be able to receive a jab from there, said another official. There were 25 sites of the CMC where Covid-19 vaccination was underway till Wednesday. The recipients will get free vaccines at the CMC clinics, said the official. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, said that people only need to carry a photo ID card with them to the vaccination site. “People above 60 need to carry the photo ID card with them and come to any of the clinics from where vaccination against Covid-19 is being done. People between 45 and 59 must also carry the comorbidity certificate given by a doctor in the prescribed format,” said Hakim. A CMC official said the person must also carry a mobile phone since a one time password (OTP) will go to registered mobile number, without which the registration on the CoWin portal cannot be completed. Some photo ID cards that can be used for registering on the CoWin portal are Aadhaar, PAN, passport, driving license, electoral photo identity card, pension document with photograph. A senior official of the state health department said people who will be 60 on January 1, 2022, will also be eligible to receive the vaccine. The cormorbidity certificate issued by a doctor registered with the Medical Council of India or the West Bengal Medical Council will be accepted, said another health department official. The list of comorbidities that make a person between 45 and 59 eligible for the vaccine along with the prescribed format in which the doctor has to certify is available on mygov.in/covid-19. Scroll down on the website and open the ‘Guidance Note for Co-WIN 2.0’ document under the head ‘Information and Advisory’. “We have started inoculation in 50 ward health clinics from Thursday. There will be on-spot registration facility in all these clinics for the benefit of people who are not tech-savvy and will not be able to register themselves through the CoWin portal. We will also inoculate those who have done the registration on the CoWin portal on their own and chosen our ward health clinic as the site,” said Subrata Roy Chowdhury, the chief municipal health officer of the CMC. Metro reported on Thursday that several private hospitals in the city have also begun on-spot registration for recipients of the vaccine. An official of the CMC said that each of the ward clinics has the capacity to inoculate 200 persons every day. The official said the number of general people taking the vaccine each day will rise once the administration of the second dose to healthcare workers and frontline workers is completed. Some of the ward health clinics are already witnessing long queues of general people to get the jab. The vaccines at the CMC clinics are being administered free of cost. However, the CMC officials warned that if there is a glitch in the CoWin portal at any time, the on-spot registration will suffer just like the vaccination of those who were already registered would stop. “We cannot take the name and details on a page and enter those details into the portal later on. That is not allowed,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Elderly people asks private hospitals if they can administer vaccine at home||Many elderly people across the city, who are either too ill to go out or stay alone, are calling up private hospitals asking whether it is possible to administer the Covid-19 vaccine at home. However, the government’s guidelines don’t allow Covid vaccination at home. Several private hospitals said they are flooded with phone calls from elderly people who either stay alone or are physically unable to go to the hospital and wait for hours to get vaccinated. Last week, at a meeting with the state government, some private hospitals had asked if they could start giving vaccines at home for such people. However, sources said, the state government did not agree mainly on two grounds: there could be overcharging and there is no guideline from the Centre to give Covid-19 vaccines at home. The vaccination of those above 60 and people above 45 with comorbidities started on Monday and thousands have been vaccinated. But there are also thousands who are unable to go to the hospital. Some of the hospitals said sending ambulances would not be a practical solution because there are a limited number of ambulances and the demand may be for 20 or 30 in a day. “We are flooded with calls from elderly people who either stay alone because their children are outside or suffer from ailments that make it difficult for them to come to the hospital and wait in the queue,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. “The government should think about the plight of these elderly and ill people and find a way to get them vaccinated without coming to the hospital,” he said. Swapna Majumdar, 72, a resident of Netaji Nagar, is one such person. Her husband, Anil Baran Majumdar, 82, had one of his legs amputated several years ago. Their only daughter stays abroad. “It’s very difficult for my husband to move as he has several other ailments too. Usually, someone from a diagnostic laboratory collects blood and I take the report to the doctor. But to get Covid-19 vaccine, both of us have to go to a hospital. I called up hospitals but they said we have to go there,” said Swapna. Narendrapur resident Samar Nath Banerjee, 79, and his wife Bharati, 76, are also calling up hospitals seeking to know whether they can get vaccinated at home. “Our only son stays in Singapore. My wife’s both knees are severely damaged and she can barely walk. There is no young person in our home to take us to a hospital for vaccination,” said Samar. Some hospitals said people who suffer from ailments like cancer, which reduce their immunities, are reluctant to go to the hospital and get vaccinated amidst the Covid pandemic. “There are people with medical conditions making them immunocompromised whose family members are requesting us to send personnel to their homes for vaccination,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “But we have to tell them no. Even if the government allowed, at this moment there are hundreds of people coming for vaccination every day and we have to open new sites. So, it’s not possible to send our people to someone’s home,” he said. At Belle Vue Clinic, officials are getting calls from people staying in big residential complexes requesting the hospital to arrange for bulk vaccination at their homes. “One such residential complex has many elderly people who want to take the vaccine but are either physically unable to come or are scared of getting Covid. But unlike sample collection for Covid tests, we can’t do vaccination at residences,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue. He said if someone goes in an ambulance, the hospital would ensure the vaccination is done in the quickest possible time and after the mandatory 30 minutes observation, the same ambulance can take them home. A senior official of the state health department said the main concern was adverse effect of injection or AEI, because of which a person should get vaccinated at hospital where there is infrastructure to handle a situation if someone falls ill after vaccination. “However, we are open to making changes. Let the first few days pass and then we’ll take up the issue,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lifts stay on teachers’ recruitment||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Thursday issued an interim stay on the order by a single-judge  bench that had restrained the state government from recruiting teachers in 16,500 vacant posts in primary schools. A division bench of Justice Soumen Sen and Justice Saugata Bhattacharyya held that the judiciary should not prevent any elected government from continuing with its plans and issued an interim order on Thursday. The division bench would hear the complaints of the petitioners after four weeks. But during that period the government can appoint teachers according to its merit list. Teacher recruitment for primary schools had been pending for years because of legal tangles. In December last year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that 16,500 odd vacant posts would be filled. A merit list of 15,000 was prepared from among candidates who succeeded in TET in 2014. They were interviewed in January. The state hoped to complete the recruitment by March. But some candidates whose names were not figured on the merit list moved court alleging anomalies. Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj of the high court had on February 22 asked the state not to continue the recruitment process till further orders. Asked when the recruitment will resume, Manik Bhattacharya, president of the West Bengal Board of Primary Education said: “We have been able to prove that the board maintained transparency in its recruitment pro-cess…. We will first go through the contents of the order in detail and then proceed.” Officials of the school education department said they would soon take legal opinion to find out whether any consent has to be secured from the Election Commission of India before the board starts issuing the appointment letter. “The announcement about the recruitment was made in mid December, well before the model code of conduct had come in force last Friday. Still we want to take a legal opinion on this...,” said the official. Aspiring teachers are among the most vocal critics of the Mamata Banerjee government. Moving the appeal before the division bench, the counsel appearing for the state submitted that a huge number of posts were lying vacant across the primary schools. The students are suffering, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Jadavpur University allows UG and PG students to access central library ||Jadavpur university will allow undergraduate and postgraduate students to access the central library on a limited scale from Friday after a year-long Covid-induced closure. Students will be able to use the library for borrowing  books. The reading facility is being discouraged as of now to avoid any assembly at a time when the pandemic is still on. A notice issued by the officiating chief librarian, Srabana Ghosh, mentions the “protocols/guidelines” that will be applicable in the library till further notice. All the users/staff  have to wear masks and sanitise their hands before entering. Users/staff are required to strictly follow physical distancing norms, the guidelines states. Only a limited number of users at a time will be allowed to enter the library circulation counter between 11am and 5pm. The number would be announced later. A university official said students are being allowed to use the library as they need to access books as the odd semester exam is approaching. “Many don’t have the resources to access the digital library services,” he said. The library that had reopened last December with the university asking employees to resume duties in-person, so far allowed access to the research scholars on a limited scale. “The volume of research scholars is much less. But that at the level of undergraduate and postgraduate, it is huge” he said. A library staff said they have plans to let the undergraduate and postgraduate students use the library on a limited scale in near future. “We are likely to reopen the reading room for all in small numbers,” said an official. JU had launched “Accessible Library” for persons with disabilities in September 2018. It produces books in Braille and audio books to help students encountering visual impairment. The university has ensured PG accommodation for these students so that they could frequently access to the library. The library on the university’s Salt lake campus will also reopen for students. Presidency University has also begun allowing students to visit the library for drawing and returning books. Students have to enrol themselves on book issue form. “For issuing of books, you are requested to submit the form at least four days prior to issuing date. Students will be informed the date of issuing of books at least one day in advance,” reads a notice posted on the university’s website. Other details like the timing are posted on the website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Alipore case: Forced her to return, says Rashika Jain's father||The father of homemaker Rashika Jain, who is suspected to have died from a fall from the terrace of her in-laws’ Alipore home, on Thursday said his daughter had returned home in January as she was unable to bear the torture at her in-laws’ place but he had forced her to return within a week. If the allegations are correct, this could be a lesson to all parents who force their daughters to “adjust” with the in-laws despite their resistance, feel several women activists in the city. “Rashika had come back home on 5 January pleading us not to send her back to her husband’s home. But we did not listen to her. The next day, I met her in-laws and appraised her father-in-law Mr Naresh Agarwal about the situation. He assured me that he would reduce his workload at office and spend more time with my daughter. He assured me that my daughter would be taken care of. We sent back Rashika to her husband’s home on 13 January,” Mahendra Jain told a news conference at their Alipore residence. “I wish we had not forced her to go,” Jain lamented. Hundreds of cases of torture against women are reported every day across Bengal, state Women’s Commission chairperson Leena Ganguly said. “In most of the cases women are discouraged to return to their parents and asked to adjust with their in-laws,” she said. “There are a lot of cases where parents realise their mistake only after it is too late. We try to spread awareness but such incidents keep on happening,” Ganguly said. The state women’s commission has registered a suo motu case against Rashika’s in-laws, she said. Sunanda Mukherjee, a women’s rights activist and former member of the state women’s commission, said: “In most cases the girl’s parents either cite the amount of money they have spent on the marriage or their social status to force their daughter return to her husband without realising how much they are hurting her,” Mukherjee said. Rashika’s in-laws refuted the charges brought by her family and said she was “happily settled” with her husband. “Since November end till 11 February they (Rashika and her husband Kushal) travelled to different destinations like Maldives, Shimla, Udaipur, Bangalore, Mumbai, Puri and Jaipur. After coming back from her vacations Rashika was very happy and on her desire we hosted regular dinner parties till February 14 in which Jain family and their relatives participated wholeheartedly,” Rashika’s father-in-law Naresh Agarwal told Metro. “It is time to repent our loss. Rashika was not only our daughter-in-law, she was also our daughter. So it is really a tough time for us. We are shattered by this mishap and what is happening afterwards... We have complete faith in the process of law. We condemn the speculations against our family. We are not indulging in any blame game and mudslinging.” Rashika’s parents alleged that one of Rashika’s mobile phones from where she had sent her last text message to her father, was missing. “Why are they hiding the phone,” Jain said. Police on Thursday examined all the staff, drivers and help engaged at the Agarwal residence. A team from the detective department visited the home and collected a few gadgets, including a mobile phone. “We are yet to ascertain if it is the same phone of which the victim’s father is talking about,” a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Physical assault: Uber driver lodges complaint ||An Uber driver has lodged a police complaint alleging that he was subjected to physical assault and his car was damaged by a woman passenger’s friends on Wednesday night. The driver alleged that the woman, who boarded the cab from Tangra, kept changing her “destination” from one location to another at Ho Chi Minh Sarani and then called her friends blaming the driver of harassing her by not taking her to the right drop location. Based on the complaint registered at Shakespeare Sarani police station on Thursday, cops have started a probe. Police said they were checking the CCTV footage of the area where the cab moved. Officers also said it was a rare incident where a cab driver had lodged a police complaint against a passenger. An Uber spokesperson said: “We have reached out to the driver to check on his well-being and have informed him that appropriate action against the rider has been taken. We stand ready to assist the law enforcement authorities with their investigations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||Fraudsters using screen-sharing applications to access phones||Mobile applications legitimately used to share screens for technical support or transfer data are being used by fraudsters to access phones of their targets and carry out transactions on their behalf without waiting for them to share OTPs, police have found. The apps, used by people across the world, can be downloaded on android and iOS phones. The number of people losing money from their bank accounts without sharing OTPs to validate any transaction is increasing in the city, the police said. Officers said several red flags had emerged during their conversation with the victims of such fraud. Apps to share phone screen The police said the fraudsters were asking their intended victims to download some mobile apps, telling them that their SIM cards would be deactivated soon if they did not do so. Once the application is downloaded, the victims are asked to share a “code” that is generated on their screen. “In the majority of the complaints we have received, the victims have shared this code thinking it was safe as long as they were not sharing any OTP to validate any financial transaction. The code allows the fraudsters to have remote access to the victim’s phone. They can then make transactions on behalf of the victims without waiting for the victims to share any OTP as they can see the screen and as well as the OTP that has been generated,” said an officer of the anti-bank fraud section of Lalbazar. Fraudulent numbers look like genuine “customer care numbers” Cyber experts said it was easy to manipulate data in mobile apps that collect a database of phone numbers of people who download them on their phone. “For example, there is a popular app that people use to check the details of an unknown caller. This app will show my details as saved by my contacts on their phones. If a fraudster saves a particular number as ‘customer care number’ in his or her phone and syncs the data with the internet, there is every possibility that when another person dials that number, this app will show it as the ‘customer care number’,” said a senior police officer attached to the cyber wing. One of the victims — Nandini Banerjee, a doctor — had mistaken the fraudster’s mobile number as the customer care number in a similar way when she tried to check its authenticity through this mobile app. She lost more than Rs 3 lakh in the next few minutes. Banerjee has lodged a complaint with Garfa police station. Easy to convince to pay only Rs 10 Fraudsters are asking their targets to make a transaction of only Rs 10 — something people are ready to risk. The police said that once fraudsters accessed the victim’s phone, they could see the victim type his or her Net banking details while making the online transaction of Rs 10. “The victim thinks that even if he or she is being cheated, Rs 10 is too small an amount to bother about. But the fraudsters note the banking details and use them to make transactions,” explained an officer. Asking target to make transaction The police said fraudsters would ask their targets to make a transaction of Rs 10 only through an app that was already on the victim’s phone. “When they told me to pay Rs 10 through my mobile service provider app which I had been using for years, I thought it could not harm me in any way,” Banerjee said. On January 31, Metro had reported how at least two Calcuttans had been duped of their money purportedly without sharing any OTP to validate any transaction. The police said there were cases where fraudsters changed the registered mobile number. So the OTP was generated on a new number and the victim had no inkling of the money being transferred out of his or her account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-124
05-03-2021||Calcutta||How spiralling fuel prices are scalding many||The spiralling price of fuel has scalded many. Most among these people were anyway in distress because of how the pandemic had hit their income. The rising cost at home and outside has made an already stressful time even worse. Metro travelled across the city to find out how some of the people were coping with the change. Here’s a list of five Sandip Kayal, 43 Owner of a car rental business with a couple of Swift Dzires and a Toyota Innova ⚫ Monthly diesel expense on one car in 2018 for a contract of 3,000km — Rs 13,000 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly diesel expense on the same car in 2021 for a similar contract — Rs 17,000 (approx.) A client who used to pay Kayal Rs 37,000 per month for the 3,000km-contract in 2018, now pays him Rs 40,000. But the rise in Kayal’s expenses has far surpassed the rise in payment. “The salary of drivers and maintenance cost, together with the exponential rise in fuel price, has been hurting me badly,” said Kayal. His son, a Class XI student and a NEET aspirant, wanted to enrol in a two-year preparatory course with a leading coaching centre chain. “My son had cleared the entrance test but the course fee of Rs 2.5 lakh was too much for me. I did not enrol my son there,” said Kayal, a Kestopur resident. Anjali Sardar, in her 40s Domestic worker ⚫ Monthly expense on one domestic LPG cylinder in 2018 — Rs 500 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly expense on one domestic LPG cylinder in 2021 — Rs 850 (approx.) Sardar, who lives in the Chinamandir area, lost her husband in a road accident a little over a month ago. Her husband was a rickshaw puller. Before the pandemic, she used to earn around Rs 8,000 per month by working — cooking and doing other domestic chores — at a string of apartment blocks off the EM Bypass. But post-lockdown, the number of employers has come down drastically. “I earn around Rs 4,500 per month now,” said Sardar. The nearly 70 per cent rise in the price of cooking gas has forced Sardar to make some sacrifices. “Earlier, I used to take autos to reach my workplaces. Now, I ride a cycle. That way, I save around Rs 20 every day,” said Sardar, who has two teenaged children, a boy and a girl. To offset the price rise in the cooking medium, Sardar has curtailed the food items. Chicken, earlier a weekly affair, has become a monthly affair now. “Rice and boiled potato with some mustard oil and a green chilli, that is our staple menu,” she said. Kapil Yadav, 56 Taxi driver ⚫ Daily diesel expense in 2018 — Rs 650 (approx.) ⚫ Daily diesel expense in 2021 — Rs 850 (approx.) In Calcutta, the base fare for a metred taxi is Rs 25 for 2km and thereafter Rs 12 a kilometre. If Yadav travels 100km a day, he goes without any passenger for at least 15-20km. In the metered fare, Yadav earns around Rs 1,000 for 80km and needs about 10 litres of diesel to run 100km. That means Rs 840 for 100km at the current rate of Rs 84 a litre. “My income is much lesser than my expenses. I have to take care of insurance, permits and taxes. The price of everything, from insurance to spare parts, has gone up substantially. Only the fare hasn’t,” said Yadav. The result — he does not take out his taxi every day. Yadav had to sell his wife’s jewellery for their son, who has started a training course to be a technician of electrical appliances. Dipak Ghosh, 43 Delivery executive of an online food aggregator ⚫ Rides around 100-150km on a two-wheeler every day ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2018 — Rs 5,500 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2021 — Rs 7,000 (approx.) Ghosh, a resident of Shakherbazar in Behala, works from noon till after midnight every day, scouring the lanes of Behala, Thakurpukur, New Alipore, Kalighat, Gariahat and Tollygunge. The surge in fuel prices would have been partially offset had his incentive structure remained like it used to be, said Ghosh. “I used to get an incentive of around Rs 6,000 every month before the lockdown. But the pandemic has disrupted the incentive structure. So, the rise in the petrol price is hurting even more,” said Ghosh. Ghosh, who lives in a rented home with his parents, wife and nine-year-old daughter, earns “around Rs 24,000” every month. He has been saving money to buy a home but rising expenses has badly dented his savings. “I don’t know when will I be able to live in my own home,” said Ghosh. Also on hold is a plan to buy a new smartphone for himself. “I have one phone which is always in use for taking orders and speaking with customers,” said Ghosh. Saikat Das, 30 Medical representative with a multinational pharmaceutical corporation ⚫ Rides around 50km on his two-wheeler six days a week ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2018 — Rs 1,800 (approx.) ⚫ Monthly petrol expense in 2021 — Rs 3,000 (approx.) Das said his travel allowance was last revised in 2016, when the price of petrol was around Rs 65 per litre in Calcutta. “Managing the fuel expenses with a 2016 allowance is like racing against a new car with a scooter,” said Das, whose daily routine involves visiting doctors across south Calcutta. Das lives with his wife and parents in Maheshtala on the western fringe of Calcutta. His wife works and his father is a pensioner. Das is better off than some of the other people this newspaper spoke to but he has had to make his own sacrifices because of the rising expenses. “I love travelling and a yearly trip used to be a must. Not anymore,” said Das. “I have also reduced eating out at restaurants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-125
