06-03-2021||Calcutta||Who has TMC fielded in Calcutta and its neighbourhood ||Aroop Biswas Constituency: Tollygunge Profession: Politician Age: 57 Known for: Manages the Tollywood clan of Trinamul Date of polling: April 10 Partha Chatterjee Constituency: Behala West Profession: Retired as a senior manager with a corporate house Age: 68 Known for: His association with the party supremo Date of polling: April 10 Madan Mitra Constituency: Kamarahti Profession: Politician Age: 60 Known for: One-term MLA, he is a bit of a social media sensation now Date of polling: April 17 Manoj Tiwary Constituency: Shibpur Profession: Cricketer-turned politician Age: 35 Known for: Former India player; long-time Bengal captain; and a champion in Twitter sarcasm Date of polling: April 10 Raj Chakrabarti Constituency: Barrackpore Profession: Film director Age: 45 Known for: A Bengali film director who delivered some of some of the biggest hits in the past decade Polling date: April 22 Lovely Maitra Constituency: Sonarpur South Profession: Actor Age: 30 Known for: Her television serials like Mohor and Jol Nupur Date of polling: April 10 Firhad Hakim Constituency: Calcutta Port Profession: Business Age: 62 Known for: Outgoing mayor of Calcutta and currently state urban development minister Date of polling: April 26 Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay Constituency: Bhowanipore Profession: Never lost an MLA election since 1991. Currently the power minister in the state cabinet Age: 77 Known for: Straightspeak. Also prides himself on being a boxer Date of polling: April 26 Debasish Kumar Constituency: Rashbehari Profession: Business Age: 61 Known for: Four-term councillor of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation Date of polling: April 26 Subrata Mukherjee Constituency: Ballygunge Profession: Social worker Age: 74 Known for: Mayor of Calcutta between 2000 and 2005. Currently state panchayat minister Date of polling: April 26 Chandrima Bhattacharya Constituency: North Dum Dum Profession: Politician Age: 61 Known for: Heads the law and justice department Date of polling: April 22 Shashi Panja Constituency: Shyampukur Profession: Doctor Age: 59 Known for: Minister of women and child development department Date of polling: April 29 Bratya Basu Constituency: Dum Dum Profession: Theatre personality-cum-politician Age: 51 Known for: Party spokesman Date of polling: April 17 Sadhan Pande Constituency: Maniktala Profession: Lawyer Age: 70 Known for: Eight-term MLA. Currently consumer affairs minister in the state cabinet Date of polling: April 29 Atin Ghosh Constituency: Cossipore-Belgachia Profession: Business Age: 62 Known for: Outgoing deputy mayor of Calcutta Date of polling: April 29 Javed Ahmed Khan Constituency: Kasba Profession: Business Age: 64 Known for: Three-term MLA Date of polling: April 10 Debabrata Majumdar Constituency: Jadavpur Profession: Chartered accountant Age: 56 Known for: Good with number games. Headed the tax department of the CMC as a mayoral council member. Four-time councillor Date of polling: April 10 Ratna Chatterjee Constituency: Behala East Profession: Business Age: 49 Known for: Fielded from the seat that Sovan Chatterjee, her estranged husband, had won in 2016 on a Trinamul ticket. Sovan is now with the BJP Date of polling: April 10 Abdul Khaleque Molla Constituency: Metiaburuz Profession: Retired primary school headmaster  Age: 75 Known for: Earned 30,000 votes as an independent candidate from the seat in 2011 Assembly elections  ate of polling: April 10 Firdousi Begum Constituency: N Sonarpur Profession: Homemaker Age: 42 Known for: Became a councillor at 26 Date of polling: April 10 Nayna Bandyopadhyay Constituency: Chowringhee Profession: Social worker Age: 52 Known for: Actor, three-term MLA Date of polling: April 29 Swarna Kamal Saha Constituency: Entally Profession: Retired PSU bank officer, now runs a business Age: 72 Known for: Three-time MLA Date of polling: April 29 Vivek Gupta Constituency: Jorasanko Profession: Editor of Hindi daily Sanmarg Age: 45 Known for: Former Rajya Sabha MP Date of polling: April 29 Paresh Paul Constituency: Beleghata Profession: Quit his govt job to join politics Age: 74 Known for: Defeating CPM’s Shyamal Chakraborty in 1996 & 2001 Date of polling: April 29 Rana Chatterjee Constituency: Bally Profession: Doctor Age: 45. Known for: A popular pediatrician in Howrah Date of polling: April 10 Arup Roy Constituency: Howrah Central Profession: Politician Age: 65 Known for: A minister of the cooperative department Date of polling: April 10 Kanchan Mullick Constituency: Uttar Para Profession: Actor Age: 49 Known for: A popular comedian on TV and films Date of polling: April 10 Tapas Chatterjee Constituency: Rajarhat-New Town Profession: Politician Age: 59 Known for: An influential leader Date of polling: April 17 Goutam Chowdhury Constituency: Howrah North Profession: Politician Age: 48  Known for: Former mayor-in-council of Howrah Municipal Corporation Date of polling: April 10 Nandita Chowdhury Constituency: Howrah South Profession: Business Age: 60 Known for: Former vice-president of Howrah Date of polling: April 10 Sujit Bose Constituency: Bidhannagar Profession: Politician Age: 58 Known for: Fire and emergency services minister Date of Polling: April 17 Aditi Munshi Constituency:Rajarhat-Gopalpur Profession: Kirtan singer Age: 32 Known for: Popular  face on TV Date of polling: April 27 Tapas Roy Constituency: Baranagar Profession: Politician Age: 60 Known for: Minister of state for parliamentary affairs Date of polling: April 17||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||Country looking up to Bengal to resist anti-people BJP: Farmer leader||The country is looking up to Bengal to “resist the anti-people measures of the BJP regime”, a farmer leader from Singhu told a Calcutta rally on Thursday. “Bengal and Punjab are the cradle of revolutionaries, having contributed most in India’s freedom struggle. Punjab has already launched a full-scale protest against the black farm laws. The protests are spreading across the country. Now, if Bengal throws its full weight behind these protests, the BJP regime will have no place to hide,” said Rajinder Singh Deep Singh Wala, a leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha is the joint platform of farmers’ organisations spearheading the movement against the new farm laws. The farm laws will ultimately hit the middle class, Singh said. “It is absolutely wrong to assume the new laws will only affect farmers. They will affect two-thirds of the population dependent on the PDS (public distribution system). The middle class will also not be spared. So, it is the duty of every section of the society to protest against these black laws,” Singh told the audience. “From farm laws to rising fuel prices, the condition of the working-class population has seldom been so challenging in the country,” he added. Singh, who hails from Deep Singh Wala village in Faridkot, Punjab, has been camping at the Singhu border near Delhi for over three months. He was among the SKM leaders to have called out “pro-Khalistani” groups’ attempts to “sabotage” the Republic Day tractor rally.  “Since then,  my wife and I have been receiving several abusive messages and threats on social media from the pro-Khalistani groups. The irony is, my own government is also branding me an anti-national,” Singh told this newspaper. Bengal, and every other state, should take part in the protests because the contentious farm laws “not only undermined farmers but were detrimental to the food security of millions of Indians”, he added. The 38-year-old, who represents the Kirti Kisan Union, one of the many organisations in the SKM, was on a one-day visit to Calcutta. On Thursday afternoon, he was the star speaker at a rally called under the banner of a “Forum to save the Indian Constitution and the state of West Bengal from Fascist Forces”. The rally was held near the headquarters of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation near Esplanade. “According to the new law, the government will not intervene unless the price of potato and onion increases by over 100 per cent. Say, the price of onion is now Rs 60 per kilo. It can shoot up to Rs 110 per kilo. But the government will do nothing. You will have two options, either burn a hole in your pocket or stop eating onion,” he said. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, implies that the government could impose limits on hoarding only if there is a 100 per cent increase in the retail prices of horticulture produce, such as fruits and vegetables, or 50 per cent in the retail prices of non-perishable items such as cereals, pulses or oil. Singh said more leaders from the SKM would visit Calcutta in the coming days, as Bengal gears up for the polls. “They will tell people to vote for anyone but the BJP,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||City tour operators want Thai quarantine rule revoked||The Thailand government must do away with its 14-day quarantine rule so that tourists can start visiting the country again, tour operators of Calcutta told the Thai authorities on Friday. At an interactive session, Calcutta’s travel agents told the Thai authorities that many people from the city now want to resume leisure travel to the southeast Asian country but the strict visa and quarantine norms, implemented because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Thai authorities said there were plans to withdraw the quarantine rule in phases and also to introduce a new norm where a person with a certificate of Covid-19 vaccination could be allowed into Thailand with eased rules. Friday’s meeting between representatives of the Tourism Authority of Thailand, Thai consulate in Calcutta and the travel agents was the first such interaction since the Covid-19 pandemic stopped international travels last year. Thailand is one of the most favourite destinations of the tourists from Calcutta and other parts of India. According to Thailand tourism officials, in 2019, 20 lakh Indians had visited Thailand. In 2020, nearly three lakh Indians had visited Thailand till March after which international travel had stopped to the country. Now, Thailand has strict SOPs in place and is issuing special tourist visa under a long-stay programme for foreign nationals. “As international travel is starting to resume slowly, there is a pent up demand from tourists in Calcutta to visit a place like Thailand...,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. “But to go there one needs to make a plan for at least 20 days because of the quarantine norms and strict visa rules,” he said. Manav Soni, chairman, Travel Agents Association of India, eastern region said: “India is ready to travel to Thailand. Now, we are waiting for a positive response from the Thai authorities.” Vachirachai Sirisumpan, director of Tourism Authority of Thailand, said the Thai government is considering proposals to ease restrictions. “A vaccine certificate for travellers is being considered....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||Off the blocks for ‘smiley poll’ to save soul of Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Friday announced the candidates in all but three of the 294 seats in Bengal, calling the impending battle for Bengal a “smiley poll” in which her party would “khelenge, larenge, jeetenge (play, fight and win)”. Mamata said this election was about preserving the culture of Bengal and ensuring that those who know the state and its history and who live here would be in the seat of power. A snapshot that emerged from the Trinamul Congress list with 291 names: ⚫ Mamata will contest from Nandigram as she had promised. But she will contest only from there, which means she is switching from her home turf in Bhowanipore. ⚫ 30-odd new faces with a heavy presence of Tollywood actors. ⚫ 50 women, 79 from the Scheduled Caste segment, 17 from the Scheduled Tribes. Hard calculations reflecting the new ground reality in Bengal politics were apparent and the impact of caste-based identity politics was hard to miss. The 79 candidates from the Scheduled Castes are 11 more than the number of seats reserved for the community. The BJP had made significant gains among the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the Lok Sabha polls. “One has to keep in mind the caste and community considerations, which didn’t exist earlier. The BJP’s divisive politics has brought about this change,” Mamata said. ⚫ 42 Muslim candidates, down from 57 last time. The BJP has been harping on “appeasement” for long. ⚫ At least five ministers and 23 sitting MLAs have failed to make it to the list — for a variety of reasons like age, ailment and local and caste considerations. Finance minister Amit Mitra is among those who are not contesting. Kajal Sinha will be fielded from Khardah, the seat held by Mitra. ⚫ But if she returns to power, Mamata has mooted a proposal to revive the Bidhan Parishad, the legislative council to which members can be nominated on the basis of the strength in the Assembly. This would suggest that if a Trinamul dispensation is re-elected, some of the ministers who are not contesting now can be nominated. But the revival of the council (it was in existence till the mid-1960s) is easier said than done: it requires parliamentary approval. ⚫ Mamata has sought to ring-fence some leaders, such as Atin Ghosh, Debasish Kumar and Udayan Guha, by including them in the list to keep off potential poachers. But some insiders pointed out that the tactic was fraught with risk as poachers can strike after the polls, too. ⚫ The vacant three seats have been set aside for “friends” in the hill constituencies of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong. Releasing the list in the afternoon, Mamata said: “This is an easy poll, I call it a smiley poll…. On May 2 (the day of counting), we all will smile.” As in the past, Trinamul was the first to announce the list of candidates while the Left-Congress-ISF released the names later in the afternoon. The BJP’s list for the first two phases of the polls was scheduled for Thursday night or Friday morning but it was still awaited on Friday night. Confidence is key “We have 101 per cent faith in people and we are leaving it to their judgement,” said the chief minister. “Khelenge, larenge, jeetenge,” she added, explaining the theme of the battle at hand. Exuding confidence after wrapping up the news conference at her office on 30B Harish Chatterjee Street, Mamata sat down with a synthesiser in her room to set score to some of the poll songs that will be played in Trinamul rallies. She was heard telling senior party colleagues like Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee and Subrata Bakshi that the list was the best possible one she could have drawn up in view of the prevailing situation. Mamata handed over a list — with a “best of luck” note scribbled in calligraphy — to poll consultant Prashant Kishor who, along with Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, played a key role in drawing up the draft that Mamata finalised after gathering inputs from party colleagues across Bengal. While the chief minister was visibly happy with the list — she described it as a perfect mix of old and new faces and representative of the state’s demography — its release was followed by protests by ticket aspirants in different parts of the state. Some party insiders pointed out that although they were expecting sweeping changes to beat anti-incumbency, Mamata chose to be risk-averse by opting for “bits and pieces alteration”. Battleground Nandigram Mamata may have been risk-averse while selecting her team but she did not hedge her individual bet as she announced that she would contest only from Nandigram. “I keep my word. I had said that I would contest from Nandigram and I am going to do that,” said Mamata, who had thrown the gauntlet down at Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, a two-time MLA from the East Midnapore seat, at a public meeting there on January 18. She took care to explain that she would continue looking after Bhowanipore, a seat she has won twice, which she vacated in favour of party veteran Sovandeb Chatterjee. The decision may gift the BJP a chance to attack her by saying she has fled Bhowanipore because Trinamul managed only a slender margin over the BJP in the last Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul can always contest this narrative by saying that unlike many others, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she was against the idea of hedging her personal bet by contesting from two constituencies. “I have always contested from the city seats…. Nandigram is a rural seat and it played such an important role in the anti-land acquisition movement. So, I will contest only from there,” said Mamata, who has already sent party colleague Purnendu Basu to the constituency to oversee campaigning. Mamata is likely to go to Nandigram, which goes to poll on April 1, on March 9 and file her nomination the next day at 3.30pm. “I will start my political programmes from March 13,” she said before adding that her detailed itinerary for the poll season was yet to be drawn up. Sources in the party said that special care would be taken to zero in on the venues for 130-odd meetings that she would address in the poll season. “We hear that the Prime Minister will address 30-odd meetings…. Didi will also not be sitting idle,” said a source. Support from peers Mamata thanked a clutch of national leaders — like Tejashwi Yadav of the RJD, Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party, Arvind Kejriwal of AAP, Hemant Soren of the JMM and Uddhav Thackeray of the Shiv Sena and several others — for extending their support to her. Most of these leaders have already expressed their desire to come to Bengal to campaign for her. “I thank all of them for their support…. If they come, we will be happy,” said Mamata, whose attempt to stitch together an alliance of non-BJP parties before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had bombed. All the leaders who had responded to her call in 2019 have started throwing their weight behind Mamata now, ensuring that the battle for Bengal has drawn national attention and the label of  a mini-referendum on the Narendra Modi regime. “I can’t use such technical words like referendum or not… But people of this state know the dangers from the BJP. They realise that only Trinamul can retain the culture and heritage of Bengal,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||Trainee doctor lodges harassment complaint in Calcutta||A post-doctorate trainee doctor in a government hospital has lodged a complaint of sexual harassment against one of her seniors in her department with a south Calcutta police station on Friday. The mother of one has brought charges of demanding sexual favours at the workplace against the senior doctor and complained of threats from the doctor to ruin her career if she did not yield to his demands. The woman also accused her head of department of conspiring with the senior doctor in the alleged offence. According to her, she had reported the matter to her department but no action was taken. “I have been subjected to this torture for the past one year. It started from February 2020,” the woman told Metro. In her complaint the woman mentioned: “In spite of my denying several times he (senior in the department) kept on convincing me, sometimes even threatening me to ruin my career… He also started sending messages and calling me at odd hours, sometime in the midnight (when I was not on duty at hospital). He started seeking my presence in his chamber in close proximity when nobody was inside the chamber and without any reason.” “When I refused, he started maligning me and threatened to ruin my social life and my life as a student and doctor,” the complaint reads. The woman has reported to the police that her alleged harasser had been sending objectionable text messages to her, which she would submit to the police as an evidence. “Initially, I had tried to turn down the demands gracefully without getting into any confrontation as he was a senior in my department. But when he crossed the line, I reported the matter to the department. But surprisingly there was no action against him. I was left with no other option but to seek police help,” the woman said. She alleged that she was forced to work long hours at a stretch and humiliated in front of others for her “refusal”. “The allegation is very serious because it involves non-action from a government institute,” said complaint’s lawyer S.K. Salim Rahaman. A senior police officer said they have registered a case and have initiated a probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||On-campus tests see dip in scores in Calcutta||Teachers have reported sketchy answers, incomplete answer scripts and a dip in performance from the evaluation of pen-and-paper exams that have been conducted across city schools. Usually, students are better prepared for rehearsal exams than they are this year, several heads of schools said. The dip in performance is across subjects. Toposheet and map work in geography and English spellings have deteriorated, teachers said. In at least one school, the head has decided to speak to parents of Class XII students and tell them that they need to “sit up”, based on feedback from teachers after paper corrections. At another school, teachers said they will speak to students about the need to pull themselves up before the boards. “We feel certain concepts need to be cleared and students have not had the kind of practice that is required. Performance of students is not as it should have been, especially for ISC candidates, where the requirement is much higher,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal, Sri Sri Academy. “In a regular year, by this time (before boards) the students have an intense preparation and have written three exams in school. But this year, they could write one so far and that too only those who opted for it,” said Shunglu. Schools had shut down in March last year as a precaution against Covid and students attended online classes and wrote online exams. Following a nod from the state government, schools reopened for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12 and have held on-campus exams, especially for board classes. “In the pre-boards, we expect students to present good answers but there is sketchiness now and answers are not complete. Writing long answers has been impacted, which is apparent in subjects like history and sociology,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal, Loreto Convent Entally. She said that in subjects like history, a student has to memorise and that works with repetition, which has not happened this year. This is being reflected in the performance. Teachers are also noticing that a section of students performed better in the online exams than they are now. At The BSS School, the Class X practice tests are over and the Class XII ones are underway. “For Class X, teachers have given feedback that for a section of students, the performance is low across subjects. They were more comfortable online and have struggled in the on-campus exams. They have not done as well as we had expected or as they had done in the (online) practice test in January. We plan to have another practice before the boards and expect them to improve by then,” said Sunita Sen, principal, The BSS School. Sen said that the writing speed had gone down and the practice of writing an exam in a controlled school environment had suffered. “The average students did better in the online mode and are struggling to complete papers now and therefore not performing as well,” said Janet Gasper Chowdhury, the president of St Augustine’s Education Society, which runs St Augustine’s Day School in Barrackpore and Shyamnagar. Students are finding it difficult to transition from online to offline, said Richard Gasper, principal, St Augustine’s Day School in Calcutta. “It is showing in their performance and marks are going down,” he said. Students have not had physically invigilated exams and seem to be having “exam phobia”. “In physical school, regular tests are held, teachers check the progress and inform parents accordingly to keep the performance levels up. Usually, just before the boards, we have three parent-teacher meetings, especially with the below-average performers, but this year we could have just one,” Gasper Chowdhury said. At Krishnachandrapur High School in Mathurapur, a state board-affiliated school in South 24-Parganas, teachers have started conducting class tests. “But the scores are low even in class tests. We will hold mock tests before the boards,” said headmaster Chandan Maity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
06-03-2021||Calcutta||BSF rescues exotic birds near Nadia ||A menagerie of birds that include a Helmeted guineafowl, two Eclectus parrots, a couple of Scarlet macaws and lovebirds were rescued on Friday while they were allegedly being smuggled into the city from Bangladesh, an officer of the Border Security Force (BSF) said. The BSF had received an information that several birds would be smuggled into the city from Bangladesh near the Vijaypur border outpost near Nadia, a BSF officer said. A patrol team posted at the border outpost spotted three men moving suspiciously with two large gunny bags on their heads, the officer said. When they were asked to stop, they dropped the bags and ran into the forest. “On closer inspection, our men found 16 birds crammed inside small plastic bags,” he said. The BSF contacted the forest department, who identified the birds, and advised them to give the birds some fruits and water. The birds will be handed over to Alipore zoo, the officer added. The birds will be in quarantine for at least 14 days, an official of the zoo said. ‘The Helmeted guineafowl and Eclectus parrots are highly sought after as pets and the price can go to several lakhs,” Bapai Sen, the secretary of the All Bengal Bird Lovers’ Organisation. Earlier this month, three Keel-Billed toucans that were handed over to the zoo were stolen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-123
