07-03-2021||Calcutta||Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram, sole surprise in language||The BJP on Saturday announced a list of 56 candidates for the first two phases of the Bengal polls, predictably fielding Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari against chief minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram. The party left a 57th seat — Baghmundi in Purulia — for its Jharkhand ally, the All Jharkhand Students Union. Sixty constituencies are to vote on March 27 and April 1. The BJP list, released after a delay of at least two days, contained no big surprises but for the language the party chose to announce the names in at a time it is fighting a perceived “cultural disconnect” with Bengal. The BJP list, announced by general secretary Arun Singh in New Delhi, was printed in English and Hindi but not in Bengali. Trinamul too had published its list in English and Hindi but Mamata Banerjee had made the announcement in Bengali. The Left opted only for Bengali while releasing its list. The matter would not have drawn much attention had a section of BJP leaders in Bengal not commented about it. “How many people in rural Bengal understand English or Hindi?” a BJP leader asked. Apart from fielding defected MLAs such as Adhikari, Tapasi Mondal (from the Left) and Sudip Mukherjee (from the Congress), the BJP has mostly rewarded long-time workers. Former India medium-pacer Ashoke Dinda is the lone celebrity on the list. Shortly before his name was announced, former minister Adhikari -- who had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief J.P. Nadda to let him contest from Nandigram -- thanked the Election Commission for the way it had drawn up the poll schedule for Bengal. Mamata has publicly accused the commission of catering to the BJP’s interests in Bengal. Throughout Saturday, the BJP remained busy communicating with most of the 28 outgoing Trinamul MLAs whom Mamata had dropped from her candidate list on Friday, hoping to engineer last-minute defections. The BJP has not named its candidates for the remaining six phases, which account for 234 seats. Satgachhia MLA Sonali Guha, once considered close to Mamata, Shibpur MLA Jatu Lahiri and former Bhangar MLA Arabul Islam have publicly indicated the possibility of switching sides. Various places across the state have witnessed demonstrations and clashes stemming from some Trinamul leaders’ and workers’ displeasure at the candidate list. Earlier in the day, former Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP at its national headquarters. “It’s a golden moment for me; I was waiting for this,” said Trivedi, who has had three terms in the Rajya Sabha and two in the Lok Sabha when he was backed by either the Congress or Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
07-03-2021||Calcutta||'During Covid pandemic, the  government failed to treat  humans with dignity'||If you are reading this as you head to Calcutta, Prime Minister, you might want to consider a rejig to your rhetoric on the Brigade Grounds this afternoon: your handling of the Covid pandemic has been pronounced a failure. When the hands went up at the conclusion of the debate, the motion of the evening had won hands down. At the Calcutta Club The Telegraph National Debate 2021, presented by Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management, powered by Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, in association with Pan Bahar, the motion went: “In the opinion of the house, in the year of the pandemic, India failed to balance lives with livelihood”. As it turned out, the proposers of his botching of the sweeping humanitarian crisis didn’t require to stretch themselves; it was a contest won in facile fashion, so facile that Mahua Moitra felt obliged to say sorry shots hadn’t been fired. It isn’t often she has to seek forgiveness for being short on gunpowder in her bandolier, but she was never provoked to the trigger in the first place. “I apologise if the debate has turned out to be a bit of a damp squib,” Moitra said towards the end, already quite assured her side had the run of the floor. It was never a fight, Prime Minister, your advocates tamely lost, with little more to offer than tatty whataboutery and dubious parading of numbers. Economist Prasenjit Basu, who briefly promised to make a fist of it, became too absorbed in rubbishing Nehruvian socialism and schmoozing Modi’s New India to bring credibility to his argument. “In Modi’s India,” Basu claimed to incredulous sighs rising from the back of the house, “every household has a clean toilet to use.... Modi’s India has actually strengthened the state of the economy, it has massively outperformed the world and Nehruvian history.” He may have mistaken the stage and the day by a bit; Basu was probably imagining himself speaking from Modi’s Brigade dais to Modi’s audience with Modi listening in. Sanjay Hegde, senior advocate at the Supreme Court and battler of many causes, drew first blood, accusing Modi of making the wrong decisions with the wrong people around and creating a situation where the “consequences of the virus will haunt us long after the virus has gone”. When the pandemic was about to break, “everything was put on hold because we had to shout ‘Kemchho Trump’... we kept our airports open because we had to let people in for the jamboree… we did all sorts of unscientific drills like utensil banging”. Hegde also flagged the qualities of good leadership and recalled Gen. Sam Manekshaw rebutting Indira Gandhi’s orders to prepare for a mid-monsoon war to liberate East Pakistan, arguing the season would be disastrous for waging battle. “Manekshaw said ‘no’, he argued he needed time and was given time. Is there anyone who can say ‘no’ to the current incumbent?” It was a theme Dr Kunal Sarkar would later labour on too, saying the Prime Minister had surrounded himself with not the right men but with yes-men. Sardonic of mien as few can be, Sarkar also ribbed the Modi government on reacting late. “We let the virus float in from the world over, we knew but lakhs of infected people came in.... Of course in Bengal we are foresighted people. Our leaders had taken measures to shut international flights years ago, we have been preparing for decades, we don’t have international flights barring Bangkok-Tangkok.…” Real estate and hospitality magnate Harsh Neotia played the balancing game to near-perfection, clearly taking no risks to commit himself on the eve of the high-voltage battle for Bengal. He was no politician, he clarified at the outset; he wasn’t going anywhere near tarrying with the torrid business of it. “Team India has done well, and Bengal, which is part of Team India, has done better to help Indian averages,” was the burden of his calm and careful act; he has things off the evening to quote to Modi; he has things to quote to Mamata Banerjee. His colleague on the opposing side, former Tripura and Meghalaya governor Tathagata Roy, came troubled with the proposition itself. “How can lives be likened to livelihoods?” he asked to general bafflement. “What is the connection, one is a matter for doctors, the other the concern of economists, what is the connection, I cannot understand. This is wrong.” Mahua Moitra, speaking grist ahead of Roy, had just defined the link. “Most poor people in this country do not have the luxury of staying at home and eating from home. A crisis is different for the rich and the poor. The binary between lives and livelihoods is false, for the poor their livelihood is their life, and it is that understanding, that dignity that the government has failed to display towards the poor,” she argued. “In my district (Krishnagar) alone, three to four lakh migrants came back, and you know what they told me? ‘Didi, this pandemic will not kill us, hunger will’. That is where this government failed; in treating humans with dignity and providing for them, it failed spectacularly.” Her opposing side, she’d have been pleased to note, failed even more spectacularly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Calcutta||2021 Bengal Assembly elections: Groups launch ‘No Vote to BJP’ drive in Calcutta||A clutch of social organisations that had protested against the new citizenship matrix and supported the poor when a sudden lockdown was forced on them has launched a campaign called No Vote to BJP. The campaign has reached various districts, organising meetings, performing skits, distributing pamphlets and putting up posters with one clarion call — “vote any party you want but the BJP”. On Saturday, the people behind the campaign released a 103-second Bengali video that shows people of various ages, from varied backgrounds and in diverse clothes dancing to a peppy track that explains the “perils” of voting the BJP. The video was launched on the Facebook page of “No Vote to BJP” on Saturday morning. By 4pm, it had registered “8.3k views” and been shared “758” times. “The idea was to reach out to as many people as possible through a catchy medium. The song explains why people should not cast a single vote to the BJP,” said Kasturi Basu, the convener of the forum behind the campaign. Set to organise a rally in central Calcutta on March 10, the forum is reaching out to people from all sections of the society for participation. The video released on Saturday is well on course to — if the Internet traction is anything to go by — garnering support in the virtual world. The lyrics are hard hitting: “Bikash atke gecche RSS jhandae; kalo taka phirlo na Modijir fundae (Development is stuck in the RSS flag; black money has not come back according to Modiji’s theory)”. The recurrent message that keeps coming back in the video, — “Banglar manush dichhe dak, Banglae BJP nipaat jak; Dosher michhil jonotar raye, BJP ke ar ektio vote noye (The people of Bengal are calling for the downfall of the BJP; the rally on 10th reflects public opinion, not a single vote to the BJP)”. The make of the video is smart and crisp. The characters are people you see everywhere around; students, office goers, theatre workers, transgenders and senior citizens, all dancing to the peppy track, all in the backdrop of three words written in a large font size — "Banglae bibhed noye (No discrimination in Bengal)”. If colourful props lend a vibrant character to the video, the participation of common people bring in an element of freshness and spontaneity. Sabyasachi Mukherjee, 23, who has coauthored the song, said the challenge was to blend issues like “UAPA”, “JNU and Jamia” and “farm bills and NRC” into a verse that will have a mass appeal. “Dalit porano ar dharshan humki, Krishi bill NRC sabkichhu gunchhi (Burning Dalits, rape threats, farm bills and NRC, we are keeping a count of every single thing),” the song says towards the end. “No Vote to BJP is Bengal’s gift to the larger Indian electoral politics. It is a viable font that can unite all secular and democratic parties,” said Ronny Sen, filmmaker and photographer who is part of the team that has made the video. Samantak Sinha, 37, an independent musician and playback singer, has sung the track. “The video is very contemporary. The EDM (electronic dance music) soundtrack blends seamlessly with Bengali rap,” said Sinha. The execution of the video took a week, the makers said. “During the recce, we asked random people if they wanted to be a part of this. We told them about the campaign. They readily agreed. One of them was a man who was selling peanuts at Gariahat,” said Basu. “We want to convince people, especially those who have swung towards the BJP in the recent past. We tell them that this time they should not make the same mistake again,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Calcutta||One flier tests positive for South African variant in Calcutta||An international flier, who reached the city recently, has been found positive for the South African-strain of the coronavirus and three others have tested positive for the UK-strain, senior officials of the health department said on Saturday. The confirmation about the presence of these strains reached the health department on Friday, days after the samples were sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani. Officials said these passengers had flown into Calcutta in February end and had undergone the mandatory RT-PCR test for Covid-19. Till Saturday evening, one of the three passengers with the UK-strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been admitted to the Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital in Beleghata, health department officials said. “One of the four passengers have been found to be positive for the South African-strain and three others have tested positive for the UK-strain of the coronavirus...,” Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services, told Metro. The person who has been admitted to ID Hospital is a resident of Nadia district and is 30-year-old. A team of Covid-19 doctors has been engaged to monitor the patient’s condition round the clock. His contacts back in Kalyani have been asked remain in isolation and their samples have been sent for tests. “The patient is doing fine,” said a senior doctor of the hospital. In January, a 38-year-old UK-based professional, who flew into Calcutta, had tested positive for the UK-strain. On Saturday, immediately after the results of three others reached Swasthya Bhavan, a team of officials called up the family members of these fliers and asked them to go into isolation. The fliers have been asked to regularly check the saturation level of oxygen in their blood till the time they are admitted to the ID Hospital. A report with details of these passengers was sent to the Union ministry of health on Saturday along with measures that the state government has taken in handling them. “So far we have found that all the four, tested positive with mutant strains of the coronavirus, are asymptomatic,” said a senior health department official. “Specific protocols about how to handle such patients and what needs to be done after they have been tested positive for mutant strains of the coronavirus has been developed. There is no reason to get unnecessarily alarmed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
07-03-2021||Calcutta||The Telegraph National Debate 2021: ‘Blind to plight of migrant workers’||WHAT Calcutta Club The Telegraph National Debate 2021, presented by Subhas Bose Institute of Hotel Management, powered by Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, in association with Pan Bahar WHERE Calcutta Club Lawns MOTION During the pandemic, India failed to balance lives with livelihood VERDICT The motion was carried Sanjay Hedge Supreme Court advocate The first Covid case appeared in India on January 27 in Kerala’s Thrissur. It was a medical student who had come from Wuhan. At that point of time India was greatly looking to something else on a war footing. On February 24, Donald Trump was to come to India and we were to say kemchho kemchho kemchho. Everything was put on hold for that. The one thing that we needed to put on hold, the one place we needed to check — our airports — were kept open. We kept them open because we needed the international press, we needed our NRIs who wanted to come to the jamboree not to be disturbed. So we let them come. On March 24, we were all told: sit in your houses. What we did not envision was those who were barely one payment away from starvation. As somebody put it: Guna passport-o ne ki/ aur sazaa mili ration card ko. Even today, the thinking is still the same. We are now among the world’s largest producer of vaccines. If we are to balance between lives and livelihoods, why is this that our vaccine producing factories are not working to full capacity? That is a question that Delhi High Court has asked the government. If we had ramped up vaccine production and delivery, that itself would have generated employment. But no, we have to have our vaccines delivered in a regulated form. It doesn’t matter even if it takes us three years to vaccinate everyone at the current rate. You are tomorrow (on Sunday) going to welcome the Prime Minister here. Please ask him where are the vaccines? You (the Prime Minister) promised them in Bihar, are you at least bringing them to Bengal? Kunal Sarkar Cardiac surgeon No matter how triumphantly nationalistic you are, Covid, unlike the Internet, jet engine and everything else, did not originate in India. It is not quoted in Indian mythology, it happened somewhere else and it had to be brought to our country. It is not a pandemic that spread by physical movement but by flights. As Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, every country in physical proximity of China had shut their gates down in late December (2019), early January (2020), we waited till March 20. In the last seven days that the flights were open, something around 20 to 25 lakh passengers came in from Europe and the US at a time Europe and the US were running an infectivity rate of around 20 per cent which meant that we invited around five lakh infections only in the last week through the main airports of Delhi and Mumbai. In Bengal, we are far sighted. So, 20 years ago, our forefathers had cautioned. So, we don’t have any international flights. We were all ready for the pandemic. But yet migrant labourers introduced the infections to us and even the poor Bengali was not spared. We had the entire three million square kilometres of India locked down monolithically at once. That is not possible. India is not going to behave as a homogenous contiguous entity. We had a stringent lockdown. But what was missing? When we contained people, we did not trace them adequately. We lost our enthusiasm for contact tracing. We satisfied our physicality of the lockdown but the epidemiological core of the problem was not addressed. Answer me one question this evening. Who is India’s chief epidemiolo-gist? Every civilised nation on the earth knows who is leading their epidemiology programme. There is an entity in India, called the Centre for Disease Control, located in Pune. Perhaps the central government thought it was in hostile territory, in Maharashtra. So… I am going to hand over the control to ICMR, which is an august body of very peace-loving quite gentlemen and women who are engaged in research…. Not because you have the right men there but because you have the yes men. One month into the lockdown, there was a meeting of the empowered committee…. The chairman of the empowered committee, speaking on April 24, guaranteed everybody that there will not be a single RNA molecule left in India by May 16. This is the intellectual input that went into the formulation of the lockdown. Mahua Moitra Trinamul Congress MP Today actually I will steer clear of the politics of it and stick to what the real issue at hand is. We can start with whether Nehru, actually Babur or the marauding Mughals were to be blamed for Covid being brought into India. I could start with that, but I don’t think it would take us anywhere. What this pandemic has shown us… is that there is such a wide gap in our understanding of India, especially crises in India. Lockdown, on the face of it, was the right thing to do. But the government, which has the ability to mobilise lakhs of troops overnight, surely had the ability to give clarity to the movement of the migrant workers — 30 million people who were stuck in different cities. That is where this government failed… no government is here to be rewarded on what they did right. That’s is what is needed to be done. We cannot be applauded for saying “I saved so many lives”. The question is 30 per cent of India’s workforce is made up of migrant workers. What the government did in the manner they did it, was completely blind and callous to the plight of these migrant workers. I think that is where we failed completely to balance lives and livelihoods. We had Mr Basu talk about the direct benefit transfers. Shall I give you one statistic? The direct benefit transfers that were handed out by the government till date are to the tune of Rs 113,000 crore. This government took back from the same people exactly hundred and thirteen thousand crore by way of extra cess on gas and patrol. When we talk of the collateral damage… we had over 800 migrant deaths due to road accidents. How many people like you and me died due to road accidents because we happen to be working on the road during the pandemic and truck mowed down? Having to deal with two to three lakh people who came back to my district alone, getting off the trains, looking after them, one thing that will stay with us, is as a nation we have dehumanised our people. More than anything else, whether this government has failed or whether this government has failed to improve the economy…. I think what this pandemic has done, has brought shame, the feeling of shame and feeling of humiliation among us, which will stay with us for a long time. Harshavardhan Neotia Industrialist Obviously we had a terrible first quarter. We had also a significant recession of almost 8 per cent, but in the third quarter we are seeing some green shoots with a marginal recovery above the zero point and we hope that we will have a better fourth quarter. I must mention here that as a businessman I am someone who has been directly impacted by this pandemic. I am in real estate and hospitality business. These have been in the front of taking the brunt of the pandemic…. In fact, you see this salt and pepper beard (pointing towards his beard). It is also outgrowth of the terrible stress that I went through. A friend of mine on a lighter note said: “Harsh, you have lost weight”.  I said: ‘Yes’. The loss is directly proportional to the loss in wealth and income. But having faced the brunt of this, I see in the last few months a sharp recovery. People are coming back to the restaurants, people are coming back to buy properties. Construction is now almost at full swing. Things are opening up. City properties are not doing so well because we still have air connectivity internationally down. My personal view is that we have been, as a country, both able to manage relatively better than the rest of the world. Of course we have lost lives, of course we have lost livelihoods. But the question is: how do you respond in the event of a pandemic. I think Bengal, as a state, has done remarkably well in both seeing to it that succour and help reach the people on time. I think, as a country, we have responded with the given knowledge, with the given situation reasonably well. Prasenjit K Basu Economist and history enthusiast Let me start with what Kunal Sarkar said about east Asia (Sarkar had lauded the effort of East Asian countries in containing the pandemic). East Asia did not just have this recent pandemic. East Asia had several. They had faced the SARS pandemic in 2003. There have also been several bird flu epidemics. East Asians have a lot of experience. Taiwan has in particular done very well during this pandemic because they had the terrific experience of dealing with a pandemic. In India, the proportion of death is so much lower than what the epidemiologists suggested. While 5 per cent of Indians died from the coronavirus of 1919, 0.1 per cent India’s population died from the coronavirus of 2020.  India now accounts for 17.7 per cent of the world’s population but accounted for 6 per cent of global deaths from the current coronavirus. When some 20 million internal migrants returned to their rural homes, Modi’s new India provided them options — either take on an emergency Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) job to help create some capital assets in your village or borrow a MUDRA micro loan to help create and start a new enterprise. Or after an appropriate period of lockdown, rest, take up a new industrial job taking advantage of the new labour codes that are resulting in a rebound in both domestic and foreign direct investment in this country. Tathagata Roy Former governor I have been at a loss to understand the motion of the debate. Saving lives is a matter of medicine. Saving livelihoods is a matter of economics. The two don’t have much to do with each other but we have tried to connect the two in the motion which, to me, makes little sense but I was reassured by the fact that I had to speak against the motion. Can anyone plan for a bolt from the blue? I would say that we were plunged into a sea of uncertainty that can be compared to the state of Columbus when he was navigating across the unknown Atlantic. Was it possible for anyone in this country or any other country to device methods of doing things in a most beneficial and optimal manner? I think not. Despite all the uncertainties, we tried to create a regime in which people could be persuaded to behave in a particular way and which will prevent deaths. In the process, we were plunged into great confusion also. When the lockdown was imposed, it was for three weeks. Eventually, it was extended for many more months. Why was it initially imposed for three weeks? Because we did not know where we were going. But certain people had certainties. So, they said ‘this is not pandemic’. Donald Trump said it in the US and someone said in Calcutta: “this is merely a subterfuge to draw people’s attention away from the communal riots in Delhi”. The things started getting worse and worse and the narrative gradually changed. The knocking of utensils had brought forth a lot of ridicule. Knocking of utensils would not drive away corona. Nobody ever said it would drive away corona. But it was required the consciousness in people that we were to behave in a certain way in these circumstances. Partha Ghose President, Calcutta Club 2020 was a devastating year for humanity, causing unprecedented suffering, loss of lives and livelihood.... The lockdown versus no-lockdown debate, that is life versus livelihood debate, was sparked off by two academic groups, one based in the University of Oxford and the other at Imperial College, London. Many countries opted for lockdown as did India, though a bit late. After nearly a year, the so-called curve has flattened considerably... and luckily vaccines are also available. But Covid-19 won’t go away. It is here to stay because it started mutating before vaccines were available. Remember, small pox took nearly a decade to eradicate and polio is still around after 30 years of vaccination... Common cold is also a coronavirus and we are all used to it. We have to get used to Covid-19 as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-122
