08-03-2021||Calcutta||Inking the living bridge between Bengal and the UK ||A new partnership was forged on March 5, when the Indo-British Scholars’ Association (IBSA) and the Bengal Heritage Foundation (BHF) signed a memorandum of understanding to collaborate on education, sports, culture and arts. The MoU, which was signed at the British Club by Rajive Kaul, president of IBSA, and Sourav Niyogi, president of BHF, will look at expanding the collaboration between the two organisations, through programmes and webinars in the cultural engagement space, to other areas by engaging with UK alumni and the Bengali and Indian diaspora community in the UK. “Bengal Heritage Foundation is committed to be a ‘living bridge’ between the UK and Bengal. Our year-long activities reflect the human connections we build across the UK and Bengal. We are delighted to join hands together with an amazing group of alumni from UK universities. This will further strengthen the connection and build upon the many years of shared heritage,” said Niyogi. BHF, a non-profit organisation, started as a heritage project of London Sharad Utsav to showcase “Patachitra” in the UK. The success of the project led to the formation of the Foundation, which works to preserve and promote the heritage of Bengal in the UK through cultural, educational, industrial, sporting and tourism avenues -- from the restoration of the tomb of Dwarakanath Tagore at Kensal Green Cemetery, to the restoration and maintenance of terracotta temples in West Bengal, spearheading the Fagun Fest to the annual Probashi Pronaam programme and more. Niyogi thanked Reetasri Ghosh, head of programmes at IBSA, for envisioning the collaboration and driving the agreement. IBSA is the Kolkata Chapter of Association of British Scholars (ABS), a national forum and a division of the British Council in India. It is an association of corporates with connections to Britain, and individuals who have studied or worked in Britain. ‘This MoU reinforces our strong commitment towards deepening IBSA’s engagement with an outstanding organisation whose members have their roots from Bengal and India. Our joint vision of working together in areas of mutual interest such as education, culture, the arts and sport will greatly benefit both our membership.” said Kaul. Nick Low, the British Deputy High Commissioner in Calcutta, said that the two organisations were at the heart of the Living Bridge between the United Kingdom, India and West Bengal. “I’m delighted by the signing of this Memorandum of Understanding which brings together the energy, creativity and vitality of our Bengali diaspora in the UK and our large and growing network of alumni of British Universities in West Bengal and beyond. I know they will do great things together,” he elaborated. As part of the MoU the two parties will jointly organise a BHF–IBSA cricket match, a cultural evening for the elders and a get-together to celebrate Christmas and the festive season when the BFH members visit Kolkata in the months of December and January. Similarly, programmes would be organised in the UK during the summer months when many IBSA members visit the country. The two organisations will also continue to collaborate on Agomoni, a virtual celebration heralding Durga Puja that was started in October 2020. Debanjan Chakrabarti, Director, British Council, East and Northeast India, was delighted with the partnership of a prominent UK alumni body in Kolkata and one of the most significant Indian diaspora institutions in the UK. “This partnership will join the dots across education, culture and community cohesion in remarkable ways, strengthening the India-UK story in a substantial way,” said Chakrabarti, adding that the partnership happened at a significant moment, when the number of Indian students in the UK are at a record high, with a 42 per cent increase in student visas issued this year compared to the last. “As a UK university alumnus, I have lived this experience  of  how  the  Indian  diaspora  networks  help  newly  arrived  students  and  help them  settle  in,” said Chakrabarti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Recognition of entrepreneurial excellence at the Bengal chamber of commerce and industry||For close to two centuries, The Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCC&I) has been at the forefront of identifying and encouraging exemplary talents across businesses and industries. In continuation of its rich legacy, the Chamber hosted The Entrepreneurship Conclave and Awards 2020-21 on March 6, in association with the Techno India Group, Offbeat CCU, Wow! Momo, and Technopreneurs. The afternoon’s proceedings got underway with the welcome speech by Meghdut Roy Chowdhury, Chairperson, The Entrepreneurs’ Committee, BCC&I, along with an address by Deb A Mukherjee, President, BCC&I. “The narrative that entrepreneurship is not active in West Bengal needs to change. Today's ceremony, with so many incredible entrepreneurs, is proof of that," said Mukherjee as part of his presidential address. The Entrepreneurship Awards aims to reward entrepreneurs with outstanding vision and skills, who have been instrumental in socio-economic development irrespective of their size, capital, or geography. "Female entrepreneurs have definitely caught up with their male counterparts these days...For me, the secret to success is to take care of my people, especially at a challenging time like the pandemic," noted Vanita Bajoria, from Hard Rock Cafe and Lord of the Drinks, who was named as the Most Promising Woman Leader. Among the other awardees in the Power Women's category were the likes of Vayjayanti Pugalia, from skill institute Sonali's Cubo (winner of the Innovative Approach in Addressing Social Issues award); Jayshree Ghosh, from Nabakatha Initiatives (winner of the Woman Entrepreneur with Social Impact award); and Keya Seth, from Keya Seth Group of Companies (winner of the Woman Changemaker Award), a beauty, health and wellness brand. The winners in the men's category included the likes of Anil Joshi, from Unicorn India Ventures (Venture Capitalist of the Year); Apurva Salarpuria, from the Salarpuria Group of Companies (Investor of the Year); and Radio Mirchi's Somak Ghosh (Influencer of the Year). In the start-ups category, Rahul Basak, Co-founder and Chief Editor, My Canvas Talk, secured the first prize while for companies with three to 10 years of incorporation, it was Mukul Gupta, Founder, Capital Numbers Infotech Private Limited, who came out on top. Alongside the presentation of the awards, a series of "fireside chats" were also a part of the event’s line-up. Sanjay Kumar Das, WBCS, Joint Secretary, Department of IT and Electronics, spoke about the ways in which governments can collaborate with start-ups to empower entrepreneurship while Keya Seth recounted her journey to entrepreneurial success after navigating through systemic and circumstantial challenges. Harshavardhan Neotia, Chairman, Ambuja Neotia Group, was also involved in one of the "fireside chats" and had a message for all young entrepreneurs: "Don't force yourself to do something you don't enjoy...Alongside your skills, focus on your values. Ultimately, values are what define businesses."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Brigade rally: PM mentions many issues but not rising fuel prices||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday delivered an address that was long on duration but short on the face and formula that will drive his mission to conquer Bengal. Modi touched on a wide array of issues in his address that went on for 1 hour and 10 minutes, making it probably his longest speech in Bengal in recent memory. The setting was perfect for the Prime Minister to build a focused narrative that has become his hallmark — the crowd count under the roasting March sun was put at 20 lakh by the BJP and 4 lakh by police sources — but he chose to trapeze from one issue to another. Modi appeared to have been moved by the turnout on the Brigade Parade Grounds, a sprawling stretch that intimidates crowd gatherers. “In my long political life, I have addressed many rallies but I have never been blessed by such a huge turnout,” the Prime Minister said at the outset, much to the delight of the state BJP team that had left no stone unturned to ensure a high turnout. The takeaways from Modi’s 70-minute address: PM or local leader? Modi was oblivious to the gravitas of his chair or deliberately overlooked it because the event was political. The speech did give the impression that the Prime Minister of India had reduced himself to a state-level leader busy attacking the incumbent in his desperation to win an Assembly election. “In the past 10 years, has the TMC brought any change to the life of an ordinary family in Bengal? Has there been any change in the life of a farmer or a worker?” he asked. “Haven’t the poor become poorer in Bengal under the TMC?” The questions are pertinent but the same questions can be asked of most of the states and the central government as well. While Modi worried about “an ordinary family in Bengal”, he sidestepped the most immediate issue affecting every family in the country. He made no mention of the inexplicable rise in fuel prices although he went out of his way to mock Mamata Banerjee for riding a two-wheeler recently to highlight the plight of the common people. Modi’s expression of concern for the farmers and the workers too sounded a bit rich, considering thousands of farmers have been squatting on highways near the capital for over 100 days and several farmers have died. For the workers, the biggest nightmares of late have been the ill-managed lockdown that hit livelihoods and the use of the pandemic as an excuse to push through changes in labour rules. If the words “Bengal” and “TMC” are replaced with the names of any other state and ruling party — even BJP-ruled states — Modi’s questions cannot be wished away. Not just the Opposition parties, even eminent economists have been demanding answers to such questions from the BJP-led government at the Centre. Modi cannot be faulted for prodding Bengal towards “asol poriborton (real change)”. But for the sake of credibility, the Prime Minister is also expected to explain what real change his seven-year rule has brought about in the country, whose economy shrank the most among the developing countries during the pandemic. There was no sharing of details on another top-of-the-mind issue: the goal of vaccinating all Indians. Modi, however, didn’t forget to check the allegations boxes — like Mamata’s love for her nephew, appeasement politics and the syndicate raj in Bengal. But these issues have been mentioned by the state leaders of his party. As the state leaders — such as Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Trinamul turncoats like Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari — got relegated to Modi’s cheerleaders, the Prime Minister took on their mantle by attacking Trinamul and making the polls appear a Modi-versus-Mamata duel. In doing so, the Prime Minister exposed one of the biggest deficiencies of the Bengal BJP — the absence of a credible face to take on Mamata. In search of a formula Modi repeatedly stressed that the BJP believed in delivering on its promises, and presented a development-oriented agenda. “The BJP not only makes promises, it also delivers…. Whatever we say, we implement it in a time-bound manner,” the Prime Minister said. The statement may not be appreciated by lakhs of Matuas — Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh who had voted wholeheartedly for the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls after Modi promised at a rally that his government would implement the CAA to offer citizenship to them. More than 16 months have passed since the new law came into effect but the CAA rules are yet to be implemented. On Sunday, Modi was silent on the new citizenship matrix, which was a key theme ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. In an attempt to shed the outsider tag, Modi spoke about the party’s “DNA link” with Bengal courtesy Syama Prasad Mookerjee, founder of the Jana Sangh. The formal welcoming of actor Mithun Chakraborty, 70, to the saffron camp too was aimed at establishing the party’s Bengal connect. Some unkind social media trolls did not miss the chance to wisecrack: “Wanted Dada, got dadu,” referring to speculation that the BJP was keen to induct Sourav Ganguly, who did not attend the Brigade event. Then came a flurry of development promises as he spoke about pucca homes for slum dwellers, new flyovers in Calcutta, engineering and medical education in the local language and an overhaul of the administrative delivery system in the state. He proposed Bengal’s industrial rejuvenation through ports and food processing industries. The attempt to cover so many issues gave the impression that the saffron camp had realised that finding one magic formula to woo the voter is difficult in a diverse and heterogeneous Bengal. Promise of real change Modi spun a loosely stitched “asol poriborton (real change)” canvas that will take shape once the BJP comes to power. “Those who have come here have come with the hope of asol poriborton. And I have come here to give you the confidence that real change will take place, Bengal will prosper and develop, and the situation will change as investments will come and industry will grow,” Modi said. “We will create a Bengal where youths will get education and employment, whose people won’t have to migrate in search of jobs, where industry will flourish and investments will flow in…. It will be a Bengal that will have the best of 21st-century infrastructure.” Sounds like the promises made during the “achchhe din” campaign of 2014? No one touches the phrase “achchhe din” now with a bargepole. Another elephant in the Brigade room that was not acknowledged: if the BJP wins, how will it bring about the promised changes with several Trinamul faces having crossed over to the saffron stable?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine case: one more accomplice of BJP leader Rakesh Singh arrested||A man, whom police identified as one of the accomplices of BJP leader Rakesh Singh, has been arrested in connection with the cocaine case on Saturday night. Aryan Dev, 42, a resident of Somnath Lahiri Lane in New Alipore, was allegedly part of the planning by Singh and was present when Singh had conducted a recce at New Alipore on February 17, two days before 90grams cocaine was found in BJP leader Pamela Goswami’s car on NR Avenue in New Alipore. Dev was also assigned  the task of alerting police about the presence of cocaine inside Goswami’s car, the police said. Based on his tip-off, officers of New Alipore police station had reached NR Avenue on February 19 afternoon when Goswami and her friend Prabir Dey were apparently waiting for another man named Rajesh Kumar Prasad to join them for a purported meeting with a central minister. On searching Goswami’s car, the police had seized 90grams of cocaine and arrested Goswami, Dey and Goswami’s security guard Somnath Chatterjee from the spot. “The accused was present during Rakesh Singh’s recce of the spot from where Pamela Goswami was arrested two days later. This means he was completely aware of Rakesh Singh’s conspiracy...,” said a senior police officer in Lalbazar. The police said Dev has at least one old cheating case with Calcutta police. The officer added that Singh had allocated different tasks to his associates in connection with the cocaine case. Amrit Singh, who is still at large, was allegedly assigned to convince Goswami with the alleged promise of getting her a ticket in the ensuing Assembly elections by fixing a purported meeting with a central minister, Suraj Shah was asked to go to the spot at New Alipore and help Amrit Singh flee while Dev was asked to alert the police, an officer said. Officers of the detective department said they were yet to find out who helped Singh to procure the cocaine. Dev was produced at the Alipore narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances court on Sunday and remanded to police custody. With Saturday’s arrest, six people have been caught in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||No health centre run by BMC administered jabs till Sunday||Not a single health centre or health clinic run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation  administered Covid-19 vaccines to those above 60 years or older and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities till Sunday. The only vaccination centre run by the government for all the 41 wards under Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation  is at the Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital near City Centre. On Sunday, a senior civic official said that they were planning to open vaccination centres at several places, including Matrisadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE Block, Deshbandhu Nagar Hospital in Rajarhat, Vidyasagar Matrisadan also in Rajarhat and at primary healthcare centres in Jhautala and in Ashwininagar near Baguiati. “We will start vaccination for the two categories of general population in these centres,” the official said. Till Sunday, the Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital was catering to the citizens of the  41 wards under the civic body spread across Salt Lake, areas under the erstwhile Rajarhat-Gopalpur municipality including Baguiati, Teghoria, Kalindi, several stretches of Rajarhat and even some areas under the erstwhile Mahisbathan-II gram panchayat. The sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake is more than 8km away from Baguiati while from Teghoria it is at least 10km. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said they could not start the vaccination drive for people above 60 and those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities as many frontline worker were yet to be vaccinated. “Our centre at Duttabad is only catering to frontline workers. Many have not yet received their shots so we are concentrating on them,” said Chakraborty. Pranay Kumar Ray, another member of the board of administrators, who is in charge of health services, said they were planning to start administering vaccine to senior citizens and to those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities, soon. “We want to extend the services but right now there are too many frontline workers as well as polling personnel who need to get inoculated,” said Ray. Several residents who wanted to register for the vaccine at government-run health care centres said that it was hard for them to fathom that the civic body was not operating a single health clinic that could administer the doses. Shreyoshi Bhattacharya, resident of HB Block,  said she had gone to sub-divisional hospital in Salt Lake with her elderly parents after registering their names on the Co-Win2.0 app but had to return as the queue was too long. “While my father is above 60 my mother is 54 and has several health disorders, including high sugar. We saw a very long queue in front of the hospital and chose to return as it was too hot and my parents were feeling uncomfortable,” said Bhattacharya, a software engineer. Ranjan Paul, 65, a retired engineer who stays in a housing complex off the Rajarhat Main Road, said he had wanted to get himself inoculated at a government-run centre but chose not to as the drive from his home to the hospital in Salt Lake would have taken more than 40 minutes. “It is unbelievable that there is no government-run vaccination centre here,” said Paul. The superintendent of the Salt Lake sub-divisional hospital, Dr Partha Pratim Guha said that on an average they were administering more than 600 vaccines per day. “We are having long queues but we are not turning anyone away. We are helping senior citizens register for the vaccines and get them inoculated the same day,”said Guha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||MD Rupinder Singh Sodhi  shares Amul's success mantra||Value for many. Value for money. The man at the helm of one of the best Indian brands shared his organisation’s success mantra in front of a city audience on Friday. Rupinder Singh Sodhi, the managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (Amul), was the speaker at the Bengal Chamber of Commerce Leadership Lecture Series, in association with The Telegraph. “What really worked for us? Consistency, if I have to describe in one word. Since Amul was founded in 1974, till today, we have adhered to the basic value system. We have not changed just to get more profit. With time, you have to change. But retaining core value is very important,” said Sodhi. “We have maintained consistency in four major parts — business structure and objective, quality recipes for products, communication and HR practise. What is our business objective? Value for many — providing very stable price to around 3.6 million farmers, whose source of livelihood is milk…. And also provide the best product by using natural ingredients using the latest technology for processing and packaging but at value for money. So that the average Indian consumer can also afford our products. So value for many and value for money, these are our business goals. It means give more to earn more. Give more to the producer, give more to the consumer. Once they are satisfied, your business will grow,” he added. Amul’s objective, he said, was “diametrically opposite” to any other corporate or business house. “What objectives are generally given to a CEO by a board? You have to buy your raw material at as low a price as possible. You have to sell your finished product at a price as high as possible, thereby keeping maximum gross profit,” he said. Amul is the biggest producer of packaged milk in the organised sector and the biggest exporter of dairy products in the country. The organisation registered a turnover of more than Rs 52,000 crore last year. Every day, it procures 29 million litres of milk from 3.6 million farmers. Sodhi has been at the helm of the dairy behemoth for over a decade. On Friday, he also spoke at length on the consistency in Amul’s iconic communication strategy, revolving around topical campaigns centred on the little girl in a polka-dotted dress. “Amul’s communication is unique in the sense that the brand recall is because of the campaign, not the product. You think Sony, a tv comes to your mind. You think of Maruti, the recall is that of a car. But you think of Amul, and the little girl comes to your mind,” said Sodhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||HS practical exams at Kasba school to be held on campus from Monday||The practical exams for the Higher Secondary at Chittaranjan School at Kasba, that was shut since February 24 after a teacher had tested Covid positive during a confirmatory test, will be held on campus from Monday, officials of the school education department said. Thirty-three students of Class XII have been split into small groups so that maximum physical distancing could be maintained during the practical exams, said an official of the department. Classes of students of IX and X are being held online since the closure so that assembly could be avoided as much as possible when the students of the higher secondary batch come for the practical exams from Monday. An official said the practical exams of students who are in Class XI will start after the Class XII practical exams end on March 13. “The schedule of the practical exams of Class XI students have been pushed back so that gathering could be avoided as much as possible,” he said. A teacher of the school, who had been visiting the campus since the resumption of in-person classes in schools across Bengal for students of Classes IX to XII on February 12, underwent Covid-19 test at a private facility on February 22 . He informed headmaster Anindya Chattopadhyay after he tested positive and the school authorities in consultation with the education department decided to shut down the campus till the situation improved. A section of Class XI and XII students who had attended the class of the teacher underwent Covid test at MR Bangur Hospital under the supervision of the headmaster, an official of the school said. “After none of the students were found infected we decided that the practical exams should be held from Monday following the safety protocols. The teacher continues to be in home isolation,” said an official the education department. During the closure since February 24, the campus has been sanitised at regular intervals. The teachers and students have been reminded about maintaining basic precautionary measures like wearing masks, carrying sanitiser, washing hands frequently, said sources in the department. Another official of the department said since the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education has given the schools liberty to advance the start of the practical exams in view of the ensuing elections and end the exams at the earliest, the school in Kasba has decided to start the exams from Monday. The council had earlier announced that the practical exams would have to be held between March 10 and 31, but later gave the schools relaxation because of the possibility that the central forces might take possession of school  buildings. The HS practical exams have started in some of the schools from March 1. “Although the school in Kasba has not yet received any requisition about the entry of the central forces, it was thought prudent that the practical exams are started at the earliest,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Two new Covid strain cases detected in fliers who arrived from Dubai||Two more fliers who arrived from Dubai between February 23 and March 4 were detected with UK strain of the mutated SARS-CoV-2 virus, that causes Covid-19, on Sunday. The number of people reaching Calcutta with mutant strains of the coronavirus now stands at six, health department officials said. Earlier four of them had tested positive for the mutant strains of the coronavirus, including one with the South African-strain, and the rest with the UK-strain. Among the three fliers tested positive for the UK strain one was admitted to Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital in Beleghata on Saturday. The state government from Monday will start tracing other passengers and crew members of the flights on which these people had travelled. The family members of those who have tested positive have been asked to undergo RT-PCR test for Covid-19. On Sunday, the remaining fliers were admitted to the same hospital in a special ward, which has been set up for such patients. Till late evening the condition of all the six was stable, doctors said. Health department officials said these passengers had flown in from Dubai between February 23 and March 4 and had tested negative during the mandatory RT-PCR tests ahead of boarding their flights to Calcutta. All of them worked as labourers in Dubai except one, who works at a hotel. That man in his late 40s hails from South 24-Parganas. He had arrived on March 4. The remaining fliers, in their late 30s and early 40s, are from of Nadia and Malda. The passenger who has tested positive for the South African-strain — the first such case in Bengal — is from Ratua in Malda. After arriving in Calcutta these fliers had undergone RT-PCR tests along with other passengers and their samples were sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani. The confirmation about the presence of the mutant variety of the SARS-CoV-2 virus reached two days back spurring the health department to initiate a follow up action, including bringing these fliers to the city and admitting them at the Beleghata hospital. “No decision has yet been taken about restricting flights from Dubai. We have had a case of a passenger testing positive for the UK-strain earlier too. There is no need to panic,” Narayan Swaroop Nigam, health secretary, told Metro. “We will contact the airlines on Monday and collect a list of passengers and members of the crew for each of the flights that these fliers had boarded,” said Ajay Chakrobarty, state’s director of health services. “Our team members will call them to ask if they were facing any health complications since their arrival.” Fliers landing in Calcutta and have not tested positive during the mandatory RT-PCR test would have to stay in home isolation for 14 days according to a directive drawn up by the state government. During this period if any of them develops complications, including shortness of breath, they would have to inform the health department. A medical team from the civic body would keep in touch with the flier and monitor his health condition, the directive states. Senior health department officials admitted this process of monitoring is often fraught with slackness leaving it mostly on the fliers to inform about their health condition to the health department. Most don’t. The daily bulletin published by the state health department showed the state reported 259 new cases on Saturday and fresh 255 cases on Friday. A week ago the numbers were lesser. The state had reported 210 fresh cases on February 27 and 216 new cases on February 26. Calcutta reported 83 new cases on Saturday and 78 new cases on Friday. The city had reported 69 cases on February 27 and 72 cases on February 26. At the Beleghata hospital, the fliers have been admitted to the High Dependency Unit of a special ward that has been created and a team of doctors has been set up for round the clock monitoring. None of them showed signs of falling levels of oxygen in their blood, doctors said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcutta bridges to undergo health audit : CMDA ||Two bridges, one around 90 years old and another about 75 years old, will undergo a health audit after a preliminary inspection by engineers of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) found that the bridges have weakened over the years. The two bridges — Dhanodhanya running next to Uttirna auditorium in Alipore and the old Kidderpore bridge — handle fair to heavy traffic almost every day, said CMDA engineers. Both the bridges have canals flowing under them, said the engineer. “We conducted an inspection of the bridges in January. The condition of both looked very weak. We felt there is a need for a detailed health audit of the two structures,” said a CMDA engineer. “We noticed that the concrete cover has come off in several places and the steel reinforcements been exposed. The continuous exposure may have corroded the steel and reduced its strength. A detailed examination will reveal the extent of corrosion and weakening,” he added. What could not be measured through naked eyes, will be captured in advanced tools that will be used during the health audit. If required, a scan of the bridges using machines will be done. CMDA sources said that the Dhanodhanya Setu was built in the 1930s. It is about 75 metre long. The old Kidderpore bridge, which has one of its ends near the Kidderpore crossing, is about 75 years old. It is also about 75 metre long. The CMDA has advertised a tender inviting a consultant to assess the health condition of the bridge and prepare a detailed project report on what has to be done with the two bridges. “The consultant will also tell us how to strengthen the structure, what kind of retrofitting is required. If the consultant feels that retrofitting is not possible then the bridges will be pulled down,” said the engineer. The state urban development department, under which the CMDA functions, had started the health audit of several bridges and flyovers in the city from 2019. The decision to do the health audit came in the wake of the collapse of the Majerhat bridge in September 2018. Health audits of about 16 bridges in the city are in various stages. The work for the health audit of these bridges had begun in mid-2019 and around Durga Puja 2019. Retrofitting of at least one bridge — the Chitpore bridge near Bagbazar Women’s College has been completed. The retrofitting of Baghajatin and Kalighat flyovers are likely to start soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
08-03-2021||Calcutta||Learning to remember, learning to believe||Zahra Patel has walked down to the petrol pump near Jora Girja on Lower Circular Road to take me to her home. It is in a lane that branches off from the main road. She lives in a small two-roomed flat in a building that houses many families. Zahra, who is 20, is a quiet, soft-spoken person with her petite frame covered in a burqa. But there is about her, and her eyes, an intensity that is immediately arresting. She can recite the entire Quran from memory. She had completed memorising the holy text when she was 14. We settle down in her bedroom. On the bed is flung a copy of To Kill a Mockingbird, which she is reading. She belongs to a Dawoodi Bohra Muslim family from the city. From a very young age, Zahra felt drawn towards prayers. As a child, she had memorised the five daily prayers. “When I was about eight, I came across a panegyric by Syedna Taher Saifuddin on Imam Husayn A.S., Prophet Mohammad’s grandson, who was martyred at Karbala,” recalled Zahra.  “I memorised all the 51 verses,” she said. She also memorised a panegyric on the martyr by Syedna Mohammed  Burhanuddin, which consisted of 52 verses. The spiritual leader of the Bohra community holds the title ‘Syedna’. The current leader is Syedna Mufafddal Saifuddin, son of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. She did not know Arabic then. She was a student of Saifee Hall school (renamed Saifee Golden Jubilee English School), off Park Street, where her teachers recognised her gift. Now she is a resident student at Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah, the university set up by the Bohra community in Surat in Gujarat, a centre of religious education. Zahra is in Calcutta at the moment because of the lockdown. She is highly proficient in Arabic now. At eight, Zahra began to learn the Quran by heart, starting with the last three Siparahs (chapters), considered “the easiest”. Learning the Quran was an inner compulsion. “I did not understand the words well, but was fascinated by their idea,” she said. “There were distractions,” she said. She has three elder siblings. Her brother, the eldest, is an engineer settled in London. One of her sisters is married in Surat, the educational and cultural hub of the Bohra community in India, and another is about to receive her MBBS, degree from Murshidabad Medical College. A decade ago, however, they were all growing up together and one effect was a lot of noise. Computers would buzz and the TV would boom. The school syllabus was demanding. “It was difficult,” said Zahra, who was a shy child, prone to migraine attacks. But she had a vocation. She brought to her practice of memorising the Quran a discipline, even a severity, unusual for a child. No one had asked her to. Her parents, a friendly, hospitable couple — her father a businessman and her mother a homemaker — have been strongly supportive of their daughter, but without imposing any of their beliefs on her. “They are ‘neutral’. So every day, for one hour, I memorised the Quran, sometimes three to four pages a day.” By the time she was in Class VI, she had memorised the first 14 Siparahs. “It helped me,” she said. “I had a few problems.” When she was nine, she won a competition open to all ages in her community with her Quran recitation. The next year, 2010, she was chosen to welcome Syedna Burhanuddin with a bouquet of flowers on his visit to Calcutta. The Syedna placed his hand on her shoulder. “He blessed me,”  Zahra said. Her school teachers then urged Zahra to take the next big step: get admission at Aljamea-tus-Saifiyah in Surat. She was 13. The international university has four campuses — in Surat and Mumbai in India and in Karachi, Pakistan, and in Nairobi, Kenya. Male and female students from many parts of the world study here. Education starts again at Class I and continues for 11 years, on the successful completion of which a student is considered the equivalent of a graduate. At the sprawling campus, “where the facilities are excellent”, her religious curriculum includes jurisprudence, history, literature and Hikmat (wisdom), taught in Arabic. Parallel to this the students study general subjects that qualify them to take A level and O level examinations under the Cambridge International board. Zahra has appeared at her O levels. “The first two years were difficult,”said Zahra. She missed home. Yet when she fell ill and was diagnosed with tuberculosis in the second year, she stayed on at the hostel and was treated there. She recovered within six months. By the end of the second year, she had learnt the entire Quran, with my “dedication and will power”. In an international examination on the Quran she scored 90 per cent, the second highest. She grew in other ways too, she said. The migraine attacks became fewer. “I began to take part in in horse riding, swimming, cricket and table tennis.” “If you pray, things get better,” she said. “I am happy with myself now. I have inner peace. If you commit something to your memory, especially a matter of faith, it becomes a presence within.” She wears the burqa because it makes her feel safe, she said. She stressed that there is nothing in the Quran that gives women an inferior status. But different people interpret the text differently. She doesn’t listen much music other than of the religious kind. She watches Netflix, though: she is watching The Crown now. And she reads. “Our university has five libraries,” she said. She loves Dan Brown, Jane Austen and Agatha Christie. But in times of trouble she turns to the Quran, especially the 16th Siparah: “And Allâh brought you forth from the wombs of your mothers, while you were void of all knowledge, He gave you ears, eyes and hearts, so that you might render (Him) thanks.” Zahra, whose name means bright and shining, had known difficulty and has overcome it with faith, which also helps one, especially a young person, to negotiate that most challenging of crossroads, between tradition and modernity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-121
