09-03-2021||Calcutta||Restoration of Sibtainabad Imambara on the cards||More than a century-and a-half ago, Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, built the Sibtainabad Imambara in Garden Reach after he was exiled to Calcutta from Awadh by the British. The imambara, which the Nawab used to frequent, is crying for repairs now as water seeps from its creaking roof, there are cracks on its walls and the foundation has weakened. Wajid Ali Shah is buried inside the imambara and his grave on the northern corner is a major draw for visitors to this Garden Reach heritage site. One of his sons, Birjis Qadr, is buried at the southern corner, the two separated by the large main hall of the imambara. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) has now taken up the much-needed restoration of the structure. The CMC has floated a tender to engage a consultant for the “renovation and restoration work of Sibtainabad Imambara” with a 450-day deadline. “This is possibly the last of the long line of imambaras built by the rulers of Awadh, but far away from the boundaries of Awadh,” said Irfan Ali Mirza, one of the descendants of the Nawab and a current trustee of the Sibtainabad Imambara. The imambara was built in the 1860s. There are doubts about the exact year of construction. Inside, there are objects and articles from the time of the Nawab. A replica of the tomb of Imam Husayn, the third Imam of Islam, is placed above the grave of the king. “This tomb was built during the lifetime of the king and he wanted that it should be placed above his grave after he died,” said Humayun Ali Mirza, another trustee. There are balconies on the northern and southern ends of the main hall of the imambara. Humayun said women used to attend the congregations at the hall from the balconies above. The floor of the hall and even the passage outside has graves of descendants of Wajid Ali. Black lines on the floor mark the graves that are below but the floor has become undulated because of structural weaknesses over the years. Sibtainabad Imambara was named so during the king’s lifetime. “Wajid Ali Shah’s father is buried in an imambara in Awadh named Sibtainabad Imambara. After Wajid Ali Shah was exiled to Calcutta, he built this imambara and also named it Sibtainabad Imambara. He had wished that he should be buried here,” said Sudipta Mitra, who has written the book, Pearl by the River, an account of Wajid Ali Shah’s days in Garden Reach. “The kingdom of Awadh was set up in 1724 by Sadaat Khan at a time when the Mughal power was in decline. Wajid Ali was his successor,” said Subhas Chakraborty, a former professor of history at Presidency College. Wajid Ali Shah had arrived in Garden Reach in 1856. “In 1857, when he was already in Calcutta, Wajid Ali Shah was put under arrest by the British because they feared he would become a rallying point for people with anti-British sentiments,” Chakraborty added. The imambara has undergone minor repairs in the past but a repair to fix its structural weaknesses was never undertaken, the trustees said. As a measure to avert any accident, the trustees have fitted a net under the roof so that chunks from the roof do not fall and injure people underneath. Termites have eaten up the wooden beams and the terrace has become weak, they said. During monsoon, tarpaulin sheets are spread on the terrace to prevent water from leaking through the roof. Engineers of the CMC said they have also discovered cracks in the wall and the foundation too needs to be strengthened as it has weakened because of lack of maintenance over the years. “A heritage conservationist will be appointed as a consultant to do the work. It will be a retrofitting work without changing anything in the exteriors of the structure. We will only strengthen the condition of the building,” said a CMC official. The consultant, likely to be hired by the end of March, will create a plan for the restoration and it will be supervised by the CMC. “We received only one bidder in our first tender call. Rules say we cannot award the work if there is only one bidder. We have floated the second call and hopefully there will be more bidders for the work,” said the CMC official. Shaikh Sohail, a heritage enthusiast who has taken several Calcuttans on tours of the imambara, said he was excited to hear about the restoration. “The imambara is among the few structures built by the Nawab at Garden Reach that has survived. Shahi Masjid, where he used to pray still stands but the palace, called Sultan Khana or Shahi Mahal, was demolished. There is also the Bait-ul-Nijat Imambara, built by Wajid Ali, which is also in bad shape,” he said. The Sibtainabad Imambara is listed as a grade I heritage building according to CMC records.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta University practical exams to be held online||The postgraduate departments of Calcutta University will hold their practical exams online in view of the pandemic. The university that had allowed the departments to hold practical classes on the campus from January 18, left it to departments to decide on what could be the mode of examination under the circumstances. The departments have opted for the online mode, said an official of CU. The exams of the theory papers of the odd semester (semester I and III) are being held online from March 8. Since the practical classes were held in-person, it was expected that the department would want to hold the exams offline, said the official. “But they have decided to hold it online in the form of conducting a viva or asking students to solve a problem on digital platforms,” he said. Parthiba Basu, the head of the zoology department, said they opted the online mode following a compulsion to keep parity with the colleges, which run postgraduate courses and did not reopen even for practical classes. Tilottoma Mukherjee, the head of the psychology department, said they will hold practical exams online as it would be impossible to bring patients from hospitals to the campus to enable students undertake psychometric assessment. “The university has now left it to each department’s PG board of studies to set the questions and evaluate answers (theory and practical) on behalf of the colleges as well. If the department had to conduct its practical exam on the campus that would entail preparing separate sets of questions . We wanted parity,” said Basu, who is the president of Calcutta University Teachers’ Association. The same compulsion forced most departments, said an official. In a meeting held between education minister Partha Chatterjee and the representatives of the universities on February 3, it was decided that the campuses would remain shut due to the pandemic. The representative of CU was questioned why postgraduate departments were reopened for holding the practical classes without consulting the education department. CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said: “Our departments are autonomous to decide what mode would be suitable for them”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Air quality of city and its fringes continues to be 'unhealthy'||Winter is gone but the air quality of the city and its fringes continues to be “unhealthy”, according to data generated by West Bengal Pollution Control Board as well as by a consortium led by IIT Delhi. Data from nine automatic measuring stations run by state Pollution Control Board (PCB) and from 7 air pollution sensors set up by IIT Delhi and The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) under NASA programme, being accessed by Metro, show that at 7.30pm on Monday, barring Rabindra Sarobar and Jadavpur, the air quality index value at all other places were hovering between 150 and 200, which is considered “unhealthy”. Barasat leads the pack with 188, followed by Rabindra Bharati with 177, rest of the places remain close by. PM 2.5, the most toxic air pollutant that can travel deep into lungs and trigger a range of diseases including cancer, is the prime factor behind the poor air quality in all these places. “The data shows that the pollution is not confined to the heart of the city but is actually spread across greater Calcutta. The air quality values reflect the impact of the locally generated pollution along with the pollutants that has travelled from other places,” Sagnik De, a scientist from IIT Delhi told Metro. “The pollution results now point out the impact of sources like vehicles and construction,” said a scientist from the environment department of Calcutta University. Earlier a study carried out by Delhi-based environmental think-tank Center for Science and Environment (CSE) had also pointed out that the sources of highly toxic PM 2.5 pollutants in Calcutta, whose rise in Calcutta was the highest among all other Indian cities during last winter, have been mostly local unlike Delhi. Overall Calcutta’s average PM 2.5 value in the 2020-21 winter, 94 microgram per cubic meter of air, stood second among metro cities.  Delhi topped the chart with an average PM 2.5 value of 186 micrograms. The period from October 1 to January 31 (2020-21) has been considered as winter. The maximum PM 2.5 value recorded in Calcutta during this winter was 199 micrograms, which was more than thrice the national limit of 60 micrograms. CSE report also points out that while Calcutta’s average PM 2.5 level and peak PM 2.5 value during 2020-21 winter showed a significant spike over the winter before, both parameters showed decline in overall eastern India. “The fact, Calcutta showing a trend reversal within eastern India, means significant number of local factors is involved in pushing up city’s PM 2.5 pollution values. This is unlike Delhi where external factors are significantly responsible,” said Anumita Roy Choudhury, air pollution head, CSE. “While surrounding regions contribute to Delhi’s air pollution, Calcutta’s air pollution sources are mostly local” said environment activist Subhas Datta. Unless there is administrative action and rise in awareness; lungs will continue to be choked with toxic pollutants in Calcutta, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-119
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Charnock Hospital asked to pay Rs 5 lakh||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked the Charnock Hospital in Teghoria to pay Rs 5 lakh to the family of a patient who was discharged from the hospital at a time when her condition was still “critical”. The 29-year-old woman died the next day at another hospital. The woman was admitted to the hospital with gynaecological problems on October 5. She underwent a surgery on October 6, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. “The woman started having complications within 24 hours of undergoing the surgery...,” Banerjee added. The woman was then discharged on October 18, but Banerjee said she was still not in a condition for discharge. During Monday’s hearing, officials of Charnock Hospital told the commission that the patient was discharged because her family wanted to take her away as they were unable to bear the cost of the treatment. “We told the hospital that the patient’s family was unable to bear the cost because a lot of complications developed after the surgery...” said Banerjee. The commission also asked AMRI Hospital  Dhakuria to refund Rs 60,000 to a patient’s family as the commission found that the hospital did not offer discounts on consumables and pharmacy products on the bill. The 73-year-old woman was admitted underwent treatment in the hospital in January. The hospital had billed Rs 2.40 lakh for nine days. RSV Hospital in Tollygunge was asked to return Rs 82,000 to a patient for the same reason. The man was admitted in the hospital with Covid-19 in November. RSV Hospital had charged more as doctors’ fee. The commission also asked Quadra Medical Services Private Limited to pay the amount of a CA Serum 125 test to a patient. Banerjee that the results showed that person had higher than normal values, after which the person underwent the same test at another place. When the second result came as normal, he lodged a complaint against Quadra. “We have said that results of such diagnostic tests must be matched with the diagnosis of the concerned doctor. If the doctor feels there is something abnormal, they always tell the patient to go for a repeat test. Our point is that if the second test shows that the first result was wrong and the second test’s result matches with the doctor’s diagnosis then the amount of the first test must be returned by the laboratory where the first test was done.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Two more fliers from Dubai test Covid positive||Two more fliers, who had reached Calcutta separately from Dubai in end-February and early-March, were admitted to the Infectious Diseases (ID) Hospital, Beleghata, on Monday after testing positive for Covid-19. After the two persons testing positive, the state government has decided to admit such people immediately after the test results and without waiting for a confirmatory report of whether the mutant strain of Covid-19 is present in the sample or not. The two passengers who were admitted to the ID Hospital on Monday were from South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore. The sample of the first, who had arrived from Dubai to Calcutta in early-March, has been sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for strain-identification. The report of the second, who had landed in end-February, has remained inconclusive, said a health department official. So far, fliers tested positive at the airport on arrival would be sent home with an advice for self isolation for two weeks. If their samples were found to be positive for any of the mutant strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, they would be admitted to the Beleghata-facility. From Monday, the health department has decided that passengers from abroad testing positive on arrival would be directly admitted to the Beleghata hospital. The policy-shift came after eight fliers, all from Dubai, first testing positive on arrival and days later one of them was found to be carrying the South African-strain of the coronavirus — the first such occurrence in Bengal so far — and five others with the UK-strain. The health department admitted them to the ID Hospital only between Saturday and Sunday. “We will no longer wait for the results to find out if anyone of them is carrying the mutant strain of the coronavirus,” said a senior official of the Swasthya Bhavan. Health department has started collecting samples from those who have come in contact with these patients over the last few days. About 110 samples were collected from contacts of three persons. The health department has also started collecting data of passengers and cabin crew of the flights on which these persons have travelled. Those in the three rows ahead of the infected person and in the three behind would be contacted to find out if they have developed any symptoms, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Kids explore digital route||Sushila Birla Girls’ School Students of Sushila Birla Girls’ School recently celebrated the World Soil Day to emphasise the importance of healthy soil. This year’s theme was “keep soil alive, protect soil biodiversity”. The students of Class V worked towards spreading awareness about the importance of healthy soil and the need to minimise loss of soil biodiversity. The young minds focused on the workers below ground, that is, from tiny bacteria to agile millipedes and slimy earthworms — all of which contribute to processes that are indispensable to life on Earth. Special assembly, role-plays and poster-making activities were conducted to advocate sustainability of this resource. The programme was conducted under the guidance of the students’ class teachers. “Kids should be sensitised in terms of soil conservation. There were various activities related to soil conservation, which the kids enjoyed,” said headmistress Vidisha Panja. Birla High School junior section Birla High School junior section recently celebrated the International Dot Day. It is a celebration of creativity inspired by The Dot, a book written and illustrated by Peter H. Reynolds to encourage students to reach their potential. Keeping Nature as the theme, Nursery students enjoyed playing with paint and drew things of nature using various techniques such as ear bud painting and cotton dabbing. Kindergarten tots made new words with dots using play dough. As wonder chefs they discovered their cooking skills and made traffic signals using biscuits and dots out of candies. Students of Class I displayed many things connected to dots and enjoyed a fun-filled math activity using a dice. Class II kids decorated round biscuits and cookies with chocolate sauce, jam and colourful gems in keeping with the EVS lesson Think Food First. Students of Class III created mandalas in their English class and did a multiplication dot activity in their mathematics class related to the theme Every Dot Matters. Class IV students drew eyes depicting various emotions after success or failure. They wrote about their goals and aspirations and spread the message of hope and love while writing on the topic The Dots That Speak. The basic concept of decimals was introduced to the students of Class V through a video. They made colourful posters. “Celebrating the International Dot Day gave students the chance to build on their idea of the dot. The students showed interest and they projected ideas that showed awareness. We must make our children aware of the present situations, so that they can learn to explore what is going to help them in the long run,” said headmistress Farida Singh. Young Horizons School Students of Class V from Young Horizons School recently conducted a special assembly, welcoming the spring season. Dressed in yellow, around 17 students performed in the virtual event. The kids spoke at length about the beauty of nature and a new life that spring brings with it through songs, poem recitations and dance performances. The participants performed live. “When we had started off with our online classes last year, children were excited. But it died off soon. They were missing their school and that was when we started our morning assembly. Every class would be given time to think and come up with special assemblies that we have once a week. They focus on positive things and those they love to do for the assemblies,” said principal Sarmistha Sen. Calcutta Business School Calcutta Business School, a unit of the Shikshayatan Foundation, celebrated Saraswati Puja both on its premises and digital platform. The puja was organised in the school, while the cultural programme was showed online. Students presented songs, dance and recitation that won critical accolades. “I am happy with the manner in which students managed to put up Saraswati Puja. The puja was performed, keeping the festive spirit intact. This is what they are being taught — how to manage things even in adverse situations. Moreover, without creativity there is no art, science, literature, innovation and no solution to a problem. Creativity, thus, is very important in a business school,” said the foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Future Hope School gets CBSE affiliation||A school that has been supporting children from the streets right up to college for more than two decades, now has an affiliation of a central board. Future Hope School got the CBSE affiliation on March 1 and will be sending out the first batch of Class X students in 2023. So far the students would appear for boards from different schools but despite the affiliation those heading the charitable organisation promises that it will remain a free school and continue to serve those in the “bottom of the pile.” The process for the affiliation began about two years back. The first step was getting the no-objection certificate from the state government, following which there was  inspection from the Central Board of Secondary Education. “The charter of Future Hope makes it very clear and that is to always work for the poor children. We go to the bottom of the pile for someone who would find it difficult to go to a school,” said Sujata Sen, CEO of Future Hope. “It was never the ambition of Future Hope to become big in the education sector but we needed to do something for the children and it grew organically...as we took in more children we realised we need the affiliation,” said Sen. She said that the school has a very stringent verification process while taking in kids which includes surprise visits to the homes of the children in the slums. They also speak to the people in the locality to find more information about these kids But the challenge that the school continues to face is that the number of such needy kids is more than they can accommodate. The school in such conditions admit poor kids to other schools and keep supporting them. At present here are about 300 students in Future Hope and another 100 in other schools supported by Future Hope. Students in Future Hope are between 6 to 22 years and after an “intervention of 15 odd years the individuals come out independent,” said Sen. The children and individuals come from families in distress. Many of the children live in 6ft by 6ft houses where the same space is used as the kitchen, the living room and the bedroom. Bringing such children to school means providing them with uniform and stationary. Future Hope does push children to sports and that means the organisation has to provide for their sport equipment, including shoes. Future Hope stared in 1987 as a home for street and slum children that provided safety and security for them. The school like a tutorial came up in 1998 when those in the organisation came across “stumbling blocks” while trying to put children to schools. “Every school has a specific age criteria (like six years for Class I) and we stumbled a lot...some of these children were eight or nine years of age. So we created our own school,” said Sen. Future Hope plans to come up with a new campus in Rajarhat The architectural designs is ready and the new campus will have football and cricket fields and they will grow their own vegetables.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Domestic workers share lockdown plight||Job loss, pay cuts, lack of transport and social boycott, a handful of domestic workers came together on a virtual platform on Monday to share the challenges they had to endure during the early stages of the Covid pandemic last year. Sankari Mondal, who lives in Sonarpur in the southern fringe of the city, rode her cycle for over two hours every day to travel between her home and her employers’ homes in south Calcutta. She used to travel by train before the lockdown. While crossing barricades in containment zones and blocked rail gates, Mondal had to lift her cycle. “The lockdown was prolonged. I could not step out for work and stopped getting salaries. My savings was almost finished. I could not keep sitting at home,” said Mondal, whose husband, who paints houses, also went out of work during the lockdown. Some of her employers had bluntly told her she did not need to come. Those who still wished to employ her said they would not let her in if she took a train or any other public transport. If the challenges at the workplaces were not enough, some of neighbours also “targeted her for visiting the city and bringing the virus back into her locality”. Her octogenarian mother also faced taunts from neighbours, Mondal said. She was summoned by the leaders of the outgoing panchayat. “I told them clearly — either arrange for means to run my family or let me do my work,” Mondal said. Despite the odds, Mondal drew “satisfaction that she was able to provide two square meals to her family members in the lockdown”. Monday’s session was organised by Ebong Alap (Conversations and More), a voluntary organisation of “writers, teachers, journalists, researchers and performance artists to focus on critical and gender-sensitive citizenship”, to mark International Women’s Day. Ebong Alap has recently launched a gender archive in Bengali, billed as the first of its kind. The moderator, Satabdi Das, reminded viewers that the women working at factories were at the root of the women’s movement in the early 20th century. “It was earlier celebrated as International Working Women’s Day but the lure of discounts at shopping malls has now cloaked the ‘working’ part,” she said. Putul Das, another domestic worker who lives in Dum Dum, had a story similar to Mondal’s to share. Das and many other women like her were “forced to pluck wild greens from fields and wetlands and pond banks” because of a cash crunch. Aparna Halder, who lives in Bidyadharpur in South 24-Parganas, said the job loss in the wake of the lockdown was only made worse by the havoc wreaked by Cyclone Amphan. Halder spent many days at a camp, volunteering to cook for the homeless in May last year. Rights activist Paramita Chowdhuri said domestic workers faced “permanent income loss, hampering of children’s education and domestic violence” during the lockdown. “But these women showed tremendous resilience. Many of them switched professions and took to selling vegetables and fish,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||ICSE exams and ISC theory papers to begin on May 4||The ICSE (Class X) exams and ISC (Class XII) theory papers have been brought forward by a day and will now begin on May 4. Both timetables have been revised. Earlier, ICSE exams had been scheduled on May 13 and May 15, and ISC on May 13, May 15 and June 12, but now no exams have been slotted for these dates. “Due to unavoidable circumstances, CISCE (Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations) has decided to revise the ICSE and ISC Year 2021 Examination timetables,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of CISCE, said on Monday. The ICSE exam will begin with economics (group II elective) and ISC theory with English — paper 2 (literature) on May 4. The date of the last ICSE exam, June 7, remains the same. The ISC will now end on June 18 instead of June 16. There has been no change in the ISC practical exam dates. The ISC computer science (paper 2) practical-planning session is scheduled for April 8 and the ISC home science (paper 2) practical-planning session and Indian music Carnatic (paper 2) practical for April 9. “As per the ICSE (Class X) revised timetable, no examination has been scheduled on May 13, 2021 and May 15, 2021, subsequently some changes have been made in the timetable… As per the ISC (Class XII) revised timetable, no examination has been scheduled on May 13, 2021, May 15, 2021 and June 12, 2021, subsequently some changes have been made in the timetable,” Arathoon said in a release. One of the changes in the ICSE timetable is the economics (group II elective) exam now scheduled on May 4 instead of May 13. For ISC, business studies that had earlier been scheduled on May 5 will now be held on June 18. The revised timetables have been uploaded on CISCE’s website www.cisce.org. In a circular issues to principals of schools presenting candidates for the 2021 board exams, Arathoon asked them to ensure that the information is disseminated to all concerned. “The revised timetables along with the Instructions to Candidates should be printed and put up on the school notice board,” he has said. The council, that had been waiting for the announce-ment of poll dates, had published the earlier timetable on March 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||New Koilaghat building fire hits rail booking across east||Online ticket booking for railways travel had shut down across east and northeast India from Monday evening after the fire broke out in the New Koilaghat building where servers of the electronic booking system are installed. The online booking stopped as electric supply to the 14-storey building was cut off to prevent further spread of the flames. The fire broke out on the 13th floor of the building and spread to the floor immediately below. The servers are located on the second and third floors of the building. An official of the Eastern Railway said that they had cut off power supply in the building from around 6pm. But the silver lining was that till late on Monday there was no damage to the servers and the fire had not spread to the rooms where the servers are installed. The official, however, could not give a time by which the online booking could resume. Whenever the booking begins, the speed could be very slow, the official warned. According to officials of the Eastern Railways, the signal and telecom department construction office on the 13th floor had caught fire that later spread across the floor and to the floor below. “The power supply to the building had been stopped on advice from the fire brigade. There has been no damage to the servers but it is difficult to say when the online ticket booking will resume again. The fire fighting operations are still underway,” said Kamal Deo Das, the spokesperson for Eastern Railway. Another official said once they get access inside the building, they would try to work out ways so that online booking can be resumed. “We have servers of the railways in Secunderabad also. We will see if something can be done to resume booking using those servers,” said the official. Officials in the railways said that the servers in the New Koilaghat building, the headquarters of the Eastern Railway, did not only serve the Eastern Railway. The servers are used to book tickets in zones served by the Northeast Frontier Railway and the East Central Railway also. “Booking could not be done for trains originating from all the seven northeastern states, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha. The servers in the New Koilaghat building are used to book tickets for trains originating from these places,” said an official. The Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), through whose website online tickets are purchased, tweeted at 10.26pm on Monday: “Kolkata node of PRS is down due to technical reasons. Booking and cancellation for trains originating on Kolkata node is not available at present. Services will be restored soon.” A large number of Indians travelling with reserved tickets in trains book their tickets online. A railways official said that between 75 and 80 per cent of reserved tickets are purchased online everyday across the country. About 8 lakh online tickets are purchased though the website of IRCTC. “Though the exact figure is not available, east and northeast India account for one-fourth of total reserved tickets bought online every day,” added the official. Metro tokens Metro Railway tokens, suspended since the carried resumed services on September 14, 2020, will be issued again from March 15, the carrier said on Monday. The number of trains will also go up from Wednesday, said an official release. From Monday to Friday, the number of daily trains will go up to 252 from 244. The first train will leave Dakshineswar and Kavi Subhas (New Garia) at 6.50am instead of 7am. The last train will leave Dakshineswar at 9.28pm and Dum Dum and New Garia at 9.40pm, instead of 9.30pm. On Saturday, the carrier will run 232 trains instead of 228. The timing of the first and last trains will be like weekdays. On Sunday, the carrier will run 104 trains instead of 102. The first trains will leave at 9am and the last trains at 9.40pm, the carrier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Elderly people are preferring Covishield to Covaxin||Many elderly people, who are receiving Covid-19 vaccines, are telling private hospitals that they prefer Covishield to Covaxin, officials of several healthcare institutes said. All hospitals in Calcutta are now administering Covishield vaccine, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca. The homegrown Covaxin is not supplied by the government to hospitals at this moment, said health department officials. “Most elderly people and their relatives who are coming to our hospital are asking whether we are giving Covishield or Covaxin. These vaccine recipients are telling us that if it’s Covaxin, they would come at a later date,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital. Many private hospitals have not set up a separate site that is required if they want to administer Covaxin to healthcare and frontline workers. Some said they did not have enough space for it but others said there was apprehension among people about the homegrown vaccine. On Monday, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences administered the vaccine dose to 300 senior citizens. “Most who come to the hospital are expressing their desire for the Covishield vaccine and are extremely relieved on getting a confirmation on the same in the affirmative,” said R Venkatesh, regional director, eastern region of Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. A senior health department official said vaccines are supplied as per availability. Now, the department is supplying Covishield, and when the Centre provides Covaxin, it will be given to hospitals. Doctors and public health experts said there were confusions and misconceptions about efficacy of vaccines. “Many elderly patients are asking me whether Covaxin should be taken. Till last month, I was not sure about Covaxin’s efficacy. But now that there is published data, we should not worry about the choice. That’s what I am telling my patients,” said Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a physician who was part of the medical team treating Covid patients at Peerless Hospital. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said a perception has been created about Covaxin, for which the Centre should also be blamed. “The Covid pandemic has shown us how belief without scientific basis is influencing people’s behaviour. This is just another example. I think the Centre’s decision to make people sign a consent form for Covaxin, which did not mention the efficacy, added to the confusion,” said Chowdhury. “After the proper efficacy data was published, the vaccine should have been introduced,” he said. The Telegraph had reported earlier this month that Covaxin, developed jointly by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research, has shown close to 81 per cent efficacy in protecting people from the infection. The vaccine had run into controversy after India’s drug regulators approved it in January without efficacy studies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
09-03-2021||Calcutta||Nine dead in Strand Road railway office fire ||At least nine people died in a fire that broke out on Monday evening on the 13th floor of the New Koilaghat Building that houses offices of the Indian Railway in Strand Road. Seven people who took an elevator to try and reach the burning floor were feared dead. Four of them are firemen, two are railway personnel and the seventh is an assistant sub-inspector attached to Hare Street police station. They were officially declared “missing”. Nine bodies had been found till midnight and none identified. It remained unclear whether anyone working in the building had been trapped and died in the blaze, which was reported at 6.10pm. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived at the spot at night and announced Rs 10 lakh and a job for each bereaved family. The fire had broken out at the signal and telecom department office on the 13th floor of the building — the Eastern Railway office — and spread to the 12th. As many as 20 fire tenders were deployed. Pockets of fire  flared in the building around 1am. Well past midnight, the railways had issued no formal communication on the casualties or damage to property. “The seven missing people have been identified as Girish Dey, Gaurav Bej, Aniruddha Jana, Biman Purkait, Amit Bhawal, deputy CCM Mr Mandal and a constable of the RPF (Railway Protection Force) who was with Mandal,” state home secretary H.K. Dwivedi, who was at the site, said. Mamata said: “The incident happened because they had tried to use the lift. We should all be careful not to use lifts during fires. The people who were going were capable. Maybe they wanted to reach quickly. They were charred.” At one point, the chief minister questioned the railways’ sense of responsibility, asking why not a single railway official was at the site. Mamata said: “This is a railway building. They have some responsibility. I don't want to politicise an accident, but it is unfortunate that no one from the railway department has come.” “I have also been told by my minister that the fire officials had asked for a map of the building for easier access but received no cooperation.” She later said a single railway official had turned up. As the night wore on, teary-eyed relatives of some of the missing began arriving. State fire minister Sujit Bose, Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra, director-general of fire and emergency services Jawed Shamim, Calcutta mayor Firhad Hakim and other senior state government officials were at the spot. Bose said it seemed that the seven had taken the lift to try and reach the 13th floor quickly. He said a detailed inquiry would be ordered into the blaze, and it would be investigated why the fire-fighting team had used the lift despite the building being on fire. “It’s part of basic protocol that lifts are not to be used during a fire,” Bose said. He said it would also be probed whether the building had proper fire-fighting equipment. In Strand Road on Monday, Mamata was at the spot past midnight and then went to SSKM Hospital where the bodies had been sent to. The chief minister was seen consoling anxious people who had gathered outside the building, looking for missing relatives. President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a fire incident at a building in Calcutta and said he was pained beyond words at the tragedy. "Pained beyond words by the extremely tragic fire accident at a building in Kolkata. My deep sympathy and condolences for the bereaved families. I wish for speedy recovery of the injured," Kovind tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-120
