11-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: campaign to not vote for BJP||Kushal Debnath, who spent five months behind bars after being arrested by the Trinamul administration in 2017 and is out on bail, said this was not the time to remember his personal grudge against the Mamata Banerjee government. Dipankar Bhattacharya, CPIML Liberation general secretary, pointed out: “Other ruling parties too have histories of torture but they are not fascists like the BJP.” Debnath is not advocating voting for Mamata. He and Bhattacharya are part of an extraordinary campaign in Bengal that stands out because they do not seek votes for any party or person. Instead, they have a crystal-clear appeal: Don’t vote for the BJP. Around 10,000 people bound by the common objective of not voting for the BJP walked together in a rally in Calcutta on Wednesday, asking everyone to follow their policy to save Bengal. They cautioned that if people did not vote pragmatically and the BJP came to power in the state, it would mean a “threat to the freedom people enjoy in Bengal”. The rally was not organised under the banner of any political party, nor did the participants ask anyone to vote for any particular party. All they asked was that no one vote for the BJP, so that parties are deterred in future from dividing society, curbing the independence of democratic institutions or targeting ordinary people for dissent. The participants said they would propagate the message in their neighbourhoods when they returned home. The one-hour march snaked from Ramlila Park in Moulali to Hogg Street, located along the eastern boundary of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters in Esplanade. Among the participants were students, retired professionals and college teachers. Some of them held flags carrying images of icons such as Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, B.R. Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh. “We are carrying flags showing people who worked for the rights of the lower castes and spoke in favour of unity and against dividing people along religious lines,” a marcher with a flag said. Arpita Banerjee, who teaches economics at a college, said all she was asking was that people not vote for the BJP. “I’m not recommending any political party — that’s the individual’s choice — but I’m saying one should not vote for the BJP,” she said. “If they (the BJP) are elected to power, it would severely erode the freedom we enjoy in Bengal.” While many of the participants had arrived in small groups, many others like Arpita had come alone. She said she had come because she supported the rally’s call: “No vote for BJP.” Anwesha Roy, a student of Bethune College, explained why the BJP was worse than other parties. “Remember the Muzaffarnagar riots, Delhi riots? No other party has orchestrated communal riots the way the BJP has done,” she said. “Members of all other parties too commit violence but not with an agenda of hatred against a community.” Anwesha said that if the BJP was voted to power, it could mean the end of the Opposition in Bengal. “They will put everyone behind bars on charges like sedition. There will be none left to oppose their acts. We have to stop that happening,” she said. Another participant said he was appalled at how “a section of the judiciary in India had crumbled” under pressure. “Whoever faced injustice from the police or the government used to feel the courts would stand by them, but do we have that faith in the courts any longer?” he said. Four conveners of Bengal Against Fascist RSS-BJP — the organisers of Wednesday’s rally — had been arrested by the Trinamul government in 2017 when they protested against the construction of a power substation in Bhangar. Debnath, who spent five months in custody, said: “We are not advocating voting for Mamata Banerjee. All we are saying is, ‘Don’t vote for the BJP; vote for anyone else’. The BJP is dividing our own people. This is something Mamata never did.” Slogans blared from the vehicles moving at the head of the rally and near its middle and tail. Hundreds chanted: “BJP-r teen tey gun/ Looth, danga, manush khun (The BJP knows three skills/ To loot, riot and kill).” Another slogan went “NRC-r naam kore/ Nagorikatto nichchhe kere/ Ei BJP ke vote noy” — a warning to people not to vote for a party that is “snatching citizenship on the pretext of the NRC”. Many had come from outside Calcutta. An organiser said there were participants from all the south Bengal districts. A few farmer leaders who had been protesting at Delhi’s borders since November marched in the rally and later addressed the crowd. As the participants walked along S.N. Banerjee Road, many pedestrians and people from roadside shops raised their hands in a gesture of solidarity. A shopkeeper near New Market kept chanting: "BJP ke ektio vote noy (Not a single vote for the BJP).” The participants had begun gathering at Ramlila Park from 12.30pm. The march began around 1.30pm and reached Hogg Street about an hour later. Farmer leaders, a few of the rally organisers and some others then delivered speeches. Bhattacharya, the CPIML Liberation leader, was among the speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Here’s why we won’t vote for BJP’||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Presidency University to have more admission test centres||Presidency University will have many more centres this year for its undergraduate admission tests so that candidates have easier access. The tests, being held on July 31 and August 1, will be pen-and-paper. The state joint entrance examination board conducts the tests on behalf of Presidency University. Examination zones in districts like Calcutta and Howrah, where the maximum number of aspirants appear for the tests, have been split into smaller segments so a candidate can select a centre closest to his or her residence and the crowd of examinees gets evenly distributed to help maintain physical distance in the pandemic, said a JEE board official. According to the information brochure about the tests, exam zones in Calcutta have been broken into central Calcutta, north Calcutta, Salt Lake/New Town, south Calcutta and west Calcutta. Central Calcutta will consist of exam centres spread across Moulali, Beliaghata, Narkeldanga, Phool Bagan, Kankurgachi and Park Circus. North Calcutta will comprise centres spread across Shyambazar, Bagbazar, Girish Park, Burrabazar, College Street and Sealdah. The other zones also have smaller segments under them. JEE board chairman Malayendu Saha said: “We will allocate an applicant the centre closest to his or her residential address. While it will be advantageous for them to access, this will also spread the gathering, leading to maintenance of physical distancing as much as possible. We have increased the number of centres to facilitate this”. When asked what the number of centres could be, he said the figure would be drawn up after they have the number of applicants. Till last year, an exam zone would consist of centres in two to three segments at the most. Online submission of forms is likely to begin in the fourth week of March. Last year, the JEE board did not conduct the test in April because of the pandemic and Presidency University had to admit students on the basis of their performance in the board exams. This year, the board has restored the test. “Even as the tests are being held in-person, we are stressing on maintaining physical distancing.... Other protocols will be announced,” a JEE board official said. The practice of allocating centres closest to the applicants’ residence will be followed in this year’s JEE, for admission to BTech courses,  due on July 11. “In JEE, too, we have raised and split the exam centres into smaller segments so candidates can take the test at the centres closest to their residence and observe physical distancing,” the official said. The tests would be held for admissions to as many as 14 subjects at Presidency. The details of the schedule of the tests — date and time wise — have been uploaded in the information brochure posted on the JEE board’s website. The board is yet to announce when it will hold the entrance for admissions to the masters’ programmes at Presidency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Offices on 3 floors of New Koilaghat building resume||Police and fire services department on Wednesday allowed resumption of offices on the first three floors of the 14-storied Eastern Railway’s New Koilaghat building on Strand Road, following request from the railway authorities. A fire razed the 12th and the 13th floors of the building on Monday night causing nine deaths. Railway officials said the second floor of the building has servers that are used by six zonal railways for their online and offline ticket reservations. The third floor houses the office of the Railway Protection Force (RPF), one of whose constables — 36-year-old Sanjay Sahani — died in the blaze. On Wednesday, power connection was resumed across the three floors and employees were allowed in after verification by a police team, which ringed the building since Monday night. The floors above remained dark without power and even elevators were not allowed to move. “The all-important server is fully functional now after power was restored. We are trying to access other floors also but only after clearance from the investigating agency,” said Kamal Deo Das, the chief public relations officer of the Eastern Railway. “We don’t want to interfere with the investigation by the state agencies in any way….” The servers on the second floor of the building cater to the ticketing requirements of six zones, including the Eastern Railway, South Eastern Railway, Northeast Frontier Railway, South Central Railway, East Central Railway and East Coast Railway. Officers said it was a huge relief since online booking — done through the website of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) — and offline booking done at the reservation counters in stations and other places were affected over the last two days. At least 700 railway ticket reservation counters from Calcutta to Hyderabad, Mughalsari in Uttar Pradesh and Assam’s Tinsukia were hit throughout Tuesday with the servers remaining only partially functional. Senior railway officials said several offices of the South Eastern Railway are located across floors between eight and the 11th, including the office of the principal chief commercial manager who oversees entire commercial operations of the zone and that of the traffic accounts officer. The other floors have offices of the chief medical director, the principal chief security commissioner, chief commercial manager of passenger marketing of the eastern railway. The building also houses the eastern regional office of the Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS), which designs, develops, implements and maintains most of the important information systems of the Indian Railways. Senior officers of the railway said officers of these departments were working from a few other satellite units, so that work was not affected.
Officers from the detective department of Calcutta police, who are probing the fire, said it was too early to deliberate when most of the floors could be thrown open.. “It’s just 72 hours. We are still trying to find out details of the building...,” said a senior officer of the probe team. Two men were arrested on Wednesday in connection with the cocaine case for allegedly supplying the white powder to Amrita Singh, who had in turn had allegedly supplied it to BJP leader Rakesh Singh. Farhan Ahmed, 26, and Daim Akhtar, 25, were produced before the Alipore NDPS court on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Golden jubilee of 1971 Liberation War||Army commandos rappelled down ropes from helicopters in a show of what a real war situation looks like and civilians across age groups gawked at weapons from up close at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club (RCTC) ground during an event organised by the Eastern Command on Wednesday to commemorate the golden jubilee the Liberation War of 1971 that lead to the birth of Bangladesh as a nation. A “victory flame” celebrating Swarnim Vijay Varsh has been moving all over the country since December 16 to mark 50 years of the victory in the 1971 war against Pakistan. The flame has since then passed through several villages, towns and cities. On Wednesday Lt. Gen. Anil Chauhan, army commander of the Eastern Command, received the flame at the RCTC ground in presence of several senior officers and other dignitaries. The flame will move to the military station in Barrackpore on Thursday where some of the veterans of the 1971 war will be felicitated. Civilians and NCC cadets thronged the ground in large numbers taking a close look at some of the weapons on display. “This will help young minds get an idea of the strength and the might of the Indian armed forces,” said a senior army officer. Army officers explained some features of a few weapons on display to the crowd who also got chance to hold some of the weapons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Schools to need more invigilators||Schools will require double or triple the usual number of invigilators during board exams this year and several schools have asked teachers not to make travel plans during the summer as of now. More teachers will be required on campus for invigilation because students will be spread across more rooms than usual. A larger number of teachers will also be needed to maintain distance on campuses before the start of an examination, several school heads said. The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory exams are beginning on May 4. ICSE will end on June 7 and ISC on June 18. The CBSE Class X and XII exams will begin on May 4 — the Class X exams will end on June 7 and Class XII on June 14. “We have asked teachers, not just those in senior school but also in middle and junior school, to not make any travel plans during the summer vacation because the requirement on the campus could be higher this year,” said Anjana Saha, principal, Mahadevi Birla World Academy, a CBSE school. In ICSE and ISC, the ratio of teachers to students during exams is 1:30 but several school heads said that unlike other years, all students cannot be accommodated in one hall this year and multiple rooms will have to be used to conduct the exams. For example, instead of 25 students only 12 can now be seated in one room, said a principal. In some schools, on days that both Class X and XII exams are scheduled on the same day, schools are also exploring the option of using separate rooms. In CBSE schools, too, heads said that instead of using one block or one portion of the building, the requirement will be much more this year. “We have requested teachers not to commit to any travel plans as of now this summer. We could need double or triple the number of teachers that we require each year and we know teachers will be supportive of this. On our part, we will certainly be mindful that some free-time window is given to every teacher,” said Damayanti Mukherkee, the principal of Modern High School for Girls. The summer break will be shorter than other years and schools are contemplating giving teachers a week or two instead of the usual four or five weeks. “We have asked teachers not to make any travel plans but simultaneously we are working out a roster so that we can give them two weeks break instead of the usual four week,” said Seema Sapru, the principal of The Heritage School. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy and Julien Day School Ganganagar have also told teachers not to make any travel plans for the summer. Rammohan Mission High school will be making the announcement on Friday. The requirement of rooms will go up and so, naturally, more teachers would be required, said Sujoy Biswas, the principal of Rammohan Mission. “The number of students in each room will be smaller and so, more number of teachers will be required. Teachers are directly involved in conducting the exams and they are aware of their responsibilities,” said Biswas. Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy, a CBSE school, said that once they have details of the number of examinees at their school, it will be easy for them to plan a roster for the teachers. In ICSE and ISC, students appear for exams in their own school and schools have to send their teachers for invigilation to other schools. In CBSE, the students appear for exams from different schools. “If we require more teachers for invigilation, we are also expected to spare the same number of teachers,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town water plant for Sector V||The New Town water treatment plant will start supplying two million gallons per day (MGD) to Sector V from this week, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) that operates the plant with  public health engineering department said. The boost in water supply is likely to ease water scarcity in Sector V and adjoining areas during the peak summers, an official of the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) said. Sector V now receives water from Tallah plant. According to a senior NDITA official, three new filter beds — where water flown in from the Hooghly is allowed to settle as the first step of the filtration process — have been put on trial run. “This has added another 5MGD capacity to this plant which has been supplying around 20MGD since it was commissioned.” Debashis Sen, the NDITA chairman, said the water supply will help all stakeholders in the tech township. “The water from New Town plant that we will get would be treated surface water and it will help all stakeholders in Sector V...,” said Sen. The plant now supplies water to New Town that gets the lion share of around 12 MGD while Salt Lake receives 4 MGD per day. Kalyan Kar, the vice-president of the Sector V Stakeholders’ Association, said there was a long-standing demand for treated surface water in Sector V. “...We are happy that we will be getting treated water from the water treatment plant in New Town.” Intake jetties have been built at the Chitpore Lockgate to draw in the water from the Hooghly and a 10.5-km underground pipeline has been laid from the jetties to New Town. The water enters a narrow channel in the Mission Bazaar area in Kestopur, now above the ground, but two contiguous steel plates are placed on the sides to prevent spillage and theft. An underground channel guides the water into five ponds in the plant’s backyard. Here the water is allowed to settle for a few days. The plant then turns on its state-of-the-art system for water treatment. The cost of the project has been estimated at over Rs 400 crore, of which Rs 291 crore has been sanctioned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
11-03-2021||Calcutta||Floor plan question after Strand road railway office fire||In absence of a floor plan of the New Koilaghat building that caught fire on Monday, the firefighters might have found it difficult to locate the staircase and taken the elevator, a section of the fire department personnel who were on the spot on the night of fire, said. Allegations have also surfaced that there were no competent officials on behalf of the railways who could have assisted the fire fighting teams and helped them reach the spot safely. A fire department official said the fire teams had two options: either to wait for the railway officials to arrive with a floor plan to understand the structure of the building before making any move and let the upper floors burn or to take a risk. “Unfortunately, the risk did not pay,” the official said. Human intervention and assistance by railway officials could have been averted had there been a floor plan displayed inside the building, essentially near the staircase or the elevators, but there was none, said another fire department official. “The RPF personnel, who were also in the lift with the fire fighting team must have been trying to help them. But it is still not clear whether the RPF are trained and designated to handle a fire exigency,” said a divisional officer of the fire department. Display of floor maps near staircases and elevators is mandatory for highrise buildings just as the presence of fire fighting equipment like water sprinkler, hydrant, a pump, a fire-elevator and an alternative source of power. Metro had reported on Wednesday that the central government building did not have a fire certificate and had allegedly not acted on the recommendations made by the fire department in 2015. The Eastern Railway on Thursday sought the list of recommendations from the state fire and emergency services department, sources said. “They have asked us to send the list of recommendations again,” said an official in the fire department. On Tuesday, a senior fire department official had told Metro that the building authorities had applied for a fire certificate in 2013. The fire and emergency services department had sent a detailed list of recommendations for the 14-storied building which the authorities were expected to comply and revert to the fire department. The NOC (no objection certificate) could have been issued only after the final inspection. However, the building authorities allegedly did not respond after that. Calcutta police have initiated a probe to fix the cause of the fire on the 13th floor and the sequence of events that led to the death of nine persons inside two separate elevators. A senior officer in the probe team said the most vital part of the investigation was to find out who was in charge of the building-safety and security and why the power supply was not turned off even after the fire was reported. “Preliminary inquiry suggests that the power supply may have been switched off just when the second elevator in which two people were found dead, had reached the 13th floor,” said an officer in Lalbazar. “Unlike the first elevator whose doors had opened and exposed the seven men inside to the flames on the 13th floor, the two men who were in the second elevator did not suffer any burn injuries and were found dead inside an enclosed elevator. Possibly they were trapped and died of inhaling carbon monoxide once the power supply was off,” the officer added. The Rotary Club of Howrah organised a Covid-19 vaccination camp on Wednesday. Fifty people were administered the Covishield vaccine. The drive was supported by the state government and the Howrah Municipal Corporation. The effort was coordinated by Dr Monosij Dhara. The Rotary Club of Howrah is the first Rotary unit in Bengal to organise a Covid vaccination camp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
