12-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal tourism dept launches book showcasing heritage bungalows of Darjeeling and Dooars||Heritage bungalows in the hills of north Bengal are replete with stories, stories of the second flush harvest, of the torrential rain wiping out all vestiges of roads, of wild elephant herds visiting well laid out gardens, of cocktail parties stretching into the little hours of the morning, of the majestic Kanchenjunga in clear moonlight and not to forget the resident bhoot in the burra bungalow. The word burra bungalows come from the term burra sahibs. In tea gardens the managers were referred to as burra sahib or the big boss by the workers. Documenting and photographing all this and more is a book Burra Bangalows of North Bengal: Glimpses of Built Heritage and Lifestyle of Tea Estate in North Bengal, published by Intach, Calcutta with support of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation Limited. Covering 140 bungalows in Darjeeling and the Dooars and the Terai region, this book gives a glimpse of the sprawling residences of the burra sahibs, complete with pictures of the compounds, gardens, porticos, master bedrooms, living space, fireplaces, and even furniture. Along with the pictures are texts by members of the tea community, describing the planters’ lives. There is also a travel guide to north Bengal by the state tourism corporation which lists its tourist lodges and places to visit and also shares tips for the tourists. “We had done a book on burra bungalows of Assam a few years back. We have done a similar thing with north Bengal. Today, with space being at such a premium, it is important to document these bungalows because one never knows when they will disappear. In Assam, we photographed the only thatched burra bungalow existing. In north Bengal, we documented the bungalow of Makaibari which was devastated in a fire in 2017,” said G.M. Kapur, convener, Intach Calcutta. “The burra bungalows were more than homes, they were status statements,” said Nandini Chakravorty, principal secretary, tourism department, government of West Bengal. “It has been said that the planters were wedded to their tea estates and built bungalows that were of architectural and historical significance,” she added. The burra bungalows were typically single or double storied with a flower garden (Phool Bagan), and a vegetable garden (Maali Bari). Some also had swimming pools and tennis courts. Inside were spacious living rooms with fireplace. A bar was common to these bungalows. Bedrooms had attached washrooms (Gusalkhanas), which are spacious enough to accommodate a modern day flat. The washrooms were preceded by changing rooms. Guest rooms are also common, particularly if the bungalow was two-storied. They also had a Jaali Kamra (room with a net) as the sahib’s smoking area or leisure room complete with a billiard table. Photographer Nikhil Kapur, who has extensively shot at the locales, said: “North Bengal has over 500 tea gardens. After much research we were able to shortlist about 140. This was done keeping in mind the gardens that still had colonial bungalows with minimal and no modification and in fair condition. The tea community helped us out in this tremendously.” Reaching the burra bungalows was no mean feat. Most of them are in remote locations and roads are a 4x4 territory, said Nikhil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee vows to campaign in wheelchair||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday issued a video message from her hospital bed, urging “calm and restraint” from her supporters and vowing not to let the injuries disrupt her campaign even if it meant using a wheelchair. “I hope I will be able to return to the field in two-three days. But the problem in my leg will probably linger. But I will manage. I will not spoil any of my meetings. But I might have to use a wheelchair for a few days. I will request your cooperation,” Mamata said in the video clip tweeted by Trinamul. But it was not clear whether medical advice would allow Mamata to go ahead with her weekend campaign rallies in areas that would go to polls in the first phase on March 27. Some protests have been reported in the state after the chief minister was injured in Nandigram on Wednesday. “I would like to tell everybody, my brothers and sisters who form the masses, my brothers and sisters who are workers... it is true that I was hurt very badly yesterday, and I have injuries in my arms and legs, in a ligament. Yesterday, there was a lot of pain also in the head and the chest after such a serious injury,” Mamata said. In the 79-second video, the chief minister did not iterate the conspiracy allegation she had levelled on Wednesday. Neither did she blame anyone. A preliminary report from the district administration, including police, said a group of men from among the hundreds who were running behind the chief minister’s Scorpio had collided with a concrete pillar (meant to block heavy vehicles) on the road and fallen on the car’s fortified door, which slammed against Mamata. The early report of the administration partly corroborates Mamata’s description of the events although it does not go into the conspiracy theory. The initial report goes against a claim of the saffron ecosystem that her vehicle hit a pole and the door slammed into Mamata. The suggestion that a huge crowd was allowed to gather around the chief minister and that could be the trigger for the incident has raised the question whether policing was adequate when she was in Nandigram. The administration is technically under the Election Commission during the poll process although the panel has contested such suggestions. The chief minister said in the video: “I was standing on the footboard of the car, offering namaskar, when such a forceful pressure came that the car pressed against my leg. In that situation, whatever medicines I was carrying, I had them… rushed towards Calcutta. Since then, I have been under treatment.” From her bed in the Woodburn Ward of SSKM, Mamata continued: “I request everybody to stay calm and restrained, stay well. Do not do anything that inconveniences the people.” The chief minister concluded by hinting that she might have to use a wheelchair for a few days. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s tour programme for the Jungle Mahal areas this weekend might be changed. But organisers elsewhere had been instructed to put in place ramps and other provisions necessary to make the venues wheelchair-friendly. Before the injuries, Mamata was scheduled to visit Purulia on Saturday and hold three rallies in the Jhalda, Jaypur and Balarampur Assembly constituencies. On Sunday, she was supposed to visit Bankura for rallies in Saltora, Chhatna and Raipur. On Monday, two rallies have been lined up in Jhargram and Gopiballabhpur. Officially, the programmes stood unchanged till Thursday evening but party sources said the events might be cancelled if medical advice suggested such a precaution. Leaders in the Jungle Mahal districts of Purulia, Bankura and Jhargram have been asked to construct ramps at all the eight venues. On an eventful day when all stakeholders in Bengal politics tried to assess the possible impact of the Nandigram incident on the Assembly elections, Trinamul uploaded a tweet urging calm before Mamata’s video message was shared on social media. “We appeal to all our workers to not let their emotions overflow. We understand your concerns and we’ll keep updating about Hon’ble @MamataOfficial’s health. We request to maintain peace and not resort to means which Didi would not approve of. Let us all pray for her speedy recovery,” read the Trinamul tweet. A senior cabinet colleague of Mamata said the appeals were necessitated by reports of protests, some of which appeared aggressive, and inputs on plans being made at various levels of the party in the districts to conduct more agitations over the next couple of days. “That is why the party’s leadership met in the evening and took ownership of the protests — ensuring they would be peaceful — and formalised plans to ensure discipline,” the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee suffers hairline fracture||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has suffered a hairline fracture above her left heel, doctors who have gone through several images of her injured leg at SSKM Hospital said on Thursday. A temporary plaster has been applied to the area because the foot is still swollen. The chief minister has been advised to ensure her left foot takes as little of her body weight as possible to help faster healing. Mamata is said to have asked the medical team treating her to let her leave by Friday. If she is discharged on Friday, Mamata will have to confine herself to a wheelchair, a doctor said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Probe into two north Bengal deaths after taking jabs||Two persons from Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri who were administered the first dose of Covishield on Monday have passed away though there is no evidence yet to suggest that the deaths were related to the vaccine. The state health department has started an investigation into the cause of deaths. A preliminary probe suggests that “vaccination is unlikely to be responsible for such sudden deaths”, said the state’s director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty. “There were pre-existing cardiac diseases in both the persons, which frequently causes sudden death in this age group. However, since both the persons were vaccinated against Covid prior to the onset of symptoms we need final confirmation and causality analysis,” he said. Parul Dutta, 75, from Darjeeling, had received her first dose around 3.30pm on Monday. Dutta went home without any complaints. “She came back to the health centre around 6pm with bouts of diarrhoea and uneasiness. She was referred to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital at 7.30pm,” Chakraborty said. “She passed away at 9.30pm.” Chakraborty said that the woman was under treatment for “atrial fibrillation for quite long time”. A doctor with a state government hospital said atrial fibrillation meant that the beating of the heart was faster than usual. Such a condition can disrupt the normal functioning of the heart. The second person who died, Krishna Dutta, 65, of Jalpaiguri, received the first dose around 10.50am on Monday and went back without any complaints. “He had vomited at 4.30pm. Around 5am on Tuesday, he developed sudden breathlessness. He passed away in his home within half and hour, before getting medical assistance,” Chakraborty said. “He suffered from multiple cardiac problems, including cardiomegaly and cardiac muscle fibrosis, suggestive of old infarction,” he said. Cardiomegaly is a condition where the muscle of the heart gets thicker and the chamber inside gets narrower. Cardiac muscle fibrosis is damage of the cardiac muscles. The doctor with the state government hospital said that both the conditions can disrupt the normal functioning of the heart and can cause death. The man also had hypertension — high blood pressure — for last five or six years, Chakraborty said. Both of them had received the Covishield vaccine, which has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India. The state health department has referred both cases to a causality assessment committee that was already in place for Covid-19 vaccination and other routine immunisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Farmers and Bengal fighting same 'fascist' enemy: Punjab kisan leaders ||A group of farmer leaders from Punjab on Thursday recalled the shared history of resistance between Punjab and Bengal during the Independence movement and said the present political scene demanded a similar response. The farmers’ movement for the repeal of the three new farm laws and the Assembly elections in Bengal are both fights against the same “fascist force”, they said. “The battle must be fought hand in hand. Bengal and Punjab fought together during our Independence struggle,” said Raminder Singh Patiala, member of the legal cell of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha that is spearheading the protests at Delhi’s borders. Patiala, the member of the legal cell of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, said: “Rashbehari Bose had suggested to Ghadar party members how to plan their activities when the party was a fledgling one. He had particularly helped Kartar Singh Sarabha plan underground activities against the British.” He added: “We are in a similar situation again. You have your election here in Bengal where the BJP is trying to wrest power, while the farmers of Punjab have been protesting against the farm laws.” Patiala was speaking at a convention organised by Bengal Against Fascist RSS-BJP, an association of citizens who are urging people to oppose the BJP. Several farmer leaders addressed a nearly packed Bharat Sabha Hall at the Indian Association building in Bowbazar. Patiala also referred to Jatin Das’s association with Bhagat Singh, fellow comrades in the Hindustan Socialist Republican Army, to stress the Bengal-Punjab alliance. Das, who died in Lahore jail in 1929 after a 63-day hunger strike in protest against prison conditions, is still a revered figure in Punjab, Patiala said. “Who suffered more than Punjab and Bengal during the Partition?” he said, drawing another historical link. “The people of these two states know the consequences of a communally polarised society. So we should never allow the BJP a foothold in Bengal.” The mainly young audience kept breaking into applause, particularly when the speakers rebutted the BJP’s criticism of the farmers’ agitation. A BJP defeat in Bengal will help debunk government supporters’ claim that the farmers’ movement is restricted to Punjab and Haryana, several of the speakers said. “It will mean that Bengal’s farmers too have rejected the farm laws. It will mount pressure on the Centre to listen to the protesting farmers,” one of the speakers said. “A BJP victory will allow the party to go around the country and project the election as a referendum on the farm laws that went in its favour.” Harnek Singh Mehma, a farmer leader, said: “There has been so much propaganda against us. The BJP and the RSS are saying that farmers from Punjab and Haryana alone are protesting. If the BJP is defeated, we can say Bengal’s farmers have rejected the BJP too.” He added: “In any case, we will win our fight against the Centre. They have to repeal the three farm laws eventually. But a defeat for them in Bengal will bolster our claim that farmers across the country are angry with the BJP. They have already done miserably in the recent urban body polls in Punjab.” The farmer leaders who spoke at Thursday’s convention had participated in Wednesday’s march in the city, organised with the call “No Vote to BJP”. On Thursday, Patiala said the organisers should change the slogan to “Defeat the BJP”. The farmer leaders cautioned the audience that the BJP would use every resource it has to try and win Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||PM, kindly inaugurate Dr BC Roy institute for IIT: Ex-professor ||Ajay Kumar Roy, former head of the school of medical science and research, IIT Kharagpur, wrote to Metro about the birth of Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, a super specialty hospital that has now been renamed after Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of the Jana Sangh, who had nothing to do with either medicine or IIT. Roy, who had retired as a professor of electronics and electrical communications engineering at IIT, was one of the signatories to the letter that the IIT Kharagpur alumni had written to the Prime Minister last month, requesting him not to inaugurate the hospital that has been renamed on the occasion of IIT’s convocation on February 23. While the inauguration was put off, the renaming has been formalised by the institute surreptitiously last week.  IIT Kharagpur, the first IIT in India, started its journey on Aug 18, 1951 with eminent academician and scientist Sir JC Ghosh as the first director and Dr B.C. Roy, the legendary doctor and chief minister of West Bengal, as the first chairman, board of governors of IIT Kharagpur. At the dawn of 21st century in 2000-2001, IIT Kharagpur was celebrating its golden jubilee year and as a part of that celebration decided to start a new school “School of Medical Science and Technology” at IIT Kharagpur. Prof. Amitabha Ghosh, the then director, took special interest in initiating this school — the only one of it’s kind in India. The idea behind starting this school was to initiate multi-disciplinary research in medical and engineering sciences and technologies. The school, right from its initiation, received support from eminent space and defense scientist Dr A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, the then scientific advisor to the Prime Minister, the director general, ICMR and many eminent physicians across the country. IIT Kharagpur started offering a three-year interdisciplinary course “Master of Medical Science and Technology” specially designed for doctors with MBBS, MS or MD degrees. The course is aimed at providing basic ideas of electronics and communication technology, computer science and engineering, mechanical engineering, medical physics, material science, mathematical tools in medicine and so on. One of the major problems that the institute was suffering from, and is still suffering from, was the absence of any worthwhile good hospital on the IIT Kharagpur campus or even in the whole of Kharagpur subdivision. We, the IITians have lost many of our colleagues — teaching and non-teaching staff — and also students because of the non-availability of any good healthcare facilities. A 21-year-old student of IIT Kharagpur had died in March 2009 after he fell off a rickshaw, prompting charges of medical negligence at the campus hospital and triggering a students’ protest that forced the director of the institute to resign. Rohit Kumar, a third-year electrical engineering student, was playing basketball outside his Lala Lajpat Rai hostel in the morning. His death a few hours later stunned the campus, and shock soon snowballed into outrage. A violent protest engulfed the residence of then director Damodar Acharya, who resigned in the evening of March 21, and the medical officer of the hospital was suspended We then had a small healthcare facility, which still exists today, known as B.C. Roy Technology Hospital. This hospital does not have any major surgical facility or major radiological imaging facilities like MRI, CT etc. From the School of Medical Science and Technology  (SMST) our students and researchers felt that the absence of an excellent multi-specialist research hospital was a major hurdle to carry out major research projects. The specialist research hospital could at the same time meet the requirement of proper health care facility. In late 2006, we wrote to our President Dr A.P.J. Abdul Kalam, who always used to take interest in the development of the school. He expressed his desire to see the facilities at School of Medical Science and Technology (SMST) and the research, which was going on. In 2006, we strongly felt the immediate requirement of setting up a research hospital with diverse disciplines including cardiology and cardiac surgery, neurology and neuro surgery, endocrinology, oncology and so on. We also had an idea of starting a major area on traditional medicine including Ayurvedic, homeopathy and so on. We, the students, teachers and our former director Prof. S K Dube decided to name this major multi-disciplinary research hospital and research centre in the name of Dr B.C. Roy who was one of the founders of the first IIT at Kharagpur and who remained as the chairman, board of governors of IIT Kharagpur till the last day of his life. When we proposed this name to Dr Kalam, he was extremely happy. We requested him to lay the foundation stone of this research hospital and research institute and he immediately agreed to lay the foundation stone on May 17, 2007. As President of India, possibly this was his last foundation stone laying function Dr Kalam, in his address to the teachers, students, researchers and many distinguished persons from the entire state had said: “I am very happy that this multi-specialty research centre is named after the great personality of India, Dr B.C. Roy, who was a freedom fighter and a professional doctor….I am sure that his name will be ringing in the ears of our teachers and students so that they follow his ideals of service towards mankind.” Later on Dr Kalam wanted to know the progress of Dr B.C. Roy Medical Research Institute from time to time. Even as I had joined Bengal Engineering and Science University (BESU) Shibpur as the vice-chancellor in 2009 and continued as director of IIEST (BESU was elevated to Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology in 2014) till 2018, I kept myself abreast about the development of the project. It’s great to witness the completion of this unique medical research institute, which is a boon to many patients suffering from major illnesses and also to hundreds of researchers, not only from IIT Kharagpur but also from the institutes across the country. However, just before the inauguration of this institution, to our utter shock, we came to know that the name has been suddenly changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. (On February 12 night, IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari had made a Facebook post on the upcoming convocation on February 23: “The Prime Minister will also inaugurate (virtually) Dr. Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, IIT Kharagpur.”) To thousands of our alumni, professors, both present and past, students, this was an inappropriate decision. It would be incongruous to rename the facility, given the role Dr B.C. Roy had played in shaping this IIT. The hospital was named after B.C. Roy because of his contributions to the field of medical science. We are dismayed to find that the name of the hospital has been changed to Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, inconsistent with the origins of the institute and sentiments expressed by the respected former president of India, dedicating the institute in memory of a great visionary of modern Bengal. We urge our Hon’ble Prime Minister to kindly restore the original name and inaugurate Dr B.C. Roy Medical Research Institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||The lockdown effect: special kids turn more dependent ||The 11-month stay at home has made many children and individuals with special needs more “dependent” on people around them and in some cases their “learning” has suffered, said psychologists and special educators working with them. Some of the centres are gradually reopening for shorter hours and for individualised therapies and the discomfort of children who had been settled in the home environment is apparent. Both psychologists and parents said a school or centre trains them in “following a routine” or learning to tolerate discomfort which has suffered a setback during this stay-home period because of the pandemic. “In school or centres, children or individuals with special needs are under constant guidance. We feel that we are now having to restart again because a lot of unlearning of life skills have taken place during this period,” said Sudeshna Chowdhury, principal of Bhabna Child Development Centre that caters to individuals with autism and intellectual disabilities. Chowdhury said that there has been a change in the toilet training, sitting and eating habits. “Even those who are non verbal would show through signs that they need to to go the washroom but now they need support. Also, since their sitting habits have suffered, it is becoming difficult to do activity-based therapy with them,” she said. A teacher said the children have become restless. Parents are also facing resistance from individuals to go to centres even if it is for reduced hours. “My son has to go for two hours in the afternoon but that was a time when he would relax at home and after the first couple of days he has been resisting going to the centre,” said a father whose son has autism. Psychologists have not just noticed changes in their individual habits but also in their attitude. “We are noticing that the individuals have become more dependent on their parents or guardians around them and they are unable to think on their own. There is a lack of drive,” said Ishita Sanyal, psychologist and founder of NGO Turning Point. Sanyal said since they have reopened for reduced hours parents prefer to wait and take the individuals back with them. “While we are doing activities with them we see that many of them are looking at their parents’ who are waiting in the balcony for help or prompting even for simple activities,” said Sanyal. Not all schools or centres have reopened yet. Some of the schools or centres that have opened are providing individual therapies or are doing so on the request of parents. “Once all schools open and for longer duration it will be a testing time for parents and challenge to get them adjusted to a routine that was there before the pandemic,” said Soumen Upadhyay, the general secretary of Parivaar Bengal, a state parents’ federation. For schools or centres that are yet to reopen but are conducting online sessions, are also noticing a change in the children with special needs and an increase in “restlessness” during the online classes. “There is a kind of unlearning that has happened in certain areas. This is a loss. The entire workload is on parents and schools are giving guidance to them. It is difficult to do certain therapies like speech, occupational therapy in the online mode,” said Sudakshina Sinha, the co-ordinator of Ahead that caters to individuals from the age group of three. The centres which have opened are focusing on speech and occupational therapy and training them in activities of daily living. “For those in early intervention group the social skills and activities of daily living like maintaining their hygiene, combing, toilet training has been hampered. It has happened more who have moved into a comfort zone and in many cases the parents are not trained to give them proper directions. Our focus is to get them back into a routine and are able to follow instructions,” said Siddhartha Sankar Mulhopadhyay, the founder secretary of Kalyani Life Institute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||New Koilaghat building fire: Cops try to reconstruct fire sequence||A team of Calcutta police officers probing the fire at New Koilaghat building tried to reconstruct the sequence of events that led to the death of nine persons inside two lifts on Monday night. A team of police officers visited the building on Thursday along with officials from the fire department, Eastern Railway and the state forensic science laboratory. The team asked the fire department officials to earmark where the building fire safety devices should have been in place and also asked the fire and railway officials to explain the circumstances under which the incident happened. The fire on the night of March 8 killed nine persons, including four firefighters, four railway employees and one police officer, in two separate elevators. At least one of the teams was purportedly heading towards the 13th floor to control the fire. “We have asked the fire department officials to explain why the firemen had taken the elevator instead of the staircase when the building was on fire. The fire (department) officials have explained the sequence of events and also the problems they faced in absence of any floor map,” said a police officer. Sources in the fire department said in absence of a floor map to guide them to the staircase, there was an apparent “initial confusion to locate the staircase” after which members of the fire fighting team decided to take the lift instead of wasting more time to locate the staircase. “They (fire fighters) had two options — either to wait for a competent railway authority to come with a floor plan or to risk their lives and move without wasting any more time. It is also apparent that the RPF personnel who were accompanying the fire fighting team did not have the training to act in such a fire exigency,” said a senior official of the fire department. The 14-storied building has four elevators and two staircases. Seven persons had taken one of the two elevators and were found charred on the 13th floor, while a railway officer and a staff were found dead inside another elevator also on the 13th floor. Police said, they also sought details of the officials in the railways who were entrusted with the safety and security measures of the building that houses several offices of the Eastern Railway. “We have sought the recommendations of fire-safety devices made by the fire department that should be in place in a building like this. The recommendations will be matched with the existing facilities,” said an officer. Sources in the forensic department said they would examine the nature of the control panel in the elevators and if there was provision to stop them in between two floors. Police officers said they were trying to conduct the probe in the floors other than the 12th and 13th floors first to ensure that work in the lower floors could be resumed as early as possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Online classes bring moms back to books||Women from less-privileged families who had to forego their studies are now using texts and videos sent by schools of their children to resume studies, at least three school heads have said. Most of these women from low-income group are homemakers or into tailoring work to supplement the family income. Some have studied till Madhyamik in vernacular schools but aspire to provide their children with an English medium education. The children of most of these women are in primary classes and they have been learning “simple mathematics and English words and phrases” from online classes of their children. Some of these women have communicated to teachers how these online classes have helped them. Online classes have various limitations but the silver lining is the enthusiasm of these women and that they are getting empowered, a principal said. “Many of the women have not been able to receive proper education… but the online classes are providing them with an opportunity to have some sort of structured learning, however, rudimentary or unintentional by the school,” said a principal of a city school. “Some of these women are getting access to education that had otherwise been denied to them and they now help their children record their responses and take an active interest in the work sent by the school,” the principal said. Schools have been sending videos to the children and parents can refer to them as well. “The videos are a ready reference,” Angela Ghose, acting principal, Scottish Church Collegiate School, second campus (Kestopur), said. “Parents can watch them at their convenience,” she said. The school now has students in pre-primary up to Class II. Some of these women have told teachers how they have been picking up English, Ghose said. “I give them instructions in English and the women are asked to repeat them to their children in English. It helps both the mother and the child to learn spoken English.” Initially, the women wanted specific answers to questions. “They are used to rote learning. But I told them that we will not give them answers like that. They have to practice by speaking to their children,” she said. Despite the vernacular background of some parents, teachers have been asked to send notices in English. Parents have been told to speak to teachers if they can’t understand something, Ghose said. Ghose said the mothers are also picking up table manners and etiquette lessons from the videos that the school is sending them and are teaching their children as well. A few school heads felt many parents were taking more interest in the education of their children. Shahani Begum said she had been attending online classes with her son who is in Nursery. “I completed Madhyamik from a Hindi medium school but I wanted my son to study in an English medium school. The online classes have helped me, too…. I have been learning.” “Many parents have told me they are attending online classes and learning. Some of them had to quit studies… and some are from vernacular schools,” Father Devraj Fernandes, principal, St Aloysius Orphange and Day School in Howrah, said. “Hence, the English medium and a structured education are helping them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Video learning app for Bengali medium kids||Students of state board schools in Bengal now have an app to access topics from their text books through video recordings and storytelling sessions by teachers that would make learning “easy and enjoyable”. “Tutopia learning App”, specially designed for students of classes VIII, IX and X of Bengali medium schools affiliated to the state board, was launched on Thursday. The content for students appearing in Madhyamik this year is available now and that for students of VIII, IX and X will be available from March 15. “The app will cater to all subjects and for each topic in a particular subject, there will be a well-animated video. There will also be chapter-wise notes that students can download or take printouts of. Students can also take a test,” said Subrata Roy, director, Tutopia Pvt Limited. Roy said because of the pandemic, there has been a switch from on-campus classes to online classes across homes and that had given them the opportunity to cater to specific learning needs. “This will be a new-age learning tool for the Bengali medium students (both in the city and in the districts). We have put in hundreds of hours to understand the students’ learning needs by mapping their goals, strengths, weaknesses and interests in order to get the best out of them,” Roy said. He said that even in urban poor homes, parents are trying to cater to the learning needs of their children by buying smartphones. The app, developed by Roy along with partners Gaurav Dugar and Anurag Chirimar, can be downloaded from Google Play Store and Apple App Store. On board are teachers who are adept in developing course materials using animation, graphical representation and info graphics. “The tutoring programs are structured in a modern user-friendly storytelling manner that help the students to easily ‘relate and remember’, reducing the burden of cramming through rote,” said Anurag Chirimar, one of the directors. “The curriculum has been designed keeping in mind the guidelines of the state board.” The students appearing for Madhyamik this year will not be charged any fee and can access the content for free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Clinic uses virtual reality support to treat phobia||You are standing on a plank protruding from the 20th floor of a building. You are being asked to walk up right to the edge. But you are scared to look down to the street far below. But you feel sick, your head swims. You are allowed to slowly step back inside. The session is over for the day. The experience of facing one’s fear is real but the circumstances are simulated as it all happens in the confines of a doctor’s chamber. A clinic has opened in DD Block to address a variety of mental health issues. There are psychologists, psychiatrists, therapists and special educators, and assisting them is technology-aided simulation of stress-inducing circumstances using virtual reality (VR). Inaugurated by actress Ritabhari Chakraborty, Sahayta Clinic is on the second and third floors of the building that also houses Suraksha Diagnostics. “This clinic will address issues of depression, anxiety and stress which have increased today. We want to provide mental healthcare like any other healthcare treatment and the stigma has to reduce among people to reach out for help,” said psychiatrist Syed Naiyer Ali, who, along with colleagues Tathagata Chatterjee and Debasish Sanyal, has founded the clinic. The centre claims to be the first of its kind in eastern India to use VR for treatment. Through this, patients would be subject to virtual environments where they can overcome their phobias or situations of distress. The virtual environments have been engineered through panoramic images and videos and will give patients life-like sensations. At the inauguration, a VR module for patients of acrophobia (fear of heights), was demonstrated. A volunteer was asked to don VR goggles and then look down. He was virtually standing on the second floor of a building. The man was then virtually taken to the 20th floor and asked to look down. When he confessed to feeling nauseous, he was taken back to the second floor so as to not rush things. The technology allows the doctor to move the patient to the middle or edge of a plank protruding from these buildings, thereby customising treatment. The technology has been procured from Barcelona and has around 15 modules to help patients overcome issues like acrophobia, agoraphobia (being in situations where escape might be difficult), claustrophobia, anxiety, depression etc. The modules for treating agoraphobia include environments in a crowded street like Times Square in New York, whereas the ones for treating claustrophobia include getting stuck in a lift or a closet. “VR treatment for mental health is at a nascent stage and doctors have teamed up with engineers to build modules to treat patients. Currently 10 organisations are working on this technology, which has been in commercial use for three years at most, in North America and some European countries,” said Chatterjee, the managing director of Sahayta Clinic. The clinic also provides counselling to corporates, married couples, children, adolescents along with geriatric and career counselling. Ritabhari lauded the effort. “People shouldn’t hesitate to seek mental help if they feel the need for it. Many also think mental healthcare is expensive but that is a myth. We should reach out to professionals rather than suffer in silence,” said the actress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Car accident in GD Block||The president of GD Block residents’ association was injured after he got hit by a vehicle on one of the block roads. Dilip Das is admitted to a private hospital off the Broadway, opposite the Salt Lake stadium. According to a resident of the block, Das was crossing the road when the vehicle driven by another resident hit him. Kumar Shankar Sadhu, the secretary of the block, said that the driver of the vehicle who owns the car took him to the hospital to get him admitted. On Wednesday, several residents of the block went to the Bidhannagar South police station and asked the police to take stern action against the driver. “We are scanning the CCTV footage and it seems the driver had very less time to react,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar Commissionerate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Book fair at Ultadanga||There was no Calcutta International Book Fair in Central Park this winter, but spring is making up for the loss. Even as the New Town Book Fair was drawing to a close, another book fair started next door. Bidhan Boi Mela was inaugurated last Friday at Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga, next to Police Abasan. There are 41 stalls, all selling books, including the likes of Ananda Publishers, Dey’s Publishing, Patra Bharati and Deep Prakashani. “This is the first time we are holding the fair in a big way. In 2018, we had held a three-day event with just a single stall from the guild,” said Gautam Talukdar, secretary, Bidhan Sishu Udyan. It was an appeal from him to the joint organisers, Publishers and Booksellers Guild, on stage during the inauguration that has resulted in a 20 per cent discount on all sales. Visitors buying books over Rs 1000 will also get a folder as gift from the Udyan authorities. The fair is on till March 14, and is open from 2pm to 9pm. “There is no other city in India with so many booklovers. We have 24 lakh people visiting and sales worth Rs 22-24 crore at the Book Fair. In the run-up to that fair, which has been postponed to July this year because of the pandemic, we are holding smaller book fairs across the city. The one in Jodhpur Park in February was a success. So now we are here,”  said Tridib Chatterjee, president of the guild. The inauguration was attended by two literary greats who stay in neighbouring Salt Lake — theatre personality Manoj Mitra and poet Joy Goswami. Poet Sankha Ghosh who stays close to the venue had been invited too but could not make it due to advanced age. “During the lockdown period, we could not open bookshops. But when people started asking us for books, we made deliveries on bikes and cycles. So many people spent the lockdown period reading books,” said guild general secretary Sudhangshu Sekhar Dey. Talukdar recalled how Atulya Ghosh, the founder of the Sishu Udyan, had left instructions that only books be given as prize. “He had a great personal collection in his Karbala Road house which even Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru had gone to see. Till now, we stick to the tradition of giving books as prizes to our little members,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Science fiction in epics, Sukumar & beyond||What is common to the Puranas, The Ramayana and The Mahabharata one hand and recent Hollywood films like Interstellar and Inception on the other? Both, it was pointed out in course of a panel discussion, are works of science fiction. Science fiction had its beginning in ancient Syria and Indian literature has a rich legacy in the genre too. On March 5, New Town Book Fair hosted an event where authors Souvik Das and Partha De discussed the future of adult science fiction in Bengali literature with Deep Ghosh, a publisher and editor of Kalpabiswa, a Bengali science fiction magazine, and Arunava Gangopadhyay, who has made Kolpobignan, a documentary film on the subject. Riju Ganguly, who has translated many works of science fiction from English to Bengali, was the moderator. Das disagreed with the perception that science fiction only predicted doom. “Our epics are my favourite works of science fiction and they are quite utopian.” He cited the love story of Balaram and Revathi in the Puranas. “It talks about the parallel existence of two different space-time relationships. The same concept has been used in Interstellar and Inception.” He also spoke about the interpretation of Creator god Brahma’s four heads. “They represent the four most abundant elements behind Creation -- oxygen, hydrogen, carbon and nitrogen. The fifth head of Brahma is hidden. That represents soul which is the essence of Creation.” De’s interpretation ran contrary to Das’s view. “Adult science fiction is a realistic speculation about dystopic future events, based solidly on adequate knowledge of the real world, past and present. It warns the reader about some impending disaster,” De said. Ghosh said a good work of science fiction had to be one where readers could relate their present situation as leading to the dystopia at the centre of the story. He expressed concern about the challenges faced by the genre in Bengali literature, referring to the apathy of popular Bengali magazines towards science fiction. De felt Bengali readers had drifted more towards fantasy and horror stories over the last decade. However, Gangopadhyay said he was optimistic about the future of the genre. “When I spoke to readers across age groups during the filming of my documentary, they showed keen interest in good content,” he pointed out. Das reminded the audience that the future would be a continuum of the rich heritage of sci-fi writers in Bengali, including Sukumar Ray, whose Heshoram Hnushiyarer Diary (Diary of Heshoram Hnushiyar) was a parodic take on Arthur Conan Doyle’s The Lost World and Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose, whose Palatak Tufan (Runaway Cyclone) uniquely brought together sci-fi and satire. Alluding to Woman’s Day coming up three days later, Das also paid homage to Rokeya Sakhawat Hossain as the first woman writer of science fiction in India whose story Sultanar Swapno (Dream of Sultana) challenged the archetypal representation of men in society as macho. Though differing on several counts, the speakers agreed that science fiction was difficult to define as there was no easily demarcated limits to science fiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-116
12-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Bankim link to crisp Ray dialogues’||Satyajit Roy’s crisp dialogues were influenced by Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay’s writing style. “Bankim liked short conversations, terse responses. He found a technique by which the respondent did not repeat the information in the question,” said Ujjal Chakraborty in course of his talk on Ray at the New Town Book Fair on March 2. Chakraborty, who worked with Ray at the children’s magazine Sandesh and received tips in illustration from him, gave examples from novels of both to show their minimalist approach to the spoken word. “This helped speed up pace of the events,” he said. He also pointed to the presence of witnesses to every key event in a Ray film. “Without an observer there is no emotion in the scene. It may even appear staged. It is the observer who creates the reality,” said the author of The Director’s Mind and other books on Ray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Actor hid behind role, poet wanted voice to be heard’||An artiste who hid behind his characters, an indomitable spirit and one who sought the ultimate connect - that was Soumitra Chatterjee to theatre actor Debshankar Haldar. The latter was speaking about his senior colleague and inspiration at a tribute organised at the seventh New Town Book Fair on March 3. The two versatile actors had shared stage and screen space on a number of occasions including Phera, a play directed by Chatterjee’s daughter Poulomi Bose, that completed 100 shows in 2019. Haldar spoke of the Chatterjee he knew ‑ a tireless actor and poet who,  despite being into his 80s, would teach and share experiences with even the junior-most artistes backstage and in between shots. “His knowledge was as rich and varied as his book shelves,” said the actor at the New Town fair ground, behind which stood Snehodiya, the senior citizens’ home whose brand ambassador was Chatterjee himself. The anecdotes that Haldar shared were mostly about the aging Chatterjee who would never let his bad back and knees deter him. “We have worked in several films together, but with Phera we shared stage space for the first time. Chatterjee was then over 80. Before that we had played the same part in many plays but never together,” said Haldar, who is currently essaying the role of Ashwatthama in Bose’s play Andha Yug, which had  earlier been played by Chatterjee. “I learnt a lot from him in happiness, sadness, during crisis and also in the green room where our clothes would often hang together. Just as his costumes would touch ours as they hung together from the same string, Soumitra da would always manage to touch our lives in every situation,” said Haldar. What he remembered the most was Chatterjee’s resilience even when Phera - based on Friedrich Durandmand’s The Visit ‑ crossed its century mark. “It was no mean feat for an 85-year-old to travel to different venues and project the same energy for so many days. But he would keep trying to form a special connection both with his audience and his co-workers,” added Haldar. connection that Chatterjee sought with the audience had the depth of “a blind man’s touch”.  Even when he had to portray a complex character with myriad shades, Chatterjee did not believe in exaggerated gestures, loud pitch and mannerisms. Subtlety was his trump card. “Which words do we utter from the innermost core of our hearts?” Chatterjee had once asked Haldar during a conversation. “I was left flummoxed. I wanted to pass the test but was not sure what to say,” laughed Haldar. The answer was “Ma” and “I love you”. “Soumitrada told me how both ‘Ma’ and ‘I love you’ usually come out muffled though the speaker may be feeling a whirlwind of emotions inside. Likewise, the best connect on stage is often achieved through silence and subtlety. A good actor needs to know how much to reveal and when to let the audience draw their own inferences. This was an important lesson that I learnt from him,” said Haldar. While Chatterjee the actor was subtle and liked to hide behind his characters, Chatterjee the poet wanted his voice heard. His favourite critic, at one point, was poet Shakti Chattopadhyay. “During their youth, the two would often carry their poetry in their pockets, sometimes comparing notes right in the middle of a busy Esplanade. Shakti Chattopadhyay was mild in his criticism but he did help Soumitrada find his own voice,” said Haldar. Chatterjee knew how to use different genres of art to their advantage. “As he aged, he felt more conscious of his duties and responsibilities as an artiste. He was always ready to break shackles. And, he focused only on the art, never letting audience reaction bog him down,” he summed up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Roads being repaired, but method in question||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has finally started repairing the potholed roads of Salt Lake but their archaic road-laying methods have got both residents and engineers of other government agencies worried about their quality and longevity as well as a spike in the air pollution. Potholes dot all major roads of the township. Some are in worse state than others. The civic body however is mostly relying on patchwork — a layer of bitumen that is laid over craters — as a quick-fix solution. To add to this, smoke-belching machines, fed on coal, are in action in multiple blocks including DL and FD blocks, to heat up liquid bitumen and in the process, are choking residents and passers-by. The Telegraph Salt Lake had reported in 2019 how similar smoke-spewing machines were causing breathing problems for residents of a block in Sector III. Two years down the line, the civic body has seemingly learnt no lessons and its contractors are still using this polluting method to heat up the mix. Paritosh Ganguly, a septugenerian who stays in DL Block, said that although he was happy that the civic body had finally repaired several cratered roads in his block, he had to spend sleepless nights due to the overwhelming odour of the acrid smoke that somehow managed to enter his home even though he had shut all windows and doors. “The workers took two days to repair the stretch in front of my house. My balcony is entirely covered in soot. I suffer from asthma and the smoke that was emitted by the heating machines made life miserable,” said Ganguly. Residents on the service road flanking FD Block near the Netaji statue are keeping doors and windows shut all day as a bitumen melter is parked in front of FD 462, with jet black smoke rising up even to the third floor. “What can we do? At least the road is finally being repaired,” said a man who refused to give his name. A senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that they had started repairs of roads inside blocks like FD, FE, AC, ED among others. According to him, once the block roads are repaired the main roads, including stretches of the Broadway, will be repaired as well. Roads in other parts under the jurisdiction of the Corporation, including Baguiati, Kestopur and parts of Rajarhat, are also in a state of disrepair. Kaushik Ganguly, a resident of Baguiati, said that the stretch of road that leads from the Kestopur bazaar to Mahisbathan is in a shambles. “Multiple accidents have taken place and the entire road remains in a state of haze throughout the day as vehicle struggle to negotiate the potholes and their wheels kick up dust,” he said. Tapas Chatterjee, the former deputy mayor of the corporation who was in charge of roads and who is now a member of the board of administrators, said that they had started repairs in phases and soon all roads in Salt Lake will be repaired. “We want to finish the repairs by next month,” said Chatterjee. He said that they had no option but to use hot-mixing machines as the civic body does not have the resources to run a cold-mix plant. “This is how road repairs have been done since ages. We are aware of a new lesser polluting technology but it is expensive and we don’t have any experts who build roads using that technology. However we are welcome to change and will use it if we find it cost effective,” said Chatterjee. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation has identified a plot at Sirakol in South 24-Parganas’ Mograhat for a factory to manufacture the bitumen mixture needed to lay roads.  The move came after the National Green Tribunal asked the civic body in October 2018 to shut down its two hot mix plants that produced bitumen. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, however, has not taken any steps to build a cold mix plant. Hot mix and cold mix are two ways of preparing the bituminous mixture that is used to lay asphalt roads. The bitumen used in the two technologies is different. In the hot mix technology, bitumen remains in solid state and has to be heated to turn it into a liquid state so that it can be used to lay roads. Carbon dioxide, the primary cause of global warming, fine particulate matters that can enter the deepest crevices of lungs and even cause cancer, and other toxic fumes are released when bitumen is heated. In cold mix technology, the bitumen remains in liquid state even in ambient temperature and doesn’t need any heating. That means no toxic fumes are released. Many environment experts have said the civic bodies should go for cold mix technology that is less polluting. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Seniors queue up for shots||Vaccination has started for senior citizens from March 1 and though there are several private options where the shots are available at a cost of Rs 250, a significant section of residents of the twin townships is trusting the government facilities. The Telegraph Salt Lake takes a tour of Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital and NKDA Covid Vaccination Centre, the two government sites in Salt Lake and New Town respectively that have been providing the service to senior citizens since the start, and tracks how the arrangements have improved at both places as the administration learnt from experience over the first 10 days. NKDA Covid Vaccination Center Where: Action Area IID (on the road opposite Greenwood Elements, near Tank 12. Take a right turn from the Major Arterial Road at the first crossing after Akankha More when approaching from the Eco Park side) When: 9am to 4pm (reporting by 3.30pm) Though the site welcomed senior citizens, including unregistered walk-ins, right from Day 1, i.e. March 1, when vaccination started for the elderly and those above 45 years with comorbidities, it is from Day 4 that attendance started picking up. So much so that last week, about 70 senior citizens turned up together one day without appointment, leading to chaos. Since then, the authorities have been urging people to register on the New Town helpline 18001037652 and take an appointment before going. “There was no shamiana. It was hot. The Co-Win portal was crashing. There were some initial hiccups,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. The authorities have taken measures to rectify the problems. There is ample seating space now, both at the ground floor level where a cover has been provided and drinking water is being served, and on the first floor where people are being allowed up in small numbers once some get the vaccine and leave. The biggest benefit is the option to register by simply calling the helpline at any time. “While the Co-Win portal only indicates first half or second half of the day for a slot, for bookings on the helpline we are giving hourly slots so that waiting time is minimal,” said an NKDA official. “We could not have registered if the helpline was not there,” said Santanu Mukherjee, a senior citizen from AC Block, on Tuesday. “We are registered for the 12-1pm slot.” The NKDA helpline is being flooded with calls. “Earlier they received 30-40 calls, now there are about 900 calls every day. The call centre staff were overwhelmed. The call centre had to multiple the staff strength by four times. Now we are asking people to leave a missed call 24x7. The staff are calling back in due course and providing a slot,” said Sen. When The Telegraph Salt Lake visited the centre on Tuesday, there were two queues — one for the registered, be it through Co-Win or the helpline, and the other for walk-ins. Due to technical glitches, some of those registered were also being shifted to the unregistered queue, like in case of East Enclave resident Tarun Goswami who had received a slot on registration. But the registered name could not be found on the list with the officials at the desk. “What can we do if the names do not show up in the printouts we have got for the day or on the portal itself when we are checking upstairs?” an official said. But since the shift is just from one table to the next or from one room to another next door, the beneficiaries did not mind. A third vaccination room was started on Tuesday to speed up the process. Intermittently, a nurse was announcing the contra-indications over the microphone downstairs, which included getting Covid-19 in the last month and half, being lactating or pregnant, taking any other vaccine within the last 30 days and having any kind of drug allergies. “We want people to come fully fit. So those with fever, cough or cold at the moment are also being discouraged. But please consult your doctor if you have specific doubts,” she said, on being quizzed further. “Great arrangement,” said Kartik Chandra Chatterjee, a 77-year-old from Greenwood Elements as he sat watching TV in the observation room with his wife Reba, 72. Each person has to wait for half an hour to check for post-vaccine contra indications. AtishchandraSinha and his wife Rina had walked in at 8.20pm from neighbouring Alaktika Housing Complex, before the process had started. A civic volunteer gave us  serial numbers of 4 and 5. It was a smooth process,” he said while walking out at 11.10am after a chat with a neighbour. Automatic token generators were introduced on Wednesday to maintain the sequence of reporting. The only complaint came from those with foot problems. “If only they had a lift,” moaned SupriyaChakraborty, a 77-year-old from NBCC Vibgyor, as she balanced her walking stick, pleats of her sari and the railings of the stairs. S.R. Das and Tapati Das could reach the first floor only because their son aided them. “I have varicose vein. I cannot get up easily once I sit down,” said the 79-year-old from Uniworld City who has had an open heart surgery. His wife Tapati has had a knee replacement. Also in the queue were nurses from Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre in New Town. “There are 15 of us. This will be our second dose,” smiled Amrita Barik. Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital Where: DD Block, Salt Lake When: 9am to 4pm The facility which is the cold chain point supplying vaccines to all the centres in Salt Lake is also vaccinating possibly the highest number of people in the subdivision now. The hospital was seeing snaking queues of polling personnel and police from the beginning of the month. “We vaccinated 798 people on Wednesday and 853 the day before,” said superintendent Partha Pratim Guha. On the first few days, the two queues — of polling personnel and police on one hand and senior citizens on the other — were standing parallely in the same corridor. This was causing inconvenience to both sides. The senior citizens complained of the other queue being a boisterous one, including many without masks. Sikha Mukherjee, a 72-year-old from BF Block, came at 12.20pm and on seeing the length of the queue went home for lunch. “We returned at 3.10pm,” she said at 4pm. With the vaccinating point being the same for both queues, they were being called alternately in small numbers. “The elderly people stay close by whereas we are coming from afar. Why can’t they be vaccinated separately without delaying our queue? I came at 10.30am. All of us missed lunch. One who went out to eat missed his turn as they gave out tokens at that point,” Kalpana Biswas, a Jalsampad Bhavan employee. Arunima Roy, who works in AG Block, had a chocolate bar for lunch. “I was carrying it since I am a diabetic,” she said. It was 4.30pm then.  The slow Co-Win portal was not helping either. The hospital authorities realised the problem and shifted the vaccination of the elderly to the recently opened CCU unit on the second floor from Sunday.  While downstairs there was little scope to sit till one was called inside, the space upstairs has an air-conditioned waiting area with television. And since the hospital has an elevator, the floor is not a cause for worry for the elderly. “Seeing the long queue, many of the polling personnel were returning without taking the vaccine and then refusing to take on poll duty. So we had to act fast,” said a hospital official. Queues for the polling personnel and the police are separate now. “We are stuck at home for a year. I took the vaccine so that we can return to normal life,” said Debamitra Das, an 81-year-old from FE Block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||More jab centres in New Town||The NKDA has opened a second vaccination centre at the CB Block community market in Action Area 1. The centre is housed in the second floor of the building but senior citizens need not worry. The building has a lift. Vaccination there started on Wednesday after NKDA officials met health department officials on Monday. Two nurses have been assigned to the new site from the office of the Chief Medical Officer of Health, North 24-Parganas, to add to the three on duty at the Action Area II centre. According to Hidco authorities, New Town will also get more paid facilities shortly. Till Tuesday, there were only Charnock Hospital on the township's fringes and Tata Memorial Center. “We met the private medical establishments of New Town which have got permission to start vaccination on Tuesday and requested them to also allow walk-in registration as senior citizens are unable to register on Co-Win. Only establishments which have doctors in attendance to deal with post-vaccination complications are given permission to vaccinate,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Ohio Hospital, too, started on Wednesday and vaccinated 56 people on Day 1. “We are allowing walk-ins if we have slots free over and above the day’s registrations,” said a hospital official. Vaccination started at Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre as well on Wednesday. HCG Eko Cancer Centre has started vaccination from Monday. Apollo Clinic will start vaccination at both its Salt Lake and New Town centres from Monday, an official said. While vaccine is free at government sites, the private centres are charging Rs 250.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Shyamadas De and his ‘obedient’ pet dogs||He celebrated his two daughters’ birthdays at the same time with cakes, flowers and treats this March. Nothing unusual in that, except the younger one is a six-year-old fawn-coloured Labrador Retriever called Chinky. Welcome to the house of HA Block resident Shyamadas De. Two days after the celebrations Chinky sits with brother Choco, a chocolate-coloured Labrador Retriever, on the living room couch, still wearing red nail polish from the party. A die-hard dog lover, De along with his wife Sangeeta and daughter Saunli have always shared their lives with pets. They also have a rescue ringed-parrot called Khuku. “At one point, we were living with six dogs. My parents also had cows in our ancestral house in Birbhum. We cannot think of life without animals,” said De, a civil engineer by profession and a proud father who takes the initiative to obedience train his dogs himself. Choco and Chinky were brought from Kochi and Chennai respectively in 2014-15. Choco was born on December 5 in 2014 and Chinky on February 20 the next year. “We usually celebrate birthdays. But since we were out of town on Chinky’s special day this year, my daughter decided to go for a joint celebration. We ordered two separate cakes,” said De. From dog beds to bow ties and a range of treats, the labs are spoilt rotten with gifts on their birthdays. “I wanted to train them for dog shows. Choco comes from a line of champions. But finally, I did not get the time with my schedule. Choco and Chinky are now just well-trained house dogs who rule our hearts and homes,” said De. The six-year-old labs are best friends themselves, enjoying attention from De’s friends and family as well. “They are usually the heart and soul of any gathering. Chinky also enjoys a drop of red wine in winters and Belgian beer in summer. They also need their special mangsho-bhaat (mutton curry-rice) on Sundays like us,” laughed De. Every evening after work, De savours some family time over tea and snacks. “We gather round our living room chatting for a while. Choco and Chinky always push their way between us, enjoying our adda,” he added. The two also wait for Sangeeta to finish puja every morning so that they can have their share of the fruit prasad. The dogs share De’s bedroom, lying around as long as De sleeps. “They need an early-morning snack. But after that they go back to bed, waking up only when I do and feed them biscuits,” said De. The morning routine often includes bathing the two and taking them for a game on the terrace. “They have balls and other toys. I often make them play fetch on our terrace,” said De who has also trained the dogs to fetch newspaper. “Choco can be disobedient at times.  But Chinky is the intelligent one. Chinky has learnt to open the tap and drink water directly from the basin. She has taught Choco to do the same. It’s funny when they are at a loss about how to close the tap. The two are often there when my daughter attends her online classes. I keep joking with my daughter about which subjects they enjoy the most,” said De. He has often taken the dogs on a car ride round Salt Lake and New Town. “They enjoy these treats. I dream of taking them to the seaside some day. That will be their first holiday,” said De.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||How to pick a puppy ||A dog seems to be the perfect way of coping with stay-at-home blues. A puppy will love you and keep you busy at home when you need to stay home as much as possible to stay safe. But as explained by canine trainer and behaviourist Paramita Das in the first instalment of this column, a dog is not a toy. Das, a resident of FE Block, had held a webinar telling families interested in adopting pets, what to expect. In the earlier instalment, she had explained the kind of time, effort and support system one needs at home before getting a dog, whether one should get a puppy or adult dog and about how to choose a puppy that would compliment the ambience in your home. In the second instalment today, she explains what to do next. What breed to get Choose a breed that suits your lifestyle. Spend time researching breeds and don’t just pick one up as it looks cute. Activity level- Do you sleep till 10am? Do you watch TV all evening and want your dog to sit next to you or are you a runner who wants to take your dog on treks? Do you have kids at home or adults? These questions are important in picking a breed. People think Labradors and Golden Retrievers make great companions but this is not what they were bred for. These dogs were bred to retrieve fishermen and hunter’s catch. So you may want to relax in the evening but your Lab is energetic and wants to play then. Mind you, not giving your dog exercise amounts to cruelty. People think they can make Calcutta comfortable for a Siberian Husky by air-conditioning his room but that’s not enough. These dogs were bred for endurance, to survive miles in the snow. To keep a Husky healthy you have you wake up at 4.30am and take him for a long run before it gets hot. Can you do that? After the lockdown, we all know how frustrating it is to be stuck indoors. This is how your dog feels if you don’t let him out. Flooring- Breeds like Labradors and Golden Retrievers are prone to a condition called hip dysplasia. Pups of these breeds should not be running on marble floors that can be slippery. Grown-up dogs with this condition should not be walking on marble either. Games- Beagles are extremely popular as they are compact-sized with short coats but they are also stubborn. You have to design mentally stimulating games for them else they’ll get frustrated and destructive. Beagles are scent hounds and so they see the world with their noses, even more than other dogs. To keep a Beagle happy you can hide his toys in the house or in the park and ask him to find them. Training- Should you want breeds like German Shepherd Dogs, Rottweilers and Belgian Malinois, you must train them well. These breeds were meant to rear sheep and cattle and nipped the legs of these animals when they tried to go astray. Unless trained, these dogs may bite children they see running. One need not always hire a professional trainer; you can do it yourself but you need to learn it first. Once the pup comes home From the age of 60 days (eight weeks) to about 20 weeks, the pup’s sense of smell, sight and touch is developing rapidly and he is curious about his environment. Ideally you should expose him to 100 new experiences every month at this stage. Throw steel vessels on the floor, open and shut umbrellas before him, burst fire crackers, play Rabindrasangeet and rock music… Otherwise, your summer-born dog may panic on Diwali night or in winter, when he sees people wearing hoodies. You also need 100 new people to handle him in this period. Sadly, we live in an age when we have 5,000 friends on Facebook but none that we can call to play with our pup. Nonetheless, allow the puppy to explore. Unless the pup explores now, his curiosity will get replaced by fear later and you’ll need a behaviourist to help him out of it. You’ll complain that he bites but you won’t realise that he bites out of fear and not aggression. • To be continued||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Matri Sadan vaccinates without Co-Win listing||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has started at least six vaccination sites where those above 60 years and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities can get Covid-19 vaccines. Till last Sunday, there was not a single health centre run by the civic body where people in these two categories could receive the shots. The centres that are now ready to administer Covid-19 shots include Matri Sadan in Salt Lake’s EE Block, the primary healthcare centre in Duttabad, a health centre in Ashwininagar near Baguiati, the Jhautola primary health centre near Rajarhat,  Deshbandhu Nagar Hospital in Narayanpur and Vidyasagar Matrisadan o Hospital in Rajarhat. People can walk in to these centres and receive the Covid-19 shots free of cost, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said. The Telegraph Salt Lake visited two of these vaccination sites and all those who had queued up to receive the vaccines said that they had gone there after coming to know of these places through word of mouth. Krishna Chandra Das, a 72-year-old EE Block resident, had taken the shot with his wife Jayanti, 67,at the Matri Sadan close to his home. They had neither received a notice from the civic body nor was there any sort of awareness-building activity to let people know that a new government-run vaccine site had opened. “I stay very close to the hospital and suddenly we saw that chairs had been set up in the open area near the hospital. I walked in with my wife wondering whether the chairs were meant to seat people taking vaccines and we were pleasantly surprised when the nurse said that they had indeed started administering vaccines,” said Das. Mukti Choudhary,64, a resident of Karunamoyee Housing Estate’s G block who had come to take the jab with her son Anindya, also said that they came to know from a few of their neighbours that vaccines were getting administered at Matri Sadan. “We had no clue that a vaccine centre had opened so close by. Neighbours told us. So I brought my mother here,” said Anindya. A senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s health department said that they were yet to start any awareness drive about the new centres. “We have not received any orders to start awareness programmes. I don’t know if we are supposed to conduct any. Turnout is still quite low at these sites simply because people don’t know about them,” said the official. Krishna Chakraborty the chairperson of the board of administrators of the civic body, said that there were plans to start awareness programmes. “The model code of conduct is in place and we cannot initiate any such activity. However we have requested the senior officials of the corporation to start an awareness campaign," said Chakraborty. The superintendent of Matri Sadan Debiprasad Acharya admitted that the facility was not listed as a Covid-19 vaccination centre. “We were asked to administer the vaccines to reduce the load on the Duttabad urban primary health centre centre. All those receiving vaccines here and the other sites are getting registered under the Duttabad centre,” said Acharya. A health department official also said that the corporation had set up these six new sites as a “stop-gap measure intended to give service to the people”. “None of these features on the list of authorised sites,” said the official. There are massive crowds in private nursing homes and hospitals in and around Salt Lake, like Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, AMRI Salt Lake, ILS Hospital Salt Lake and the Calcutta Heart Clinic among others. In contrast, the civic body-run vaccination centres are getting merely a handful of people everyday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Green Bench prod on New Town crop burn||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed chief secretary of West Bengal, Alapan Bandopadhyay, to look into the issue of burning of crop residue in various parts of West Bengal, including New Town Action Area II, in coordination with the departments concerned. The order was passed in the first week of March by the bench comprising Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, chairperson of NGT; Justice Sheo Kumar Singh and Nagin Nanda, expert member; in response to a petition filed by environment activist Subhas Datta alleging acute air pollution in the area due to stubble burning. “…There can be no dispute that sources of air pollution need to be controlled. What is required is implementation of law by the concerned Executive Authorities. Accordingly, the Chief Secretary, West Bengal may look into the matter in coordination with the concerned Departments and take appropriate action in accordance with law,” reads the NGT order, a copy of which is with The Telegraph Salt Lake. “Though the problem still persists in some stretches but I can vouch that the stubble-burning issue has been largely controlled,” said Debashis Sen, chairman and managing director of Hidco, on Wednesday. Sen admitted that earlier the problem was rampant. Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the state Pollution Control Board (PCB), the headquarters of which is located in Salt Lake, also claimed that whenever the green board got a complaint about stubble burning, it immediately referred it to the police. However, the state PCB has no record of police action on the issue. “It’s a matter of concern and shock that the unbearable air pollution level in our city is accelerated due to such stubble burning,” mentioned Datta, while pointing out that burning of crop residues also happened at the land earmarked for the Calcutta High Court complex in New Town. Stubble burning in vacant plots in New Town has been adding high level of toxic particulate and gaseous pollutants over and above the already deteriorating air in the area, mainly triggered by large scale construction. Interestingly, the air pollution sensor set up by IIT Delhi under a NASA pilot programme, has found “unhealthy” air quality in New Town area, even on Wednesday noon, long exposure to which can impact the lungs of common men. PM 2.5, the ultrafine particulate, is found mostly responsible for the pollution in New Town. PM 2.5 can enter deep crevices of the respiratory system and trigger a range of diseases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||Second innings||A new beginning with a new menu. After a forgettable year, Hit Wicket in FE Block is wooing back clients by adding a variety of cuisine to its menu and refashioning its character. “Earlier, it was a pasta-pizza place with some tandoor and Chinese dishes. The feel was of a lounge café and the clientele was largely the youth and the IT crowd. Now the younger generation has less income at their disposal to eat out as frequently as they used to. Many have had their pay packages reduced. So we want to focus on families,” said Md. Faizullah, the managing director of Impreza Kitchen and Restaurant, which runs the eatery. This is not the first time the address is seeing a change of character. Before Faizullah bought the place, it used to be a hookah lounge called Ground Zero. The place therefore has been divided into a restaurant with bright lights and a lounge with sofa sets and a giant screen TV. The latter will continue to have an all-day menu, with Italian dishes and tea, shakes and mocktail. The restaurant has started serving south Indian and Pan Asian dishes. “Try our vegetable, chicken and lamb stews with Appam. We also have half a dozen types of biryani,” says the chef, pointing to Chennai Military Biryani as a speciality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-117
12-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town: enjoy open-deck bus tour during weekends||An open-deck bus service has been started in New Town to take people on a tour of the township’s attractions. Run by the tourism department in association with Hidco, the tour will be offered in the weekends. Tickets on the lower deck will cost Rs 945 while an upper deck seat has been priced Rs 1208. The tour will start at 2pm at Biswa Bangla Gate, and include Rabindra Tirtha, Coffee House, Mothers’ Wax Museum, Seven Wonders of the World and end at Eco Park at 7.30pm. Booking can be done at the Biswa Bangla Gate ticket counter on Saturday from 10am to 5pm and on Sunday from 10am to 1pm. The first trip took place on March 7, on the eve of Women’s Day when a woman companion of a ticket buyer got a free ride. Some weeks ago, Hidco chairman cum managing director Debashis Sen had taken officials from local hotels on a trial run, accompanied by The Telegraph Salt Lake. “We had been discussing this facility for a long time. We talk of IT and hospitals when we talk of the development of New Town but tourism has to be part of the plan also. There are a lot of stories to be told in New Town for which you needed a platform. This bus service will provide that,” said Sandeep Johri, general manager of Novotel, who has spent four years in the township but learnt of the deer park in New Town that day. The trip was even more insightful for Ajit Jose, who has recently joined as general manager of Ibis Kolkata Rajarhat. “I never knew there was so much to see in New Town. It would be a good option for our guests to relax and unwind over half a day,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-118
