13-03-2021||Calcutta||Senior Ramakrishna Mission monk passes away||Swami Vagishananda, the senior most vice-president of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, passed away at Ramakrishna Seva Pratishthan on Friday evening. He was 91. He suffered a heart attack around 7.10pm. Swami Vagishananda was elected vice-president of the order in June 2014, three years after he was authorised to give mantra diksha (spiritual initiation) to devotees. “A loving spiritual guide, his understanding, affection and sympathy will remain an invaluable asset to devotees,” said a senior monk of the order on Friday night. Swami Vagishananda's mortal remains will be kept at Cossipore Math till 8.30am on Saturday and in Belur Math from 9am to 8pm. The cremation would take place at 9.30pm on Saturday. Swami Vagishananda was born in Chittagong in Bangladesh on January 12, 1930. An initiated disciple of Swami Shankarananda, he joined the order at Saradapith centre in 1954 and had taken sanyasa from Swami Vishuddhananda in 1962. Swami Vagishananda served as assistant secretary of the Institute of Culture, Gol Park, for several years and headed the Morabadi centre in Ranchi for four years. He was also the head of Malda, Kamarpukur, Mumbai and Cossipore centres. In March 1990, Swami Vagishananda was appointed trustee of Ramakrishna Math, Belur, and a member of the governing body of the Ramakrishna Mission. He had visited several countries, including Bangladesh, Nepal, Mauritius and Japan with the message of the Math and Mission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
13-03-2021||Calcutta||Khardah nursing home to pay Rs 5 lakh to patient for ‘curative surgery’||A nursing home in Khardah will have to pay Rs 5 lakh that a patient had to spend for a “curative surgery” and treatment in another hospital, the chairperson of West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission said on Friday. Keshab Chandra Das, 45, of North 24-Parganas, was admitted to Green View Nursing Home in Khardah in February 2019 because of abdomen pain. “He was to undergo an appendix operation but the operation could not be done and during the process it resulted in a perforation in the colon. After two days, the patient was moved to a higher set up and another surgery had to be done,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. Das was treated in Charnock Hospital where he had to spend Rs 5 lakh. “We asked for the medical documents from Charnock Hospital, which was a prolonged treatment. During the course of the hearing both the surgeon and owner of Green View Nursing Home was present and they offered to pay the amount that the patient had to spend later for treatment. The patient left it on us to take a decision so we settled the matter,” said Banerjee. He said the nursing home authorities would pay the amount in six instalments starting from April. “It will be Rs 80,000 in the first five instalments and Rs 1 lakh in the last instalment,” said Banerjee. In another case, in Tehatta Nursing Home in Nadia they have to pay Rs 50,000 because of negligence in treatment. A pregnant women was admitted in the nursing home for which they took Rs 10,000 and according to the patient’s family, the doctor at the nursing home had told them that she was fine, Banerjee said. But the next morning they shifted her to another place. Though the mother is fine the child was pronounced dead at the other place, said Banerjee. “The patient’s family had alleged that the nursing home denied taking Rs 10,000 and if the patient’s condition was not fine then why was she kept in the hospital,” he said. “The nursing home’s version is that the patient was admitted and the doctor had seen her. She was critical so they recommended her to a higher set up but the patient party did not take her and so they had to keep her for the night. Next morning the nursing home arranged for an ambulance and sent her to another place,” said Banerjee. “But we found negligence on part of the nursing home authorities and have told them to return Rs 10,000 and also give Rs 40,000 as compensation  because they themselves admitted that there was no treatment during the night. Also, during the hearing they said the nursing home has shut down. So, we took a note of it and told them that it should be kept shut,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
13-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Clutter’ in front of elevators of New Koilaghat building||The corridor outside the elevators on the 13th floor of New Koilaghat building was cluttered with wooden partitions and had a false ceiling, which could have aggravated the fire, a probe by the fire services department has suggested, sources said on Friday. This could have intensified the fire outside the elevators and burned seven men the moment they had reached the floor using one of the elevators on Monday night, the probe suggested. The fire on Monday night that claimed nine lives is being investigated by police while the fire services department is also carrying out an inquiry. A detailed assessment of areas where the building lacks fire-fighting systems has been shared with the investigating agency as a part of the ongoing probe into the cause of fire in the building and the circumstances that led to the death of nine persons, police sources said. “The passage outside elevators and the staircases should be kept clean in any highrise building to allow free movement. But in this building, even the common area outside the elevators has been turned into cubicles using plywood partitions. There is a false ceiling which is also inflammable,” said a senior officer of the fire services department. Seven men, including four fire-fighters, one assistant sub-inspector of Calcutta police and two RPF personnel, were charred to death just outside the elevator on the 13th floor of the building on Monday night. An officer, who was part of the fire fighting operation and was one among the first to have spotted the bodies on the 13th floor, said the bodies were lying on the floor covered with charred plywood planks and broken chunks of the false ceiling. “Some of them had blood oozing out of their bodies, apparently hit by chunks of false ceiling falling on them. The area was cluttered with plywood and wooden office stationery,” said the police officer. Police probe found that the places where the bodies were spotted made it apparent that all seven died in the common area just outside the elevator before they could reach  the pockets from where the fire originated. “Fire fighters have the experience of handling flames in corridors and passages but possibly they could not gauge that the common area was already cluttered with combustible substances which was burning right in front of the elevator,” said a fire department official. Metro had reported earlier this week that the 14-storied building does not have a fire certificate and that the building authorities have allegedly not complied with the recommendations made by the fire department in 2015. Following the incident the Eastern Railway has asked the fire and emergency services department to again share the recommendations that were purportedly shared earlier in 2015. “Any highrise building which is 14.5 metre or beyond and does not have a fire certificate is technically unauthorised...,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
13-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur alumni fund eight scholarships||Eight former students of IIT Kharagpur have raised a corpus of around Rs 2.25 crore to support students in need. IIT Kharagpur has instituted eight new student grants for the ensuing autumn semester scheduled to begin in August this year, following the generous contribution from the former students and their families. An official of the institute said that over Rs 65 lakh has been allocated exclusively for undergraduate girl students for 15 years. A virtual MoU was signed with the eight alumni and their families for instituting the student grants at a recent event that was attended by IIT director V.K. Tewari. Factors like annual income (Rs 6 lakh a year) and academic performance (cumulative grade point average in a semester) will be taken into consideration to determine who will get the scholarships, said an IIT official. Debashis Chakraborty, an alumnus of the 1981 batch from the chemical engineering department, has set up the late Smt. Gopa Chakraborty Scholarship for female students in the fond memory of his late wife. “The scholarship amount will be increased after every four years to cope up with the inflation rate,” said an official. Chandrasen Gajria, an alumnus of the 1970 batch from the chemistry department, has set up a Sobhraj and Krishna Gajria Scholarship, which will provide annual support to students of the chemistry department. A teacher of the institute said the scholarships would help students with financial constraints to pay hostel fees and to meet study expenses. “Those who come from weak financial backgrounds must be facing steep hardship because of the Covid induced shutdown in economic activities. For them, the launch of fresh scholarships would be a boon,” he said. V. K. Tewari, the director of IIT Kharagpur, appreciated the donors for their generous contributions and for keeping welfare of the institute in their hearts. Dean, alumni affairs, Subrata Chattopadhyay said: “Now that IIT Khargapur is an Institute of Eminence and guided by the New Education Policy, we are committed to bringing up the ratio of our girl students further. We have the mandate to cross the 20 per cent threshold at the earliest.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||The significance of CAA protests||The youth and women at the helm of the protests against the citizenship thrust last year brought in a rare phenomenon in India’s political space, something that was last seen a century ago, a literary scholar and cultural activist said at a virtual session on Sunday. “What is of utmost significance is the emergence of youth and women at the forefront of an important national debate. It is equally significant that they are espousing values of the Constitution and humanism and articulating with an unprecedented precision a politics that is non-sectarian, non-divisive and non-abrasive,” said Ganesh Devy, 70, who writes in Marathi, Gujarati and English. “Such a fundamental political change had occurred once in the times of freedom struggle of Mahatma Gandhi, precisely in the third decade of the 20th century. Probably a century later, in the third decade of the 21st century, this epistemic shift is showing signs of coming into being,” Devy said at one of the sessions of the third edition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam, partnered by The Telegraph, hosted by the Kolkata Centre for Creativity. Devy, one of the first to return a Sahitya Akademi Award — he won the prize in 1992 for his book After Amnesia — to protest the attack on writers in 2015, was the plenary speaker of a session titled “Protest against discriminatory oppression”. Shwetal A Patel, the co-curator of the two-day programme that ended on Sunday, set the context at the start of the session. “In the background of the protests against the discriminatory CAA and NRC laws in India, the coronavirus broke out. The movement was unique in its expression as it took various artistic actions to convey its political agenda…. Likewise, the Black Lives Matter movement in the US also used different artistic approaches, including the use of performance, music and social media to promote its viewpoint.” The session, Patel said, would re-stoke the age-old debate about the “purpose and efficacy of art in achieving political aims” and delve into issues like the “significance of the arts in bringing expression to activism”. Devy gave a detailed critique of the Citizenship Amendment Act, the National Register of Citizens and National Population Register before hailing the protests against the troika. The idea of politics as a “divide and rouse game” has dominated the discourse of the country for the past several decades, he said. “The non-violent and spontaneous anti-CAA protests… the emergent tone and the uniqueness of the protests do indicate that we are beginning to enter a new political era. Not the one proposed by the forces of Hindutva but the one that is heading towards a greater humanism and empathy…. Protests against discriminatory oppression is not new in India. But at this juncture, it is acquiring new use, befitting the needs, urges and aspirations of a new century’s new decade,” said Devy. Art curator Myna Mukherjee, who moderated the session, asked Devy how important he thought the “cultural part of activism” was. Devy equated culture with an “idiom” in a sentence. “In communication, we use sentences with subject, object and verb but we also use idioms. Similarly, in social practice, action is like sentences but culture is like an idiom. It has an ability to express a lot more for its own time, as well as beyond its time, for its own space, as well as beyond its space. Therefore, culture is far more poignant than communication through statements, slogans, political marches, demonstrations, dharnas and so on. A Charlie Chaplin is as effective in the times of Hitler as in the times of Trump,” he said. Cynthia Stephens, Dalit activist and writer, Andraz Szanto, a New York-based museums expert and Dakxin Chhara, artistic director of Budhan Theatre, were speakers at the session. Budhan Theatre, named after a man from the denotified Sabar tribe in Bengal who was killed in police custody in 1994, was established in 1998 by Mahasweta Devi and Devy. The group comprises members of Ahmedabad’s Chhara community, one of several denotified tribes in India — groups who were formally classified as criminal tribes during the British rule in the late 19th century. Members of these communities, many of them nomadic, were considered criminals by birth. It was not before 1952 that these tribes were delisted as criminal. But till date, they are subjected to discrimination by the state and society. On Sunday, Dakxin shared some “success stories of art, protest and activism”. The stage of one of them was Maninagar in Ahmedabad, Narendra Modi’s former Assembly seat. A lot of tribal families living in Maninagar had their hutments razed by the civic body multiple times, said Dakxin. His theatre group tried to mediate with the civic body that called the tribal families “encroachers”. The matter eventually went to the high court which ruled in favour of the tribals. “The civic body challenged us in the Supreme Court. We did not have money. But we came up with a play called Bulldozer. It was 2007-2008…. In 2012, we won the case in the Supreme Court also and all this happened because of theatre…. In 2017, the Gujarat government implemented the order. After a long legal wait, because of theatre, because of activism, 112 families live right under the nose of Modi. They have been allotted houses,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||An exhibition on 200 years of Indian banknotes||The first banknotes of India would be cut in half and sent separately by post for security reasons. The recipient would paste them together and present them at the bank for encashment. An exhibition on 200 years of Indian banknotes, from Bank of Bengal to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), is under way at the RBI Museum in Council House Street, Dalhousie Square. Organised jointly by The Numismatic Society of Calcutta and the RBI, it showcases some of India’s earliest banknotes. The notes have a corner cut off and a cancelled mark is stamped on each. “These were sicca rupee notes, which were used more like hundis, and could be encashed at the bank that issued them against the number of siccas, or silver coins, that their denomination suggested. Once encashed, they were cancelled this way,” explained Ravi Shankar Sharma, general secretary of the society, who is one of the nine collectors whose collections make up the exhibition. According to Mahesh Kalra, curator of the museum, the exhibition was on the evolution of the banking system in India. “Many private banks went bust as they were not supported by the government. In the early 19th century, presidency banks came into being, starting with Bank of Calcutta in 1806, which was renamed Bank of Bengal in 1809 by an East India Company charter. They brought out India’s first government currency, starting with notes in 1812,” he said. While the four earliest specimens on display are unifaced, the next lot has Commerce, the figure of a lady sitting on a chest of money. “Even the Confederate states in America used this figure,” Kalra pointed out. The first one-rupee notes, issued during George V in 1917,  came in booklets of 35 and had perforations at a side where they were torn off. Then there are notes issued during the eras of Victoria, Edward VII and George V and the early issues of the RBI from 1938 to 1947. These have portraits of King George VI from 1938, signed by the second RBI Governor, J.B. Taylor and the third governor, C.D. Deshmukh, the first Indian governor of the RBI. Another interesting group of exhibits is the Persian Gulf rupee notes. “These notes were used between 1959 and 1966 in the British protectorates of the Arabian peninsula surrounding the Persian Gulf. These areas today form the countries of Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman, and the United Arab Emirates,” Sharma said. The notes, he pointed out, were in designs very similar to the standard Indian notes but printed in different colours. While the one-rupee and 10-rupee notes were printed in red, the five-rupee notes were in orange and 100-rupee notes in green. The serial numbers issued in all denominations were prefixed by the letter Z. The exhibition is on till Sunday and is open from 11am to 5pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||JEE off Jadavpur University evening engineering entry test ||The state JEE board has decided against conducting entrance test for admission to the five-year evening engineering course at Jadavpur University owing to poor turnout of candidates for a programme that did not find enough takers last year. An official of the joint entrance examination board said that making arrangements for conducting a test that attracts a poor volume of aspirants is not justifiable and therefore from 2021 onwards, the board will not conduct the test. A notice signed by Malayendu Saha, the chairman of the board reads: “....the board will not conduct common entrance test or counseling for JEEDEC (the name of the test) in the year 2021 and onward’’. The evening engineering course is usually pursued by the working professionals. Last year, for 50 seats each in the evening courses of electrical and mechanical engineering and civil engineering, 350 odd candidates had taken the test. The test last year was conducted by the university because of the pandemic. The number of aspirants has been depleting over the years, a JEE board official said. “It’s a waste of resources and manpower if we hold the test for such a small number of candidates,’’ the official said. Will JU then be holding the test henceforth? “We have not taken any decision on this as yet. The university will decide in due course of time,’’ said JU pro vice-chancellor Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, who is also a member of the board. Pointing to lack of demand, an official of the university said after the university conducted counselling independently in December, of the 50 seats each in the electrical engineering and mechanical engineering, 33 and 34 seats had remained vacant, respectively. The university had to hold a fresh round of counseling in January and despite that around 25 per cent seats remained vacant. He said that five-year degree is losing its sheen possibly because the hope that the degree will bring promotions has faded among potential applicants. AICTE, the apex regulatory board in engineering education, stresses on four-year BTech degree. Will the university then discontinue the course? “The course will die a natural death as has happened to the three-year BTech course of Calcutta University. We don’t have to do anything,” said a JU official. The evening engineering programme at JU was introduced in the early 1980s. The state JEE board had begun holding the entrance test from 2015. Till 2014 the entrance used to be conducted by the university itself.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court directs schools to not expel students for unpaid fees||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday issued an interim order directing school authorities not to expel any student from school for non-payment of fees without permission from the court. The order by Justice I P Mukerji and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya read: “We make it absolutely clear and direct that not a single student of any of the 145 schools involved in these litigations, will be expelled on the ground of non-payment or short payment of fees or facility charges without the express leave of this court, until further orders.” The 145 private schools are those who were made respondents in the original petition. In May last year, PILs were filed before Calcutta High Court alleging that private schools were not allowing students in online classes or to appear for online exams for failure of guardians to pay the fees. The high court will hear the case on April 16. The bench comprising Justice I.P. Mukerji and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya postponed the hearing because a petition by the schools against an earlier high court order of fee waiver and a fee dispute redressal mechanism is pending before the Supreme Court. The apex court will hear the case on April 5. As a precaution against Covid-19 on-campus classes in schools had to remain suspended and schools were taking online exams and classes. The high court on October 13 ordered private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of tuition fees of students. The bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya also restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra curricular activities or the like...” “Non-essential charges for use of facilities not availed of will not be permissible,” the order said. The order for concession will not apply to any school “where the average monthly fee (calculated on an annual basis over the year from April 2020 to March 2021) is less than Rs 800. However, such schools may voluntarily offer discounts as they deem fit, the order had said. After the order some schools moved Supreme Court seeking quashing of the order of the high court. On October 28, the Supreme Court declined to immediately interfere with Calcutta High Court’s directions to private schools in Bengal to waive 20 per cent of their tuition fee and completely waive the fees charged for services the students did not avail themselves of because of the pandemic. But the apex court stayed portions of the judgment that asked schools to consider individual applications from parents for further waiver and allowed parents to approach a committee formed by the high court if they did not get redress from the schools. Appearing for Assembly of God Church , advocate Amrita Pandey claimed that Supreme Court, while hearing a case moved by a Rajasthan school had ordered that guardians would have pay the school fees. But the division bench on Friday decided to take the matter for hearing only after verifying the apex court's decision and fixed the matter for hearing on April 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
13-03-2021||Calcutta||At mahapanchayat in Calcutta, a postgraduate student articulates fears swirling around her father’s farm  ||Mahuya Chowdhury’s father had a low but secure income from farming but the postgraduate student of English cannot tell how long that will prevail if the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, and opposed by hundreds of farmer unions, are implemented. Mahuya’s father’s income from the farmlands bore the cost of her education. Mahuya has a younger sister who is in Class IV and whose education is a priority for the family. On Friday, Mahuya was at the Ramlila Park in Moulali to lend support to the farmers’ movement when several farmer leaders from Punjab who had been camping at Delhi’s borders demanding the repeal of three laws came there to address a mahapanchayat. “My father had to sell one quintal rice for Rs 1,200 a couple of months ago. The farmers never got a good price. But they enjoyed the independence to grow the crop of their choice. They could plan how to run the family. It is from my father’s income that the cost of my education was borne,” said the student of West Bengal State University. “If the new laws are implemented, the farmers will be dictated by a few corporate oligarchs. Farmers will not get the real value. There will be a few corporates as buyers and they will shoot down the prices. Farmers will be destroyed,” Mahuya, a resident of North 24-Parganas’ Bagda, said. Mahuya apprehended that the government will reduce procurement from farmers and make mandis non-functional with time, effectively leaving farmers with no choice other than selling to a few corporate oligarchs who will then determine the prices of produce. Mahuya’s friend Sanjukta Datta, a BSc student at the West Bengal State University, was also present at the Ramlila Park on Friday. Sanjukta’s family is not engaged in farming but she did not think that was necessary to feel for or support the farmers’ movement. Sanjukta was concerned that the government was going to put food security in the hands of some private corporations. “If the prices of food go beyond the ability of the poor they will die of hunger. The most basic demand of humans, food security, will be at stake if these laws are passed. One need not be from a farmer family to support the farmers movement,” said Sanjukta. The participants of the mahapanchayat were from all walks of life. There were farmers like Nani Das from Kirtipur gram panchayat in the Sashan police station area who had come to protest against the attempt to abolish minimum support price. Instead of expanding it, the government was eroding whatever security it gave to farmers, he said. Professors, students, business owners and homemakers were also in the crowd. Paramita Das, who teaches mathematics at a central government-run institute, said she would have gone to Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — the sites on Delhi’s borders where the farmers are protesting — if she had time after work. “Often, I felt like leaving everything and going to Delhi. Since I could not go there, I thought I should not miss this mahapanchayat,” said Das. Among the speakers at the mahapanchayat were Balbir Singh Rajewal and Hannan Mollah, leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of several farmer unions that is spearheading the protests against the farm laws. Rajewal addressed the audience: “My brothers and sisters in Bengal... We have come here to appeal to our brothers and sisters to not vote for the BJP. Please ensure that Modi does not get votes from here”. “Today we are here to launch a new kind of campaign for the Bengal elections,” Rajewal added. Yogendra Yadav, a farm union leader and leader of Swaraj India, was among the speakers. Calls of Kisan Ekta Zindabad from the dais were echoed loudly from all corners of the ground. The front half of the ground, closer to the dais, was packed and there were people interspersed in the other half. Many had come with their families, including kids. “Attending rallies is not in our culture. We are not from a political family but the farm laws have brought us here. My uncle still manages our family land back in Punjab and we get our share of income. Hurting farmers’ interest is like hurting my forefathers,” said Harprit Singh, a resident of Bhowanipore. The audience had a large number of women. Lovedeep Kaur, an entrepreneur, had come with her mother. Lovedeep’s father, a farmer, divides his time between Calcutta and Punjab. “My father is in Punjab now. He was at the Singhu border for many days. He is now in Gurdaspur to look after the fields,” said Lovedeep, a resident of Garcha. She has watched the leaders address gatherings through Facebook or Instagram live. On Friday,  she wanted to hear them in person.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-115
