14-03-2021||Calcutta||Study UK Student Connect to help prospective students have personalised discussions with universities: British Council head||The British Council is hosting Study UK Student Connect for Indians looking to study at the undergraduate or postgraduate level in the UK in 2021. The event is on till March 19. Debanjan Chakrabarti, director, east and north-east, British Council, spoke to ABP Education about the virtual event. The UK has been a coveted destination for Indian students. How many Indian students went to the UK in 2020 for higher studies? The number of Indian students studying in the UK has been consistently very high. This is because of the high academic standards of the UK universities. Though we are yet to get the data of how many Indian students were granted student visa in 2020, Indian students going to the UK for higher studies hit a record high in 2019 with 49,844 choosing to study there. Of all the student visas given to international students, around 17% are issued to students from India. Is Study UK Student Connect a completely online event or is it being held in blended mode? Since March 2020, things have moved entirely online at the British Council. Study UK Student Connect is a completely online event this year. In the current format, the event has two options — generic webinars from March 8 to March 14 and more in-depth webinars and interactions with prospective students from March 15 to March 19. This is quite different from the face-to-face format that we were used to before the pandemic. But I would say, the current format would help students and parents have a more intimate and personalised discussion with the participating universities from the UK. With students preparing to move amidst the pandemic, what should they expect once they land in the UK? Will a pre-departure COVID-19 vaccination be mandatory? There is a very clear protocol in place for all international students. Once students arrive in the UK, they will be considered for vaccination as per the policy of the government of the UK. They do not need to take the vaccine before departure. On arrival, they are expected to be in quarantine and have two COVID-19 tests. There will be regular testing for asymptomatic students on campus. Will classes be conducted online for 2021? Or will it be in blended manner? There are courses where 100% online classes will not be possible, like the lab-based subjects and those where practice and face-to-face interaction are necessary. For them, classes have started from March 8. For the rest, classes may happen online and may be in a blended format, depending on the situation. And for the benefit of the students, the new Graduate Route will open for applications on July 1, 2021, for international students who successfully complete a degree at the undergraduate level or above in the UK. (The Department for Education announced this new immigration route in 2019 for students who have completed an eligible course by a UK higher education provider. Students on the Graduate Route will be able to work or look for work after their studies for a maximum period of two years; doctoral students have three years.)  What are the scholarships that the students can consider applying while planning to study in the UK? There are a range of scholarships open to Indian students. In 2018-19 alone, the UK government offered 480 scholarships, worth approximately £4.675m, to Indian students. As of now, there are 3 scholarships open for Indian students —British Council Scholarships for Women in STEM, which includes a scholarship programme in partnership with 19 UK universities aimed at benefiting women from India and other countries in South Asia, South East Asia and the Americas; GREAT Scholarships 2021 and Chevening Scholarships. The GREAT Scholarships, jointly funded by the UK government’s GREAT Britain Campaign and the British Council with participating UK higher education institutions, offer 60 scholarships from UK universities, across a variety of subjects for students from India. Each scholarship provides financial support to the tune of GBP 10,000 (minimum) towards tuition fees for a one-year postgraduate course. Chevening Scholarships offer full financial support for one year to candidates applying for a master’s degree at any UK university — covering nearly 12,000 courses from more than 150 universities — and professional development and networking opportunities for mid-career professionals to pursue an 8-12-week course in journalism, science and innovation, cyber security and leadership & excellence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Tikait tells Bengal farmers what to say when BJP seeks a fistful of rice||Rakesh Tikait, one of the leaders of the farmers’ movement, on Saturday urged Bengal’s farmers to demand a law on the minimum support price when BJP representatives come to them seeking a fistful of rice. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader was referring to the BJP’s farmer outreach programme in Bengal, “Ek mutthi chawal sangrah (Collection of a fistful of rice)”, which party president J.P. Nadda had launched in January. Tikait told a kisan mahapanchayat in Nandigram on Saturday afternoon that BJP representatives were coming to canvass votes on the pretext of seeking a fistful of rice, and the farmers should ask them: “Where is the law on the MSP?” “I told the farmers in Nandigram they should ask anyone who comes for a fistful of rice to their doors: Where is the law on the MSP?” Tikait told this newspaper over the phone. “They are coming not to seek a fistful of rice but to seek votes. Make the (MSP) law and we farmers will give you one quintal of rice.” One of the points on which the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — an umbrella body leading the farmers’ protest — is agitating is the absence of a law guaranteeing the MSP to farmers, apart from its demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Tikait said one reason he addressed the meeting was Nandigram’s place in the history of farmers’ struggle. An anti-land-acquisition movement in Nandigram had helped end the Left’s 34-year rule in Bengal and lifted Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. Tikait had earlier made a similar appeal at another kisan mahapanchayat in Calcutta after arriving in the city on Saturday morning. He explained why SKM leaders had fanned out across the country to urge people to oppose the BJP. “The government has not met us since January 22. We waited thinking they would meet but they didn’t. So we thought we’d go to the nation,” he said. Tikait took a dig at the Centre, which has pushed virtually all its heavyweight ministers into the poll campaign in Bengal. “The government did not meet us but all the leaders are here. So we thought we would go to Bengal to meet the leaders. We are here today,” he said. The crowd at the Calcutta mahapanchayat, held on open ground beside the Gandhi statue at the intersection of Mayo Road and Dufferin Road, included many women and young people. Tikait took off the green scarf from around his neck and urged the gathering to repeat his act. He then twirled the scarf in the air and members of the crowd followed him. “Green is the colour of agriculture. Tikait said we should keep the BJP away from us this way,” a man in the crowd said. Several of those who attended the meeting in Calcutta later headed to Nandigram in buses and cars arranged for them. Vote appeal At the Gandhi statue in Calcutta, another farmer leader urged the Bengal voter to vote for the candidate with the best chance of defeating the BJP in their constituency. Gurnam Singh Chaduni said Bengal’s voters could save the nation by just pressing the right button on polling day. “Vote for a strong candidate. If the strong candidate is from the Left, vote in their favour; if there’s an Independent candidate who is strong, vote for them” he said. “If Mamata’s candidates are strong, vote in their favour. Vote for anyone who is strong but do not vote for the BJP. My Bengali brothers and sisters, a lot is at stake. You can save the country by pressing the right button.” All the farmer leaders have repeatedly said they are not asking people to vote for any particular political party. Chaduni was scathing about the politicians who have defected to the BJP ahead of the polls. “They did not get tickets (from their previous parties). These people are hungry for power. Drive them out of your villages. They have no desire to work for the people,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Arrest in actor Ankush Hazra’s PA suicide case||A man has been arrested in Rajasthan for his alleged involvement in blackmailing and threatening Pintu Dey, the personal assistant of Tollywood actor Ankush Hazra, who had committed suicide at his aunt’s home earlier this month. Ayub Khan, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, was arrested early on Thursday was being brought to Calcutta on transit remand. Khan has been charged with abetment to suicide, attempt to extort money, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Dey, also known as Bappa, was found hanging from the grille of the washroom in his aunt’s Narkeldanga house on March 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||One killed, 4 injured in Vidyasagar Setu vehicle pile-up||A family’s vacation trip to Bankura’s Bishnupur turned into a nightmare when a pile-up on the Vidyasagar Setu while waiting in a queue at the toll plaza killed one of them in the car and left four others injured early on Saturday. The pile-up involving five vehicles was triggered by a container-laden truck that first hit a lorry and then another container truck, forcing the latter to hit an app cab that was hired by the family. The cab, a Maruti Suzuki Ertiga, in turn, rammed into a Force Traveller, critically injuring one of the occupants of the cab, who later died in hospital. All the vehicles were heading towards Howrah and were waiting for their turn to pay the toll when the accident happened around 5.20am. Police said Harisadhan Kar, 64, a retired government employee and a resident of Sree Colony in Netaji Nagar, was going to Bankura with his wife Rupali, 50, daughter Swarna Mali, 21, brother-in-law Mani Mohan Roy, 57, and his wife Radha Rani, 50, in the hired cab. All of them were taken to SSKM hospital where Kar was declared dead. The others were treated and discharged. The app cab driver was treated and discharged from a private hospital in Beleghata. “The deceased person had undergone a heart surgery three months ago. There were no external injury marks on him,” said a traffic officer. There were no occupants in the Force Traveller or more people could have been injured, the police said. The driver of the first container-laden truck has been arrested and charged with causing death due to negligence, rash and negligent driving, mischief and causing grievous hurt to others by a rash and negligent act endangering safety of human life. An officer of the traffic department said the driver of the offending vehicle has claimed that the truck’s brake had failed and that it was not his fault but a mechanical error that triggered the accident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Knife misses lungs by half inch||A 49-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital with a kitchen knife stuck in his back, was discharged on Saturday afternoon. The knife had but missed the lungs by “less than half an inch”. “The Garia resident was admitted around 11pm on March 10 (Wednesday). The knife was stuck next to his right shoulder blade but it missed the lungs by less than half an inch. The knife fractured a rib, which preven-ted the blade from going deeper and damaging the lungs,” said an official of the hospital. The man is said to have told police that he slipped back first and fell on the knife, said an official of the hospital. He was operated upon the same night. A CT  scan was done before the surgery. “He was lucky that the knife did not touch the lungs,” said Soham Majumdar, critical care physician at AMRI Dhakuria, where the surgery took place. “The rib cage around the lungs has been damaged. One bone has had multiple fractures. But that will heal over time. The challenge was to gauge the extent of the injury and respond quickly, which we did,” Majumdar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Two wild dog babies join Alipore Zoo family||Two dhole (also called Asiatic wild dog) puppies, born at Alipore Zoo on December 22 last year, were displayed for the first time on Saturday. The dhole (Cuon alpinus) is an average sized canine found throughout the forest tracts of India. Two pairs of dholes were brought to the zoo from Visakhapatnam in 2019. One of the females gave birth to a litter of four puppies. But two of the puppies did not survive. The remaining two, a male and a female, were weak and shifted to the zoo hospital. “They have recovered and are stable now,” said a zoo official. “This is the first time in 50 years that we have had wild dog babies in the zoo.” The pups at the zoo are being fondled by the keepers who are feeding them milk and chicken. A pack of dholes in the wild, however, are feared by animals much bigger their size. Dholes are omnivores. Apart from rodents, they regularly hunt wild pigs, deer, hares and wild goats. “Two to three dholes can kill a 50kg deer in less than two minutes and they begin to feed on it before it is dead. The larger prey rarely die from the attack itself, but from blood loss and shock as their intestines, heart, liver, and eyes are feasted upon,” says Animal Diversity Web, an online database at the University of Michigan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Two die in truck accidents on EM Bypass, BT Road||Two women died in two accidents in different parts of the city early on Saturday. One of them was riding pillion on a scooter when the two-wheeler was hit by an LPG cylinder-laden truck on EM Bypass. She fell and came under the wheels of the truck. The other accident happened when a pedestrian was hit by a truck on BT Road near Dum Dum Chiriamore. In both accidents, the offending vehicles fled, leaving the victims to bleed to death. Monika Sarkar, 45, a resident of Mukundapur, was riding pillion with Dipankar Halder, 26, on the latter’s scooter, when the accident happened around 3.30am on the Bypass near the Mandirpara crossing. The two are flower vendors and were going to the Howrah flower market. “The scooter was first hit by an LPG cylinder-carrying truck while taking a U-turn on the Bypass as a result of which the woman fell off the vehicle. Before she could recover or be rescued, she came under the rear wheels of the truck,” said an officer of Garfa police station. Sarkar was declared dead at SSKM hospital. Halder, who was riding the two-wheeler, was treated and discharged from the hospital. The offending vehicle fled, police said. The other accident happened around 5.30am when Shanta Das, a resident of north Calcutta, was hit by a truck on BT Road. Officers of Cossipore said they used CCTV footage to identify the truck. The driver has been arrested. BT Road, which is a corridor for movement of heavy goods vehicles, is prone to rash and negligent driving by the truck and lorry drivers that often culminate in fatal accidents. According to records in Lalbazar, trucks and lorries are one of the major contributors in causing road accidents in Calcutta over the past few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s College holds convocation||St Xavier’s College aims to form men and women who will “walk with the poor, the marginalised and outcast” following the lessons of the Jesuits, principal Father Dominic Savio said during the annual convocation held on Saturday. The college held the ceremony on the Park Street campus ground on a limited scale because of the pandemic. “As Jesuits, our vision will require us to be instruments that show others the way to God. We will covenant to walk with the poor, the marginalised, the outcasts, to provide reconciliation and justice,” Father Savio said in his address to the graduating students. The principal later told The Telegraph the aim is “to form men and women who will imbibe this lesson and walk with the poor, the marginalised and outcast”. “The poor have remained poor. The marginalised have remained marginalised. So, there is a need to walk with them and help them,” said Father Savio. He said in his address that the college has removed the “elitist tag” to integrate itself into the mainstream of public consciousness. “We have removed the elitist tag, that, for reasons unknown, was attached to the college. We have integrated ourselves into the mainstream of public consciousness. We are no longer content to stand quietly apart.” As many as 2,250 students, undergraduate, postgraduate and BEd put together, received degrees at the convocation. From every department, the first 20 students, based on the marks secured, were invited to attend the convocation to avoid assembly as much as possible. The rest will receive the certificates sent through post to their residential address. Swami Atmapriyananda, pro vice-chancellor, Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, Belur, was the chief guest at the convocation. Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee, the vice-chancellor of Calcutta University, delivered the convocation address. Father Savio thanked the VC of Calcutta University for approving the introduction of PhD programme in computer science. “The college will soon be applying for PhD in English and Bengali. The college is also planning to begin masters course in data science, history and education,’’ he said. Author Mani Shankar Mukherjee, 87, a chronicler of Calcutta and better known as Shankar, has won this year’s Sahitya Akademi award for his memoir Eka Eka Ekasi. Published at Calcutta Book fair in February 2015, the book traces the author’s life from his birth in Bongaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
14-03-2021||Calcutta||Parents are ‘less prompt’ with tasks in junior online classes||Parents of children in junior classes have become “lethargic” and “less prompt” about helping their wards complete or submit the work assigned by the school on time, said both parents and teachers. Children in the pre-primary and also in primary section have to be monitored by the parents. They cannot do the work on their own but the school work has been piling up, several mothers said. This is not the case when physical school was on, said a mother. Several parents said when there was physical school there was an urgency in them to finish the work, but the motivation is lacking for the online lessons. Priyanka Kar, a working mother of a Class III student, said her son’s assignments “pile up”, which didn’t happen during on-campus classes. “Earlier, when the school was on at least the classwork was taken care by the teacher. Now, whether it is classwork or homework, I have to be constantly on my toes. The work piles up because I have to go out for work everyday and my tours have also started,” said Kar, who works in a private firm. “I still try to complete the piled up academic work but it’s difficult to find time for art and craft,” she said. Teachers said almost a year into online lessons they have noticed there are “waves of periods” of interest and disinterest from parents. “There are about 20 per cent parents who could not complete assignments on time as against five per cent when there were on-campus classes,” said Minnie Sengupta, the principal of Birla High School, Mukundapur. “We counsel parents that once normal on-campus classes start children will have to follow a routine and hence, they need to have the right work habit,” said Sengupta. A year back, a mother said, she would sit down regularly with her son because she would have to know what he did in school but now on many occasions other work takes priority. “It would be simple colouring activity that he would have to do and I would sit with him because the teacher would write ‘work not done’, but now there is no such urgency and I take it easy and procrastinate,” said the mother, whose son is in nursery. The procrastination also happens because teachers understand that parents would not be summoned to school and at the most there will be an online meeting with parents that can be avoided because of technical glitches. “Some parents have become more relaxed in getting their child’s work submitted. Earlier, if there was a delay in work it would go to the coordinators, a note in the diary and it could end up with parents’ call,” said Nupur Ghosh, the vice-principal of Mahadevi Birla World Academy. But teachers also feel it is difficult to keep the interest sustained in online classes and it is natural for parents to feel stressed out. “Earlier, children would spend three to four hours in school but now they are constantly at home. We have reduced the homework and have asked teachers to concentrate on classwork during online lessons but not all children have the same pace, so naturally it has to be later done with mothers at home,” said Meena Kak, the director of Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Kak said in school children are in a “healthy competition” and find a motivation but the same activity takes more time at home. The school conducted counselling sessions for parents for the entire academic year and will do so again next session. “There were mothers of children in junior school who wanted help because the child was throwing tantrums,” said Kak. Work pressure does build up at home, said a mother who is a school teacher. “There are days when I have to go to school, my daughter has online class and there is nobody else at home. Ultimately, I have to make adjustments because my husband usually has meetings which he has to attend,” said Barnali Das, whose daughter is five. The absence of children from classes on most occasions is not because of them but because of adults at home, schools say. “There are days when children are absent from online class and it is because parents are unable to find  time...,” said Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-114
