15-03-2021||Calcutta||‘PM forgot us but don’t forget 300 martyrs’, says farm leader||A farmer leader on Sunday described how the Narendra Modi government had been disregarding the movement against the new farm laws since June last year and how the Prime Minister had described the agitators as parasites. Balbir Singh Rajewal, a leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Singur, urged Bengal’s farmers to vote while keeping in mind that 300 farmers had been martyred in the struggle. He appealed to Bengal’s voters to ask BJP candidates why the Centre had not since January 22 talked to the protesting farmers, massed at Delhi’s borders since November 26. “We have been protesting since the ordinances were issued in June. We sat on railway tracks in Punjab, not allowing trains to run, but it made no difference to the Modi government. They have forgotten the value of farmers,” Rajewal said. He later told this newspaper that Punjab’s farmers had squatted on railway tracks from August through October. “We then marched towards Delhi in November. We were stopped at Delhi’s borders on November 26. Since then, we have been camping there,” said Rajewal, also a leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body leading the protests. “When the government held meetings with us, we criticised the new farm laws clause by clause. They said they would make amendments but we demanded the laws be repealed. Since January 22, the government has not met us once.” Several SKM leaders have while addressing Bengal’s voters cited the issue of the Centre’s refusal to meet the farmers. Addressing a meeting in Calcutta on Saturday, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait had said: “The government has not met us since January 22. We waited thinking they would meet us but they didn’t. So we thought we’d go to the nation.” Rajewal cited how the Centre had slighted the farmers. “The Prime Minister called us andolanjeevi. Yes, we are andolanjeevi but andolans (movements) have done a lot of good. They got India freedom,” he said. “The Prime Minister has also called farmers parjeevi, which means parasites. Itni badi gaali di (He hurled such a serious abuse)....” Rajewal then made an emotive appeal: “Three hundred farmers have died while protesting against the farm laws. When you go to vote, remember these 300 martyrs.” He said that when BJP candidates came to voters’ doors, people should ask them why the Centre had not met the farmers after January. On Saturday, Tikait had urged Bengal’s farmers to ask BJP candidates: “Where is the law on the MSP (minimum support price)?” The Singur event, held near Singur Bazaar, drew a crowd of about 2,000. Rajewal and several other SKM leaders had arrived in the state on Thursday. They held three meetings in Calcutta and one in Nandigram on Friday and Saturday. After the Singur meeting on Sunday, farmer leaders travelled to Asansol to address another mahapanchayat. At all the meetings they have addressed in Bengal, the farmer leaders have urged voters to reject the BJP while stressing that they were not seeking votes for any particular party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Creative minds march on in Calcutta||The secondary department of Abhinav Bharati High School recently organised an inter-class fest for students from classes VI to IX on a virtual platform. Multiple activities were clubbed under three categories — performing arts, visual art and sports — during the three-day event. Students performed dance recitals and sang folk and patriotic songs under the performing arts category. The visual art category brought out the students’ imagination on the lines of recycling and sustainable development through the event Best out of Waste. Sports included time-bound games such as skipping, alternate hand catching and dribbling with the edge of bat. “Since sports and other annual programmes were hampered because of the pandemic, we thought of having a virtual show. The students were very enthusiastic, and both teachers and students had fun,” said principal Sraboni Samanta. Hindmotor High School recently organised an inter-house solo dance competition for its students on a virtual platform. A total of 12 participants representing the four houses — Vivekananda house, Vidyasagar house, Radhakrishnan house and Tilak house — performed live. The participants were divided into three groups, each having a separate theme. Group A (classes I to III) presented dance performances on the theme of folk dance, while Group B (classes IV to VII) performed on Rabindranritya, Nazrulgeeti or patriotic theme and Group C (classes VIII-XII) students put up semi-classical dance. The participants were judged on the basis of choice of song, presentation, expression and rhythm. “Although the schools are running online, our school didn’t miss a single chance to enhance the co-curricular activities of the children. So, the inter-house dance competition was conducted,” said principal Nitu Chattopadhyay. Water conservation and humanisation of rivers was the theme of a literary meet, Sangam, recently organised by Delhi Public School, Howrah. Streamed live on YouTube, the fest had students from India, UK, Sweden and Singapore joining hands on digital platforms to share their views on various issues related to water conservation and water pollution. Sudha Murty, an author and chairperson of the Infosys Foundation, was the chief guest. In conversation with principal Sunita Arora, Murty encouraged students to blend water and literature through the event. Participants created stories about deep sea creatures those are victims of pollution and debated on the topic of humanising rivers. Some of the participating schools were DPS Electronic City-Bangalore, DPS-Noida, DPS-NTPC Farakka, The Newtown School, Don Bosco Liluah, VIBGYOR High School-Airoli, Navi Mumbai, Edward Peake Middle School-UK and Mayflower Primary School, Singapore. “Every year our children get involved in cleaning up the Ganges. Various school activities and curriculum are designed to make them aware about water conservation and the problems. The literary meet encourages reading and creativity among students. Clubbing a burning issue with Indian literature was an ideal way of capturing our students’ attention. Sudha Murty is a favourite author among them for her simplicity of style. Getting her on board was a treat for the students. The author too was impressed with our effort,” said principal Arora. Julien Day School, Ganganagar, organised a host of online activities to keep the students engaged. The online school magazine, Just Us, was launched and the annual photography exhibition was also conducted online on the theme, Life in Pandemic. The institute held an interactive session for parents on the Jamtara scam, conducted by Supratik Dasgupta, to spread awareness on cyber crime. The annual concert was conducted virtually, and teachers and parents, along with the students, performed. The nativity play entitled God’s Love for Mankind was the highlight. “In unison with the teachers, parents, children and the administration, we have designed ways to keep our students both mentally and physically healthy. Workshops widened their exposure and gave them first-hand knowledge of the world beyond school,” said principal Bobby Baxter. Students of Calcutta Business School, a unit of Shikshayatan Foundation, virtually celebrated International Mother Language Day to promote linguistic and cultural diversity. They all put up brilliant performances by presenting literary pieces in their own mother language. “These students who are grown-ups showed their creativity by putting up performances on International Mother Language Day. Creativity is the essence of life and students of a business school should have it. The manner in which the students celebrated the day, amid the pandemic, is praiseworthy,” said Shikshayatan Foundation’s secretary-general Bratati Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||When Sir Arthur Conan Doyle turned Sherlock||Sherlock Holmes’s creator had once taken on an investigation on behalf of a young Parsee lawyer who had been sentenced to prison on false charges of slashing cattle in the English village where he lived. A virtual session with London-based author Shrabani Basu, a Bengal Club Library event in association with The Telegraph, introduced one to a case that had grabbed headlines across continents and provided an insight into Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s real-life sleuthing skills as well as racial equations in England at the turn of the 20th century. Basu, who has earlier written on Noor Inayat Khan, the only Indian-origin woman to die in the Dachau concentration camp for being a British spy, and Abdul Karim, Queen Victoria’s personal attendant in her last years, has an interest in characters who have slipped through the cracks in history. She told Sumit Ray, with whom she was in conversation on Friday, that she had “a filing cabinet of interesting people” where George Edalji was stacked for years. “He was a 28-year-old Parsee lawyer whose father Shapoorji Edalji had converted to Christianity and moved to England from Bombay. Shapoorji became a vicar in 1876, the first South Asian in England to be so, in a white village of Great Wyrley in Staffordshire. By the time George was 12, they were getting anonymous hate mail,” she said. He grew up as a “dark-skinned, awkward loner”. Basu’s new book, The Mystery of The Parsee Lawyer, almost did not happen. In 2005, a novel came out on the two, called Arthur & George, by Julian Barnes. So Basu put her project on the backburner. But in 2015, she learnt of an auction of letters between Doyle and Staffordshire police chief George Anson and got enthused. “Here was new material. Anson was a pucca imperialist and a complete racist. He described Edalji as niggerish in appearance,” said Basu. She read up the Home Office files on the case and Edalji’s letters in Birmingham, and pieced together the story from several archives. In 1903, Great Wyrley was gripped by terror as horses and cattle started being slashed at night and left to die in the field. The suspicion fell on George, an odd-looking boy with brown skin and bulging eyes. He was arrested, charged and pronounced guilty in a 55-minute trial. He was given seven years’ imprisonment but let out on parole after three. His solicitor’s licence was cancelled and he was scared to return to his village.So he settled in London. At this time, Doyle’s The Hound of the Baskervilles had come out. Edalji read it in prison. “The animals in the moors must have made him feel that Doyle was the man to help him. So he wrote to him.” Doyle, with time on hand after the death of his wife whom he had nursed for 13 years, stepped in to help the underdog. “The papers were immediately full of how Sherlock Holmes was investigating the Parsee case. The man who was being called ‘debased, Oriental and evil’ was suddenly everyone’s favourite. Such is the effect of stardust!” Basu said. She described how Doyle observed Edalji before their first meeting, holding a paper close to his eyes and concluded he was myopic. “He was confident that there was no way that a myopic man could walk in the dark and kill animals.” He wrote in The Daily Telegraph, doing “a forensic examination of every point in the trial” and exposing each as flimsy. The article was reprinted in The New York Times, The Washington Post and all over the UK. It was noticed even by Jawaharlal Nehru, an 18-year-old then at Harrow, who wrote to his father that the man was victimised as he was Indian. A fund was set up for Edalji’s legal battle in which many Indians contributed. The Home Office, under pressure, set up a committee which concluded that he was innocent but refused to give him compensation for imprisonment. Hundred years have passed since then but nothing has changed. “There is still prejudice against foreigners and dark skin, and instead of hate mail under the door, there is trolling,” said Basu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Nursery kids thank grandparents for help||Nursery students of South Point School celebrated grandparents’ day on the last day of an “unprecedented session”, acknowledging the efforts of their grandparents, many of whom had helped them during online classes once their parents returned to work. In many households grandparents had to learn how to log into online classes and upload homework. In such a situation celebrating grandparents’ day is of a greater significance to thank them for their efforts to help their grandchildren, the school said. As many parents returned to work, the load of making the child attend the online classes fell on the grandparents. The task for them included,  logging on to the class on time, make notes of what the teacher was saying during the class. This apart, the grandparents had to ensure that the child stays in front of the screen for the entire duration of the class. “Grandparents’ Day is a regular feature in the school calendar and the idea behind this is to honour the special bond between children and the grandparents... It has been a unique year for our little ones who attended classes without entering the school. In many households it has been the grandparents who have guided the children patiently after their parents returned to their places of work. In this situation, grandparents’ day takes on even greater significance as a token of thanks for their untiring efforts to help their grandchildren through the pandemic,” said Krishna Damani, a trustee of the school. 76 year old Biman Bihari Saha had never used a smart phone before May when the online classes started for his grandson. His son and daughter-in-law are both radiologists and during the pandemic they had to report to duty. “I had to learn the functions of a smart phone and laptop so that my grandson could attend classes. Also I kept a register where I would make a note of what was being taught in class — from letters, numbers to stories — so that he can be guided later on,” said Saha, a retired West Bengal Civil Service employee. Saha would log on to classes three days a week and said apart from two days when they had a medical emergency, his grandson did not miss classes a single day. For some parents who were at home it was still not possible for them to help kids attend classes because of the work from home pressure. For Dhrubajyoti Goswami who is based in Mumbai but is currently working from home, it was not possible to sit through his daughter’s classes despite being at home. His wife is a doctor. “My daughter’s classes begins at 10.30am but my work day starts at 9am and it is not feasible for me to sit with her. My father did use a laptop before but there were the nitty gritty like using the platform in which the classes were conducted, entering the password. Initially it was a challenge but it was because of them that my daughter could attend the classes,” said Goswami. The celebration on Friday, where the grandparents attended the classes with the children, included performances by the kids through a video thanking the grandparents. Photographs of the children with their grandparents were also displayed. “The relationship of grandparents and grandchildren has taken a different dimension this year and we thought this would be a befitting way to end the online classes by thanking them,” said Dalbir Kaur Chadda, principal of the school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Mosquito problem stings New Town||Residents of New Town are alleging a rise in mosquito population and several residents’ welfare associations have requested the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) to set up nets over canals that cut criss-cross the township. The NKDA has already laid nets over a portion of the Kestopur canal in at least four places as part of a pilot project to see whether it contains the winged menace, an NKDA official said. According to him, the residents’ welfare associations of several housing complexes in all three action areas that are near the canals have requested the authorities to use nets over the water. According to the official, several meetings were held with entomologists to figure out a way to reduce the mosquito population and one of the suggestions was to cover portions of the canal close to the banks. According to the official, water in the Kestopur and Bagjola canals move slowly and people often dump garbage along the banks. This causes the water to stagnate,an ideal breeding ground of mosquitoes. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said the nets would serve two purposes. “People will not be able to dump garbage into the water and even if mosquitoes lay eggs, new adult mosquitoes will not be able to fly out,” Sen said . According to Sen, they had also launched a campaign to create awareness among residents. Residents of New Town’s AB, AD, AI, AL, CD, CE and DC blocks have been complaining about mosquitoes since the beginning of the year. Monojit Biswas, a resident of Action Area I, said he had to shut all doors and windows of his house by 3.30pm. “Even then mosquitoes enter through gaps in the exhaust fan vents in the kitchen and toilet. We cannot survive without mosquito nets and repellents,” said Biswas. Anja Sen, a resident of Uniworld City in New Town, said they had instructed their housekeeping staff to spray larvicide around the complex at regular intervals. “This is in addition to what the NKDA vector control teams are doing. Mosquitoes are turning out to be the toughest challenge for us this year as we cannot step out and stay still for a moment as they bite everywhere,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town plans plantation drive||The New Town authorities will start a tree plantation drive on empty plots in all three action areas to prevent people from dumping garbage on the plots as well as to keep weeds in check, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. The drive will start on March 21 and at least a couple of plots where the trees will be planted have been identified, the official said. The NKDA’s target is to plant 10,000 trees by the end of the year, said Debashis Sen, the chairman of the agency. Most of the empty plots, an official of the agency said, are in places that are lit up by solar lights and have paved pathways as well as bamboo fencings but many have turned unkempt with the rampant growth of weeds. “Besides, many residents are dumping garbage on the plots, which have turned into mosquito breeding grounds,” the official said. Another NKDA official said they had planned to plant trees such as neem, guava and coconut, which are strong and do not need to be looked after well. NKDA chairman Sen said they were planning to approach NGOs and corporate bodies to adopt the trees to be planted and look after them. “We want to plant these trees as we want the empty plots to become tree banks. If the plot gets allotted, then the trees will be shifted and not cut down,” said Sen. The trees that will be planted will be at least three years old and of varieties that can withstand storms. More than 4,600 trees were uprooted or damaged by Cyclone Amphan in May in the township. New Town has palm, coconut, cherry blossom, pine and casuarina trees — all with supple trunks and branches — planted along its dividers. Hidco plans to plant more of these varieties among others. Residents of New Town will be able to adopt trees and nurture them with help from Hidco and the forest department as part of a drive to replant trees by the township’s authorities. The spots chosen for this are near housing complexes. The decision was taken after Hidco conducted a survey among residents to find out what they wanted to do as a community-driven activity with distancing norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Tagore and Netaji, an unusual relationship||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and Rabindranath Tagore are Bengal’s two greatest icons. Though there were commonalities in their philosophy and politics, there were also differences. It might be fair to say that Tagore was more of an individualist while Bose was more communitarian. While Tagore was not involved actively in the freedom struggle since he was against notions of “nationhood” to which the individual must be subservient, Bose was involved in it with vigour. Not much has been written about the unusual relationship between these two towering personalities although they interacted several times. Right from his student days in Cuttack, Bose had been enthralled by Tagore’s poetry and used to recite them at events. His first interaction with Tagore happened in 1914 when he was a student of Presidency College, Calcutta, and visited Santiniketan with some of his fellow students. Unfortunately, Bose’s enthusiasm was dampened when Tagore gave them advice on village development and the role of the youth in facilitating that development. Bose was probably expecting a more grandiose conversation on arts and culture since Tagore had already won the Nobel Prize. Later in life Bose recalled this meeting and held a different opinion about it. Interestingly, many years after this interaction they did have a difference of opinion on the nature and usefulness of art in general. Bose thought art should be accessible to all, including the poorest. He felt there was an inherently elitist bias in the consummation and appreciation of art. Tagore, while appreciating Bose’s viewpoint, had a different perspective. According to Tagore, “When art reaches its pinnacle, that is the high point of the aesthetic of the creator. It is unfair to assume that everyone will appreciate that. If the forces of appeasing every individual are mandated on the creator, then it will spell disaster.” This difference of opinion on art is interesting given how the two are perceived in relation to their outlooks on life. The second interaction happened a few years later, on a ship, while Tagore was returning to India from one of his US and Europe trips. Bose was returning on the same ship after resigning from the ICS programme in England to join Mahatma Gandhi’s Non-Cooperation Movement. During that interaction, Tagore told Bose that though he was not against Gandhiji’s movement, he did not agree with a lot of what Gandhiji was attempting. He did not attest to Gandhiji’s call for boycotting the educational institutions established by the British. Although Bose heard out Tagore’s viewpoint, he was not influenced to act accordingly. He took part in the boycott of British educational institutions and the creation of a parallel national educational system, even becoming a key figure in establishing the Kolkata Vidyapith in 1921. Later, when Bose met Gandhiji, he was disillusioned by him. He did not think that Gandhiji had clear ideas about where he wanted to take the movement. Given that uncertainty, he was unsure how Gandhiji would achieve independence from the British. In contrast, Bose was much more impressed after meeting Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das and found in him the leader he was looking for. It’s well known that Tagore had many differences of opinion with Das, and this in turn affected the relationship between Tagore and Bose to an extent. It’s also well known that Tagore was upset with Bose when in 1928 Bose was involved in celebrating Saraswati Puja at City College with an idol of the goddess. City College was a Brahmo institution where idol worship was not permitted. When the students decided to ignore that and celebrate Saraswati Puja in a more traditional way, the college authorities fined them. Bose stood in support of the students quite strongly, which upset Tagore. In a letter to his son Rathindranath, he expressed his displeasure with Bose and wrote he had “lost all respect for Bose”. A few years later, in 1935, Bose’s autobiographical work, The Indian Struggle, was published from London. Bose wanted the foreword to his book written by either H.G. Wells or George Bernard Shaw, and requested Tagore to write to them on his behalf. In a letter to Tagore he wrote: “I had thought about asking Monsieur Rolland also but he is too much of a Gandhi admirer which I am not. Hence I am not sure whether he will be willing to write for my book. I had also thought about you but I am not sure whether you would be willing to write on my political book. You have also turned into a blind admirer of Gandhiji recently — one gets that impression from reading your recent writings. In this situation I am not sure whether you would tolerate any criticism about Gandhiji.” Tagore wrote back: “Gandhiji is a tremendous moral and ethical force which, if I do not respect it, will make me ‘blind’.” But later years witnessed a marked improvement in the Bose-Tagore relationship. In 1938, remarking about his first interaction with Tagore at Santiniketan, Bose said: “When I met him for the first time I was dampened by his advice to us on village development, but now I realise the potency of what he was trying to tell us.” I think Tagore became more empathetic towards Bose after observing how the younger man had been treated unfairly when he expressed his desire to become Congress president a second time at Tripuri. Gandhiji was clearly orchestrating the political cards so that Bose would be denied the position. In response to such machinations Tagore had written to both Gandhiji and Nehru arguing in favour of Bose. Ultimately, when Bose resigned from the Congress after much political drama, Tagore expressed his solidarity thus: “The dignity and forbearance which you have shown in the midst of a most aggravating situation has won my admiration and confidence in your leadership. The same perfect decorum has still to be maintained by Bengal for the sake of her own self-respect and thereby to help to turn your apparent defeat into a permanent victory.” Immediately after this in January 1939 he hailed Bose as “Deshnayak” (hero of the nation) and wrote a remarkable essay on him. After Bose’s mysterious disappearance from Calcutta in 1941, Tagore was greatly worried. In a telegram to Bose’s elder brother Sarat Bose he wrote: “Deeply concerned over Subhas’s disappearance. Convey mother my sympathy. Kindly keep me informed of news.” But Tagore’s greatest tribute to Bose came in his short story Badnam, written almost at the same time as Bose’s disappearance. The protagonist, a freedom fighter called Anil, who is crossing Afghanistan as Bose too did, remarks: “You are trying to chain me in your shackles, but do you yet have such chains?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid spike prompts call to follow norms in Calcutta||Public health experts have called for stringent adherence to the Covid-19 safety protocols, including wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and sanitising hands regularly, following a fresh rise in the number of Covid cases. The experts and health department officials are worried that many people are not wearing masks in public places, including malls and markets, and the number of public gatherings has increased. The protocols are being increasingly violated at gatherings such as marriage receptions and political rallies. Public health experts and doctors who have been closely monitoring the pandemic since its start a year ago said the situation was not as encouraging as it seemed a few weeks before. There has been an ebb for almost three months since end-November and this was typical of the pandemic, as witnessed across parts of Europe and North America, the experts said. But now there is a greater need for awareness of the situation, particularly in the wake of the huge rise in the number of Covid cases in Maharashtra, several doctors said. On March 14, the number of new Covid-19 cases in Bengal was 283. A month back, it was 185. The daily average of reported positive cases in Calcutta was 80, compared with around 55 a month back. On Sunday, Calcutta reported 93 cases and North 24-Parganas, 90 cases. “The Covid-19 pandemic raged for seven months and then the cases started reducing in November and December. Normal life was restored. When we were panic stricken with so many people around us getting infected and hospitals were full of Covid patients, it was easier to implement the safety norms. But once normality was restored, the threat did not sink in,” said cardiac surgeon and public health expert Kunal Sarkar. “Once public transport resumed and public gatherings allowed, it became impossible to maintain social distancing. Can people maintain physical distancing at election rallies and road shows? The only way out is to wear masks and avoid social gatherings as much as possible. We cannot presume to be safe unless we reach the threshold of Covid vaccination. Till such time the vaccination covers 25 per cent of the population, we cannot presume to be safe. We have barely reached one per cent. So, we have to adhere to the safety norms for next four to six months.” Last week, senior officials of the health department met at Swasthya Bhavan to review the situation. A string of advisories was drawn up for doctors and other frontline health workers at medical colleges where the footfall of Covid patients has again started going up. “Doctors attending patients in outdoor departments have been asked to be more particular about maintaining the Covid-19 protocols. At most major medical colleges, the staff at the clinics have been instructed to ensure physical distancing,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the head of the gastroenterology department at SSKM Hospital, who is heading the Covid-19 monitoring team in Bengal. “Tests in some of the centres will be scaled up so that there is no laxity in detecting positive cases.” According to the health department data, a little over 17,000 samples were tested on Saturday. A month back, over 22,000 samples were tested in a day, a drop of 5,000 samples. Besides Calcutta, the chief medical officers of health in North 24-Parganas, Howrah and South 24-Parganas have been asked to increase the number of tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid spike defers classes on campus ||In-person classes in colleges and universities in the state are unlikely to be held in the upcoming semester, to start in April, because of a fresh rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, an official in the education department said. The spike in cases has also prompted the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Durgapur, to defer implementing its decision to recall final-year BTech students to the campus. Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, an autonomous college under Calcutta University, has issued a notice announcing that it will conduct mid-semester, tutorial examinations and internal assessment in the online mode in the upcoming semester. Education minister Partha Chatterjee had said on February 3 after a meeting with vice-chancellors that colleges and universities would not open for in-person classes in the ongoing semester ending March. He had left it to the VCs to decide whether in-person classes could be held for the semester starting in April. However, an official of the education department said in-person classes were unlikely to begin before June. “Covid-19 cases are rising in Bengal and many other states. It would not be prudent to start in-person classes from April. We need to wait and watch how the situation unfolds and take a decision by June.” Several VCs Metro spoke to on Sunday opposed the resumption of in-person classes now. All of them expressed the fear that any gathering on the campus could aggravate the Covid situation and doubted whether the physical distancing norm, a key precautionary measure against Covid-19, could be observed in hostels, where each room is shared by multiple students. “In a university, students come from states beyond Bengal. The number of Covid cases is rising in Bengal and other states. Allowing students on the campus could be risky. What if students from other states come from containment zones?” wondered a VC who did not want to be named. A notice issued by Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, on March 10 said undergraduate and postgraduate theory classes in the upcoming semester would end by June 30 and classes would be held on digital platforms. “Since CU has not told us anything about the resumption of in-person classes, it is clear that classes will continue to be held on digital platforms,” said an official of the college. St Xavier’s College, also an autonomous college under Calcutta University, started holding classes of the even semester (second, fourth and sixth) from mid-February in the online mode, said principal Father Dominic Savio. Soumya Sen Sharma, the registrar of NIT Durgapur, said the institute had put on hold its decision to bring back final-year BTech students to the campus from March 15 following the rise in Covid cases across the country. The institute had decided to bring students of the eighth semester so that they could attend lab classes, which cannot be held online. Around half the students at the NIT are from other states. “The rise in Covid cases has prompted us to delay the recall,” said Sen Sharma. Calls to education minister Partha Chatterjee went unanswered. He did not reply to a text message from this newspaper either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid inspection before ISC/ICSE exams in Calcutta||Schools where students will appear in the ICSE and ISC exams will have an additional round of inspection, during which officials will check seating arrangements, sanitisation system and other Covid-19 protocols, said conveners. Usually, conveners visit the schools in their respective zones during the exams. This time, there will be a visit before the start of the exams as well, following an instruction from the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, which conducts the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams. “The conveners have been asked to do one inspection before the board exams. We will see whether the Covid protocols are being followed. The conveners will inspect the seating arrangements, sanitisation system, availability of sanitisers and other things. The inspection will be done after the schools are ready with the arrangements and before the exams,” said Sanchita Biswas, the principal of St Paul’s Mission School and an ISC convener. All schools are required to maintain a gap of six feet between two examinees. In previous years, the requirement was to maintain a gap of two feet. “We usually do not make a visit before the exams, but this year we will,” said Lionel Chellappa, the principal and assistant administrator of the Assembly of God Church School Park Street, and an ISC convener. “We will have to ensure that the protocols announced by the council and the state government are followed.I plan to make a visit before the practicals to find out how many batches are there and how the lab space is being divided and utilised.” The ICSE and ISC theory papers start on May 4.The ISC practical exams are scheduled between April 1 and May 31. The Covid safety norms will include staggered movement of candidates, maintaining distancing norms, proper sanitisation of exam halls and frequently touched surfaces and keeping isolation rooms ready. “Since it is Covid, we have to be doubly sure and we cannot take chances,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal of Julien Day School Ganganagar and a ICSE convener. Aniket Debroy, another ICSE convener and principal of St Thomas’ Day School, on Free School Street, said they would also check whether arrangements were being made to measure the body temperature of the examinees. The principals are in touch with the conveners in their zones to be briefed about the safety protocols. “There is going to be zone meetings to be briefed about the details that schools are expected to adhere to,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, the principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. Conveners also expect schools to adhere to all norms and nobody would take it lightly. “This being an unusual year, the schools will not take it lightly and we think nobody is going to cut corners,” said Sanchita Biswas, of St Paul’s Mission School. Each convener has about 10 to 15 schools in his or her zone. The usual visit by conveners during the exams will be held this year, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Two Calcutta cops arrested for drug racket link||Two constables of Calcutta police have been arrested for allegedly being part of a drug racket that was supplying heroin to peddlers in Calcutta. The special task force of Calcutta police arrested Palash Biswas and Subrata Biswas at a hideout in Gaighata, North 24-Parganas, early on Sunday after their names emerged in connection with the drug racket that was unearthed by the city police two days ago. Both are constables of the armed police wing of Calcutta police and are residents of Bongaon, North 24-Parganas. An officer of the special task force said the lead came on March 12 when they arrested three men for alleged possession of heroin worth more than Rs 5 crore. The trio — Fani Biswas, Raju Biswas and Sambit Ray — were arrested on Strand  Road following a tip-off and heroin weighing 1.132kg was seized from them. Fani and Raju are from Bongaon, while Sambit is from Odisha. “During interrogation, Fani Biswas and Raju Biswas said they had received the supply from two of their neighbours in Bongaon who used to go to Calcutta frequently. On further investigations we found that both are constables of the Calcutta police and used to boast they would never get caught as they were cops themselves,” said an officer of the special task force. The sleuths also came to know about the involvement of another person in the case - Prasanta Sikdar, a drug peddler from Bongaon. By the time the police raided the houses of Palash Biswas, Subrata Biswas and Prasanta Sikdar, the news of the arrest of the others in Calcutta had reached them and none could be found at home. Based on inputs from sources, the STF team raided a small house inside a poultry farm at Gaighata, around 5km from Bongaon, and found all three there. They were arrested early on Sunday and produced in the court later in the day. The three have been sent to judicial custody. Those arrested on Strand Road are in police remand. Several police officers described as “very unusual” the involvement of policemen in a drug racket. “It is learned from the neighbourhood where the two live that they used to boast about their high-level contacts and that no one could touch them because they are cops,” said an investigator. Sleuths said they were trying to find out whether the constables had been acting as carriers and supplying drugs to places where they had easy access because of their uniform.  Both cops were suspended on Sunday and a departmental inquiry has been initiated against them, sources at Lalbazar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
15-03-2021||Calcutta||Youth catches hunters with 25 dead squirrels ||A 25-year-old man stood up to a group of alleged hunters armed with bows, arrows and improvised bamboo spears at a village in Howrah’s Panchla on Saturday. More than 25 dead squirrels were found on the group, most of whose members fled the spot after being challenged by Subhankar Koley, 25. Koley managed to hold on to two of the alleged hunters who were later arrested by the forest department. The incident took place at Jalalshi Bowbazar village in Panchla, around 7km from Dhulagarh and 30km from the heart of Calcutta. Shortly before noon, Koley spotted the group of seven coming out of a wetland near the village. “Arrows and what looked like spears in the hands of the members caught my attention. I stopped the group. One of the members said they had come to catch civet cats,” said Koley. Told that catching and hunting civet cats was illegal, the group members fled the spot. “I caught the shirt of one of the members who was carrying a bag… Over 25 dead squirrels were found in the bag later,” said Koley. He called his brother and a couple of friends who “detained” the man with the bag. Koley then raced on his cycle to catch hold of another man. “He seemed to have lost his way and was standing outside the village. I brought him back to his accomplice,” said Koley. A team of foresters arrived soon and the two men were arrested. “The arrested persons have been identified as Rajesh Dolui, 26, and Bikash Dolui, 23. The two are residents of a village in West Midnapore. They confessed to being part of a hunting group that travels across south Bengal to kill animals and birds, mainly for food,” said a forest official in Howrah. Squirrels are protected under Schedule 4 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. If convicted, the two face six months of imprisonment, said the forest official. Squirrel hair is also used in making paint brushes, said a forest official. “In this case, we have just provided support. The main credit goes to the young man and other villagers who caught the group,” said Raju Sarkar, the divisional forest officer of Howrah. Koley used to work with an online fashion retailer before the pandemic. But he has since lost the job. He is part of Howrah Zilla Joutho Poribesh Moncho, a forum of several nature and wildlife NGOs in Howrah. “In the past, he has helped in the rescue of civet cats and other animals,” said Subhradip Ghosh, a convener of the forum. “We have encountered over 300 such hunting groups across Howrah this season,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-113
