16-03-2021||Calcutta||Amit Shah rally in Kharagpur gets priority over classes says IIT students||Several IIT Kharagpur students have posted on social media about the irony that the Union home minister Amit Shah can hold a rally in Kharagpur with thousands of people but their institute is wary of resuming in-person classes to avoid assembly. The posts came on a day a section of students wrote to the institute’s director, V.K. Tewari, requesting that in-person classes be resumed. The students boycotted Monday’s online classes to press their demand. “The students of the institute collectively decided to miss scheduled classes on Monday to protest the closure of the campus over the past one year and… lack of information and concrete plan for reopening of the campus from the administration,” says the letter. A BTech student of the IIT has written on Facebook: “How come organizing rallies and gathering local crowd without masks and no social distancing by our Home minister is allowed but when it comes to the college reopening by following proper norms and regulations, the IIT Kharagpur administration maintains silence…. Who’s at fault here?” The student posted his comment as part of a campaign #reopenIITKGP, being run on social media by a group of students. The student has posted a picture of Shah perched on a vehicle with several others and travelling through supporters on Sunday. In the photograph, Shah, without any mask, is seen waving at supporters who also appear to be without masks and not following any distancing norms. Union education minister Ramesh Nishank Pokhriyal, the Prime Minister’s Office, and IIT director Tewari were tagged in the post. Another student has posted: “The education minister and the home minister are promoting gatherings for their electoral benefits but IIT would remain closed!!!! What is this. 1)Boycott classes collectively and encourage others, 2) Mass mail to the Authority, 3) Tag and mention kgp diro in social media 4) Support the trend #reopen IIT #Boycott Classes.” He wrote that Pokhriyal was “live at 6:35pm” on his Facebook page, sharing visuals of Shah’s road show. Metro checked the Facebook page of Pokhriyal on Monday evening and found that he was “live at 6:35pm” on Sunday to share the visuals. “When people can take part in rallies, why can’t we walk on the roads of our campus? When other IITs are calling back their students, why can’t we?” posted another student. Only a handful of research scholars have been brought back to the IIT. Director Tewari said on his Facebook page on Monday afternoon: “At present we have 400 research scholars on campus who were quarantined on campus. We have plans to bring back more students….By May-June, we are hoping to call back the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they would be able to complete their lab classes. By July, we hope to recall 50-60% of the students with due consideration of the SoPs and quarantine…..I hope the students and their parents would review the gravity of the situation with patience.” Repeated calls to him went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. An IIT student who is from another state said: “He (Shah) is concerned about Hiran Chatterjee (the BJP candidate from Kharagpur Sadar). But what about us? What if some employees of IIT attended the road show and then came to the campus? Will they not spread the virus on the campus? They have all the restrictions in mind only for students.” In the email sent to the director, the students have written: “As is well known to you we come from all over the country to study at such a prestigious college — many of us belong to remote areas of the country where the lack of Internet connection is an issue. Not only this, recent socio-political protest in various parts of the country has led to lack of Internet connection with the students. Despite the students complaining of their issues, the administration even did not try to respond to them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Future Hope's role model says help and hard work made a difference||A 19-year-old knocked on the doors of a charitable organisation because his father, a washerman (dhobi), had told him that he would either have to leave his studies or make his own arrangements. This was over a decade back. Bijay Das came from a slum in the city, where his father still lives, but the teenager worked his way up and is now a lecturer at Azim Premji University, Bangalore. “The designation is important to my father. Because he thinks it is a respectable profession. He felt that the work that he did never earned him respect,” Das said over the phone from Bangalore. He vividly remembers the summer day in May 2007 when he went to the charitable organisation Future Hope, after scoring  92.3 per cent in Class XII. “I was told that economics is a tough subject and I will have to put in a lot of effort. I was ready to do that. I came from a community where there was not much scope for education but Future Hope provided me with that and I was ready for hard work,” said Das, 32. Das went on to study economics at St Xavier’s University and did his masters at Jadavpur University. “But it was not funding alone that I received for my education, I was mentored and motivated by teachers at Future Hope... at some very critical junctures in my life,” said Das, who grew up in a less than 100 sq ft house with two siblings. It was not easy to set aside money from his meagre income but this father did that till Das was in Class XII. “My parents invested in my education despite constraints,” he said. It eventually became difficult for his father to sustain the family. “I do feel proud of my son today. Also of my daughters who earn their own living by working in a hospital. I had to give up education in Class VI because my mother fell sick and I started doing the work of a washerman, which my mother did. But I did not want to push my children into it,” said father Biswanath Das. But senior Das still prefers to stay in his humble home. “My children go out to work and I am ageing. In a new place, I would not be knowing many people and I am fine here,” said the 62-year-old. After completing his masters, Das moved to do the Gandhi Fellowship programme in Rajasthan and post that, he started working for a foundation in Jaipur. “I was working with government schools to build quality assessments for students,” he said. In March this year, he moved to Bangalore to work at  Azim Premji University’s School of Continuing Education. “He (Das) is a role model for our children and he has proved how hard work, sincerity, commitment can take you anywhere. He is still very grounded, with no airs,” said Sujata Sen, CEO, Future Hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Vaccinate every adult on an emergency footing, says Gopalkrishna Gandhi ||Former Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi has said every adult in the poll-bound states and Union territory should be vaccinated on an emergency footing. “Given that the coronavirus is re-surging in an almost frantic pace, it is essential that every single adult in the four ‘election-due’ states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and in the Union Territory of Pondicherry be vaccinated on an emergency footing, irrespective of age and co-morbidity. And all polling personnel including security guards as well. “It should not be said that electoral democracy runs at the cost of  her citizens’ health,” Gandhi said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta private hospitals expand Covid jab facilities as cases rise||Several private hospitals in Calcutta are setting up bigger and permanent structures for Covid-19 vaccination as they realise the drive is likely to continue for many months and the state government is asking them to increase the number of daily doses being administered as cases are rising again. Some hospitals have refurbished the vaccination rooms, while others are planning to relocate the sites within the campus so more people can be accommodated. Officials of several private hospitals said they had started the vaccination drive at makeshift facilities that did not have air-conditioning and enough seating arrangements. Initially, some of the private hospitals had planned not to continue with the Covid-19 vaccination, which had started in India on January 16, for long. Requests from the people and the government, however, prompted them to change their decision and they are now setting up permanent sites. Peerless Hospital is setting up a vaccination site on the ground floor of the building. The hospital is administering the doses to elderly people at the rear of the building on the ground floor and to healthcare and frontline workers on the first floor. “A new vaccination site will be set up near the entrance, where we have a garden and a fountain,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. At the new site, to spread across 700sq ft, 500 people can be vaccinated daily. The hospital now administers doses to 400 people daily. “Initially, we had thought not to continue with the vaccination drive for long. But we are getting requests (to continue the drive) from many people who are our patients. Also, the state health department has requested us to continue with the drive,” he said. “The new site will be more comfortable and, being near the entrance, easier to access,” said Mitra. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, the authorities have refurbished the vaccination site. “There was no AC in the rooms. Since summer is approaching, we have installed ACs. Also, the interiors have been refurbished,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the Mukundapur hospital is a flagship unit. “We think the vaccination drive will continue for at least one year and so had to refurbish the facility.” Initially, 25 people could be accommodated at a given time at the hospital’s vaccination centre. The capacity has since been doubled, said Venkatesh. AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria, had initially set up the vaccination centre at its diabetes clinic, opposite the hospital, which is spread over 3,500sq ft. As community vaccination started on March 1, the hospital decided to shift the centre to the Annex I building. “The site has been shifted because of the rise in the number of senior citizens queuing up for vaccination. The new facility is spread across 10,000sq ft and has three vaccination rooms — for Covishield, Covaxin and beneficiaries from among healthcare and frontline workers,” said an official of the hospital. AMRI Hospitals, Dhakuria, on Monday decided to continue with the vaccination at the new site. “From next week, we are planning to enhance the number of daily vaccinations from 300 to 500,” said the official. Health department officials said they wanted more vaccination centres in urban areas. “We are planning to increase the vaccination drive as number of Covid cases has started to rise again. On Monday, over 2 lakh people were vaccinated in Bengal, including more than 1 lakh elderly. Depending on supply of vaccines, we’ll increase the number,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the state’s health secretary. “We want to increase the number of vaccination centres in urban areas where gatherings and population concentrations are more. So, if private hospitals increase vaccinations, it will be a helpful move,” he said. On Monday, 251 more Covid-19 cases were reported in Bengal, compared with 133 on February 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||EC stresses on security norms after Nandigram incident||Following the Nandigram incident in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was injured, state police have been instructed by the Election Commission of India to ensure that all star campaigners adhere to security protocols laid down by security agencies. The instructions sent by the election commission through the state’s chief electoral officer include ensuring use of bullet-proof vehicles for a Z-plus protectee and following security protocol like wearing a seat belt during the use of any vehicle or helicopter for election campaigns. The election commission, in a communication to the state chief electoral officer on March 14, has said the rules should be conveyed to all the political parties and the star campaigners for “strict compliance in their own interest and possible sensational impact on the general law and order across the state in case of any untoward incident”. “Attention has also been drawn that the safety provisions as prescribed in the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 (as amended) (e.g applying seat belt etc) are also not being followed in some cases thereby violating the existing statutory provisions punishable under law,” it reads. The message reached the state a few hours after the state director of security and district police chief of East Midnapore were suspended for alleged security lapses during the chief minister’s visit to Nandigram on March 10 where she was injured. A senior official of the state election commission said: “This is just to reiterate that it is the primary duty of the police and the security agencies to ensure the safety and security of the star campaigners and VIPs in the state, failing which they would be held responsible.” The “yellow book” of security that deals with the security rules of Z-plus protectees mentions the mandatory use of bullet-proof vehicles and defines the role of security personnel. Several police officers expressed helplessness and wondered if the norms could ever be implemented at a time leaders wanted proximity with people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Kalyani student under Covid mutant strain scanner||A postgraduate science student from Maharashtra, who had recently returned to his institute in Bengal after classes resumed, tested positive for Covid-19 last week and was admitted to the ID Hospital in Beleghata. The state health department has sent his swab sample to the School of Tropical Medicine to find out whether he is infected with a mutant strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The student, who got his swab sample collected at the Calcutta airport, is in the same ward at the ID Hospital where fliers from Dubai who have tested positive for the UK and South African strains of the virus have been admitted. Doctors said on Monday evening the student’s condition was stable. Health department officials said two fliers who had been earlier admitted to the hospital after testing positive for the British strain of SARS-CoV-2 were discharged on Monday. One of them returned home to Digha in East Midnapore and the other to Baruipur in South 24-Parganas. Earlier, a flier from Dubai who had tested positive for the South African strain had been discharged. Health department officials said the student from Maharashtra had reached the institute in Bengal on March 10. After he was found to be positive, district health officials alerted the health department and he was shifted to the Beleghata facility. “We want to find out whether the student has been infected with a mutant strain. There is no reason to panic and the patient is doing fine,” said a health department official. With several fliers from Dubai arriving in Calcutta testing positive, the health department has decided to tap the facility available at the School of Tropical Medicine to test some of the samples that need early detection. Usually, samples that tested positive in an RT-PCR test at the airport are sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for analysis of the strain. Officials said the Kalyani institute was burdened with samples and it would take at least three to four days for a report to reach the health department. Sometimes, results would remain “inconclusive”. “To hasten the confirmation of the strain in this particular case (related to the student from Maharashtra), we opted for the School of Tropical Medicine,” an official said. The Beleghata facility has eight patients who had flown in from Dubai and tested positive on their arrival. They have been admitted to the facility where the student, too, has been admitted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Rs 5 lakh compensation for surgery injury driven suicide||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday asked New Life Nursing Home to pay Rs 5 lakh to the family of a man who suffered a bile duct injury during surgery to remove gall bladder and later committed suicide. The wife of Manoj Kumar Parbat, 38, who suffered the injury, told the commission that her husband killed himself as he could no longer bear the pain and also because of fast depletion of the family’s financial resources, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the panel’s chairperson. The hospital on Rajarhat Road had offered to pay Rs 3 lakh to the family but the commission increased the amount to Rs 5 lakh. “The 38-year-old man got admitted to the nursing home on June 28, 2018, for gall bladder stone removal surgery. During the surgery, he suffered an injury in his bile duct. The nursing home did not conduct any curative surgery,” Banerjee said. “His family shifted him to other hospitals to treat the bile duct injury. He even went to Chennai to get himself treated.” Parbat filed a complaint with the commission on January 29, 2019, and the first hearing was held on January 14, 2020. “He committed suicide by the time the first hearing was held. His wife, who was present at the first hearing, told us that Parbat had committed suicide, unable to bear the pain. She also said the family’s financial resources were drying up,” Banerjee said. During Monday’s hearing, officials of the nursing home told the commission that they had already offered the family Rs 3 lakh to settle the matter but the family was not responding. “We asked the hospital to pay the family Rs 5 lakh. The family had to spend a lot of money for the man’s treatment,” Banerjee said. The family also lodged a complaint against the doctor with the consumer court. In a separate case, the commission asked Medica Superspecialty Hospital to offer a Rs 2 lakh discount to a patient’s family. The 71-year-old man was admitted to the hospital on December 6 after he tested positive for Covid-19. The man’s son complained to the commission about overcharging. “The hospital raised a bill of Rs 13,79,000. The hospital did not offer discounts on medicines and consumables. Besides, the charges of some of the pathological tests were also higher,” he said. In August last year, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines and consumables to lessen the burden of bill on patients or their families. It had fixed at least 10 per cent discount on medicines and 20 per cent on consumables. Medica told the commission that they did not offer the discount since the patient had insurance coverage, but the commission did not accept the argument because the insurance company paid only Rs 5 lakh. The patient’s family had to pay the rest, Banerjee said. In yet another case, the commission on Monday mediated an agreement between a patient’s family and Charnock Hospital in New Town. A 68-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital in June 2018. The hospital raised a bill of Rs 2,38,143. “The patient was covered under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and they paid Rs 1,78,302. The patient party had to pay the remaining amount,” said Banerjee. The patient party refused to pay any amount arguing that the patient was covered under the CGHS. The hospital said there were items not mentioned in the CGHS. The CGHS authorities said they had reimbursed what they felt was right. “The three sides exchanged many letters over three years. On Monday we asked the hospital to offer a discount of Rs 30,000 from the remaining bill amount. The patient will pay Rs 29,881,” said Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
16-03-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee, a 'people person' and Xaverian in spirit||I met Mamata Banerjee for the first time in 2010 when she was minister of railways. The bishop of Asansol had requested me to take him to her to get some advice on an issue related to a church in Asansol. I made the appointment and we were there at her residence in Kalighat. One of her officers told me that she had gone out for some urgent work and that she would be back soon. He laid out two chairs on the veranda and made us sit. She returned after 15 minutes and seeing us on the veranda, scolded the officers for making us sit at the entrance. Then she took us to her office and enquired about the issue. The bishop narrated the problem and Mamata immediately called up the local officer in Asansol and asked him to look into the matter and resolve the problem at the earliest. While we returned from her house, the Bishop remarked, “Mamata is really a go-getter, vibrant and a leader of the people.” St Xavier’s College has constructed twin hostels at Beck Bagan, central Kolkata — one for girls and the other for boys — with the generous support of the alumni in 2014. I was the principal of the college at that time. One Sunday morning, the director of the hostels called me up to inform me that the Mother Dairy workers were digging up a place right in front of the girls’ hostel gate to open a booth. When contacted, the supervisor said the work had been sanctioned by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation under the order of the mayor. I contacted the mayor, only to be told that the work had been approved by the ministry concerned and that it could not be stopped. Finally, I contacted Mamata Banerjee, who was the chief minister of West Bengal. She understood the issue and resolved it in 10 minutes. The mayor later called up to inform me that the work had been suspended. In January 2012, Mamata Banerjee was the chief guest for the SXC Convocation. While we were sitting on the stage, she asked me whether we could upgrade SXC to a university or start a St Xavier’s University. I told her that a new university could be possible if her government could give us up to 25 acres of land. She immediately agreed and promised to look into it. At the same convocation, on her humble request, and on behalf of the College Alumni Association, I conferred on her the Honourary Membership of SXCKAA. With the blessings of Mamata Banerjee, SXC was allotted 16.64 acres of land at Rajarhat for the establishment of SXUK. Mamata Banerjee is truly a Xaverian in spirit who has the rare quality of helping with utmost care. Mamata Banerjee has been attending the Christmas gatherings organised by the Alumni at SXC since 2010 without fail to deliver her Christmas message. The 2012 Christmas gathering was a special one for all Xaverians. Mamata came as a Santa, pulled out a document from her bag, handed it over to me and said with a broad smile to all who were assembled, “I have given a letter to Father and he will inform you what it contains.”  It was the document for 16.64 acres of land in Rajarhat. “We want St Xavier’s College to become a university. Your alumni are spread across the globe. We want it to grow bigger and bigger and become globally known,” she said. I said: “There could be no better gift than this for our Vision 2020. Her wish will always go with us in our efforts to start the Jesuit University.” Mamata did not go back empty-handed. I was honoured to hand over to her the Honorary Membership card of the Alumni Association. “I am obliged, grateful and overwhelmed to have been granted Honorary Membership of the Alumni Association. St Xavier’s remembered my request made almost one year ago in January. I will always remember this gesture and be a true Xaverian,” Mamata said with deep emotions. Mamata is known to be a charismatic and prolific leader who has a “dashing and robust personality” and has been described as “astounding”, “decisive”, "vibrant”, “vivacious”, “practical”, and a “keen, ambitious” leader in India. She would be described as a “people person”. She was instrumental in bringing about a change in Bengal. Despite being an influential and powerful leader, she lives and exhibits a humble and simple lifestyle. She is deeply caring for a peaceful and harmonious environment for the good of all. Fr. J. Felix Raj, SJ, is vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-112
