17-03-2021||Calcutta||Bank protest unlocks a vault of distress||The city of demonstrations has rarely seen a “bank union” protest like this. ⚫ A 42-year-old bank officer who could not remember the last time he was part of a protest meet made it a point to turn up because he is “worried about my job and my family”. ⚫ An economics graduate from Presidency University made his presence felt because “there are two broad groups in the country right now — bekaar ar sambhabyo bekaar (the jobless and the about-to-be jobless)”. ⚫ The leader of a self-help group of women making clay dolls in Nadia attended because she is worried that once privatised, banks will no longer give her loans at an affordable interest rate and without collateral. The group of 50 women started out at the crack of dawn and pooled the money for the trip to the city. ⚫ Members of the “No Vote to BJP” campaign took the stage and raised slogans that ended with “Ei BJP aar na (No more of this BJP)”. Students, rights activists, self-help group members and young bank officers were some of the uncommon faces at a demonstration of bank unions at Dalhousie on Tuesday against the Centre’s proposal to privatise public sector banks. The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, organised the demonstration as part of a two-day nationwide strike that ended on Tuesday. If the common “adversary” was the government at the Centre that was described as “anti-people”, a binding factor was fear of an uncertain future. Among the participants was the 42-year-old officer of a nationalised bank in Kalyani, standing at a distance from the dais and listening to the speakers in rapt attention. “I have come this year because I am worried about my job and my family. Privatisation would mean job cuts. I don’t have an MBA or some such degree. At this age, it will be virtually impossible for me to find another similar-paying job. I have never felt so helpless in my life,” said the officer who had opted for a job in a PSU bank because he wanted “stability”, unlike his “high-salaried” friends in the private sector. “I studied hard to crack the banking entrance exam. When I was selected, I was happy because it was a job that promised stability. Now, that stability is under threat,” said the Kalyani resident. If the spectre of job cuts haunted some, others feared unemployment. “There are two broad groups in the country right now — bekaar ar sambhabyo bekaar. We are on the verge of completing our education. But we belong to the second group and have unemployment staring at us,” said Sayan Chakravarty, who has studied economics at Presidency University and is associated with an apolitical group, Janata Paksha. Chakravarty said: “The new farm laws and the proposed privatisation of banks are two offshoots of one agenda — to offer the entire country on a platter to a select few friends of Narendra Modi.” “The Narendra Modi government is like the wayward son of a rich family (boroloker bokhate chhele). A wise heir multiplies his ancestral wealth but a wayward son sells off ancestral properties indiscriminately. That is what the government is doing,” he added. Rumki Dutta, the leader of the self-help group of women making clay dolls in Nadia, said she took a loan of “around Rs 6 lakh” from a PSU bank in Krishnagar as recently as April 2020. “I got the loan at an interest rate of 10.5 per cent. I did not need to provide any security money or collateral. What if the new private bank (as proposed by the government) refuses to give me loans at the earlier rate or demands collateral security?” asked Dutta. Dutta was part of a group of more than 50 women who had left home around 5am on a bus to reach the venue of the demonstration. All the women contributed to collect “around Rs 10,000” needed for the travel and other expenses in Calcutta. The women said they feared privatisation of banks would hamper “small business loans”, the “lifeblood” of self-help groups. The “No Vote to BJP” campaigners chanted from the dais: “Chakri akhon haath-e gona; era gorur doodh-e pachchhe sona (Jobs are few, these people are busy tracing gold in cow milk).” Members of the audience joined in, their fists raised and shouting “ei BJP aar na”. Sayan Banerjee, a lawyer and one of the speakers, said “no street movement would be needed to defeat the BJP if the vote was fought on the agenda of economic policies and development”. “But religion, caste, food habit and choice of clothes are injected into the discourse to divert attention from the failures of the government. Our challenge is to stick to the discourse of economic policies and lack of development. The farmers have shown how to do this,” Banerjee said. Rights activist Sujato Bhadra said the BJP was taking the country towards a “single-party system”. “The double-engine theory (the same party in power in the state and at the Centre) is a pointer to that end,” he said. “A welfare state should work for the uplift of the most marginalised person. In contrast, the BJP government wants to shed all its liability,” Bhadra added. “We have found support from so many different people across the society. The anti-people policies of the central government have united all of us,” said Soumya Datta, the general secretary of the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation, one of the nine unions that make up the UFBU.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
17-03-2021||Calcutta||12 inmates of Alipore Women’s Correctional Home fall ill||Twelve inmates of the Alipore Women’s Correctional Home complained of stomach ache and vomited on Monday, sources in the correctional services said. All of them were admitted to the jail hospital. Senior officials said the cause of the illness was yet to be ascertained and that majority of the inmates recovered by Tuesday. An engineer of the water supply department of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said on Tuesday water samples were collected from Sashi Sekhar Bose Row in Bhowanipore, where several people allegedly fell ill last week after drinking water supplied by the corporation. The samples have been sent for tests. The reports are expected on Wednesday. “We have been digging soil and checking for probable leaks in the pipeline. We have not found any leaks till now. Water bowsers were sent to the locality today to ensure no one panicked and there was adequate supply of drinking water,” the engineer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Couple and son found dead  inside a hotel room||An elderly couple and their 45-year-old son were found dead inside a hotel room on Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, in central Calcutta, on Tuesday afternoon, two days after they had checked in. The family had apparently told the hotel authorities that they were from Siliguri and had come to Calcutta for medical treatment. Police said a purported note found in the room mentioned about a failed business and that the family was debt ridden over the past year, during the lockdown. A bottle, which the police suspect contained poison, was found in the room.  “There were no injury marks on them. It appears like a suicide pact,” said a senior police officer of New Market police station. Sushil Kumar Bansal, 66, of Maple View, Mayfair Garden, on Sevoke Road in Siliguri, had checked into the hotel on March 14 with wife Chandra Devi, 60, and son Sunil Kumar, 45. The family ran a gunny bag manufacturing business, which had to be closed down during the lockdown, the police have learnt. Investigators have found that the three and Sunil Kumar’s wife and children had left Siliguri in January. Last week, Sunil’s wife and children were left at her brother’s home in Lake Town. Cops said they were yet to ascertain where the family had been staying between January and March. “Sunil’s wife was told that she and the children would be picked up from her brother’s home in a few days once her husband rented an apartment,” said an officer. The hotel officials said the family last ordered food on March 14. The next day, when no activity was spotted around the room, the hotel officials knocked on the door but did not get any response. On Tuesday, hotel officials tried to contact the guests by calling the phone number they had written in the register, but there was no response either. Later in the day, the officials alerted the local police station and helped the cops break open the door. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of the death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine case witness seeks police protection||The man who apparently alerted police about Rakesh Singh’s alleged conspiracy to frame a woman in a narcotics case two days before Pamela Goswami’s arrest, and who later became a witness in the cocaine case, has sought police protection. S. Agarwal has written to the police citing specific instances during morning walks in a Salt Lake neighbourhood when he felt insecure and has requested police protection, a senior police officer said. In the letter, Agarwal has expressed his apprehension that his life was under threat from Rakesh Singh’s men and that he feared an attack on him the moment Singh is out (of jail) on bail. “He has cited a specific incident in a Salt Lake neighbourhood where he has mentioned a particular person who identified Agarwal in public as someone who was helping the Calcutta police headquarters. He has written that this man categorically said that as he (Agarwal) was helping police against Rakesh Singh, he would soon be in trouble,” the officer said. Senior police officers said cases of witnesses feeling intimidated or threatened are common but the person had shown rare courage by reporting the matter to the police. Agarwal had first written to Lalbazar on February 17, two days before officers of New Alipore police station received a “tip off about the presence of cocaine” in a vehicle belonging to BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami. Cocaine weighing 90 grams was allegedly seized from her car following her arrest in New Alipore on February 19. Soon after her arrest, BJP leader Rakesh Singh’s name had emerged during investigation and the police connected the incident to the mail they had received on February 17. In the mail, Agarwal had mentioned about his estranged wife Amrita Singh (who was later arrested in the cocaine case) and her alleged links with Rakesh, police sources said. The police had contacted Agarwal and made him a witness in the case. His statement was recorded before the magistrate under 164 of the CrPC — which is treated as primary evidence in court. The police has a witness protection scheme for helping witnesses who seek protection, another senior officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Poll worry over Covid safety protocols||The state health department is worried about lack of Covid-19 safety protocols at election rallies. One environment activist has written to the Central Election Commission, expressing similar concerns. “We are very worried about the way people are not adhering to Covid safety protocols. The number of Covid cases is rising in Bengal,” a senior official of the health department said. “Apart from spreading awareness, we want to escalate the vaccination drive to cover all elderly people and those with comorbidities. Also, we want to complete vaccination of poll personnel, healthcare and frontline workers to protect the workforce during the election.” He said the elderly people and those above 45 with comorbidities totalled 1.72 crore in the state. Of them, only 26 lakh have been vaccinated. There are around 5.2 lakh polling personnel who need to be administered doses twice before the polling process starts. “Around 2.38 lakh doses are being administered daily. The vaccination pace has to be increased to achieve the target. We have barely 10 days of vaccine vials. We have written to the Centre asking how many vials they can supply…. Accordingly, we can plan to escalate the drive,” the official said. On Tuesday, 255 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bengal. The number was 251 on Monday. On February 16, the count was 151. Environment activist Subhas Datta, worried about the lack of Covid safety protocols at election-related gatherings, has written to the election commission: “...during the current election campaigns, the political parties and their leaders are not giving any cognizance to Covid-19 pandemic disciplines like maintaining social distancing, wearing masks etc, especially while organising rallies/road shows/ meetings in public places.” “In some states, including West Bengal the number of Covid-19 affected patients is increasing again. The present upward graph of Covid-19 patients has become a matter of concern to all. We had to face total setback in different fields due to Covid lockdown situation. It is feared that such a complete lockdown situation may repeat again, if the present practices are not changed or checked. “In the matter of maintaining law and order during the election process, the Election Commission has been found very active but it is painfully observed that this august institution has preferred to remain as silent spectator to this deadly situation arising out of non-compliances during the election campaign.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||A larger lesson from Indian Coffee House ||Satyapriya De Sarkar, a gastrointestinal surgeon, rarely attends meetings or rallies. Sarkar completed eight surgeries on Tuesday from 7.30am and was on College Street by 2pm to speak at a street corner meeting with the call “No Vote to BJP”. Sitansu Sekhar, a documentary filmmaker, was present at College Street’s Coffee House on Monday evening when a group of alleged BJP supporters first defaced and then tore “No Vote to BJP” posters pasted on the walls of the Coffee House building. Sekhar was also present on College Street on Tuesday to tell people what had happened. What brought Sarkar, Sekhar and many others to the meeting was the need to unveil the “undemocratic and violent” nature of the BJP. If the party is voted to power in the state, they would target all the platforms for debate like Indian Coffee House, they said. Tuesday’s street-corner meeting was held in protest against the alleged vandalism of “No Vote to BJP” posters by BJP supporters. The participants in the meeting pasted fresh posters with the words “No Vote to BJP” written in bold. They also wrote posters sitting on the road urging people to rise against the BJP’s alleged attempts to occupy all addresses associated with Bengal’s tradition of spirited debates. “I am not a regular in rallies but I felt like coming today. If the BJP comes to power, they will not allow us to stand here and hold a meeting criticising them. The basic right to protest will be taken away. You and I will not be able to say anything they do not approve of,” Sarkar said, standing on the road outside the gate of the Coffee House building as the audience nodded in approval. He later told The Telegraph that he was also appalled at how the BJP-led Centre was promo-ting anti-science theories and practices. “The Centre has decided to allow ayurveda practitioners to conduct complex surgeries. This will be dangerous for people’s health if implemented. There have been individuals in earlier governments in the country who practised unscientific things, but no government ever gave a legal stamp to anything so unscientific,” said Sarkar. Sekhar narrated Monday evening’s sequence of events as an eyewitness. “When I arrived at Coffee House, I found that most of the seats were occupied by men wearing saffron T-shirts with the slogan Modi r Para (Modi’s locality) written on them. The crowd started thinning soon, but an acquaintance came up from below and said that these men were painting black over the words ‘No’ in ‘No Vote to BJP’ posters,” he said. “The men were shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans. They also tore some of the posters. Some of us protested and there were heated exchanges. The men were also abusing us and they left gradually,” said Sekhar. “We have to be wary. The first thing that the BJP will do if they come to power is that they will take over control of places like Coffee House, where debates and dissenting opinions are expressed. They want conformity,” he said. Madhurima Bakshi, a college teacher who had protested against the BJP supporters on Monday, was also among the speakers. “When I protested they started addressing me as ‘tui’,” she said. Some of the defaced posters were still pasted on the walls along the staircase leading to Coffee House. The protesters pasted fresh posters covering the defaced ones and vowed to put up such posters across the city. “How many posters will the BJP supporters deface?” said one of the speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||I liked the coffee, our men blacked out ‘No’||The Telegraph spoke to a BJP politician who led a group of supporters to the around 150-year-old Indian Coffee House on Monday and a foot soldier who was part of the team. The group allegedly defaced “No Vote to BJP” posters pasted on the walls of the Coffee House building. Here’s what they had to say Tajinder Pal Singh Bagga In 2011, Bagga, now a BJP spokesperson in Delhi, had attacked lawyer Prashant Bhushan We had just finished another leg of the Modipara (a campaign that aims to promote Narendra Modi in neighbourhoods) drive at the chowk by the lake (College Square). The campaign got a big thumbs up from the local people. I had heard so many things about Coffee House. I wanted to smell some coffee at the famous place. I am aware that the place is considered a den of people who subscribe to a certain ideology. I think these people live in their own bubble. We were a team of over 50 people, most of them in Narendra Modi T-shirts. Not all of us got places to sit. But our supporters were disciplined. There was no politics inside Coffee House. We did not raise slogans. Our people just had some food and refreshments. Personally, I quite liked the coffee. On our way out, our men spotted some posters along the stairs of the building. They had “No Vote to BJP” written over them. Some of our men had markers that they used to black out the “No” part of the posters. But the posters were not torn. Some people at Coffee House raised slogans against us. Our supporters raised counter-slogans. We did not heckle anybody. If we did, what is stopping police from slapping a case on us? Coffee House does not belong to any particular group. These people who believe in failed ideologies imported from China and Russia are inconsequential. I have faced a lot of trolling and abuse since I posted on social media pictures of our supporters inside Coffee House. In some of the posts, people are calling us monkeys and making fun of Hindu gods. The BJP is going to get 200 seats in Bengal. I have been camping here for over one-and-a-half months and the public support for Modiji is phenomenal. Kushal Pandey BJP’s youth wing leader Our boys are a little hot-headed (amader chheleder ektu matha garam). When some of them saw the (No vote to BJP) posters, they got somewhat agitated. But we did not indulge in any violence. We just covered the “No” in black ink. The name of the place is Indian Coffee House, not Communist coffee house or coffee house of some other groups. Every Indian has the right to enter the place. But the place has an image of being a Leftist bastion. We wanted to change that. Some people called us out for wearing Narendra Modi T-shirts. Is it a crime to flaunt the image of our Prime Minister, who is respected all over India and outside? On our way back, we did not start raising slogans. The slogans came from the other side. We just responded to show ournationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid challenge for schools for special kids||The challenge for schools and organisations for children with special needs is maintaining the Covid-19 safety protocols like distancing, wearing masks and following the basic hygiene, the heads of several schools said. At least two organisations said that since many of the individuals belonged to a “high support” group, it was difficult to maintain distance even if they dealt with small groups of eight to 10. For children with special needs, there is a greater tendency to touch or have body contact or at times even put things in the mouth. For some travelling in public transport is a challenge because it might put them more at risk, another teacher said. Many find it difficult to wear masks for long durations and they tend to take off the mask every now and then. “Many of our children do not want to wear a mask and those who are in the high support group do not have the sense of maintaining distance,” said Anamika Sinha, the director of Manovikas Kendra. Sinha said for individuals whose cognitive functioning is low, it is difficult to understand the consequences of not following norms. “It will be difficult for people with developmental challenges to maintain distance. Though there will be some who will be washing hands, the true understanding of hygiene is difficult for many of them,” said Indrani Basu, founder, Autism Society West Bengal. Institutions are worried over reopening amid a fresh rise in Covid cases in Bengal. “It will be difficult for special schools to open totally under these conditions,” said Basu. A section of parents is still scared to send their children to schools because of the pandemic. But others, including single parents and those who have to go out to work and have no support at home, want the centres to reopen. A single parent, the mother of a 14-year-old boy with autism, had to “drag the child” with her everywhere after the grandmother passed away because there was no place to keep him. Some of the centres are awaiting a nod from the department of women and child development and social welfare to reopen. “During online classes, we are constantly telling the children about the safety protocols and the importance of wearing masks. But it is not easy for them to follow it. We will have to use strategies for making them wear it and for effective imple-mentation when we reopen,” said Sonali Nandi, the chief operating officer and director of technical services, Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy. Nandi said they were preparing the SOPs that have to be followed once children are back on campus. The class size in many of these centres are small but it will have to be further split to ensure distancing. “If we had 15 children initially, we would have to break the class further and have six or seven,” said Nandi. In some schools wearing masks has been made part of the daily activities and they are being trained to wear masks for some time and then keep them aside for a while.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
17-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur students' senate flag reopen preparation level ||The students' senate of IIT Kharagpur has alleged that “the current known preparation level to reopen the campus absolutely falls short of the claim made by the administration to call back all the students on time”. The senate, which represents students on the campus, met online late on Monday and demanded that the administration urgently hold an open-house forum with the students “to answer the questions put forward by the students as it is their natural right to do so”. The undergraduate and postgraduate students of the institute boycotted online classes on Monday to protest, what they called, the lack of planning by the administration in reopening the institute and calling students back to the campus. The continuance of online classes over the past year has made the students jittery. A teacher said students in the third and fourth year were worried as they had missed out on lab classes, which cannot be held online. “Minus lab work, the engineering education remains incomplete,” said a professor. A fourth-year BTech student said: “Earlier, some of the final-year students, whose labs were pending from last semester, were supposed to be called back to campus by April 18. But there is no preparation afoot to call back the 3,000-odd undergraduate students. They are playing with our future.” That the IIT authorities will not be able to meet the April deadline became clear from a Facebook post of director V.K. Tewari on Monday: “Recently the matter was discussed with the student senate….By May-June, we are hoping to call back the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they would be able to complete their lab classes.” A BTech student said what was more worrying was utter lack of response from the administration despite repeated queries from the students. The senate resolution — signed by Shivam Singh, the chairman of the students’ senate — reads: “...the administration simply chose to ignore the mails despite repeated follow-ups. However, after repeated queries the director agreed to meet with the senate... The meeting naturally raised questions as to the current preparation level to reopen the campus and further mails to elicit response to queries and to put forward proposals were again met with no response”. A copy of the resolution has been mailed to the director. The meeting with him was held a few months back. Repeated calls to the director went unanswered. He did not respond to text messages either. The senate has flagged this attitude of not hearing out students and lack of accountability on the part of administration. “By sealing all communication channels with the students’ senate, which is the official representative body of IIT Kharagpur student community, the IIT Kharagpur is denying accountability to IIT Kharagpur students fraternity,” the resolution reads. “We demand that the administration urgently holds an open house forum with the students….and answer the questions posed by the students as it is their natural right to do so.” The state joint entrance examination board has revised the dates for Presidency University’s undergraduate admission tests as the schedule was clashing with the NEET. According to the revised schedule, Presidency’s undergraduate entrance test will be held on August 7 and 8, instead of July 31 and August 1, as was announced earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-111
