18-03-2021||Calcutta||Slogan pits Khudiram against Nathuram at Indian Coffee House||Time and again it has been said that the Opposition cannot match the messaging of Narendra Modi. If so, the Opposition should have been at Indian Coffee House on College Street on Monday and taken lessons from the young. A group of feisty youths led by a woman at Coffee House had this message for a group of saffron-attired BJP supporters censoring “No Vote to BJP” posters: “Khudiramer ei Banglay Nathuramer thain nei (Nathuram has no place in Khudiram’s Bengal).” The slogan delivers a sledgehammer blow with a feather touch: it recalls Khudiram Bose and the freedom struggle the Sangh parivar would rather forget, it is direct and simple, and it does not leave room for defamation suits to be filed by those who seek now to distance themselves from Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. The youths chanted “Tomar bukey Nathuram/ Amar bukey Khudiram (Nathuram in your heart/ Khudiram in mine)” and followed it up with “Khudiramer ei Banglay Nathuramer thain nei.” Another arrow flew from the youths’ bow and hit home: “Rabi Thakurer matite dangabajer thain nei (There’s no place for rioters in the land of Rabindranath Tagore).” The BJP group had no answer other than shouting: “Jai Shri Ram” and “Jai jai jai jai jai jai mata, Bharat Mata, Bharat Mata.” Nehru, the usual whipping boy when the BJP is stuck for answers, was not mentioned. The BJP supporters had earlier snacked at the Coffee House and on their way out blackened the word “No” from the “No Vote to BJP” posters. A video shared widely on social media on Wednesday showed the woman (a college teacher) leading the protesters and chanting the slogans as the staircase separated them from the larger group of BJP supporters. The woman’s voice rose above the crescendo and there was little doubt who was winning the argument. She was joined in the chorus by several others. They continued till the BJP supporters were seen walking down the stairs and leaving. Madhurima Bakshi, whose vocal power was unmatched in the video, told The Telegraph on Wednesday she had asked the BJP supporters not to deface or tear the “No Vote to BJP” posters. “They did not listen. They said we had done our job, they were doing theirs. I told them they could paste posters beside ours but they were busy defacing our posters,” the 33-year-old college teacher said. Madhurima said the slogan invoking Khudiram, who was hanged at the age of 18 for throwing a bomb at a carriage in which he suspected a British judge was travelling, had been in use for quite some time. “We chant slogans naming icons of Bengal and India who fought against authoritarianism. Khudiram, Tagore, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar represent Bengal, something that the BJP does not understand,” she said. Some Calcuttans who saw the video said the image of a woman standing up to a male group of BJP supporters was something the saffron camp would find hard to understand. Many of the party’s leaders have made comments that suggest women are subservient to men, they said. Earlier on Monday, BJP supporters in saffron T-shirts had parked themselves around several tables inside Coffee House. The picture had been shared by some BJP supporters to project a symbolic takeover of a bastion of Bengali culture. Subhas Chakraborty, a retired professor of history from Presidency College, said the uniformed BJP brigade smacked of a kind of fascism. “Anyone can walk into Coffee House. But people wearing some kind of uniform, arriving in a group and sitting inside Coffee House is like a symbolic takeover of the place. This entire methodology smacks of a naked form of fascism,” he said. Rajesh Roy, a Twitter user, wrote: “So proud!! The might of men being challenged by the lady standing right on that stairs and the unified war cry slowly dissipating away!!! This is Bengal! The might of a woman will always be saluted here!!” The content of the video drew admiration from political leaders, too. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “BJP goons rampaged the iconic Coffee House on College Street, Kolkata, legendary venue that hosted history changing meetings of revolutionaries during the freedom struggle. Tagore renounced his Knighthood here. Kolkata’s youth gave a befitting reply.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
18-03-2021||Calcutta||IIHM presents The Telegraph She Awards 2021 ||JW Marriott’s ballroom came alive with thunderous applause as IIHM presents The Telegraph She Awards 2021 powered by JD Birla Institute in association with Kutchina on Wednesday evening. (From left) Swastika Mukherjee (films), Swatilekha Sengupta (theatre), Tilottama Majumdar (literature), Supriya Roy (entrepreneur), Jayasri Burman (creative arts), Indrani Sen (music), Mouma Das (sports), Amita Dutt (dance) and Usha Uthup (Hall of Fame; not in picture) were feted for their contribution in their respective fields.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Post-Covid survey by ID hospital||The Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital, which has treated close to 2,000 Covid-19 patients, has started a survey on how they are. Each person will be called up and asked how she or he has been doing and whether there are any post-Covid complications. The respondents will be asked whether they are suffering from breathing problems, heaviness in the chest and continuous palpitation, a doctor of the hospital said. “The respondents will also be asked whether they are suffering from joint pain, general sense of exhaustion and fluctuating levels of blood sugar and blood pressure. The survey will cover all organs. We will also try to ascertain the psychological well-being of the persons,” the doctor said. The first call, as part of the survey, was made on Wednesday to a person who was admitted to the Beleghata hospital on this day a year ago. “The doctors who have been treating Covid patients will be making the calls and noting down the responses in a format,” an official of the hospital said. Senior doctors of the hospital said that after collating the responses, they would try to find out how the coronavirus has affected the various organs at various stages of the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Save rivers’ meet urges political action||More than 1,000 people from all over Bengal assembled at the Ramlila Maidan in central Calcutta on Wednesday to demand appropriate action from political parties to save rivers, and wetlands and other water bodies across the state. The public meeting, with the theme slogan “Save rivers, water bodies and wetlands; save the state”, organised by the green platform Sabuj Mancha with Dakhinbanga Motsyojibi Forum (DMF), was attended by those who have been fighting for the cause for a long time. Rajendra Singh, called the Waterman of India, sent his solidarity message from Rajasthan, highlighting the threat to the Adi Ganga. The Adi Ganga, the internationally acclaimed East Calcutta Wetlands, the Saraswati river in Howrah, the Ichamati and the Churni in North 24-Parganans, and the Atreyee, Mahananda and the Phuleswari in north Bengal were highlighted by the speakers as some of the vulnerable rivers. “People representing nearly 30 rivers, water bodies and wetlands have come today, including many from north Bengal. In north Bengal, we are also concerned about the trans-boundary rivers like the Teesta and the Atrai,” said Tuhin Suvra Mondal, one of the conveners of Sabuj Mancha’s state-level river committee. “We have organised this meeting to publicly highlight the sorry state of most rivers, water bodies and wetlands in the state, and to demand immediate and appropriate action from all political parties,” said Naba Dutta, the secretary of Sabuj Mancha. Dutta claimed that around 30 to 35 rivers across Bengal have either already been lost or are in the process of being lost. “It is unfortunate that none of the parties gives any importance to this enormous resource the state harbours. Can we imagine a Bengal without rivers?” he asked. “Illegal encroachment, rampant sand mining, 24X7 pollution, rivers in the state are being violated as a routine, often with the overt or covert support of politicians,” said Biswajit Mukherjee, a former chief law officer of the state environment department and a national award winner for environment, who was at the meeting. Sasanka Dev of DMF pointed out that rivers needed to be protected to save the livelihoods of millions of fishermen across the state. Dev complained that though the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the state pollution control board (PCB) to reduce pollution and restore 17 rivers, nothing had been done on the ground. “The PCB has submitted the pollution abatement plan for all the rivers to the NGT, but has no role in execution,” said Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the board. “The work requires a huge budget and there is no plan about where the money will come from,” said a PCB official. “We have got some success by mobilising the community in restoring rivers in Nadia. A ‘nodi songsod’, a decentralised network to look after the rivers, has been formed and is working well so far,” said Jyotirmoy Saraswati, from Nadia. “Fishermen are now used to getting much less fish in the Sunderbans because of pollution in the rivers, be it plastic or otherwise,” said Pabitra Mandal, from the Sunderbans’ Gosaba block. “Sabuj Mancha will soon approach political parties with our demands that have come up in today’s meeting and urge them to include these on their agenda,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta airport fines fliers without masks||The Calcutta airport has since Monday been penalising passengers found without masks. In the first three days of the drive, which coincides with a fresh rise in the number of Covid cases in Bengal and other states, the airport authorities asked hundreds of passengers to wear masks and fined four of them Rs 100 each, officials said. Almost all passengers spotted without masks had the face covering in their pockets or handbags. Public health experts and state government officials have expressed worries over the growing violation of Covid-19 safety protocols in public places. The main problem is the aversion to wearing masks. Apart from the airport authorities, the Central Industrial Security Force, which looks after security of the airport, is involved in the drive launched by the directorate general of civil aviation to enforce the mask mandate. “Passengers who are not wearing a mask are telling us that they felt uncomfortable wearing it. Some said they find it difficult to breathe wearing a mask for too long,” said an official of the Calcutta airport. “Almost all these passengers are keeping the masks in their pockets or handbags.” A number of passengers without masks said they forgot to put on the face covering after entering the terminal. “Those who are putting on the mask after being told to do so are being allowed to go. Those who are refusing are being fined,” said the official. Most of the people without masks are being spotted in the departure area of the terminal, where passengers spend a lot of time. On Wednesday afternoon, Metro found many passengers entering the terminal without masks. This newspaper reported on Wednesday that health officials and public health experts were worried about the rise in Covid cases because of rampant violation of the safety protocols at public places, including at election rallies. Metro Railway has alsodecided not to allow any passenger without a mask at stations. “No passenger will be allowed to enter the station premises without a mask. Punitive action will be contemplated against those not wearing masks,” said a Metro official on Wednesday. “Despite regular announcements through the public address system asking people to wear masks, many passengers are found without one.” Many passengers arriving from cities like Mumbai and Bangalore have alleged that the airlines were not asking for the Covid-19 RT-PCR test reports before boarding flights to Calcutta. The Bengal government has made it mandatory from February 27 for all passengers arriving on flights from Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka and Telangana to produce a negative RT-PCR report before boarding the aircraft. The test has to be performed within 72 hours before the departure of a flight. A doctor from Calcutta who returned from Mumbai on March 15 said: “My wife and I underwent the RT-PCR test 72 hours before boarding the flight and the result was negative. At the airport, when we approached the check-in counter, the woman at the counter said there was no need to provide the test result. At the boarding gate, too, no one asked for the Covid test report. Same at the Calcutta airport.” Another passenger who recently came from Mumbai said no airline personnel sought to see the report. An official at the Calcutta airport said they were receiving verbal complaints from passengers about airlines not scanning RT-PCR reports. “However, a few others complained that airlines did not allow them to board flights without the report,” the official said. A state health department official said they had counters at the arrival area of the airport's domestic section but checking RT-PCR reports of all passengers might not be possible because that would lead to huge queues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Food aid continues beyond lockdown  ||An NGO that had started giving  ration to old people amid the lockdown in May 2020 is unable to stop the distribution because many of the beneficiaries are yet to get back their livelihood even after almost a year. Some of the aged are alone, left to fend for themselves. Some are abandoned by their families because their sons or daughters can barely manage to earn a living. Among them is 67-year-old Subhadra Mondal, who worked as a help in a pre-primary school, and 61-year-old Om Prakash Shaw, who would drive a rented taxi and bring back home money that was enough for him and his wife. Subhadra’s visit to her former place of work has not yielded any result because the gates of the school are closed. Om Prakash has developed a cataract and will not be able to drive till he gets operated. The NGO, Calcutta Social Project, provides ration to these people every week and is unable to “abandon them who are already abandoned,” by fate or family. The NGO had made attempts to wind up the project in December-January but the needs of such people and their abject misery forced them to make a fresh appeal to donors so that they could continue with the food aid. “We started the food aid for people impacted by Covid-19. I was told that we cannot keep feeding people indefinitely but they are poor, old people and we cannot abandon them,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of the NGO. But the help is not for anyone who queues up outside the NGO’s office. A survey is conducted, as part of which NGO teams visit the houses of potential recipients and assess their living conditions, before distributing ration. Bharati Rajak, 70, would bring home some ration because her son, a washerman, barely earns anything now. He has to feed a family of four. “Before my health failed, I would do the same work. Prior to the lockdown there would be 50 to 60 clothes a day, but now no one wants to give us clothes for washing. We barely get eight to 10 clothes a day. The lockdown has taught them to wash their clothes themselves and they don’t need us anymore,” said Rajak. Then there is 58-year-old Keshto Samanta, a make-up artist with theatre groups and dance troupes whose earnings have gone down to almost nothing. “Earlier, there would be 18 to 20 shows in a month. Now there are two or three. It is becoming difficult to make ends meet,” said Samanta, whose son works in an electrical goods shop. Pushed by their situation, some of them, despite their age and failing health, have tried to get some work. Lakshman Das, 61, worked at a roadside eatery before the lockdown. “They would give me Rs 6,000 a month but the hotel closed down following the lockdown. When it reopened, they did not take me back. Right now, I ferry drinking water to some of the houses in my area. I earn Rs 1,000 a month. But it is not enough for the two of us,” said Das, who lives in a Beltala slum. The NGO has reduced the number of beneficiaries to about 500 (250 couples) from 1,200 to 1,300 till December. The cost of providing ration comes to Rs 31,900 a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta civic bodies open more vaccination sites||The civic bodies in Calcutta and Bidhannagar are increasing the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres to speed up immunisation against the disease. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will start Covid-19 vaccination in 17 more ward health clinics from Thursday, taking the total number of vaccination sites to 61. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) opened six new vaccination sites on Wednesday. The BMC is running 12 vaccination sites. The increase in the number of sites comes at a time when Covid-19 cases have started rising again and public health officials said faster vaccination was a key to preventing another surge. The bulletin published by the state health department on Wednesday evening stated that 303 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours and 96 of them were from Calcutta. “The focus will be on people who are 60 and above and those above 45 with comorbidities. Our target is to inoculate 100 such people every day at each clinic. That apart, we will carry on inoculating healthcare and frontline workers,” a CMC official said. “Covid-19 vaccination was being run from 51 clinics till Wednesday. From Thursday we will conduct vaccination in 68 ward health clinics,” said the CMC official. The CMC has 144 clinics in the city, one in each ward. The official could not say whether the CMC would open vaccination sites in all 144 clinics. The 17 civic clinics where Covid vaccination will start on Thursday are located in the wards 4, 8, 17, 24, 28, 36, 51, 64, 69, 78, 92, 112, 102, 119, 129, 141 and 143. The vaccination sites of the BMC are spread across Salt Lake, Baguiati, Narayanpur and Rajarhat. “We want to maximise our outreach and are trying to ensure that more people get vaccinated," said a BMC official. The centres in the BMC area that are already functional include Matrisadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE Block, Deshbandhu Nagar Hospital in Rajarhat, Vidyasagar Matrisadan in Rajarhat and primary health centres in Jhautala and Ashwininagar. Pranay Kumar Ray, a member of the board of administrators of the BMC who is in charge of the civic health department, said they had increased the number of sites to 12 following a spurt in the number of cases. “Recipients need not be from the same ward as where a vaccination clinic is located. Anyone can come and get vaccinated,” said an official. “Someone who has not registered on the Co-Win portal can walk in, too, for the jab. We will register them at the spot and administer them doses.” The identity cards that are required to register include Aadhaar, PAN, passport, driving license, electoral photo identity card and pension document with photograph. Each recipient must carry a mobile phone because a one time password (OTP), which will be required for registration, will be sent to the number. Residents of Salt Lake and adjoining areas said they did not know where the vaccines were being administered as the civic body had not undertaken any drive to spread the information. "The news that the corporation has opened vaccination clinics has only spread by word of mouth,” said Shatarupa Ghoshal, 64, a resident of BD Block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Stricter charges in Rashika Jain case||A court has slapped the stricter charges of death due to dowry and criminal breach of trust on the husband and in-laws of Rashika Jain, who had died after a purported fall from the terrace of her in-laws’ Alipore house last month. The two charges were added following a prayer by Calcutta police, who are probing the death and had initially started a case under IPC sections 498A (cruelty towards married women) and 306 (abetment to suicide). It was only after Rashika’s family submitted a fresh complaint seven days after the first complaint, mentioning the alleged demands from her in-laws’ family, that the investigators submitted a prayer to add the charges. The court recently granted the prayer. Sections 304B (dowry death) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) have been added to the existing charges. The charge of causing dowry death, in less than seven years of marriage, could lead to a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. Rashika got married to industrialist Kushal Agarwal in February last year. No one has yet been arrested in connection with the young homemaker’s death. A criminal lawyer not attached to the case said the charge of abetment to suicide is a “relatively wide section, while proving dowry death is easier”. “In the absence of a suicide note with any specific mention, abetment to suicide charge becomes a wide section and it is relatively difficult to prove the involvement (of the accused) in the victim’s death. On the other hand, the charge of dowry demand is more subjective and easier to prove,” said the lawyer. The charge of causing death due to dowry demand, he said, is considered stringent especially if the death occurs within seven years of marriage. “In this case, they (the couple) had spent only one year into marriage. This increases the gravity of the charges,” the lawyer said. Investigators have examined the staff and drivers at the Agarwals’ house to ascertain the sequence of events before and after Rashika’s purported fall on February 16. The police said they had seized CCTV footage from the cameras at the Agarwal residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||Hi-tech road signs for Salt Lake Sector V ||Roads across Sector V will get signs that will display street numbers and a small map of the area, and will also have in-built CCTV cameras as well as QR codes that can be scanned on a smartphone to get point-to-point directions. The signboards will also tell motorists about traffic restrictions and various no-entry points. The new signage will be installed by the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA), an official said. “We have consulted police and will place the new boards where they are clearly visible,” an NDITA official said. Debashis Sen, the chairman of the authority, said the signage would help motorists and commuters and also boost surveillance capabilities. “There are 119 CCTV cameras in Sector V. We are planning to have one camera per signboard and this will boost surveillance capabilities…. They will also help everyone who has to visit Sector V and is not too familiar with the area and the traffic restrictions,” said Sen. According to the plan, boards made of flexible material will be placed inside a transparent fibreglass casing that will be backlit by LED lighting systems and attached to 10ft high poles. The smaller of the two boards at each site will mention the street number. Following the global practice of identifying a street by number, Sector V roads have recently been numbered 1 to 38. The north-south roads have odd numbers and the east-west ones have even numbers. The bigger, 4ft-tall board — placed at the eye level of an average pedestrian — will display the map of the area, the distance of important crossings and landmarks from the spot and how long a pedestrian might take to walk there. The mention of distance is primarily meant to help drivers. Care will be taken so that digits and markings are legible and bright enough for motorists to read from a distance, said an NDITA official. “The signage has been designed to guide people through physical environments and help enhance their understanding of the space using visual cues and symbols. We want to make travelling through the township easy,” Sen said. The signage will also denote whether a street is one-way or not. Hundreds of office-goers are using their personal vehicles to commute to workplaces in order to avoid public transport amid the pandemic and the lack of road signage or directions have led many into no-entry zones as well as dead ends. Neelotpal Chatterjee, a techie, said he drove for around 500m from the College More intersection towards the SDF crossing before cars coming his way made him realise his mistake. “I somehow managed to reverse and turn the car around towards College More, from where I took a right turn and ended up in front of Godrej Waterside before finally reaching my office,” said Chatterjee. In 2017, several roads in Sector V were made one-way. All vehicles entering the main road from the SDF crossing and going towards EP-GP Block can now enter only through Infinity, Oxford and TCS crossings. No vehicles are allowed to take the right turn and enter from Webel or College More crossings to reach EP-GP Block. However, there are no signs to warn motorists headed to the SDF crossing not to take a right turn from the College More intersection. On Wednesday, Metro found several vehicles trying to take a right turn there, only to find other cars coming at them through both flanks. The road between the SDF and Technopolis crossings was made one-way around three years back but no signage informing motorists has been installed. To add to the worries of those new to the tech township, the old signs have not been removed. Motorists, especially those who are not Sector V regulars, often follow these signs and end up in lanes from where there is no easy way out. The Sector V Ring Road that runs parallel to water bodies had also been made one-way. Vehicles can move from Mahisbathan towards Nicco Park but not in the opposite direction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
18-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur  plan to recall 300 final-year undergraduate students to campus from April 16||The IIT Kharagpur director, V.K. Tewari, has announced that they have a plan to recall about 300 final-year undergraduate students, “whose labs require physical presence”, from April 16. The announcement  through a Facebook post came two days after undergraduate and postgraduate students boycotted online classes to protest the alleged lack of planning by the administration in reopening and calling back students to the campus. “From April 16th onwards, we have a plan to recall about 300 final-year UG students whose labs require physical presence. About 800 first-year M.Tech. and Law students etc will be able to join starting in the middle or end of May. Before arrival, all students are required to submit the undertaking as mentioned above,” the director has said. Since practicals cannot be held online, students in the fourth-year BTech programme have become wary. Study in engineering remains incomplete without formal training in practical classes that are known as sessionals. A BTech student said their anxiety heightened after the director had announced on Monday (again through a Facebook post) that they were hoping to call back the final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students so that they would be able to complete their lab classes by May-June. “The IIT Kharagpur administration had decided in February following a meeting with the students’ senate that all final-year students were to report to the campus between April 18 and 21. On Monday, the director said this would be pushed back to May-June. What would we learn then?” the student said. Another BTech student wrote on the director's March 15 Facebook post: “What is the logic behind calling them after May (only to vacate their rooms and say goodbye to the campus)?” The students’ senate adopted a resolution on Tuesday urging the administration to keep the students posted about their plan to call the pre-final year students and the ones who face resource constraints back to the campus. “Recalling PhD students will be expedited as well,” director Tewari posted on Wednesday. Repeated calls to director Tiwari went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-110
