19-03-2021||Calcutta||Ethics of clicking in the wild ||Did you know that it’s unethical to mimic the call of a bird while trying to click it? Or that it’s not right to click bird nests? Did you know that offering bait to attract turtles to the surface of the water is a complete no-no for a wildlife photographer worth his salt? A webinar on ethical wildlife photography was organised by the AE Block-based Ganga Prahris, West Bengal, which explained the dos and don’ts of the popular hobby. Ganga Prahris are a volunteer group set up by the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) to protect the Ganges. Sharing the ethics was Saurav Gawan, conservation biologist at WII. “Photographers must remember that nature comes first, not them. You are entering the habitat of an animal and you must respect the rules of its home,” said Saurav. Here’s what all he shared - Conservation- Your aim should be conservation, not winning photography contests. So click a frame that will tell the story of the animals’ depleting habitat or endangered status. For instance, Saurav shared the picture of nilgai he had clicked, being chased into the Ganga by farmers (picture on Page 4). It told the story of the animal-human conflict. “Since conservation is the goal, the most established of wildlife photographers allow you free access to their pictures if it is for educational purposes,” said Saurav. Be invisible- Your photography must not interfere with the animals’ activities. If you’re heading to a national park, read the rules. Take a local guide. Leave nothing behind — no food or leftovers. Treat rare and common species equally- For instance, Nubian flapshell turtles are rare and highly sought after by photographers. But if enthusiasts ignore the more common Indian flapshell turtles these may get endangered next. So click both and create awareness about both. Wear colours that blend into the environment- Do not wear bright shades of red and orange, for instance. They make you visible from afar and may make the animal feel threatened. Gharials, for instance, are used to farmers working at a distance but if a photographer dressed in a bright red outfit approaches, the reptiles will feel threatened and withdraw into the water. Not only will you not get your snaps but the gharials, that need to bask, will also be deprived of the sun. Avoid crowding- At times, large photography groups set out and upon a sighting, gherao the animal. This makes the creature uncomfortable. If it’s a carnivore it may even attack. Do not mimic their calls- Photographers are known to hire guides who can mimic the call of birds. This is selfish and interferes with the birds’ natural life. Do not use torch/flash/ shutter sound- Some animals are so soft-hearted that they can get heart attacks even from sound of your camera’s shutter. There have been cases when deer have died simply hearing gunshots that were fired to scare away monkeys. Shut the shutter sound on your camera and shut your mobile phone when on field. Do not chase animals- Since animals like turtles are harmless, photographers are known to pick them out of the water, wash them if they are muddy and place them in poses that will yield good shots. This breaks the cardinal rule of not interfering with the animals’ lives. Do not use bait to draw animals- Photographers are known to lure turtles and birds this way to get close-ups but it isn’t ethical. Safety first- Never handle reptiles and amphibians without the supervision of a herpetologist. This is for your own safety too. A lot of snakes, for instance, look similar and you don’t want to touch a venomous one. Picture composition- Mahisin Khan, a professional photographer, explained the technical aspect of photography - aperture, shutter speed, ISO and picture composition. “The following are commonly used types of compositions but always be ready to deviate,” he explained. “On the field you will have seconds to decide how to click but if you know the rules it will help you subconsciously. Sometimes composition can be altered during post-production too.” 1. Rule of third- Used most often. This is when you mentally draw two equidistant horizontal and vertical lines across the frame. Now, instead of placing the subject bang in the centre of the photo, place it at any corner of the inner-most box formed by the imaginary lines. The off-centre composition looks more natural. So popular is this method, that several cameras and mobile phone cameras show these grids on the screen these days. 2. Centered composition- Use this if, for instance, there are two V-shaped paths meeting at a point ahead. 3. Isolated subject- You may want to focus on your subject and blur out the rest. This will make it stand out in this environment. 4. Fill the frame- If, say, you see a tiger yawning, you could click a close-up of its face and show nothing else on screen. 5. Negative space- This is when instead of a tight portrait you allow breathing space. If the subject is looking at a far-away hill you could show the subject and some open space in the direction it is looking. 6. Left to right rule- Since we are used to reading from left to right, our minds are wired to search for the same grammar in a photograph too. You could tell a story in you frame where the climax is in the right corner. 7. Rule of space- This is when your picture follows your character to show his movement. Mahisin also shared some tips for beginners- 1. Study the animal’s behaviour to determine its active season and active hours. For instance, birds are usually active in the morning. 2. Be patient- When Mahisin went to click finger-sized tree frogs in north Bengal, he found the creatures two days and a leach attack later. “Be ready to stalk the animal — without disturbing or intimating him to get the best shots. Unlike in the case of people, you can’t ask animals for a retake. The moment will not return. You need to be ready and patient for the right time,” he said. 3. Golden hour- The quality of your pictures depends greatly on ambient light so try to shoot two hours after sunrise and two hours before sunset. Known as “golden hour”, this is the best time for photography. 4. Beginners can try to focus on the eye of the subject and try to click from its eye level. They can also try to click the animal along with its habitat. Since wildlife photography is an expensive hobby, Mahisin suggested that beginners start by clicking birds nearby. “But be responsible about it. For instance, it is unethical for amateurs to click nests. Once a photographer shares these pictures it prompts hundreds more to do the same. Inadvertently, they end up harming the chicks in the nest,” said Mahisin. And Sourav answered a question on many a mind in the audience. “Viewers are asking for tips on mobile phone photography but my advice is to simply not use it for wildlife,” he said. “This is because phones don’t allow that much zoom and as we have understood, it is not advisable to go too close to animals to shoot.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||A corner of Eco Park only for birds||A portion of Eco Park has been recently inaugurated as a bird sanctuary. Pakhibitan is a three-acre space opposite the golf course that is now allowing in birdwatchers. Guided tours are being planned for novices too. Many birds have been spotted and recorded across the grasslands of New Town and Rajarhat in the past. However these grasslands, especially those around Action Area II, are not expected to be free from construction much longer. Keeping this in mind, Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), has developed Pakhibitan into a protected habitat that birds that can always call their home. The execution of the sanctuary has been carried out by Nature Mates, an NGO that works for conservation. The NGO also runs the butterfly dome at Eco Park. “We have spent more than a year planting grass reeds and fruit trees here, creating mud banks and preparing a man-made water body. We have also been documenting the birds coming over,” said Arjan Basu Roy, who heads the group. Debasis Sen, chairman cum managing director of Hidco, said it was exciting to see that they had managed to attract birds to a place that was completely man-made. “Unlike at a zoo, these birds are free to choose the place of their roosting. The fact that more than 130 species of birds have already been recorded at Pakhibitan shows that we have been successful in drawing them,” said Sen. Walk-through The three-acre plot, near the golf course and deer park, has a wooden pathway cutting across an expanse of tall grass, with some trees along the perimeter. There is a water body and feeding bowls with grains placed at regular intervals. The chirping of birds is hard to miss. “Check out that spotted dove! It’s feeding on the grains in the bowl,” pointed out Lina Chatterjee, a Nature Mates member, as The Telegraph Salt Lake took a tour. There was also a Eurasian Collar Dove and Red Vented Bulbull. Although not as densely populated as Rabindra Sarobar, Santragachhi Jheel and other popular bird destinations in town, Pakhibitan has recorded over 130 species of birds over the past year. Birds like Acorbian Cuckoo, Yellow Wagtail, Black-tailed Godwit and Red-Wattled Lapwing are all visitors. Migratory birds come too, such as the Common Snipe, a trans-Himalayan migrant that spends the cold winter months in marshes and grasslands of temperate areas. The Red Avadavat and Verditer Flycatcher have been recorded too. It is easy to see why the birds like it here. While the other sections of Eco Park are bustling with people clicking selfies, enjoying picnic lunches and playing music from bluetooth speakers, this zone is tranquil. The silence is interspersed only by calls of birds and the occasional quack from a family of ducks that calls the waterbody its home. “Besides planting a grass variety, we have planted wild flowers with climbers and herbs that mimic the Rajarhat habitats. We have also planted fruit trees to attract fruit-eating birds. These trees will take time to grow but we are hopeful that more birds will start coming,” said Basu Roy. To attract birds that prefer water and marshy areas, a mudflat has been created with bird boxes, floaters and wooden logs for them to rest in the water. They are also offering birds grains, seeds and worms on feeders and Basu Roy says the birds love it. In fact, it is not only just birds making the space their home. More than 20 Indian flapshell turtles and softshell turtles that were rescued by the forest department have been released in the waterbody here. Bird walks planned Basu Roy has submitted a proposal to Hidco to organise bird walks for birders in the morning twice a week, preferably on the weekends round the year. If approved, this will be a two- hour activity covering Pakhibitan where birders will be allowed access to see and photograph the birds. Apart from this, they plan to have bird walks of 45 minutes each from 2.45pm and 3.45pm with a group of no more than five persons who are new to the world of birding. “We are also planning a breakfast with birds where we will have story-telling sessions about the avians over breakfast,” said Basu Roy. But no visitors will be allowed in without supervision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Two councillors switch to BJP||A ward co-ordinator each from the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and the South Dum Dum Municipality joined the BJP on Sunday. Swati Banerjee, the ward co-ordinator of Ward 5 comprising areas under the erstwhile Rajarhat Gopalpur Municipality, joined the BJP at their joining event held at Dum Dum Park. Banerjee was previously the councillor of a ward of the Bidhannagar Municipality before it was accorded corporation status. Mriganka Bhattacharya, the co-ordinator of Ward 28 of the South Dum Dum Municipality, also joined the BJP at the same event. Bhattacharya is credited with stopping the use of plastic bags in Bangur as well as taking up various beautification projects in his ward. He had also spruced up several parks during his tenure as councillor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Eastern Drainage Canal blocked for Metro piers ||The flow of water has nearly stopped at the Eastern Drainage Canal that skirts Salt Lake due to ongoing construction work of pillars of the Airport-Garia Metro line. As a result of this the entire canal waters has turned into a breeding ground for mosquitoes forcing residents of several complexes, including Jal Vayu Vihar, Mahavir Vikas, blocks like IC, KB-KC, FF, EE, and SA to keep their windows and doors tightly shut. These problems are likely to continue as, according to a Metro official, construction of the pillars could take at least one more year to complete by conservative estimates. Woe vs utility Some residents are not even taking off mosquito nets. To add to the woes, people are also dumping garbage and waste comprising thermocol trays, plates, used plastic glasses as well as liquor bottles in the canal waters. To aid construction work and to prevent the canalbank road from sinking in due to the piling work being done for the pillars, the agency building the pillars has constructed wooden barriers along the banks of the canal. According to an engineer working at the site, the wooden stakes have been sunk into the loose clay of the canal bank to prevent sinking of the road due to the high pressure impact arising out of piling work. “If we don’t put up the stakes the entire canal bank road may sink in. We have put up the wooden stakes to improve stability of the construction site as well as to ensure that the concrete road survives,” said the engineer. An official at the state irrigation department said that Metro has taken all requisite permits for working on the canal and said that the water is likely to remain stagnant till construction is over as any release of water from the lockgate in the Hooghly river near Baghbazar may prove catastrophic for the construction of the pillars. “We can hardly do anything about it. We cannot release fresh water as it will hamper construction. We can only hope that the water in the canal dries out. Once work is completed, the entire canal will need proper restoration,” said the official. Residents who live in blocks along the canal on the other hand said that the construction work is taking a regular toll on their lives. They cite a long list of problems that started ever since the construction of the Metro piers started. The list includes narrowed down roads to dumping of construction materials, including iron rods that are difficult to spot at night, on the canal bank road to the problem of swarms of mosquitoes descending at sundown. “Mosquitoes are breeding in the canal waters right in front of our housing complex. We are trying to keep the area clean by asking our sweepers but it is an uphill task as people continue to dump garbage,” said Bijoy Narayan Chaudhuri, vice- chairman of the board of the Jal Vayu Vihar co-operative housing society. They are even facing problems in driving out of the complex as the area in front of their main gate has narrowed considerably due to the ongoing construction activities. Dilip Singh, a resident of IC Block, said that random construction materials, including large chunks of concrete and even iron roads on the side of the road, have turned it into a potential death trap. “As it is, the canal bank road plunges into darkness as most of the lights have stopped working. To add to our worries, workers are dumping construction materials that are difficult to spot at night. Two of my neighbours have been involved in accidents in February,” said Singh. Several residents said they had complained to both the contractor building the pillars and the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to take action but to no effect. “We have notified the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation as well as the contractor’s men but nothing has worked till date,” Singh said. Minu Das Chakraborty, the ward co-ordinator, said the onus was on the Metro Railway authorities to keep the area clean. “We are trying our best but they too should take some responsibility,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Garbage piles up across Salt Lake||With the elections around the corner, the garbage-lined streets and overflowing drains across Salt Lake have sparked fear of an outbreak of enteric diseases and are forcing many residents to keep the windows and doors of their houses firmly shut. Residents said most of the 150 tonnes of the garbage Salt Lake generates every day is accumulating across the 33.5sq km township. “At this rate, Salt Lake will soon become Dhapa. This is happening at a time the authorities as well as residents need to focus on hygiene to combat Covid and dengue,” said a resident. This has come at a time when Devasish Jana, the erstwhile board member of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, has resigned and joined the BJP. A senior civic official said that as of now, no member of the board of administrators has been asked to head or supervise the solid waste management and road sweeping mechanism of all 41 wards the fall under the jurisdiction of the Corporation. An engineer of the civic body admitted that garbage as well as construction waste and fallen leaves were accumulating on the pavements across all three sectors of the township.“It is true that garbage has accumulated in some places. We are clearing it and will carry out more intensive drives soon,” the engineer. Jana, the former mayoral council member in charge of solid waste management at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation who is now a ward co-ordinator, said that it was evident that he had worked during his tenure. “If the headmaster is there in school then all classes take place like clockwork. But now there is nobody heading this crucial department, we can see all that there is to see," said Jana. He added that it saddened him to see newly constructed walkways littered with garbage and areas in front of playgrounds and green verges piled with dead leaves and garbage. “Accumulated garbage gives ample opportunities for mosquitoes to breed. This is one of the reasons why Salt Lake is facing such a hard time in terms of mosquitoes,” said Jana. For five days a week, Ishanjit Choudhury,  a resident of IB Block, is having to dump household waste at the neighbourhood vat behind IC block that is overflowing with garbage. He doesn’t have a choice. His neighbours, too, are doing the same.“Civic workers would previously collect garbage from our doorstep every day. Now they come hardly twice a week. They are not even taking away garbage from near the compactor station. The entire area stinks,” the 72-year-old said The Telegraph Salt Lake drove around the township on Tuesday and found scarcely any block or compactor station that did not have a heap of garbage lying around. The areas near City Centre and the CGO Complex looked the dirtiest. The situation was similar in AE, AB, BC, BB, CJ CE and IC blocks. A 20-metre stretch from the City Centre Metro station till Bidhannagar College was littered with garbage. The entire area had flies swarming around, while several dogs and cows were seen rummaging through the garbage for food. Passers-by were seen holding handkerchieves to their noses despite wearing masks.“The stench from the garbage in front of our house is so overpowering that we keep the windows of our house shut,” said Prakash Agarwal, a resident of EC Block. A civic official blamed the combination of staff shortage and defunct garbage collection trucks for the sorry state of affairs.  “Many men are not reporting for work out of fear of contracting the coronavirus and also because local trains are not running,” the official said. “There used to be 250 sweepers. Now, there are only half that number,” he added. Another official said  many workers who were involved in collection of garbage were now selling vegetables or involved in other activities. “We are trying to hire personnel but the pandemic is coming in the way,” he said. To add to the problem, sources said, many handcarts and vans have broken down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Let’s football: CA Block hosts inter-block tourney ||Eight teams from different blocks of Salt Lake faced off in a football tournament organised by CA Block at the BA-CA grounds on February 21. This was the first time that the block’s youth had been entrusted with organisation of a programme. “They took charge of sending out invitations and getting sponsorships. Teams from neighbouring blocks, such BA and BD, came because of their initiative,” said Jibadip Bhadury, the secretary of CA Block Citizens’ Association. The eight teams were divided into groups of four in a round robin format. The winner of each group would face the second-ranked team of the other group in the semi-finals. Each team could field four players, with one substitute. The ground was reduced and the goals were made smaller. No player could get into the opponent’s penalty box, and doing so would result in a free kick or penalty. Each half of a match consisted of eight minutes. The top team from Group A, BF-CF Veterans, faced and overcame Comrade FC in the first semi-final by 1-0. The top team from Group-B, CA1, faced Team BA in the second semi-final, winning with an identical scoreline. The kick-off for the final happened immediately after the second semi-final. Right from the start, BF-CF Veterans pressed hard but CA1 dribbled in tight spaces to move ahead. A couple of chances were created by both but not converted. With three minutes left before half time, CA1 got a free kick in their own half. Rohan Biswas went for the goal despite the distance. The ball went up in the air and bounced once before finding the back of the net. The BF-CF Veterans were stunned and some even walked up to Soutam Pathak, the referee, to confirm if a goal scored from a direct free-kick was valid. In the second half, BF-CF Veterans pressed harder than before. CA1 was finding it tough to retain possession and went for swift counter attacks. During a clearance, Saikat Chowdhury, the captain of BF-CF Veterans, stepped inside his own penalty box, gifting a penalty to CA1. Bidhannagar Champions Cup had a different norm for penalty. The kick-taker would have to take the shot from the centre of the field, aiming for the empty net. Amrit Sinha stepped up and took a slow shot. The audience gasped on seeing the ball bounce and roll in-between the posts. Now CA1 was up by two goals. The remaining two minutes saw relentless attacks by BF-CF Veterans as CA1 players focused on defence. Soon the game was up. CA1 had won the Bidhannagar Champions Cup. As the prizes were being handed out, spectators were busy discussing the brilliance of the free-kick. “I guess it was a mixture of practice, precision and luck,” smiled Rohan, the scorer. Captain of the losing team, BF-CF Veterans, Saikat Chowdhury was philosophical. “Losing is a part of sports but it was hard as we had an unbeaten run to the final. Just one bad match cost us the title. We are looking forward to participating next year as well,” he said. Amrit Sinha, the player of the tournament, was the top scorer, having found the net five times. “I practised taking penalty kicks customised for this tournament. That improved my accuracy. We were intent on not letting the game go into extra time,” said Sinha. The captain of CA1, Archit Kundu, said his team performed better in the later stages of the tournament. “We won two out of the three group games and that one loss hurt our morale. We maintained consistency in the semi-final. But we were running out of energy in the final as we were playing matches back to back. In the end, we managed to score twice,” he smiled. Organising the tournament was more satisfying as it took place after a pandemic-hit year. “Life was returning to normalcy so we thought, why not play football? During the lockdown, all we did was stay indoors. We kept a close watch on the players for a week before the tournament to see if they stayed fit. Even though the BA-CA ground is a huge open field, we did not want to risk having infected players on-field,” said Bhadury, who had himself contracted Covid-19 last October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town block homage to home-made sweets||It was an occasion to enjoy the fruits of and, in the process, encourage the culinary talents of neighbours. It ended up being a race to pick up the dishes of choice before the stock finished. CE Block hosted a Pithe Puli Utsav one winter afternoon where 10 stalls had been set up by women of the block who had knack for preparing traditional sweets that carry the taste of the season. Barely had the chief guest, Hidco chairman Debashis Sen, completed a tour of the stalls after opening the festival that swarms of the sweet-toothed descended. The first casualty was Athrayee Das’s Shahi Gur and Badam Phirni at the extreme left table, which finished in under half an hour. As yet another irate neighbour complained for not saving a couple of cups for her to buy, Athrayee tried to reason with her: “I had made 50 cups. People started depositing cash in advance even before the inauguration took place. What could I do?” Seated behind an empty table, Athrayee lamented: “I did not even give one to my daughter to taste though she helped me. Looks like I should have made a few more.” Kanakanjali Roy too had a similar experience. “Kouto ta khultei nimeshe sesh,” she said of the Dudh Puli made by her mother-in-law Anindita Mitra. “We did not even taste any at home other than the broken pieces.” The duo sold patisapta and rose cake too. “We made 45 pieces of each,” Roy added. But Mitra would not have made more even if she foresee the huge demand. “This is about enjoyment, not about making money,” she said. Prospect of enjoyment is what made Anisha Das volunteer in manning the cash transaction of a stall with her friend Ritwika. Ritwika's mother Shyamali Sengupta had prepared the dishes. “Nonta Pithe and Moog Dal Pithe sold the quickest,” the friends affirmed. In fact, so happy was Sengupta at her dishes being sold out that she suggested that such a pop-up sale be hosted every two or three months in the block. Sumona Jana and her husband Ranadwip Saha had come home from Bangalore for the lockdown and has stayed on, working from home. While her husband was helping her run the counter, she found an assistant in her father At home. “He chopped 2kg carrots for my Gajorer Halwa. He also pasted the daal and grated coconut for rosbora and dudhpuli,” said the girl. Several innovative items were on offer. Nita Banerjee had made Jhal Bhapa Roll. “Diabetics can take this. I make this with sweets too for non-diabetics,” she pointed out. Nandita Chatterjee had made Rajma Kheer. Kanakanjali was selling vegetable patisapta, in which vegetables were used in place of narkel kheer. Gopa Sarkar's Gokul Pithe Cheese Cake triggered curiosity. “Cheese cake on top, gokul pithe under it, a layer of biscuit beneath, more cheese cake at the bottom,” she explained. The stall-owners had no chance to budge from their posts. But some were lucky to have friendly neighbours like Sanchita Mitra who picked up items of choice from other tables in time for them to taste after they sold off their own dishes. The event was planned on the basis of a suggestion from Sen, the Hidco chief. “When he came on Christmas to inaugurate our park, he had asked us to organise community events here. So we thought of starting with a celebration of pithe, which is part of our tradition,” said Alok Das, secretary of CE Block residents association. Pictures: Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Meet the man who grows fruit trees in limited space||Who says New Town is a concrete jungle? Thanks to enthusiasts like Kali Prasad Saha, the township enjoys a fair share of greenery on balconies and terraces. Saha, an eye surgeon, has planted exotic fruits, rare flowers, herbs and spices that are rather difficult to grow in our conditions. His home seems like an oasis of colour and a source of fresh air. It all started when, living in Malda, we appointed a new art tutor for our daughter. The teacher was also a horticulturalist and invited us to a flower show. Once there, I was enthralled and before I knew it, there were 300 potted plants on our terrace. Gardening became such a passion that I would hijack the teacher for tips whenever he came to teach art. My daughter would get livid! We moved to New Town in 2018 and am thoroughly enjoying gardening here. My driveway has Palms and Crotons, Salvias and Cosmos, while the backyard has Amra, Gandharaj Hibiscus and a Rose garden. I could never image Cherries and Litchis growing in pots but they are thriving on our terrace. There are also Strawberries, Blackberries, Kul, Mausumbi, Oranges and several kinds of Mangoes. The potted Grape plant bore lots of fruits last year but Cyclone Amphan ravaged it. I’m trying to grow potted Jackfruit now. I’m always on the lookout for rare plants and have an interesting collection of these. You’ve heard of Kaalo Jaam but for a taste of Shaada Jaam you’ll have to visit my house. Same with Sweet Tamarinds, Blue Mangoes, Red Guavas and Red Batabi Lebus. Most of these fruits taste like their regular counterparts but their unusual colours add an exotic appeal. I’m rather fond of cooking and so a kitchen garden is a must for me. Besides vegetables like Tomatoes, Capsicums and Palong Shak, we have a Tej Pata tree, whose leaves we dry and use in cooking. Whenever I cook Cauliflower, I toss a few Gandharaj leaves in the bowl before pouring in the dish. It adds a lovely aroma that enhances the eating experience. After my daughter got married, I realised we had some leftover turmeric from her Gaaye Holud ceremony. Happily, I planted them and now we have a Turmeric plant in the terrace. My other hobby is playing badminton but it’s gardening that takes up most of my time. I’m with my plants from 6 to 8am, 11 to 11.30am and again from 4 to 6pm. I couldn’t be happier. •If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or call 22600115 after 4pm on Tuesdays and Wednesdays or email to saltlake@abpmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Consumer forum tips to thwart frauds ||A businessman in Malda was assured of Rs 90 lakh as a “jackpot insured amount”. He was even given a tablet as a gift by the agents. In good faith, he paid Rs 75,000 in premium within a year. However, when the time arrived for the insured amount to mature, the company stopped taking his calls. When he came to the office in Calcutta, they said they had no idea what he was talking because the person who had called him had quit his job. After making repeated attempts to convince the manager about his claim, the man was thrown out of the building. “That is when some of his friends got him in touch with us,” Iman Mukherji, assistant director, Directorate of Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices, government of West Bengal, said. He was speaking at a programme to commemorate National Consumer Day, organised by consumer affairs and fair business practices department, in association with Consumers' Association, Bidhannagar, and the Rotary Club of Salt Lake Central, at Prakash Bhavan. With advocate Subir Chatterjee, a resident of FD Block, by his side, he spoke at length about how fraudsters across the city have been targeting citizens over the phone to reveal their monetary details and duping them of lakhs of rupees. “In the case of the insurance fraud, we sent notices to the office and launched litigations. Finally, we sat for multiple negotiations till the entire amount was repaid to the poor man,” he said. He advised audience members to read the entire offer document and consult a lawyer while signing up for an insurance policy. “Do not reveal any password or even birthday or other personal details to anyone on the phone. While buying electronic goods, read the literature provided carefully. Also, be very careful about products where you have to pay EMIs. We have seen cases where insurance premiums are also being added to EMIs for a particular electronic product. The money is deducted every month but the client has no idea at all about the add-on policy for the product,” he added. Advocate Chatterjee explained the Consumer Protection Act. “The Act came into force in 1986 to protect the interests of consumers in India. It was replaced by the Consumer Protection Act, 2019. It was made for the establishment of consumer councils and other authorities for the settlement of consumer's grievances and matters connected there with it. This Act is regarded as the Magna Carta in the field of consumer protection for checking unfair trade practices, defects in goods and deficiencies in services in India. It has led to the establishment of a widespread network of consumer forums and appellate courts all over the country,” he said, adding how it has significantly impacted how businesses approach consumer complaints and have empowered consumers to a great extent. Mukherji pointed to a pattern that has been noticed in fraudulent activities. “People are called up at random by frauds who pose as insurance policy agents and told that they would need to reveal passwords of their net banking accounts by luring them with higher interests and insured amounts for minimum premiums. One should only talk to people they know for sure are agents.” He also cautioned against online purchase of clothes from companies that are outside one's city. “In that case, there is no option to go and re-check or ask for refund. For a product that costs Rs 5000, one could be wary of fighting a case in a consumer court, spending Rs 50,000. If you happen to live in Salt Lake, order from a company based in Rajarhat. Avoid ordering from companies based far from your area or city, because if anything goes wrong travelling to and fro could be unviable.” Another kind of duping takes place in the real estate market, he warned. “There are hundreds of people who take advance payment and promise to hand over a complete flat within two years. But in most cases that does not happen. So, if you are booking a flat remember to have a legal contract for handover, and, if things go awry, keep required documents ready to sue the company. Also check if the land sale records are in order and all taxes have been paid by the promoter or builder. At times, the consumer has already started paying EMIs but the builder has not handed over the keys. That is completely illegal,” Mukherji said. Dos and Don’ts • Talk only to people you know for sure to be insurance agents. • While signing up for an insurance policy, read the entire offer document and consult a lawyer. • Do not reveal passwords of your net banking accounts • Be very careful about products where you have to pay EMIs. Insurance premiums are added to EMIs without knowledge of the buyer. • While buying property check if the land sale records are in order and all taxes have been paid by the builder. • Get a legal contract to ensure timely handover of apartment||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Coming soon: Three church-run colleges in Calcutta||Three church-run colleges will come up in the next couple of years, Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India, said on Thursday. The three colleges are — St James’ College, St John’s Diocesan College and a law college at St Thomas’ (school) in Kidderpore. St James’ College and the one at St Thomas’ will be co-educational, while St John’s Diocesan will be a girls-only institution. “We are working on St James’ and maybe within the next one-and-a-half years we will be able to start a degree college… for a degree college at St John’s Diocesan, paper has been submitted and I think within a year we will be able to start. And we have identified a place at St Thomas’ Kidderpore to start a law college there...,” the bishop said during a programme on Thursday afternoon. “These places are in the heart of the city...,” the bishop later told Metro. “In Oxford Mission, Behala, we want to create an educational hub (school and later college and university),” he added. During the programme the bishop also spoke of starting short courses in hotel management, hospitality on the Bishop’s House campus. “Our plan is to start from August so that the youth who cannot go for further study can come here and do the short course (six months theory and six months practical). If they qualify they will get diploma certificates,” he said. The bishop also said if the diploma courses work well, the next step would be to have a degree course on hospitality and hotel management. “We have huge space and we can utilise it,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-108
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Street corner meeting in Garia bares anxieties||Disrespect for women. Threat to take away citizenship. Indifference to livelihood problems. A chat with some people in the audience at a street-corner meeting in Garia on Wednesday evening and a few bystanders revealed the anxieties on their minds. A bustling market near the taxi stand at the Garia crossing was the stage for the meeting called by a group campaigning for “No vote to BJP”. A man stood around 30 metres away from the dais near a series of yellow cabs parked in the stand, listening to the speakers, occasionally nodding his head in approval. A local resident, he is a computer science teacher at a private engineering college. The 40-year-old said he stopped by on his way home from work because the speakers on the dais were “talking about his fears”. A couple of years ago, he and other teachers of the institute had visited the home of a colleague who had become the father of a girl. One of the visiting colleagues happened to be a “member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh”. “We wish all the best to your daughter. But next time, when a boy is born in the family, I want a bigger treat,” the man remembered his colleague telling the new father. “The colleague is now a leader of sorts, leading local BJP rallies and giving fiery speeches,” said the teacher. He gave another recent example of the “looming threat”. Two weeks ago, he had attended a virtual conference, billed as a “faculty development programme”. A senior official of an Indian Institute of Technology was the keynote speaker. While discussing “optimisation”, the speaker gave what he called a “relevant example”. “If an Indian man earns a foreign degree, his worth as a groom goes up several times. He can demand a hefty dowry,” he quoted the IIT official as saying. “These are not isolated incidents. It is not only the BJP that is making electoral gains, the right-wing majoritarianism is rearing its ugly head in all spheres of our lives,” the man told this newspaper. Stores selling everything from shoes to lottery tickets dotted the area where the meeting took place. The owner of an optical store stepped out and stayed put for almost 30 minutes, listening to the speeches. The 46-year-old man, burly and wearing a thick pair of glasses, was hesitant to talk at first. “I don’t support any party,” he said. Asked about his business, he said with a wry smile: “I stepped out because not a single customer had entered my store. That is how business is like these days. Forget profit, I can barely meet fixed costs like power bills and trade license fees.” The man, a physics graduate, used to give private tuitions to secondary students till March 2020. The pandemic has almost robbed him of the additional income. Business is going south but the man is more worried about something else. “We (he is unmarried and lives with his parents) are genuinely scared of the National Register of Citizens. My grandfather came from Bangladesh in 1946 but we don’t have any proof of that. He lived in Jadavpur before shifting to Garia in 1955,” the man told Metro. A few metres away, a shoe seller was busy with two customers. A woman, part of the organisers of the meeting, was distributing leaflets among the shopkeepers. The shoe seller refused to take one. But the customers left soon, without buying anything. The man then took the leaflet from his neighbouring shop and started reading it. “I don’t know about religion. But business is very, very bad and the government does not seem bothered. Ten years ago, I was thinking of buying or renting another store. Now, I am not sure if I will be able to continue running this store,” the 54-year-old man said. The main problem, according to him — “people are afraid to splurge. They are uncertain of the future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Social gatherings drive Covid surge in Calcutta||Attending social gatherings, including wedding receptions. Not wearing proper masks in public places. Going on leisure trips outside Calcutta. These are some of the probable causes of a fresh rise in Covid-19 cases in Calcutta, doctors and officials of several private hospitals have said, based on what most patients have told them. These patients, when they got admitted to hospital, were asked by doctors about their recent activities that might have resulted in the infection. Since end-February, there has been a steady rise in the number of Covid cases in Bengal, prompting public health experts to urge people to wear masks in public places and avoid gatherings as much as possible. Several private hospitals said many patients who got admitted over the past few days had told the doctors that they had attended social gatherings recently. Peerless Hospital had 22 Covid patients on Thursday. The number was much lower in the middle of February, said officials. “About half the patients have told us that they had attended social gatherings, mostly marriage ceremonies, six to seven days before admission,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria has 18 Covid-19 patients. The number was seven or eight in the middle of February. Four to five patients are being admitted to the hospital every day this month. Among the Covid patients admitted is a family of four. “All of them, along with relatives, had recently attended a marriage ceremony at a star hotel in Calcutta. They could have contracted the virus there,” an AMRI official said. Another Covid patient in the hospital has told doctors that she had gone to Sikkim recently. Doctors said attending social gatherings without masks is one of the prime causes of Covid infection. “Banquet halls, where marriage receptions and other gatherings are held, are mostly air-conditioned. It is more important to wear masks at those places than in open areas,” said intensive care expert Ajoy Krishna Sarkar. “Also important is to increase health surveillance of air passengers coming to Calcutta. The protocol that people from certain states will not be allowed to board Bengal-bound flights without a negative RT-PCR report must be strictly implemented.” The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 18 Covid patients. Till last week, the average was 10. “Most of the patients admitted now said they travel daily to their workplaces in public transport such as bus and Metro,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. “None of the patients is in the intensive care unit.” Covid patients at multiple hospitals have told doctors that they didn't wear masks “properly” in public places. “They wear the mask below the chin. When our doctors asked them why they did not wear the mask properly, they said they could not breathe with the mask on,” said the CEO of a private hospital. A senior health department official said they had asked the transport department to ensure that passengers without masks be barred from boarding buses. “It’s difficult to maintain social distancing in buses now. So wearing a mask is the only solution,” said the official. The Telegraph has reported over the past few days that people were not adhering to basic safety norms such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance from each other at public gatherings like election rallies. This newspaper reported on Thursday that Calcutta airport was slapping fines on passengers refusing to wear masks. Metro Railway has said passengers without masks would not be allowed to enter stations. “We can see that across the city, hundreds of thousands of people are not wearing masks and social distancing is not maintained. At election rallies, those who are not speakers should wear masks. That is the only thing we can do because another lockdown in a country like India is not feasible,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, public health expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Church of North India project to help cope with lockdown impact||A homemaker in the city said she often has to switch to the more difficult earthen oven because she doesn’t have enough money at home for an LPG cylinder. Pompa Mondal said she books a cylinder when the family has money but the double blow of the Covid pandemic and rise in prices has made survival hard. “Money runs out quickly and it takes longer to earn now. When we have some money we book a cylinder, otherwise we let it be,” Pompa said. At times, she has to manage with the clay oven for two weeks to a month because the mother of two has to prioritise other family expenses, which include her husband’s medical bills. Her husband Amiya has a chicken shop in the interiors of Kestopur, off VIP Road, and business hit an all-time low during thelockdown last year. “There were not many customers during the lockdown and there are very few even now, when everything has opened. We don’t see customers coming back in the same numbers,” Amiya said. Earlier, on a Sunday, his shop would have 30 customers. Now, there are barely five. “We are yet to recover from the loss of the lockdown,” he said. “We do not have capital to invest. In our business, we need to get fresh stock. We are in debt,” said Pompa. On Thursday, Pompa and Amiya went to Bishop’s House in central Calcutta to get financial help that could infuse some capital into their business. The Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India (CNI) has initiated a project, “The Neighbour”, to help people get back on their feet. As many as 175 families, irrespective of their religion, are getting help through the project that was launched on Thursday. Money, goods, cycles or cycle vans are being provided to people to ferry items and earn a living. Each family is getting money and goods worth Rs 10,000-15,000. “During the lockdown, Cyclone Amphan and the pandemic, there was no food in many homes. Jobs were lost and people didn’t know what they would do. We tried to address their needs and reach people with food, clothes and money but we thought about how to support them after that,” said Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the CNI. Apart from immediate support, there will also be skill development for others, he said. “We have created a corpus and if the project is successful, we can arrange for more funds and continue this beyond a year, in a different form,” said Ritesh Sarkar, the secretary (finance) of the Diocese of Calcutta. The need is acute. Many, like Sagarika Sardar, 28, who would go door-to-door selling apparel, and Mohammad Ibrahim, in his 30s, who worked as a salesman, have lost their livelihood. “I used to work in a garments shop and my salary was Rs 10,000. Since losing that job, I haven’t been able to find another one. I’m yet to recover from the impact of the lockdown,” said Ibrahim, who dreads another spell of shutdown. Sardar said she did not want to recall the kind of hardship she went through. “I used up the little savings I had to somehow buy food and I have no money left,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Circular on safety protocols for Good Friday and Easter||The veneration of the Cross in Roman Catholic churches is to be done by joining hands, instead of “kissing or touching the Cross,” on Good Friday, archbishop Thomas D’Souza has said. The archbishop has also called for steps to ensure that the places of worship are not crowded. A circular on safety protocols for Maundy Thursday (April 1), Good Friday (April 2) and Easter Vigil (April 3), signed by archbishop D’Souza, was sent to all churches and institutions in the archdiocese of Calcutta late on Wednesday. “...during the veneration of the Cross, kissing or touching the Cross is to be replaced by veneration by joining hands,” the circular says, referring to the protocol for Good Friday. It further says: “The Way of the Cross may be held in public, but avoiding crowding. All participants are requested to wear masks, and maintain distance from others during the liturgy/Way of the Cross.” The Easter Vigil Liturgy, followed by Easter Mass around midnight (or earlier), may be held in the churches. “However, care is to be taken not to crowd the places of worship, and to follow the Covid-19 protocol at all times very strictly,” the circular states. The circular mentions that on Maundy Thursday there will be no “washing of the feet ceremony this year too”. Instead, it says, “those assigned for the washing of the feet, will be led to sanctuary, and as the hymn is sung, each will greet the Celebrant with joined hands, and then return to their places.” The archdiocese of Calcutta has 65-odd churches. “All churches will have to follow the circular compulsorily,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta. The Year of the Family will be inaugurated on the Solemnity of St Joseph (March 19) at St Joseph’s Church, Bongaon, by archbishop Thomas D’Souza at 8.30am and at St Joseph’s Chapel, Market Street, Calcutta, by Father Dominic Gomes at 6pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Dubai fliers with UK strain discharged from Beleghata hospital||Three fliers from Dubai who had tested positive for the UK strain of the Covid-19 virus on arrival were discharged from the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital on Thursday, officials of the health department said. “We discharged the three after each tested negative in two confirmatory tests,” said an official. “All of them have been handed over certificates saying they are no longer Covid-19 positive.” A few days ago, a flier found to be carrying the South African strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus had been discharged from the hospital. “There are now six patients in the special ward that has been set up for such fliers from abroad,” said a doctor at the Beleghata hospital. The fliers discharged on Thursday had reached Calcutta in late February and tested positive in the RT-PCR test, the samples for which were collected at the airport. Since these fliers, mostly in their late 30s and early 40s, were asymptomatic, the health department allowed them to go home with specific instructions for home isolation. The swab samples of the fliers, who worked as labourers in Dubai, were later sent for a different test, which revealed they were carrying the UK strain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||‘Film crew’ held for pornographic video in Salt Lake||A group of men who had allegedly pretended to be the crew shooting a Bengali web series and duped a woman into enacting “bold scenes” has been arrested. The cyber police station of the Bidhannagar city police rounded up the five after they allegedly violated the pur-ported contract and posted the footage as pornographic video on social media, police said. The accused are Subhanjan Roy, 35, Milton Ghosh, 27, Umesh Chandra Nath, 26, Abhijit Basak, 33 and Debojyoti Sarkar, 26. The 25-year-old complainant was reportedly told that her face would be blurred in the video. “A few days after the shooting, the accused contacted her again and requested a second shoot in the hotel room where the first shooting was done. This time, she smelt a rat and refused,” said an officer. Days later, a relative told her that her video had been uploaded on social media. The woman lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar police, based on which a case under the Information Technology Act was started. “Pursuing the leads we got from the victim, we zeroed in on the gang and arrested the five,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||IIEST to recall students in April||IIEST Shibpur will bring back to the campus in April postgraduate students of the final semester who require laboratory/experimental work, said an official of the institute. The institute’s senate has decided to recall the 370-odd outgoing postgraduate students in a phased manner. At a virtual meeting the of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) director, Parthasarathi Chakrabarti, explained to the students’ representatives that the institute cannot decide on bringing undergraduate students on the campus on its own as the state government has not allowed as yet reopening of any higher education institutes across the state. Demands to recall students and reopen the campus for in-person classes both at undergraduate and postgraduate levels have been raised in recent times. “It has been decided that the outgoing batch of postgraduate students would be recalled now following the Unlock-V directive issued by the Centre. We have already recalled the research scholars. Any further assembly at this moment when a surge of active cases is being witnessed would not be advisable,” said an official of IIEST. The Centre in its Unlock-V directive last year had said higher education institutions could reopen from October 15 for research scholars and postgraduate students in technology and science streams requiring laboratory/experimental work. The detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) that would have to be followed while recalling the students of masters’ fourth-semester would be announced soon. Asked why other students were not being recalled, an official said: “We are sure that the Bengal government which has not reopened its colleges and universities because of the pandemic will disallow IIEST to reopen.” The state government has allowed reopening of schools for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12 and one of the objectives behind reopening was to let students about to write their board exams can attend some practical classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Pamela Goswami bail rejected in cocaine case||BJP youth wing leader Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Dey and her private guard Somnath Chatterjee were produced in court on Thursday and remanded in judicial custody for another 14 days. They had been arrested on February 19. Police submitted a prayer before the court to record the statement of Amrita Singh before a magistrate in the cocaine case. Amrita has been held for allegedly supplying the cocaine to arrested BJP leader Rakesh Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
19-03-2021||Calcutta||Lessons from mild post-vaccine cases in Calcutta||A number of doctors, hospital officials and other healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid-19 even after taking two doses of a vaccine against the disease. However, all of them are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms, doctors and health department officials said. There are also a few reports of people above 60 testing positive for Covid-19 after getting the first dose of a vaccine. Health department officials and doctors said a vaccine could not have 100 per cent efficacy and so one should not drop guard even after getting two doses. A senior doctor at the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research-SSKM Hospital tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago and is being treated at the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital. She had earlier tested positive for the coronavirus in November. “She took two jabs of a Covid vaccine at SSKM Hospital and didn’t report any strong after-event of immunisation,” said a health department official. A few days back, she started complaining of weakness and shortness of breath and decided to go for a second test for the virus. The test returned positive on Thursday morning and she was admitted to the Beleghata hospital in the afternoon. In the evening doctors said her condition was stable. “We will carry out genomic sequencing and several other tests of her swab sample,” the official said. Senior officials said they were in talks with the Indian Council of Medical Research over whether the doctor’s samples would be sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani or some other institute. Apart from those who received both doses of a vaccine, there are people who got infected with the virus after getting the first dose. Four or five persons who tested positive for Covid after getting the first dose of a vaccine have been admitted to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria since March 1, the day vaccination of senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities started. “None of them had to be admitted to the intensive care unit and all have been discharged,” an official of the hospital said. “One of our healthcare workers had tested positive for Covid after getting the first dose of a vaccine. The person was asymptomatic and stayed at home.” A senior official of a private hospital who had taken both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine in February tested positive for the virus and is now in home isolation. The official, who has comorbidities, is asymptomatic. In India, two Covid vaccines have been granted emergency use approval — Covishield and Covaxin. The efficacy of Covishield, manufactured in the country by the Serum Institute of India, varies between 63 and 70 per cent, experts said. The manufacturers of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech, have said the vaccine has 81 per cent efficacy. “It has been established that around 70 per cent of the people who received both doses of a vaccine can still be infected but will have mild or no symptoms. The rest 30 per cent of the vaccine recipients can get mild to severe symptoms,” said Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services. “That means, even after taking both doses of a vaccine, one should not drop guard and keep wearing masks and maintain social distancing,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-109
