20-03-2021||Calcutta||HC asks Bengal government to identify illegal buildings in Salt Lake||The high court on Friday asked the Bengal government to set up a task force led by the secretary of the municipal affairs department to conduct an inspection and identify buildings that allegedly came up illegally on state-owned land in Salt Lake. The division bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Aniruddha Roy, which gave the order, also asked the commissioner of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to demolish the buildings identified by the task force with immediate effect. “Offenders should be prosecuted under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” the chief justice said. The order followed a petition by Salt Lake resident Suman Das, who alleged that 11 buildings had come up in wards 35 and 36 on government land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Fire breaks out in Rabindra Sarobar waste heap||A fire broke out in a heap of waste accumulated at Rabindra Sarobar around noon on Thursday. Two fire tenders doused the flames, said an official of the fire directorate. This was not the first time fire tenders had to rush to douse flames on the Sarobar premises. Thursday’s fire broke out in a vat near the Buddhist temple gate of Rabindra Sarobar, said a daily visitor to the place. “Dry leaves have been lying in the vat for months. After repeated requests from daily visitors, the authorities removed some of the waste a couple of months back. But they did not clean the spot,” said Sumita Banerjee, a daily visitor and a green activist. “The authorities should probe whether the fire was accidental or the contractor who is supposed to clear the waste set it on fire. Frequent fires in heaps of garbage at Rabindra Sarobar raise the question whether someone is setting the waste on fire purposefully,” said Banerjee. An official of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, the custodian of Rabindra Sarobar, said: “We do not allow burning of waste. We remove the waste daily from Rabindra Sarobar. It could be that some of the waste was not removed and it accidentally caught fire.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||New Town authorities install quality-monitoring devices in water reservoirs||The New Town authorities have installed automated quality-monitoring devices in at least eight water reservoirs in all three action areas, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. There are 23 water reservoirs in New Town that are run jointly by the public health engineering department and the NKDA. The monitoring device will be fitted to the remaining 15-odd reservoirs as well, the NKDA official said. New Town requires 12 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, which is supplied from the 20MGD water treatment plant behind Nazrul Tirtha, the official said. The plant treats water drawn from the Hooghly and has an in-built quality check system that monitors the quality of filtered or treated water 24X7. “These newly installed devices will be an additional check on the quality of water. And as they are completely automatic, they will raise red flags the moment there is a problem with the quality,” said the official. The devices that are being fitted to the water reservoirs test specific parameters, including the presence of pathogens, bacteria and the turbidity of the water round-the-clock. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said that apart from installation of the water quality-measuring devices, they would also issue an advisory to all gated communities, cooperative housing societies, offices and commercial establishments to clean their water reservoirs every three months. “We have received a few complaints of dirty water flowing out of taps and in most cases we found that the overhead tanks or underground reservoirs of houses and other establishments have not been cleaned for several months. If the tanks are cleaned regularly, then the chances of dirty water flowing out of taps will go down considerably,” said Sen. In addition to this, the NKDA is also going to put up details of a water-quality testing laboratory run by the public health engineering department in New Town on their website —www.nkdamar.org. Residents can bring water samples from their homes for testing at this lab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Doctors call for vaccinating all adults||India’s vaccination policy should be flexible enough to prevent a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases and the jabs should be given to all adults now, at least two public health experts have said. One of them also said the distribution of vaccines should not be even across the country and priority should be given to poll-bound states like Bengal where large assemblies of people are being reported frequently. In Bengal, like in other parts of India, the Covid vaccination drive now covers healthcare personnel, frontline workers, people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities. “If we really want to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, we need to immunise the young population along with the elderly. It's not either/or. It’s both,” Devi Shetty, the chairman and founder of Narayana Health, told Metro. “Covid is a socially mediated disease. It is the young who have more social interactions than the elderly and they also travel much more. The elderly people don’t go out much.” Shetty said vaccinating the younger population could prevent a new surge, while immunisation of the elderly people would prevent mortality. Shetty also stressed the importance of wearing masks. “If every Indian starts wearing the mask for one month, then I think the number of cases would come down by more than 50 per cent,” he said. In Bengal, till Friday, 31.6 lakh people have been administered vaccine shots. On Friday, more than two lakh people got doses but experts said the number had to be increased. Like in several other states, the number of Covid-19 cases has been rising every day in Bengal since end-February. On Friday, Bengal recorded 347 new Covid cases. One week back, the number was 277. On February 19, it was 194. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury, too, said the younger people should be inoculated against Covid along with the elderly. “Younger people go out for work every day and are exposed to Covid more (than the elderly ones). If they contract the virus, the elderly people at home will be exposed to the virus, too,” Chowdhury said. “The vaccination programme in Bengal should be intensified in urban areas, where the chance of spread is higher than rural areas because of the large population and more social interactions…. If we cannot do targeted vaccination of age groups and areas, it will not be possible to contain the surge.” Cardiac surgeon Shetty stressed the need to increase the supply of doses and urged the Centre to allow more companies to manufacture vaccines. “The problem of supply of vaccines will be resolved by the government. This is a problem in other countries, too. Like the UK. We can have more manufacturers supplying vaccines,” said Shetty. However, the vaccination programme should continue to be run by the government, he said, “to ensure the supply chain and storage is maintained properly”. Chowdhury said the Centre’s vaccine distribution policy should change. “The supply of vaccines cannot be even throughout the country. In states like Bengal where we are having the Assembly elections, the Covid situation can get worse as many young people are taking part in rallies. Also in states like Maharashtra, there is a high incidence of Covid. In such states, the Centre should supply more vaccines compared to other states to ensure maximum numbers of people are vaccinated,” Chowdhury said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Alipore zoo: Man jumps into lion’s enclosure, dragged 30ft||A man scaled a 14ft-high boundary wall and jumped into the lions’ enclosure at the Alipore zoo on Friday morning, after which the animal dragged him around 30ft into its shelter. The man, with a thick beard, was injured but alive when keepers managed to separate him from the lion. The Asiatic lion is said to have lunged at the man with a paw. “The lion acted more in self-defence because it got nervous by the intrusion. A full-fledged attack would have killed the man,” said a zoo vet. The man, identified as Goutam Guchhait, injured his right leg, shoulder and waist, said an official at SSKM Hospital, where he was rushed from the zoo. A zoo official quoted Guchhait, a resident of Patashpur in East Midnapore, as saying he had entered the lion’s den because he “wanted to save the animal”. “Wild animals should not be caged,” Guchhait is said to have murmured. A little before 11am, the man scaled an iron gate, accessed by keepers and vets, to enter the compound. “He climbed a palm tree to scale the 14ft-high wall. Jumping off the wall from the middle would have landed him in a moat. He walked on the wall to a corner and jumped into the enclosure,” the official said. “The keepers raised an alarm but he ignored them.” Asis Kumar Samanta, the zoo director, was at the nearby giraffe enclosure when he was alerted about the intrusion. “The man was lying inside the enclosure, writhing in pain. Vishwas, a male lion, went near him and lunged a paw at him. The lion then clawed him into one of the rooms in the night shelter at the rear end of the enclosure,” Samanta said. The team of keepers, guards and vets entered the enclosure and started banging on the iron mesh at the rear end to divert the lion’s attention. The ploy worked and the moment Vishwas moved into the second room, a keeper shut the door of the first. “The man was bleeding. We rushed him to hospital,” Samanta said. Guchhait’s family told cops he left home three days ago. “He told his family that he was going to meet a tiger,” the police said. “There is no fracture and he is stable,” a doctor at SSKM hospital said. “His mental health will also be examined.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Sleep pays a price in work-from-home regimen ||Longer exposure to mobile phones and laptop screens and lesser physical activity because of work-from-home schedules have impacted the sleeping habits and led to a surge of complaints about sleep disorders in the past year. The long-term effects of the disruption to the sleeping habit will be known later but the immediate effect includes fatigue from early morning and irritability. Doctors have suggested that people stop looking at the computer or phone screen for at least an hour before going to sleep. If the first hour’s sleep is disrupted, it will lead to anxiety and irritation, which will further disrupt the night’s sleep, doctors said. “Working from home has meant that people are spending more time on their laptops and phones and this is one of the factors that is disrupting sleep. The number of patients who are now complaining about sleep disruption or change in sleep cycles is about five times more than what I would hear before the pandemic,” said Raja Dhar, the head of pulmonology in CMRI Hospital. “When someone looks at a mobile screen or a laptop screen, the brain receives a photic stimulus. Our brain needs to recover from the photic stimulation before we can fall asleep. So it is always good to stop looking at a mobile phone or a laptop at least an hour before one goes to bed.” Lifestyles changes like lack of activity and being stuck at home also contribute to sleep disruption. A Gariahat resident who has to work till late into the night said he had experienced the problem. “When I had to go to office, I used to have my lunch at a particular time. Now my lunch time has got delayed. As a consequence, dinner and sleep have also been impacted. Nowadays I often do not fall asleep till early in the morning,” he said. Sleeping disorders are a natural pitfall of urban life and it was growing even before the pandemic, but Covid-19 has increased its spread manifold. Working from home has meant that there is no fixed time for people to log out and relax. Students are spending a large part of the day in front of computers, attending classes. The elderly are stuck at home, which has meant they are not getting exhausted. “Earlier, despite all the stress and work pressure in office, people could log out at 8pm or 9pm and then did not have to look at their computer screens at night. But now there is no log out time. People are working even while they are having dinner. Hours of looking at the screen is affecting their sleep,” said Arjun Dasgupta, an ENT surgeon who too has been flooded with complaints of sleep disorders. Spending time outside home also meant that most people experienced some physical exhaustion at the end of the day. That changed following the onset of the pandemic and the subsequent work from home. “Physical exhaustion... conditions the body for sleep. But because of the pandemic everyone is stuck at home. Naturally their sleep is getting affected,” said Dasgupta. Dhar and Dasgupta took part in a discussion on sleeping disorders at CMRI Hospital on Friday. They both suggested that those who are stuck at home do some physical exercise. People should also fix a time for going to bed and stop looking at their mobile phones or laptops at least an hour before that time. “One has to maintain sleep hygiene,” said Dhar. Both doctors advised against taking sleeping pills as an easy solution to this problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Murshidabad: Gender equity session for girls at madrasa||Girls in a madrasa in a remote village in Murshidabad were taught about gender equity through circumstances that they or their mothers have to deal with in their everyday lives. The Class IX girls were asked to think and question what their mothers wanted to be and what they are now or what their dreams are compared to their brothers’. Tuesday’s day-long session at Debkunda Sk. Abdur Razzak Memorial Girls High Madarsah at Murshidabad’s Beldanga block, was initiated by their headmistress who fought child marriage several times as a teenager, partly funded her own education and now works to empower girls. “The discrimination and deprivation that exists in society exists in their homes, too, and we tried to point those out so they think and question. We want them to go back home and ask their parents why there are such biases in approach when it comes to them and their siblings,” said headmistress Murshida Khatun. Khatun spoke of how in many homes the boys still get a better share of the food or more nutritious items compared with their sisters. She said that this week’s session was one of many which are to follow to help girls understand and assert their rights. Moupia Mukherjee, from the city, who works on gender issues and has been travelling to Beldanga since before the Covid pandemic, conducted the latest session. “Since I have interacted with them closely, I am aware of the socio-economic structure of the families. The idea of the session was not to preach but give them questions that would make them think,” she told Metro. “Some of them were asked ‘what kind of work did your mother do during the lockdown?’ and ‘what did your father do?’ There were also questions like ‘what were your mothers’ aspirations?’,” Mukherjee  said. She said the seeds of gender inequality were contained in their answers — some of them said their mothers wanted to be doctors, teachers or join the police, but were married off at an early age instead. “I also showed them film clippings that help break gender stereotypes, like ones where the woman actor is riding a bike and the male actor is sitting on the rear seat,” said Mukherjee. Last year’s lockdown and being at home during the pandemic have further restricted their lives and outlooks, making such sessions more important, Khatun said. “At least when they would come to school, they had a life outside the house. The pandemic took that away from them and further confined them. All they could be busy with were household chores and taking care of their siblings. Books became artefacts to be kept on shelves,” she said. Khatun said it was important to conduct these sessions because they help to engage the students outside of academic classes and encourage them to come to school “Some of the girls have got habituated to doing domestic work and in some homes, the parents have put so much responsibility on them that they would discourage them from going to school every day leading to irregular attendance,” said Khatun. The importance of the session was not lost on the students and a Class IX girl said that the difference was there in many homes, including hers. “If I am late in returning home, I am questioned, but my brothers are not. I am always expected to be properly dressed,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
20-03-2021||Calcutta||Cars and cement  jam bicycle lanes in New Town||Bicycle lanes in several areas in New Town have become useless as they are occupied by parked cars and two-wheelers and also construction materials. Hidco, which builds infrastructure in the township, has set up 17km of graded bicycle tracks in New Town. In some areas a bicycle track is a lane set aside for cyclists on pavements, while in others such tracks have been demarcated on roads with green paints. On Friday, Metro drove through the township and found that the tracks have been blocked in several places by parked vehicles or construction materials. To add to the problems, vendors selling fruits and vegetables parked their vans and carts on the tracks, completely blocking them. Cars were parked in several sections of cycle tracks on the road leading from Pride Hotel behind the New Town bus stand to Hidco Bhavan. Vendors parked their carts on several stretches of the tracks opposite Tata Medical Center in New Town’s Action Area I. Sundeep Agarwal, who regularly pedals for at least two hours in New Town, said the obstacles on the tracks were proving to be quite risky for cyclists. “We cycle through the tracks as they are safer. However, the entire purpose is defeated since we have to continuously get off them because of parked cars or dumped construction materials,” Agarwal said. Ashis Bajaj, a resident of Sanjeeva Town in New Town, thanked the authorities for the graded tracks for cyclists but urged them to keep the lanes free of obstacles. “We are happy to live in a place where there are designated bicycle tracks. People should also be more aware and not block them by parking their vehicles or dumping waste and construction items,” said Bajaj. Lipika Biswas, an Eastern Railway employee who has cycled solo across Europe, said cyclists as well as residents in general needed to be more aware about how to maintain cycling tracks. “The awareness levels of people should be such that they don’t park their vehicles or block the tracks in any way.” she said. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, promised action to free the tracks of obstacles. According to Sen, regular awareness drives are carried out and building contractors have been told several times at meetings not to dump construction materials on the roads, especially on the newly made tracks. “We have started a survey to find out the places where the problem lies. We will slap fines as well if we find construction waste or materials blocking tracks and roads. We will also have a meeting with police to ensure that people don’t park their cars on the tracks,” said Sen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-107
