22-03-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur digital divide survey riddle||The students’ senate of IIT Kharagpur has accused the authorities of a “complete disregard to clarify why certain proposals have been turned down with vague reasons”. The senate, which represents students on the campus, has cited the example of the IIT not disclosing the results of a survey on Internet connectivity issues faced by students. An official of the institute said the survey was carried out last August to determine who would have to be brought back to the campus to address the issue of digital divide among the students. “The authorities have neither announced the findings of the survey nor brought back any student with poor Net connectivity at home to the campus,” a teacher said. Calls and text messages from this newspaper to IIT director V.K. Tewari were not  answered. Senate chairman Shivam Singh posted on his Facebook page on Sunday morning: “For instance, the administration has not disclosed the results of the previous survey conducted with respect to Internet connectivity issues faced, even after repeated requests from the students’ Senate.” Classes are being held on digital platforms over the past year because of the pandemic. “Other institutes like IIM Calcutta had conducted a survey among the students last July to identify those who were struggling with connectivity issues at home and decided to call them back to the campus. IIT Kharagpur, on the other hand, just sat on the survey,” said a fourth-year BTech student. Jadavpur University had conducted a survey last year to determine who were facing digital constraints and raised money to give smartphones and data packs to students who could not afford them. IIT students’ senate chairman Singh has posted that the senate would conduct a survey to find out who are facing connectivity issues at home and share the findings with the administration so they can be brought back to the campus. “Students’ Senate will conduct a new survey to gather preliminary data on students facing resource constraints. This survey will be designed in a manner that enables ease of answering and authenticity, and this shall be shared with the administration. The number of students facing resource constraints, who shall be called back to campus, will be decided on the basis of the response”, Singh has posted. Director Tewari had announced on March 17 that they had a plan to recall about 300 final-year undergraduate students, “whose labs require physical presence”, from April 16. The announcement through a Facebook post came two days after undergraduate and postgraduate students boycotted online classes to protest, what they called, lack of planning by the administration in reopening and calling back students to the campus. “….the administration has even refused our proposal for an open house without any justification, however, the Senate will continue to fight for the student fraternity until our issues are solved,” the senate chairman has posted. When contacted, Singh declined comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal reports rise in active cases||Bengal on Sunday reported the 10th consecutive day of rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases, by 124. The active cases total 3,504. The state on Sunday reported 295 recoveries but 422 new cases. “In over two months, we haven’t seen such numbers (of new infections found in a day). It is being looked into at the highest level, and steps will be taken at once,” said a minister. “This is part of a wider, national trend of a renewed rise – in alarming proportions in several states – and we hope to be able to stem the tide before significant damage.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||400-plus indigenous parakeets rescued from bus in Durgapur||Over 400 indigenous parakeets, most of them barely a few days old, were seized from the boot of a bus in Durgapur by forest officials early on Sunday. Seven persons have been arrested, including three men who were allegedly carrying the birds and a pair each of drivers and conductors of the bus, which was coming from Patna and was headed to Calcutta. “We found six cages loaded in the boot of the bus. The birds were crammed inside the cages. Most of them were a few days old. Their wings are still to be developed. Some of the birds died of suffocation. The number of live birds is 458,” said Debasish Sharma, the divisional forest official of Burdwan. “This is the time for parakeets to hatch,” he said. The birds were headed to several areas of the city, including Galiff Street in north Calcutta where birds are sold on Sundays, forest officials said. Trading in indigenous parakeets is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act. Based on a tip-off, men from the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and the forest divisions of Durgapur and Burdwan stopped the bus near the Benachity market in Durgapur around 4am, said a local forest official. Preliminary investigations have revealed that the men had boarded the bus from Garhwa in Jharkhand. The forest officials have stepped up crackdown on trade in birds, resulting in many seizures in and around Calcutta. “But for each seizure, many more such consignments reach the markets unnoticed,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Calcuttans ask parties to make cycling an issue ||A number of Calcuttans held a demonstration on the Maidan on Sunday morning demanding that political parties speak for promoting cycling in the city and creating cycling-friendly infrastructure. Several cycling groups were present at the demonstration. A Calcutta police order bans cycling on all arterial roads of the city. While those advocating for allowing cycling on Calcutta’s roads say the ban is regressive and it discriminates in favour of the rich who own cars, the police have persistently held that cycling on arteries would lead to accidents. Police officers say the city’s roads hardly have any space for cycling lanes. “This is a non-negotiable demand. It is time political parties realised the need to promote sustainable transport like cycling. How long will Calcutta’s roads remain off-limits for cyclists? We want the political parties to commit that they will allow cycling in Calcutta and create safe cycling infrastructure in Calcutta as well as other cities of Bengal,” said Vinay Jaju, a member of the Bengal Clean Air Network that promotes cycling for cleaner air. Transportation specialist Bhargab Maitra told Metro that he agreed with the demand of the cyclists but added that it should be accepted only after “a safe cycling infrastructure” is created. “I am happy that demands to allow cycling are growing in Calcutta. The authorities have to adopt a massive transformation and accommodate sustainable transportation like cycling. People should be able to cover short trips by walking or cycling. We have to build infrastructure that allures people to walk, to cycle. Reducing footpath and widening roads to accommodate cars have not yielded any beneficial result,” said Maitra, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur. “I do not want the police to suddenly allow cycling without creating the necessary infrastructure so that cycling is safe. Certainly one would not desire accidents after cycles are allowed on roads. But we cannot further delay building that infrastructure. We are already pushed to the wall.” A Calcuttan who has visited Amsterdam said the capital of The Netherlands had dedicated cycle lanes. The cyclists wait at traffic signals and cross a road only when the signal is green for them. He expressed doubt how many cyclists in Calcutta were that disciplined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Four candidates from same complex bring pain for Urbana residents ||One condominium off EM Bypass is home to at least four persons who are contesting the Assembly elections and their neighbours have suddenly realised the pangs of having so-called celebrities in their midst. Actors Hiran Chatterjee, Payel Sarkar and Srabanti Chatterjee, who are contesting on BJP tickets, and film director Raj Chakraborty, who is from the Trinamul Congress, — all live in Urbana — a housing complex about a kilometre east from the Ruby rotary. With so many candidates in one housing complex, residents are facing a host of complex situations like a sudden surge of unknown faces swarming around the main gate or in common spaces, many armed with party flags; armed security personnel loitering in lobbies where children play otherwise and party cadres readying the candidates’ cars with flags in the common parking lot. A host of problems that Urbana residents are unaccustomed to has aggravated to such a level that many have reported it to the housing association, forcing it to step in. A “standard operating procedure” has been formulated specifically for the four candidates to maintain an “unbiased and apolitical atmosphere” in the housing complex that has 1,170 apartments spread across seven towers. Recently, when hundred-odd men and women armed with party flags gathered at the main gate seeking entry to meet a particular candidate, the security personnel at the gate had panicked and contacted the housing association officials seeking immediate advice. Finally, 10 people at a time were allowed inside. A resident said he saw “more than 100 people” trying to get inside the main gate at the same time. “I felt alarmed. I had never seen anything like this here. They were holding flags of a political party and swarming around the main gate. On checking with the security, we were told that they had come to visit one of our neighbours who has recently joined politics and is contesting the elections,” he said. A mother of two complained about how “awkward” she had felt to see two armed CRPF men standing at the common lobby, while the politician they were accompanying was inside the candidate’s flat. “It does not give me a home-like feeling when I see armed CRPF men standing at the lobby where my children are to play. It felt unacceptable,” she said. The resident added that at least one more MP who has a flat in the housing who does not stay here. “But things have been never so bad,” she added. The newly formed SOP includes restricting the entry of party members to 15 who come to visit the candidates, embargo on loitering of their visitors in the common areas, complete ban on any type of symbolic gesture of party representation such as flags or posters and requesting all candidates to ensure that their visitors should follow the prevailing vehicle parking rules in the society. “All four candidates have been extremely sensitive and have immediately started abiding by the requests we made. No one is allowed inside the housing with flags in hand and there is no further incident of anyone trying to decorate a car with flags in the common area. Party cadres who are coming to visit are also entering through the normal registration process as is done for the remaining visitors,” said an official of the housing association. The candidates have also been told to ensure that all political meetings should be held inside the individual’s apartment with strict embargo on using the common spaces. With restrictions inside the housing, the action has now shifted outside the main gate. “One day, I saw BJP supporters preparing for a bike rally just outside our gate while Trinamul cadres tying flags on the railings on Anandapur Road. It was quite a sight!” On a lighter note, a member of the association said one of the “better things” that has happened in the past few weeks is a sudden surge in number of visitors and a considerable rise in revenue from food sale in Club Urbana. “The sale in the club (of food) has shot up,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Calcutta Municipal Corporation teams at door with plea to get vaccinated||Health workers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) are paying door-to-door visits, urging elderly residents and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to get vaccinated against Covid-19. The health workers are also booking time slots for those who are willing to take the jab in a CMC clinic. The specific time slots are being given so that recipients do not have to wait for long in a queue. Covid-19 vaccination is being done at 61 ward health clinics of the CMC for free. A large number of people are visiting the clinics without registering on the Co-Win platform. If several such people come at the same time, it will lead to long queues which the CMC wants to avoid, said officials. A week into the door-to-door visits, the CMC is getting mixed response. “We want to prepare a list of 150 people every day. But we are achieving about half that number, because many are not cooperating,” said an official. Some said they would like to get vaccinated at a hospital, others said they were unwilling to get vaccinated. A few want to wait and watch. The vaccination of people above 59 and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities started on March 1. Metro accompanied a CMC team that visited households in Kasba last week. In one of the flats, an elderly woman said she and her husband would not get vaccinated. She did not cite any reason. On an upper floor, an elderly couple heard out the team and said they would get vaccinated after the Assembly elections. Each CMC clinic is vaccinating about 200 people on an average every day. Though the number of people who are booking slots during the door-to-door campaign is less than the target, the number of daily vaccination is not falling behind the target. That is because many recipients are getting themselves registered at the spot. “But we want to bring down the number of people opting for spot-registration. If we can give slots to recipients in advance, it will prevent crowding and help us manage the situation better,” an official said. “The door-to-door visits will work like an awareness campaign on Covid-19 vaccination. Since the Covid-19 numbers are rising again in the city and elsewhere in the state, vaccination and adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour are the only two ways to prevent the situation from worsening. If we are able to vaccinate many people, the virus will not be able to spread rapidly,” said a CMC doctor. One CMC official said he had instructed teams in his borough to tell residents that the doses being administered at private hospitals were being sourced from the CMC’s storage facilities to drive home the point that the vaccines being used in private hospitals and CMC clinics were the same. The CMC teams are also handing over a printed format in which a doctor has to certify whether someone between 45 and 59 has comorbidities. Only the doctor’s certificate in the prescribed format will be considered, said officials. The format can also be downloaded from mygov.in/covid-19/. CMC sources said the health clinics would play a pivotal role in vaccinating the general population since they are spread across the city. The CMC has 144 health clinics, one in each ward. “Some localities may not have a hospital close to them, but there will be a CMC clinic where people can be vaccinated,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Two city schools shut down campuses after student and teacher test positive||Two city schools have decided to shut down their campuses temporarily after a student and a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. La Martiniere for Boys and St Lawrence High School will be shut down from Monday, officials said. La Martiniere for Boys will remain closed till March 27 and St Lawrence High School till March 29. At La Martiniere for Boys, a Class X student who was writing the rehearsal exam on the campus tested positive for Covid-19 and at St Lawrence High School, a teacher who was conducting online classes from the school tested positive. The teacher and the student both went to their respective schools on Friday. At La Martiniere for Boys, all remaining rehearsal examinations for Classes X and XII will now be held online. St Lawrence High School has suspended in-person classes for the Class X students who started their new academic session in January. “A very unfortunate situation has cropped up. It has been reported to me that one of our Class X pupils appearing for the Onsite Rehearsal Examinations, has tested Covid positive and hence we have decided to close down school for a week (Monday, 22nd March- Saturday, 27th March, 2021),” said John Rafi, the principal of La Martiniere for Boys in a notice addressed to parents and pupils on Sunday. “Therefore, all remaining Rehearsal Examinations for Class X and XII will shift from the onsite to the online mode. The online schedule as given earlier will be followed.” The Class X student showed symptoms on Friday evening. “The report came this morning and the parents informed the school, after which the decision to close the school was taken,” a La Martiniere official said. The Class X rehearsal exams had started on March 15 and that of Class XII on Friday. The Class X students had five more papers left, a school official said. “The school and teachers were following the Covid safety protocols and the SOPs very strictly and parents and students should not get upset. The school was maintaining the prescribed distance of 6ft (between two persons) in the examination hall and proper sanitisation was being continuously done. The students were told about the Covid protocols and advised to follow them,” said Rafi. A school official said about 70 per cent of the Class X students and 60 per cent of Class XII students were writing their exams in the school. “I laud each and every boy who had taken the courage and initiative to sit for the onsite examinations. Do not let this upset you in any way. Don’t be nervous or afraid, rather be courageous and continue to concentrate on your studies,” said the principal in the notice. At St Lawrence High School, teachers have been asked to work from home. All topics in the syllabus for the students who will appear for the boards this year have been covered, said Father Sebastian James, the principal of St Lawrence High School. “We were having on-campus classes for the current batch of Class X students following all safety protocols. The teacher (who tested positive) was not in contact with these students. She was taking online classes,” the principal said. Father James said in-person classes will resume on March 30. The pre-boards are also going on at La Martiniere for Girls in both online and offline mode and the school will function as usual. “The girls’ school has a different campus and there is no need to close it down,” said Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools. Kasba Chittaranjan High School had been shut down on February 24 after a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. The students who attended the teacher’s class were asked to undergo test and nobody tested positive. The school conducted Class XII practicals from March 8 in small batches. The state government had allowed schools to reopen for Classes IX to XII from February 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Auto fest: A pre-Holi bash at South City Mall||It was a pre-Holi auto bash for those who headed for the HDFC Bank Accelerate Auto Expo in association with The Telegraph over the weekend at South City Mall. Buyers, who had postponed their purchases following the Covid-induced recession, are back to buying at a time personal mobility is at its peak. Most enquiries were for Kia Carnival, Nissan Magnite and the newly launched Tata Safari. The new Citroen C5 Aircross was also a huge draw. The supercars Porsche 718 Cayman S and the Lamborghini Urus had turned into selfie points as was the Harley Davidson Fatboy. Over March 20-21, the expo drew over a 1,000 enquiries, of which 15 per cent were hot leads. Customers could also opt for custom-fit auto loans from HDFC Bank with EMIs starting from Rs 1,234 per lakh. Speaking on the expo, Sandeep S. Kumar, branch banking head, HDFC Bank, east, said:  “We are delighted to launch HDFC Bank Accelerate in Calcutta. Through HDFC Bank Accelerate, we have brought the leading auto brands under one roof and also exciting offers from the bank for customers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
22-03-2021||Calcutta||Lost and found: coffee and conversations||The premises of Calcutta South India Club in Hindusthan Park are now home to Roastery Coffee House, a charming café that proved a boon for the city during the lockdown. Its open-air section has drawn a great number of people looking for a non-AC environment for conversation and coffee, and many of remain quite thrilled with the wide range of coffees on offer, including an impressive selection of cold brews, the plump mushroom bruschetta and the excellent service. For some a visit to this café has another dimension. Where the café stands now, there was a “canteen” with no name. It was simply called the “South India Club canteen”, and loved for its dosas, vadas, idlis and mini meals. The canteen actually occupied only the right hand corner of the ground floor. It was quite shabby, not only by contemporary standards, and cramped, with no attempt at décor whatsoever. But the smells that invited you in were robust and the masala dosa that you ordered was sharp and landed in front of you in minutes, served by a smiling man you knew for years, the pickle was fiery and the filter coffee that followed was strong and gave you courage to face life again. So even as you sip the satisfying cappuccino now, you also seem to smell that filter coffee in the air. And the shape of the older, bustling, sambar-smelling and very pocket-friendly eatery somehow takes shape in the right corner again. It is a kind of double vision that many places in the city induce in you, when you still seem to see the old building that has been razed hovering over the apartment block that has replaced it, like a sad ghost that cannot leave. You feel a little pain. But the good news is that the old canteen has a new address. Run on contract, it shut down at the club in January 2019, but started on its own, as the eatery Madura Shankara,  at Golpark, facing Ramakrishna Mission, from April 2019 again. The eatery had to move out of the club due to limitations of his resources, said T.N. Balasubramanian, the man who had kept the canteen going since 2005. The new Golpark eatery is an even more modest place than the previous one. But its menu is as full — in the morning you get pongal as well; the eatery opens at 7.30am — as earlier. Also available are adai, sevai and rawa dosa. Balasubramanian, 68, remains his genial and graceful self, greeting customers in with warmth and directing them to the three small tables that fill up the space. Regulars drop in for a quick bite and coffee. Balasubramanian got into the business almost by chance. Or because of fate, as he, a deeply religious man, would put it. He speaks in English, but can manage communicating in Bengali. He had been living in Calcutta since 1976, working as a branch officer in an engineering tools company. He was born in Trichi, Tamil Nadu, and finished his school and college education in Chennai, then Madras. He was commerce graduate. After working for 25 years in this company, he was transferred to Ahmedabad in 2001. He returned to Calcutta after a while, but left this job and joined a ceramics company at Karaikal in Puducherry. Known for its Navagraha temples, Karaikal was not far away from Thanjavur city, formerly Tanjore, in Tamil Nadu, known for its many temples, including the Chola ones. Balasubramanian’s family — wife, daughter and son – had not left Calcutta. So he wanted to return. In 2005, he heard that the South India Club was looking for someone who could run the canteen on a contract. He knew nothing about cooking. He still does not know the nitty gritty. The club did not get many takers, said Balasubramanian, as the canteen came with labour problems. He thought he would go ahead. Before that he wanted to consult an astrologer. He felt that destiny had already played a decisive role in his life. In 1996, a Nadi (pulse) astrologer had told him that he would be transferred at 49 to another city and would see a lot of temples. Both came true and he saw many temples when he was in Karaikal. Now, to ask about his decision to return to Calcutta, he went to Kumbakonam, located in Thanjavur district. Kumbakonam is the centre of Nadi (pulse) astrology, which makes predictions by reading thumb impressions. At Vaitheeswaran temple in Kumbakonam, a Nadi astrologer, who was not aware of Balasubramanian’s life, told him straightaway that he would get into food business. “This was a message from above,” said Balasubramanian. It could have been a coincidence, I tell him, adding gratuitously that I do not believe in astrology. “But how else can you explain it?” he asked. He got the contract. The first few months were tough. The canteen employed 12 men, most of them from Odisha, the rest from Bengal and Bihar and two from south India. But slowly things began to relax. And so began a long association between Balasubramanian and his staff. In the last 10 years or so, the canteen was a peaceful place to visit for the weary soul. Balasubramanian or his wife would sit at the counter, which was a table laden with sweets and savouries, chips, pickles, papads and jangeri (a sweet similar to amrita), some of these obtained from Chennai. The customers would be, as they still are, plied with second helpings of sambar and chutney. “Second helpings are charged at south Indian restaurants,” said Balasubramanian, smiling. It is a great comfort to feel free of portions. When he started Madura Shankara, where, too, a small table stands with a pile of snacks, eight of the 12 workers joined him. Now only three are working, because the rest returned home during lockdown and have not been able to return. As we speak, another regular, a gentleman, drops in for coffee. So does a lady, and has a hearty conversation with her host. Does he think of going back to Tamil Nadu? He did, says Balasubramanian, though it did not happen. “But Calcutta is a good city,” said the resident of Mahanirvan Road. “It is gentle and affordable,” He can live his life here peacefully, go to the Ganesh Murugan temple in Lake Gardens, practise his faith, be himself. Though most south Indian families have left Lake Market and other south Calcutta areas, he does not feel the city has changed for him. He feels at home here. And a cup of steaming filter coffee is placed before me. I inhale deeply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-106
