23-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM-Calcutta’s first woman director resigns||Anju Seth, IIM-Calcutta’s first woman director, has resigned, almost a year before her term was scheduled to end, said an official of the institute. Seth, who is on leave since Thursday, sent her resignation letter to the Prime Minister’s Office and the IIM-C board on Sunday night. Prashant Mishra, dean (new initiatives and external relations), who has been officiating as the acting director since Seth left for Gurgaon, was on Monday morning asked by the board to continue as the acting director for the time being, sources on the campus said. IIM has a tradition in which whenever the director goes out of station, the director nominates one of the deans as the officiating director. “Mishra was apprised by a senior member of the board that the board has accepted the resignation of Anju Seth and he has to continue as the acting director till further announcement,” said an official of the institute. On March 10, IIM-C had called for applications for a new director who, the advertisement said, “is expected to provide strong academic leadership”. An official of the institute said Seth’s “position became untenable as she embarked on a collision course” with a large section of the teachers and members of the board, including the chairman of the board, Srikrishna Kulkarni. Last year, several teachers of the B-school had written to the Centre and the institute’s board of governors twice, accusing Seth of lacking leadership quality, eroding the autonomy of the institute’s academic council and conceding space to peers like IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Bangalore. Seth had of late alleged that chairman Kulkarni was infringing on her executive powers. The board, in response, had accused her of improper conduct. A full-scale turf war over the governance of IIM-C broke out between Seth and Kulkarni. “The board had dropped a broad hint that they wanted her to leave when the search for her successor started 10 months before her term was to expire in February 2022. Usually, the selection process commences three to four months before the expiry of the tenure of the existing director,” said the official. Seth had relocated from the US and joined the institute in August 2018. She will turn 65 in January 2022. The IIM Act, 2017, sets the age of director’s superannuation at 65. Repeated calls to director Seth went unanswered. She did not respond to text messages either. Metro had reported on December 6 last year that 60 of 76 teachers of IIM-C had written to the Union education ministry, raising concerns about the “decline in academic and research environment’’ and “systematic undermining’’ of the academic council, the institute’s principal academic body. On June 24 last year, 51 teachers had signed and sent a letter to the board, pointing out what they termed “deficiencies in the current administration’’ and an “absence of plurality of views on the campus’’. “Even the students were not happy with the director,” another official said. The students’ council wrote to her last month alleging that the institute did not have “facilities to provide a stable Internet connection in their hostel rooms”. Following the absence of stable Internet connections at home amid the pandemic, some IIM-C students, who had returned to the campus, had complained that the premises of one of India’s premier B-schools was lacking in IT infrastructure. “A combination of all these factors created a situation where she was forced to put in her papers. Her relation with the board became so strenuous that late last month, the board had passed a resolution against her and stripped her of powers to make appointments and initiate disciplinary actions,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Sensors to keep tabs on Majerhat bridge health||Any deviation in the weight bearing capacity, any minor displacement of a bearing or any faint change in the frequency of oscillation of the cables will flash on the computer screen of engineers because of sensors installed on the Majerhat bridge. The state government has fixed seven sensors on the bridge, spanning 650 metres over railway tracks, which will throw up different kinds of data related to the bridge's daily performance and its weight-bearing capacity so engineers responsible for its maintenance are forewarned about any deviation. Officials of the PWD, which is responsible for the upkeep of the Rs 160-crore cable-stayed bridge, said another 45 sensors would be installed over the next two months. This is the first time such sensors are being fitted to any bridge in Calcutta, the official said. A consignment of sensors, made in Germany, reached the city recently. “These are the latest of all sensors used globally. They will ensure that even the slightest of structural changes of the bridge, including its load-bearing capacity, will flash on computer screens,” said a PWD engineer. Engineers said each component of the Majerhat bridge - which has replaced the one that collapsed in September 2018 and was inaugurated in December — has a fixed “threshold value.” The sensors, which will remain fitted on the cables, will read the value of each of these components, including the bearings, and the load-carrying capacity of the deck slab and the cables. Engineers said that if, for instance, there was a sudden increase in the load-bearing value because of movement of heavy vehicles, the sensors will immediately send warning signals. “Each sensor will measure stress, vibration and flexibility of the cables. In case of any change, engineers will get to know the exact location of the problem and the issue can be immediately addressed,” a PWD official at Nabanna said. “This will reduce the time of trying to locate the problem-point. It will also make the team at work accountable.” Members of the bridge monitoring committee, set up by the state government following the collapse of the old Majerhat bridge, said sensor-based monitoring of a bridge’s health was the globally accepted protocol. “We will recommend the use of such sensors for a few other structures,” said a member of the committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Workshop at Xavier’s College on mental health and career counselling||A two-day virtual workshop at St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta focussed on mental health and career counselling. The workshops on Saturday and Sunday were organised by the college’s entrepreneurship development cell. “While pursuing a career, students often face situations that are stressful and detrimental to mental wellbeing. Job aspirants and professionals are facing a tough time because of the pandemic. The objective of the workshops was to reach out to such people,” said Arup Kumar Mitra, the coordinator of the cell. “Some 500 people had registered for the virtual sessions. Around 2,000 more watched it on our YouTube channel. The participants included students and professionals,” he added. Psychiatrist Devendra Save and clinical psychotherapist Sejal Desai held a session on mental health and Abhijit Deshmukh, a career coach, held a career counselling session as part of the workshops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||One-year jail for creating fake profile of woman||A city court on Monday sentenced a man in his 30s to a year in jail for creating a fake profile of a woman on social media 10 years ago and posting objectionable photographs with the intention of maligning her. The convict was granted bail by the same court. The victim, who was a student in a city college when the offence was committed, is now a lawyer in Delhi. Based on a complaint by her father in 2011, a few years ago, the CID tracked the Internet protocol address of the device used to create the fake profile. The man whose name had emerged turned out to be the friend of a woman who was a close friend of the victim, a CID officer said. “He had apparently committed the offence to avenge the victim after she and their common friend (the woman) had a fight. He wanted to teach her a lesson.” The state CID had submitted a chargesheet against him. “The forensic reports proved that the photographs and data posted on the fake profile were found on the hard disk seized from the accused’s house,” said Bivas Chatterjee, special public prosecutor in the case. The accused has also been fined Rs 1.5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to launch door-to-door vaccine campaign||The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) will start a door-to-door campaign to request elderly residents and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities to get vaccinated against Covid-19, an official of the civic body said. The BMC operates 12 centres in Salt Lake, Baguiati, Rajarhat, Ashwininagar and other places, where these two categories of people are getting Covid shots. However, the turnout at nearly all the centres is low. An official of the corporation’s health department said they wanted to reverse the trend and maximise the number of people turning up for vaccination against Covid. Each vaccination centre run by the BMC can administer at least 300 Covid shots daily. They are administering around 70 shots on an average, an official said. Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the areas under the BMC. “There has been a rise in the number of positive cases being reported from Salt Lake, Rajarhat, Teghoria and other places under the civic body,” the official said. “In the past four days, 50 coronavirus cases have been reported from various areas under the civic body,” said Kusum Adhikary, the health officer of the BMC. Public health professionals and other experts have been saying that only rapid vaccination and strict adherence to safety protocols could prevent another surge in Covid cases. Another reason for launching the door-to-door campaign is to let people know about the civic clinics that are administering Covid shots. “A lot of people are still unaware that coronavirus vaccines are being administered at health units and primary health centres run by the BMC. Our health workers will hand over lists of the centres to the residents,” the official said. The health teams will also distribute a printed form in which a doctor has to certify whether someone between 45 and 59 has comorbidities. Only the doctor’s certificate in the prescribed format will be considered, said officials. The format can also be downloaded from mygov.in/covid-19/. Officials of the BMC’s health department said that during the door-to-door campaign, they would also ask residents to avoid crowded places, wear masks in public places and follow the physical distancing protocol.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Rise in number of Salt Lake hawkers amid job loss||Hawkers in Salt Lake, who already took up the footpaths of the township, have now set up stalls on roads. Several hawkers have also put up their stalls on the driveways or on the premises of houses whose owners don’t live there. The number has shot up manyfold in the past few months because several who lost their jobs during the pandemic have had to take to selling vegetables and fast food. A civic official said no eviction drive had been conducted in the past two years by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. Metro went around Salt Lake and spotted stalls on the pavements in Sectors I, II and III. There were stalls on the footpaths in Karunamoyee, opposite the Geological Survey of India building, in front of the Punjab National Bank rotary, lanes in several blocks like DL and EE, and the newly-renovated stretch along the Kestopur canal near AL Block. Stalls have sprung up in front of the CGO Complex and the East-West Metro stations. This newspaper saw more than 30 stalls near the Karunamoyee intersection, one of the busiest in Salt Lake. DL Block and the lane and the walkway adjacent to the headquarters of the Geographical Society of India, in DK Block, have a number of hawkers. A stall selling vegetables and tea has been set up on the driveway of a house in DL Block. “The owner does not stay here. Our relative is the caretaker of this house so we have set up shop here,” said Shyamal Maity, who had set up the stall. DL Block resident Amit Ganguly said that it gets difficult to walk or drive out of the block.“There are hawkers everywhere. Nobody from the civic body or the police comes to tell them to not keep their wares on the roads.” A pice hotel has been set up in the courtyard of a house in CJ Block. “The owners don’t stay here.... We asked the caretaker and he said we could use the compound to run our hotel,” said the man at the shop. Vegetable peels, fish scales and feathers from poultry lined a pavement opposite the Anandalok Hospital where over 25 stalls have been set up. A resident of EE Block, who boards buses from the bus stop nearby, said it was difficult to stand there because of the stench. “After the day’s sales, most hawkers dump waste, including fish offal and guts, on the road giving rise to this unbearable stench. Something has to be done,” said Chandrani Bhattacharya, who works in Sector V. The walkway in front of the CGO Complex, which houses several central government offices, had pice hotels, tea and paan stalls. Workers of the hotels were seen washing utensils and dumping food waste on the road. Krishna Chakraborty, the chairperson of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of councillors, said that the eviction drives had stopped. “We cannot evict them. We can only rehabilitate. We are trying to fix up an empty plot where we can construct a hawkers’ market. I don’t know why there is a sudden influx of hawkers here. We have not disturbed hawkers who had set up stalls in Salt Lake since the past many years but now there seems to be several new ones. I don’t know who is authorising them to set up such stalls. We don’t want to deny the opportunity of earning an honest livelihood now as many have lost their jobs due to the pandemic,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||South Point Alumni backs mate’s film on trafficking ||When a film on trafficking that uses sign language for communication among the main protagonists failed to find financiers, the director fell back on an unusual resource— his school alumni. Now Shimul Palash Katha is ready for release, backed by Pointers Business Forum (PBF), comprising a group of entrepreneurs who have passed out of South Point School. “The group was floated in the middle of 2020 with 250-plus members in business or independent professions, with the aim of helping each other out. Our presence so far is only on social media,” said Atin Dutta, one of the coordinators of the group. Som Mukherjee of the Madhyamik 1987 batch, who has acted in the film, brought word of the filmmaker Ashrujit Nandi’s predicament to the forum. “Four cast members, the script writer and the assistant cameraman are from our school too. We added Ashrujit to the forum’s WhatsApp group, floating units of Rs 15,000. He needed to raise Rs 12 lakh. Seventeen of us picked up stakes in the film,” said Dutta. The major backers, buying multiple units, were  Kaushik Dasgupta, based in Australia, and Suranjan Som of England, neither of whom knew Ashrujit. “The market was down with the pandemic last year. Moreover, no one was ready to finance a film where a significant portion would have sign language rather than words. My crowdfunding efforts too came a cropper. The forum was godsent,” said Ashrujit, of the class of Madhyamik 2000. The lead couple in the film, Shimul and Palash, played by Koushani Mukherjee and Pushan Dasgupta, are deaf-mute. The activist Katha, who helps reunite them, also speaks to them using sign language. Once the money was raised, workshops were held for all three. “It was conducted by a trainer in Indian sign language, with a deaf-mute person helping them out,” said Ashrujit. The story is partly based on a real life incident.  “In 2014-15, I was working for an NGO and came across this deaf-mute girl from the Sunderbans whose poverty-stricken father had put her on a Calcutta-bound train, thinking he would not be able to marry her off. She had got trafficked before she was rescued by the NGO,” he said. This is how the film starts before Palash sets off for the city to look for his lady love, gone missing from the village. Condition of many of the families in the Sunderbans villages has worsened after migrant labourers returned jobless, he pointed out. There is also a trafficking syndicate that exists which lures girls to other cities with false promises of jobs. The film was shot on iPhone over 11 days in end November, with four spent in the Sunderbans. “We took some local jatra artistes who played the families of the lead pair. A workshop was held for them too.” The most part was shot in Narendrapur village in Raidighi. “It was a Covid-free zone. Since we were travelling from outside we took Covid detection tests before going and hired a house to stay by ourselves,” said the Ganguly Bagan resident, who teaches in a government school in Naktala. The 91-minute film is now being sent to festivals. It won its first bunch of awards at a film festival in Santiniketan. It was also screened at a PBF meet last Thursday. Ashrujit hopes to debut the film on a web platform. “We will help him in marketing the film as well. If there is a profit, we will all get a share based on the number of units we invested in,” said Dutta, of the class of 1982 Madhyamik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta private hospitals to receive only Covaxin ||Some private hospitals who were till Monday administering only Covishield to elderly people and those who are between 45 and 59 with comorbidities will administer only Covaxin to those turning up for their first dose, sources said. This will continue for some time from Tuesday, the sources said. Those who got Covishield as their first jab will get the same in the second dose, too, officials in the health department said. Officials of the department called up the private hospitals saying they would receive only Covaxin vials for a few days. Hospitals and public health experts fear that the health department’s decision might result in many people refusing to get vaccinated. An official of a private hospital said they would ask doctors to explain to reluctant recipients that Covaxin was as effective as any other Covid vaccine. Unlike Covishield, Covaxin was still undergoing trial when it was granted emergency use approval. The manufacturers have since announced that the vaccine is 81 per cent effective. Health department officials said there were two reasons why hospitals had been asked to administer only Covaxin to those who would turn up for their first dose from Tuesday. Many Covaxin vials are nearing their use-by dates as a large number of hospitals and government-run clinics are administering only Covishield. Secondly, sources said, the Centre has reduced the supply of Covishield compared with Covaxin. “Many Covaxin vials are lying unused and are nearing their use-by dates. So we are trying to use these vials as much as possible,” a health department official said on Monday. “From Tuesday, we will be administering only Covaxin for the first dose. Those who will agree to be given Covaxin will be vaccinated,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Those who will be given the Covaxin shot will no longer be required to sign a consent form, as they were to do earlier, said an official of a private hospital. Metro has reported that many elderly people and those above 45 with comorbidities were making it clear that they would not like to be vaccinated with Covaxin. “This could be because initially the efficacy data of the vaccine was not available. The manufacturers have now announced that the vaccine has 81 per cent efficacy,” said a public health expert. “However, there is this negative perception about the efficacy of the vaccine because of the initial lack of data. Also, the requirement that recipients had to sign a consent form had increased doubt and reluctance. It is now going away but still there is a large percentage of people who have doubts,” said a public health expert in Calcutta. At AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, where both Covaxin and Covishield are being administered, officials said most people were opting for Covishield. “Initially, only 10 per cent of the recipients were opting for Covaxin. Now, 40 per cent are opting for it,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI. At a meeting with private hospitals on Monday, health department officials said the vaccination drive should be accelerated. Those administering the vaccine to 300 people should increase it to 500 through campaigns. However, an official of one hospital said administering only Covaxin could prevent them from increasing the number of recipients immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||App cabs bill for AC but drivers turn it off  ||Many Calcuttans who depend on app cabs are facing the heat literally as drivers are allegedly refusing to switch on the air-conditioner despite a fare that includes the payment for an AC ride. Many drivers are citing an unwritten instruction “from office” to not switch on the AC, while some are using the dearth of enough riders as an excuse to not switch on the cooler. One of them told a rider that it was impossible to run the AC after paying an increased commission to the aggregator, while another said it was in protest against the fuel price hike. A spokesperson for Uber said: “We have never instructed our driver partners to switch off the AC…. We understand drivers are facing some challenges, and remain sensitive to those issues. However, Uber expects all drivers to deliver the best possible customer service.” Ola did not respond to Metro’s query till late on Monday evening. An app cab ride from Narendrapur to Sector V on Monday cost Sayantan Chatterjee Rs 475 — an 18km-ride that usually costs him from Rs 350 to Rs 380. To add to the pinch, the driver allegedly refused to switch on the AC, saying there were not enough riders through the day and he could not afford AC expenses. “I had to pay for the AC but did not get the AC service at all,” Chatterjee complained. He said that on Sunday the driver of the app cab he had hailed told him that his office had instructed him not to run the AC. A complaint lodged with the operator through the app did not yield any result till Monday evening, he said. Sujit Bhaduri, a resident of Nayabad, shared a similar experience. “On March 14, I had boarded a cab from Nayabad to travel to Howrah. When I asked the driver to switch on the AC, he said he could not afford the AC expenses after paying 25 per cent of his earnings to the aggregator as his commission. Earlier, he said, it was 15 per cent,” Bhaduri said. The Covid pandemic has prompted debates on whether it was better to avoid the AC in an enclosed space to prevent transmission of the virus. Health experts, however, told Metro on Monday that keeping the AC off in sweltering heat might result in sweat, which could diminish the efficiency of masks. Bibhuti Saha, the dean at the School of Tropical Medicine, said: “With the Celsius soaring, it may not be possible to avoid the AC. The risk can be minimised if the passenger and the driver are properly masked up. If I don’t switch on the AC, I will sweat and my mask will get wet. Once a mask gets wet, it loses its efficiency.” App cab rides have increased especially because many try to avoid commuting by more crowded public transport amid the pandemic. The surge in the Celsius is another reason. Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu and Subhajoy Roy||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal health department asks hospitals to prepare for surge in cases||The state health department has asked doctors to send people with symptoms of Covid-19 for tests and asked hospitals to stock up personal protective equipment (PPE) and take other measures to stay prepared for a renewed surge in cases. The number of people undergoing Covid tests has dropped significantly over the past few months. The number of daily new cases, too, had been steadily going down till a few weeks ago. The rise in the number of daily cases since the beginning of March prompted the health department to ask doctors of government hospitals during a webinar on Sunday to send anyone with Covid symptoms for a test. On Monday, the department wrote to government medical colleges asking them to check whether all ventilators and other tools required for treatment of Covid patients, such as the MGPS system, were functional. The MGPS system is a network of pipelines that carries high-flow oxygen to the wards. Officials of the hospitals have also been asked to adequately stock PPE. Calcutta and the rest of Bengal have been witnessing a rise in the number of new cases for the past few weeks. A bulletin published by the health department on Monday said Bengal reported  368 new cases in the previous 24 hours, 128 of them in Calcutta. On February 28, Bengal had reported 198 new cases, 62 of them in Calcutta. A month back on February 20, the state had reported 182 new cases, 61 of them in Calcutta. Health department officials said that though the rise in numbers in Bengal was not alarming, there was a need to stay prepared for a surge. An official said hospitals now had more Covid patients than in February. “We were told to send all people with symptoms of Covid for tests so that they can be isolated if they are positive,” said a doctor who attended Sunday’s webinar. An official said some doctors were advising patients with Covid symptoms not to undergo tests but stay at home if complications did not arise. The risk in such advice is that people would mingle with others in the family and neighbours once the fever subsides. A positive test result will make a psychological impact and force the person to stay isolated for a certain period, minimising chances of spread of the virus. Also, if someone tests positive, the health department and the local civic body will then be able to trace their close contacts and get them tested if they show symptoms. This way the spread of the virus can be checked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
23-03-2021||Calcutta||Schools worried about Covid during board exams||Schools are worried about what to do if a student or a teacher tests positive for Covid-19 during the board exams. The worry stems from the news that two city schools had to shut down their campuses for about a week after a student at one of the institutions and a teacher at another were found to have been infected with the coronavirus. A student at La Martiniere for Boys and a teacher at St Lawrence High School, who had last gone to their respective campuses on Friday, have tested positive. La Martiniere for Boys will remain closed till March 27 and St Lawrence High School till March 29. A number of school heads said they were not empowered to shut down institutions if any teacher or student tested positive during board exams. The heads of schools affiliated to various boards said several questions remained unanswered in the absence of any clear guidelines. Some of the unanswered questions: Public health experts said that it was difficult to do contact tracing during a board exam. At the most, a school might isolate students who have come in contact with the infected child, but that might not be enough, said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a public health expert associated with the Infectious Diseases Hospital in Beleghata. “It is difficult to identify all the students who have come in contact with the infected student.” At least four school heads said any decision during the board exams had to be taken by the respective boards. Krishna Damani, trustee of South Point school, which is affiliated to the CBSE, was among those who expressed concern about what would happen if an examinee or a teacher tested positive during board exams. The CBSE Class X and XII exams are to begin on May 4, and so are the ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) theory exams. Madhyamik starts on June 1 and the Higher Secondary theory papers on June 15. The principal of a south Calcutta school who did not want to be named said “perhaps the two incidents in the city will make the boards come up with clearer instructions”. Terence Ireland, the principal of St James' School, said there would have to be a clear roadmap on how schools would conduct the exams for the rest of the students if any examinee tests positive. “During a school exam, a school can shift to the online mode. But if an incident like this happens during the boards, the school has to conduct the exam for the rest of the students. How is it going to do that?” wondered Ireland. Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls, said:  "I'm sure the ICSE council has an alternative because it is not the child's fault and they can't be expected to sacrifice a year." Public health experts said the only way to minimise the risk of infection is to maintain distance among each other and wear masks. “The board will also have to keep alternative centres ready so that if one centre has to be shut down, exams can be conducted at another,” said Rita Chatterjee, the director of North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-105
