24-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Differently-abled people narrate hurdles faced in exercising voting rights||The entrance to the electronic voting machine (EVM) room was so narrow at a booth in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls that a woman on a wheelchair found it difficult to negotiate. “You can ask your husband to cast your vote,” a polling official had whispered into her ear. A man with cerebral palsy, who also uses a wheelchair, reached the ground floor of a polling booth but there was no ramp. He could not make his way past a flight of four-five stairs. He had to be lifted by others before he could cast his vote. Differently-abled people and activists narrated the hurdles faced in exercising their voting rights in front of politicians during a panel discussion at a city club on Tuesday. The facility of home-based postal ballot system has been available for voters with disabilities since 2019. But many of them are still to be included in the electoral rolls, said representatives of NGOs. Saswati Acharya Mahanty, 52, a special educator with the Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy for over two decades, has polio herself and uses a wheelchair. “During the last election (2019), I could not enter the EVM room on my own. The polling staff finally helped me enter but not before an official suggested that my husband ‘cast my vote’. Why should that happen? My husband and I are entitled to have separate political preferences,” said Mahanty. A visually impaired voter had asked for a Braille ballot guide at another booth during the 2019 elections. “The polling official sounded surprised at hearing the word,” the man recounted. There were close to 3,00,000 voters with disabilities in Bengal during the 2019 polls, according to government estimates. District magistrates are supposed to have a database of voters with disabilities specifying the nature of disability on the electoral rolls. The Election Commission’s Systematic Voters Education and Electoral Participation mandates the following: “Assured Minimum Facilities” at polling stations — “signage, help desk, polling booth at ground floor, obstacle free wide levelled pathway from entrance to voting compartment, ramp as per GOI standards, accessible toilets, drinking water, separate entry and exit, lighting, accessible furniture, Braille ballot guide, adjustable Braille embossed EVMs, wheel chairs, booth volunteers and display of accessible posters on information pertaining to voting”. But on the ground, many of the facilities are absent, the speakers pointed out at the programme organised by NIP, an organisation that works with differently-abled people. “The election manifestos give very little space to differently-abled people. Is it because they are not part of a vote bank?” asked Debajyoti Roy, the secretary of NIP. Amiya Biswas, who represented Blind Persons’ Association, spoke of parliamentarians’ “general indifference” to the plight of people. “A 2019 hunger index placed India in 102nd place among 117 countries. A minister contested the report, saying India was a place where stray pups are also given food. There is a clear lack of empathy in the government and the parliament,” he said. Many activists concurred that the problems would not be solved unless there was sufficient representation of differently-abled people in legislatures, from state assemblies to the parliament. “Elections and campaigns come and go. But there are hardly any differently-abled candidates fielded by any party,” said Roy. They called for “reservation of seats for differently-abled candidates in the legislatures”. Tuesday’s panel comprised Fuad Halim of the CPM, Soumya Aich Roy of the Congress, Rajib Biswas of the BJP, Ambikesh Mahapatra, Jadavpur University professor, and Mita Banerjee, former disabilities commissioner of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||Hospitals prepare  for change||Hospitals are drawing up plans to adhere to Centre’s guidelines that anyone above 45 will be given a Covid shot from April 1 and the second dose of Covishield should be administered between six and eight weeks of the first dose for better protection. Some hospitals are calling up Covishield recipients whose second dose is yet to be administered and offering them a fresh date. The hospitals are also flooded with calls from the recipients seeking new dates, in accordance with the Centre’s new guideline. Officials of several hospitals said that if anyone turned up for the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first dose, they would offer him or her a new date 42 days after the first dose. But if someone insists on taking the second dose 28 days after the first, the hospitals will not resist. “The Centre’s new guideline says the second dose of Covishield can be administered between four and eight weeks of the first. So, if someone wants to take it after four weeks, we will give him or her the second dose,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. In a letter to state health secretaries on Monday, the Union health secretary wrote the “recommendation has been revised to provide 2nd dose of COVISHIELD at 4-8 week’s interval after the 1st dose instead of the earlier practiced interval of 4-6 weeks”. The letter added: “It appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of COVISHIELD is administered between 6-8 weeks.” Tondon said Belle Vue was flooded with calls from people who wanted to reschedule the date for the second dose of Covishield. When they had taken the first dose, they were given a date after 28 days for the second jab because the previous guideline had said that the second dose should be taken between four and six weeks of the first. “We are calling up as many people (whose second dose of Covishield is due) as possible. Some people have called us and requested a new date, which is six weeks after the first dose,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN tagore hospital is the flagship unit. He, however, said that if an elderly person landed up for the second dose between four and six weeks of the first, they would vaccinate the person. The hospitals are also drawing up plans to accommodate an increase in the number of vaccine recipients from April 1, from which day anyone above 45 will be eligible for a Covid shot. “We have decided to extend vaccination hours from April 1. Vaccination will begin at 8am and continue till 8pm from April 1 at our hospitals in Dhakuria, Mukundapur and Salt Lake. We will also start vaccination on Sundays from April,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. RN Tagore hospital will keep two sites for the two categories of recipients. People aged 60 and above and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities will be vaccinated at one site, and people above 45 without any comorbidity will be vaccinated at the other. “We have two sites now. One is reserved for healthcare and frontline workers. Administering their second doses will be over by March. We will reserve the site for those above 45,” said Venkatesh. Officials at Belle Vue said they were using only 2,500sq ft of an 8,000sq ft floor for Covid vaccination. If required, more sites will be opened to accommodate more recipients. Bengal on Tuesday had 82 active Covid cases. The total active cases now is 3,656. The state had 320 recoveries and 404 new infections, besides two deaths, one in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||State health department spots vaccine lapses||Vaccination done with pre-filled syringes, vials stored outside refrigerators for long, lack of trained vaccinators. These are some of the shortcomings identified by the state health department while inspecting Covid-19 vaccination facilities run by some private healthcare units. The findings and recommendations were sent to all private healthcare units on Tuesday, officials said. The issue was discussed at a meeting with the private units and the minutes were sent to officials of these units. Senior citizens and people above 45 with comorbidities are being administered Covid jabs from March 1. Those getting vaccinated at a private unit are paying Rs 250 for each dose. A health department official said among the most significant anomalies detected at some of the vaccination facilities is that jabs are being administered in pre-filled syringes. "The rule is that the vaccine should be taken out from the vial in a syringe and administered immediately. If a syringe is pre-filled and kept for some time, there is a high chance of the vaccine getting contaminated. In some sites, vaccinators are prefilling syringes, going against the rule, to save time,” said an official of the health department. At some centres, officials found vaccine vials kept on ice trays, instead of refrigerators. A health department official said the Covid vaccines approved in India - Covishield and Covaxin - needed to be stored at temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius. Before vaccination, vials should be brought to room temperature. "If vials are kept on an ice tray, there is a possibility that the required temperature will not be maintained. A vaccine’s efficacy will be compromised if it is stored at more than the required temperature for four hours or more,” a doctor said. Health department officials also observed that vaccinators were not properly counselling recipients at many private vaccination sites. A vaccine recipient has to be verbally asked whether he or she is having any comorbidity. The recipients also need to be informed which vaccine - Covishield or Covaxin - is being administered. “Also, recipients have to be told that after vaccination, they could suffer from adverse events like allergy, fever, headache, pain in the hand and general weakness. They should be told that paracetamol should be taken for fever or pain. One must consult a doctor if the problem aggravates,” an official said. The monitoring teams have observed that such counselling was not being done at some sites. Improper management of biomedical waste and inadequate space at the vaccination site have also been observed. The health department has recommended proper training of personnel before they are deployed at a vaccination site, refresher orientation for all concerned, strict adherence to safe injection practice and supportive supervision of the sites. The health department has also recommended that all recipients be properly escorted to Covishield and Covaxin sites at facilities where both vaccines are being administered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||App cab drivers cite rising fuel prices for turning off AC||Many passengers in the city have complained that app cab drivers have been refusing to switch on their car’s air-conditioner. Several drivers cited rising fuel prices as the reason for not being able to afford ACs anymore. The Telegraph spoke to some drivers and cab owners. Here are three accounts. Vijay Gupta, 47 Owner-driver of a Swift Dzire, registered with Uber Family: Gupta is a resident of Haridevpur. Apart from his two children and wife, Gupta has to take care of his elderly parents and a bedridden brother and his family. He managed to repay his car loan in April 2020 but is now finding it difficult to make ends meet with the rise in fuel prices. Income: In 2016, he used to earn Rs 1 lakh a month and could take around Rs 60,000-Rs 70,000 home after spending on fuel and incurring the driver’s expenses. Now, he drives the car himself. With reduced incentives from Uber and increased fuel prices, the monthly earning he takes home has gone down to Rs 25,000 a month, he said. Impact of AC: Not switching on the AC enables him to save around Rs 200 a day. “That means a lot of money for a family that has two school-going children and two patients. My brother also has a car but he suffered from brain haemorrhage while on a trip in January. He has been bedridden since. I am taking care of his family as well,” Gupta said. His mother is suffering from a lung infection, he said. Mahmood Alam, 39 Driver of a Swift Dzire, with Ola Family: A resident of Pilkhana, Howrah, Alam has a joint family of elderly parents, his wife, two children, two brothers and their families. He used to drive an auto in Howrah’s Salkia, before he started driving for Ola in 2016. Income: “My earning has become half of what I used to earn before the lockdown last year,” he said. Alam used to earn between Rs 22,000 and Rs 25,000 a month earlier. Now, this has come down to around Rs 10,000-Rs 12,000, he said. He blamed multiple factors — from the fuel price hike to reduced incentives from Ola — for the decline in his income. “Earlier Ola used to offer an incentive of Rs 500 for 12 trips. Now, the amount has been halved but the number of trips has been increased to 13,” Alam said. Impact of AC: “If I keep the AC off, I get more mileage and save between Rs 150 to Rs 200 a day, depending on the kilometers covered. At the end of the day, when I report back to my employer and inform him that I have saved his Rs 200, which he would have to spend on fuel otherwise, my chances of getting an incentive from him gets brighter,” Alam said. The owner has to pay for fuel, maintenance, tax and traffic fines. “How can I expect anything from him if I don’t save anything for him?” Alam added. Sukesh Panda, 41 Owner of a Swift Dzire, with Uber Family: Originally from Odisha, Panda’s family still stays there. He stays in Tollygunge Income: Around the end of 2017, when Panda enrolled with Uber, his monthly income used to be around Rs 72,000, out of which he would pay around Rs 26,000 (Rs 60 per trip) to his driver and spend another Rs 24,000 on fuel. “Now, after paying the driver and purchasing the fuel, I only have around Rs 16,000. My income is actually less than what I have to pay as EMI for the car,” Panda said. Earlier, the company was paying Rs 12 per kilometer but now the rate has been slashed to Rs 8 per kilometre, he said. Impact of AC: Panda said he has instructed his driver to first explain that the fuel price hike has prompted them to keep the cooler off. “I have told him to switch on the AC in case the passenger insists,” he said. Panda said by keeping the AC off, he saves around Rs 1,000 a month (depending on the number of trips and kilometers covered). “I have told my driver to keep it on in the afternoon. Anyway, my income from this business is less than what I am paying as EMI and I have to pay from my pocket. I don’t mind spending another Rs 1,000 from my pocket if that gives comfort to my passengers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||Frank Anthony Public School shuts down for a week ||Frank Anthony Public School on Tuesday shut down for a week after a Class X student who attended school on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19. Frank Anthony is the third school in the city that has had to suspend on-campus activities in the past two days. The school was conducting the pre-board exams for Classes X and XII. “...We received information that one of our Class X students who attended school on Saturday (20/03/2021) tested positive for Covid. In view of this, the School will remain closed till 29th March, 2021,” read a notice from principal Ian Myers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||Safety  protocol for Chrism Mass||The Chrism Mass, the religious service conducted a week before the Holy Week, will be held from 10am on Thursday at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary. Priests can attend the Mass and the rest may witness its live streaming on the archdiocese channel. The vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta has requested that priests who are “aged and/or infirm” and those with comorbidities need not attend in person. “To maintain distance we have asked for only two Sisters/Brothers from each institution from the city,” said Dominic Gomes, the vicar general.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
24-03-2021||Calcutta||69-year-old gets brain stent in Howrah||A stent was implanted in the brain of a 69-year-old man, who had suffered multiple strokes, at a hospital in Howrah last week. Doctors said implanting a stent in the brain was “rare”. The man is stable and is likely to be discharged on Wednesday. When the elderly man was admitted to Narayana Superspeciality Hospital on March 16, he had difficulties in seeing and speaking. “After a scan we found that he had suffered multiple strokes,” said Kaushik Sundar, stroke and interventional neurologist at the hospital. He started slipping into a coma on March 18. A brain angiogram showed that the artery supplying blood to the brain stem was blocked. The doctors decided to perform a mechanical thrombectomy, a process in which the clot is sucked by a vacuum syringe. Even after the procedure, they found dirt inside the blood vessel. “That is when we decided to implant a stent in the blood vessel to ensure unhindered flow of blood thro-ugh the vessel,” said Sundar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
