25-03-2021||Calcutta||Young Metro: Fun-filled learning for Calcutta kids||Mount Litera Zee School, Contai, recently organised an online workshop, Tips on Examination: Implementing Vertical Progression. Zee Learn Limited’s regional school director for eastern zone Dibyendu Sen Sharma addressed it. Around 200 students from grades I to VIII attended the workshop in two consecutive slots. Sharma gave tips on how to reduce the smartphone addiction in students by gradually minimising the screen time. He motivated the students by telling them through stories that education was much more than merely bookish knowledge. He explained — livelihood skills, life skills and living skills. “Examinations need not be a dreaded phenomenon. They are an important part of each student’s life as they help them achieve their goals and aspirations. Self-organisation and self-discipline are a must. I always tell my pupils to be prepared and take responsibility for this preparation, just as you can do it. So, we organised the webinar to elaborate the techniques of tackling the strenuous period of pre-examination,” said principal Yogesh Maheswari. Sunny Prep & High School recently encouraged its students to contribute to Amar Kolkata exhibition in Gallery on Wheels, the art-gallery tram launched by the West Bengal Transport Corporation. The students collected several items related to the exhibition from their families and neighbourhood. The items that included traditional Bengali outfits, Bengali sweets, Bengali films and books for children were showcased in Gallery on Wheels during a journey from Tollygunge to Ballygunge on March 13. The students also made people understand the damage caused by plastic and actively took part in spreading the No Plastic awareness through slogans and pictorial depiction. “To me, the future generation is the treasure box and being an educator, we need to unlock the door and let them unfold their wings. Keeping this in mind, we planned a wonderful journey on wheels. Introducing to them the global climatic threats and also keeping them grounded to their roots would help them take up initiatives and responsibilities even while being closely in touch with the soil. The activity was engaging and it definitely developed the ownership, pride and the responsibility in their minds,” said principal 
Pubali Bhattacharya. Vivekananda Mission School, Joka, recently celebrated the 158th birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda on the school premises. Only teachers and staff members gathered at the school for the event. A puja conducted in the temple on the school’s new premises was streamed live on Facebook. The school compound was decked up with flowers. The teachers and staff members joined hands for the puja rituals, following the required safety measures and Covid protocols. Few teachers prepared the bhog. “Swamiji’s birth anniversary brings the entire VMS family together every year. However, this time, it was a closed-door celebration, following strict protocols of the pandemic. But the puja, yajna and other rituals were performed as usual. Students, parents and alumni were a part of the programme, though not physically but virtually,” said principal Sarmistha Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Pillion rider run over in Calcutta||A 57-year-old man riding pillion on a motorbike died after he fell and a bus ran over him at the crossing of the Tollygunge tram depot and Deshapran Sashmal Road on Wednesday morning. Joydip Chakraborty, a resident of Parui Kachcha Road in Sarsuna, was declared dead at Baghajatin State General Hospital. A police officer said CCTV footage from the spot showed how the bike jumped a little before the pillion rider lost balance and fell to his left. “According to witnesses, the bus driver pressed the brakes. But before it could come to a halt, the man came under the wheels,” the officer said. Debojyoti Dutta  was arrested after he allegedly failed to explain why he was carrying Rs 45.57 lakh when he was intercepted in Bowbazar on Wednesday. The police have alerted the income tax department. The accused is from Agarpara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Taps to stop water waste in Calcutta||A group of young volunteers went around the city recently and fitted taps at over 200 water collection points from where water flowed and was wasted, something common in Calcutta where water wastage is very high. The volunteers visited areas where a lot of people go to the community water collection points to collect it in containers. The heads of many of these points did not have taps, while some others had broken or loose taps. A volunteer said local people told them that the taps either got stolen or they broke in the course of natural wear and tear over the years. In some places, the volunteers found that local people had pushed a piece of cloth into the mouth of the collection point to prevent wastage, but there was still some leakage. A large volume of water produced in the water treatment plants of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation is wasted. “Water is a natural resource that we should not waste. Many of us are privileged to have access to clean water by just turning on the tap. But it is a limited resource and there are many who do not have access to clean water,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairman of the IHA Foundation, a philanthropic organisation whose volunteers fitted the taps. “We visited places like Entally, Park Circus and Beniapukur between March 18 and 22 and fitted over 200 taps. We also gave the local people our numbers so that they contact us if they see any water collection point with a broken or missing tap,” said Ahluwalia. Officials of the CMC have said that the civic body sends 488 million gallons of water into the city’s distribution system every day, but nearly half of it goes to waste or is unaccounted for. Water resources experts said about 250 million gallons of water should be adequate to meet Calcutta’s daily needs. Unaccounted for water is the volume that is lost because of leaks in pipes. It is also the water that overflows from reservoirs in homes or from taps at community water collection points. A project undertaken by the CMC has revealed that Calcuttans consume abnormally high volumes of water, far surpassing the limit set by the Central Public Health and Environmental Engineering Organisation. The limit is 150 litres per person per day in metropolitan cities. As part of the project, the CMC installed water meters in wards 1 to 5 in north Calcutta to read the volume of water entering into houses. It was found that households were consuming up to 900 litres per day. Water resources engineers have said that Calcutta still doesn’t feel the scarcity of water because the Hooghly flows along the city. But if the increasing use of water from the Hooghly for treatment to meet the city’s daily water needs is not controlled, a day will come when the scarcity would be felt. “The water that is collected from the river is more turbid and saline than before. It is pushing up costs of treatment. A time will come when the treatment costs will become so high that the government will find it difficult to increase production. That will lead to water scarcity. So, it is time we stopped wasting water and used it judiciously,” said a water resources expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||IIM Calcutta names new director||The board of governors of IIM Calcutta on Wednesday named Subir Bhattacharya, the senior most teacher on the campus, the director in-charge. Anju Seth, the first woman director of the B-school, resigned on Sunday. Sources on the campus said Seth submitted her resignation to the board late Sunday night, referring to a breakdown of confidence between her and board chairman Shrikrishna Kulkarni. According to a source, she alleged that Kulkarni ran a smear campaign against her with the support of the board. Calls to Seth on Wednesday went unanswered. Kulkarni could not be reached either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Indian Association for Cultivation of Science's ‘climbdown’ on Hindi after protest||The Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science on Wednesday said its purported attempt to impose Hindi on the campus “does not pertain to any scientific research or instructions” but only “a part of administrative office work”. What appeared to be a climbdown for the time being came after hundreds of students and research scholars from the Jadavpur campus followed health protocols and formed a human chain that snaked through its leafy pathways. The students wrote in large font on the football field: “No Hindi Imposition”. The 144-year-old institute, many of those associated with it for decades said, had not seen such a protest in many years. In the circular issued on Wednesday, acting registrar Purbasha Banerjee said: “All concerned are hereby requested to note that the circular…. dated 19.03.2021 does not pertain to any scientific research or instructions or even answering. Only a part of administrative work needs to be done in Hindi as per the Official Languages Act 1963 and Official Language Rule 1976.” It went on to add that the “Rajbhasha programme" has been there in the institute for many years. “Please note that no new ‘imposition’ order has come from DST (department of science and technology) and it is a part of continuing practice in the administrative matter only.” On Wednesday, research scholars and undergraduate and postgraduate students assembled on the campus around 3.30pm. They had black badges pinned on them. “The human chain went past the footfall ground that had written on it: ‘NO HINDI IMPOSITION’,” said a teacher who did not want to be named fearing retribution from the administration. The human chain lasted for half an hour. Metro asked several protesters what made them take the unusual step? A scholar said: “What has unfolded in view of the circular on March 19 did mar the image of the esteemed institution. The protest was organised to convey the message to the authorities that they should think twice before issuing such a circular.” The human chain dissolved at 4pm and the fresh circular, issued by the acting registrar on Wednesday, landed in the mailbox of the students at 4.45pm. The circular said towards the end: “While IACS admits making a broadcast inadvertently, but it is not in place that an internal circular had been made public.” India’s oldest science research institute - where C.V. Raman had in 1928 discovered the Raman Effect, for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize in physics two years later - was told in the March 19 circular that it was not doing enough to meet the Hindi language targets set by the Centre. “It is to be noted that after reviewing the official language activities in the institute, it has been observed that the institute is not yielding the desired results in achieving the official language targets as given by the Government of India, ministry of home affairs, department of official language. We have received an adverse letter issued by DST (department of science and technology). This is a very worrying situation,” read the March 19 circular from the acting registrar. After protests, that accusatory note was superseded by one on March 23, which said : “DST… conveyed inadequacy in implementing official language at IACS. Individuals are requested to make a note of the same and approach the part-time Hindi officer of the institute for any help and assistance if needed.” Many like Harvard history professor Sugata Bose saw a “climbdown” in the latest circular, which tried to clarify that Hindi was not being imposed on the scientific fraternity. But Bose added that the word “Rajbhasha” could mislead people. “Hindi is termed Rajbhasha, although we don’t have any national language (Jatiya Bhasha). The word ‘official’ (language) has been translated into ‘Raj’ but I think it gives more weight to the word official than it merits. ‘Rajbhasha’ denotes lording over. The word ‘official’ could have been translated in some other way,” Bose said on Wednesday. Bose went on to add that his mother Krishna Bose, a former MP, was a member of Parliament’s Rajbhasha Committee. “As a member of the committee, her role was to protect various institutions from heavy-handed interventions of those who were over-enthusiastic about Hindi,” said Bose. Bose added: “An institution like the Indian Association for the Cultivation of Science should be able to stand up to this threat in a dignified way. We should not tolerate this imposition of this concept of Hindu, Hindi, Hindustan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid grounds Calcutta airport expansion plan||The city airport has put on hold a Rs 1,000-crore expansion project because the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a sharp drop in the passenger count and revenue and the authorities are not sure when the volume would reach the pre-pandemic level. In the past year, the airport has lost 10 million passengers and a Rs 600-crore profit plunged to aRs 200-c rore loss. The shelving of the project once again shows how the Covid-19 pandemic had a deep impact on the country's economy. “The airport recorded a huge drop in the passenger count in 2020-21. We are not sure when the passenger count would go up again because there is a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. Also, there is a shortage of funds because of revenue loss. So, at this point the expansion project has been shelved,” said an official of the Airports Authority of India. According to the official, a project consultant, a construction agency and around 10 other subsidiary firms would have received contracts for the job had the project taken off in 2021-22. In the financial year 2019-20, the airport had handled 22 million passengers, said an official. Because of the pandemic, the airport would have handled only around 12 million passengers in the 2020-21 fiscal, which will end on March 31, an official at the airport said. In 2019-20, the airport had earned a profit of Rs 600 crore. With a sharp drop in the number of passengers and most commercial activities stalled, it has suffered a loss of Rs 200 crore this fiscal, the official said. The integrated terminal was built to handle 26 million passengers in a year. According to estimates of the authorities, the airport would have achieved the capacity to handle 26 million passengers by 2022-23 if things had gone the usual way. The extended terminal in the first phase of expansion was supposed to become operational by 2024. But now, officials said, it was not clear when the project would finally take off. In February 2020, Metro had reported that the AAI had sanctioned the Phase I of the expansion plan. The master plan of the expansion, designed by Landrum & Brown, a US-based firm that specialises in aviation planning and development, was sanctioned in 2020. The plan included demolition of the existing old domestic building adjacent to the new integrated terminal. An extension of the integrated terminal, spread across 80,000sq m, was to come up there. There would have been a new boarding area with at least 10 aerobridges, more security check-in and airline check-in counters. Passenger flight services were completely stalled from end-March till end-May. Later, domestic flights resumed in phased manner. Now domestic flights are operating but regular international flights are yet to resume. A few international flights from places like Dubai are operating to Calcutta as part of an air transport bubble arrangement. Transport bubbles are arrangements between two countries to resume commercial passenger flights when regular services are suspended because of the Covid pandemic. Many retail and food stores had also remained closed for several months and they had appealed for concessions in licence fees. “Because of lack of earnings and the concessions given to several agencies, the airport suffered a loss of Rs 200 crore,” said an official. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 70 on Wednesday, taking the count to 3,782. The state on Wednesday recorded 462 new infections and 334 recoveries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Weather forecast: Weekend break in dry spell on radar||The mercury has been pushing 38 degrees but the heat is unusually dry this time. The moisture content in the atmosphere has been on the lower side for several days now. The minimum relative humidity — a marker of the moisture content in the air during the driest part of the day — had been hovering under 30 degrees till Tuesday (see chart). As a result, people are sweating comparatively lesser than they do when the Celsius goes past 37 degrees. “The usual minimum relative humidity in March-end is over 40 per cent. But this year, it has been unusually low,” said a Met official. He attributed the low humidity to “lack of winds from the Bay of Bengal”. Another impact of the low moisture content has been the absence of local thunderstorms. The high heat and humidity content towards the end of March usually combine to trigger a few spells of thunderstorms in the evenings. The pent-up heat leads to the formation of rain-bearing clouds. But this time, the city has not seen any thunderstorm so far. That could change from the weekend, the Met office has said. “The dry heat is expected to persist till Friday. There could be some winds from the Bay from Saturday. There is a possibility of thunderstorm activities towards the evening from Sunday,” the Met official said. “Calcutta is also expected to be under the grip of a pressure gradient during the weekend, which could see winds blowing at 30kmph and above in the city,” said the official. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the Met office at Alipore has dismissed reports on social media about “a tropical cyclone likely to form over the Bay of Bengal in the end of March”. “As of now, there is no such possibility,” said an IMD official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Reschedule practical for Calcutta students with Covid: CBSE||CBSE schools in the city can reschedule a board exam practical for a Class XII student if he or she tests positive for Covid-19, principals have been told. The regional office of the CBSE has said that if any candidate tests positive for Covid-19 and “is not in a position to appear in the practical exam”, the practical for that student can be held at a later date. Heads of at least two schools said that this decision will reassure parents and students. Several schools in the city have either started the Class XII board practicals or will start soon amid rising Covid cases. Three city schools closed down for about a week because two students and a teacher tested positive. But there is still no information regarding theory papers, which are to begin on May 4 (for Classes X and XII). For any board exam-related decision, the schools will have to follow instructions from the board. “You may conduct practical exam of Covid-19 positive (student).... again in later stage and submit their marks manually so that we can upload the marks manually from (the) regional office,” said the message for all schools under the regional office, Bhubaneswar. The candidates appear for the practicals in their respective schools and external examiners conduct the exams. “If a student cannot appear for the practicals (after testing positive), the school can reschedule his or her exam. The external examiner will have to come at a later date to conduct the practical. We will have to send a letter to the board office informing them about the candidate,” said Loveleen Saigal, the principal of Birla High School, which is scheduled to start the practicals on March 31. “We wanted to finish the pre-board exams before starting the practicals,” she said. The schools can send the marks of the candidate who appears separately for the practical exam by post so it can be manually uploaded by the regional office. The schools can upload the practical marks of all other students. Principals said the communication from the board will encourage parents not to hide a child’s health information from the school. “It is reassuring for parents because they will know that the child will not miss the exam,” said Rita Chatterjee, director, North Point Senior Secondary Boarding Schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Six more fliers with UK, South African strains ||Six fliers who had arrived from Dubai between March 9 and 13 and tested positive for Covid-19 have been admitted to ID Hospital in Beleghata after they were found to be carrying the UK and South African strains of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Two fliers with the UK strain were earlier admitted to the Beleghata hospital. The six were admitted between Tuesday night and Wednesday afternoon after their results reached the health department. All of them had been sent home and asked to stay in isolation after testing positive. “Among the six patients who have been admitted over the past 24 hours, one is a carrier of the South African strain. The rest have tested positive for the UK strain,” said a doctor at the Beleghata hospital. “While most of them are asymptomatic, a few have complained of pain in the throat and are running a mild fever.” “Those admitted are mostly from Nadia and South 24-Parganas and are between 25 and 46. A majority of them are labourers,” said a senior official of the hospital. Another seven fliers who had arrived from Dubai after March 13 tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent to the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics in Kalyani for confirming whether they are infected with any mutant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Girls’ High School shifts exams online for X, XII||Calcutta Girls’ High School that was conducting Class X and XII pre-board exams on the campus on Wednesday decided to hold the remaining papers online as a precaution amid the rise in Covid cases. The online exams will start on Thursday following the same timetable, the school said. “We have told parents that because of the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, we are discontinuing the on-campus exams,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of the school. The pre-board exams in the school had started last week. In each class — X and XII — barring eight to ten students, everyone had been present, an official said. Three city schools had to shut their campuses for about a week after students and a teacher tested positive for Covid-19. Schools had been shut since March 2020 as a precaution against Covid and reopened for Classes IX to XII on February 12. “Though we are following all safety measures in the school, the number of cases is steadily rising in the city and the school did not want to take the risk,” an official of Calcutta Girls’ said. Teachers of several schools had advocated for on-campus exams so students of Classes X and XII could practise writing pen-and-paper tests before they write the boards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-103
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Email ID for higher secondary queries||The state higher secondary council has come up with a helpline in the form of an email address where students can send any query related to the examinations due in June. The examinees can send their queries to hs2021@gmail.com. Usually, the council comes up with helplines every year in the form of phone numbers a day before the start of the theory papers so examinees can alert the council about any emergency. ’The launch of a helpline three months before the start of the exams is something new,’’ said a council member. What prompted the council to launch such a helpline? Another official of the council said a major change had taken place this year with the state government pruning the syllabuses for the students of Classes X and XII, who will write their board exams in June, as in-person classes could not be held because of the Covid pandemic. A student might have several queries as to how he or she should prepare based on the revised syllabus, he said. “It has to be kept in mind that even as the reduction was announced last November, in-person classes (for Classes IX to XII) only began on February 12. Most of the time students have been in touch with teachers on digital platforms and this may not be adequate. So we are trying to be available to them as much as possible to address their queries,” the council member said. The headmaster of a school in south Calcutta said the attendance of students of Class XII on the campus had drastically gone down since Covid cases started increasing over the past few days. “So our plan to clear their queries on how they could prepare factoring in the reduction in syllabus by holding classes extensively from February 12 has failed. It is good that the council has decided to address their queries in the run-up to the exams,’’ he said. Another head of the institution said the examinees could have queries on what could be the health protocols during the exams. ’’Examinees can ask such questions amid the pandemic,” he said. On February 12, the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education had come out with topic-wise division of marks in each subject. “We are expecting queries about topic-wise distribution of marks as well,’’ said a council official. We have formed a panel of experts to answer the queries.” The council’s notice says examinees while asking questions must mention their registration numbers, roll numbers and other relevant details. Calls and a text message to council president Mahua Das did not elicit any response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
25-03-2021||Calcutta||Device replaces 54-year-old man’s heart chamber||A portion of the heart of a 54-year-old man from Raipur was replaced by an artificial device at a private hospital in Calcutta on Wednesday. Without the device, doctors said, the patient would have required a heart transplant. Heart transplants are unpredictable and a large number of people listed for a transplant die before they get a cadaver donor. “Unlike heart transplant, implantation of an artificial device that replaces the function of a portion of the heart is not common,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, who performed the surgery to implant the artificial left ventricular assist device at Medica Superspecialty Hospital. The two ventricles of the heart act like pumps. The right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs, while the left ventricle pumps blood to the rest of the body. The left ventricle of the 54-year-old man was not functioning properly. If the left ventricle doesn’t work, other organs will stop working. The artificial left ventricular assist device implanted on Monday will perform the function of the pump. “Basically we are adding another pump. Most of the blood of the left ventricle will be diverted to this new pump (the artificial device), which will maintain the essential circulation for the body,” said Sarkar. “The man suffered a devastating heart attack about three months back. We did a bypass surgery and he went back home, but his heart function was not picking up at all. The heart muscles were badly damaged. He had symptoms like breathlessness and needed repeated hospitalisation,” said Sarkar. “We did not want the situation to turn worse. We had listed him for a heart transplant but a heart transplant is unpredictable…. If there are 100 people listed for heart transplant, on an average 20 people get it,” Sarkar said. As the patient was getting clinically sicker, the doctors decided to go for an artificial implant of the left ventricle. Sarkar said about 300 people across the world have undergone artificial left ventricular implantation and survived more than seven years after the procedure. A person fitted with a device can work normally but is advised to not swim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-104
