26-03-2021||Calcutta||Krishna hands over charge to commissioner||The municipal commissioner of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) took over as its administrator earlier this week as the Trinamul Congress-led board of administrators that was running the day-to-day activities of the civic body got dissolved. The dissolution of the boards of administrators running urban local bodies took place across Bengal after the Election Commission of India (ECI) restrained political appointees from serving as administrators of municipal corporations, whose term has ended, till the model code of conduct for the election is in force. Debashis Ghosh, the BMC municipal commissioner, took over as administrator from Monday. Krishna Chakraborty, who was the chairperson of the board of administrators, stepped down as did all the ward coordinators. According to a senior official, problems will now be redressed directly by civic officials. The respective ward offices will act as the first point of contact for residents. In case the problem persists, they can visit their borough office and bring the matter to the notice of the officials there. If the problem is still not solved then the resident can visit the concerned department at Poura Bhavan. According to Ghosh, his focus areas would be management of Covid-19 and to ensure that the maximum number of people get the vaccine. “We are trying to make the vaccine centres run by the civic body more popular so that we can innoculate the maximum number of people,” said Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||‘No Holi’ for the Roys of CD block||Other families may be on the warpath trying to stop their kids from playing Holi in the middle of a pandemic but not the Roys of CD Block. Here, it is nine-year-old Soumit Roy who has declared to all at home that they will skip celebrations this year. “Our puppy Alpha’s coat is pristine white and if he jumps on us after we play Holi, his coat will get ruined. The chemicals are harmful for him too,” explains Soumit. Alpha, the English Golden Retriever, came home barely two months ago but he has already made Soumit way more responsible than his parents had hoped for. The boy does everything from feeding the pup meals and medicines to bathing and disciplining him. Why, the other day when the vet asked what medicines Alpha was having, Soumit’s mother Sampita fumbled with the name but the boy spelt it out perfectly! Soumit and Alpha run and play so much that to compensate, Alpha has recently got an extra meal added to his diet chart. The boy’s face is full of scratch marks received from the puppy in affection and Soumit wears them like a badge of honour. “But Alpha needs to be disciplined and I scold him when necessary,” he says. Tales of Alpha’s misdeeds include tearing most of Soumit’s pants, chewing up his mom’s spectacle arms and grandpa’s slippers, uprooting Gladioli from the garden and devouring a double chicken roll meant for his elder brother Souporno. The family also has a paludarium, that they created out of their aquarium some months ago. A paludarium is an eco-system of both aquatic and terrestrial elements. It has lovely rocks, plants and fish, names of which Soumit rattles off in a single breath: “Guppy, Neon Tetra, Cardinal Tetra, Harlequin Rasbora…” The house has a room full of birds too. In fact, birds were the first pets for the kids as the parents wanted to see how much care they took of their winged friends before getting a dog, that would clearly be more demanding. The kids sailed through that test with flying colours. With Alpha coming in, the family has a new concern. “The other day I was playing with Pecky, a Lutino Fischer bird, in my hand when Alpha leapt and took him in his mouth,” says Soumit. “Luckily Souporno managed to wrest open Alpha’s mouth and rescue the bird, unharmed. Now we have to be very careful when opening the bird cages.” Alpha has come from the kennel of a renowned breeder in Guwahati and Soumit, along with his parents, had flown over to get him. “Alpha is much cuter and larger than I expected,” smiles the boy. “His ears are, in fact, so large that they dip into his food bowl when he eats and get soaked. So when he eats now I fasten his ears above his head with a clip!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Tips to train a puppy||Many families have got puppies during the pandemic to help overcome boredom, cope with depression or simply because the work-from-home setup finally allows them to spend time with pets. While a dog will happily be your constant companion, pet owners need to realise that pets have their own needs, emotions, likes and dislikes. Getting a pet during a pandemic also has some additional challenges that were addressed in a webinar by Paramita Das, canine trainer and behaviourist and a resident of FE Block. In the concluding part of her discourse she explained how to prepare your dog, your environment and yourself for what’s to come- Impose limits Your dog is learning from his first day and unless you teach him what’s acceptable, he will be teaching you his rules. This is especially the case with headstrong breeds like Beagles. The more restrictions you put on your dog early in life, the more freedom he’ll enjoy later and vice versa. Otherwise, if you let him tear things and jump over people in his early days, you’ll have to keep him tied up later on when guests come calling. It’s all right to keep your dog in a crate for a couple of hours but don’t let it be only to discipline him. Make the crate a den that dog loves — make it is big, well-ventilated and enriching. Keep chew toys or ones home-made toys made of old towels and jeans. Lockdown pups While many homes are taking in pets now, it is not without challenges. No touch and feel- Many breeders are not allowing people to go over and see the litters. But it is not enough to choose a puppy by simply seeing his video. How will you check if his living conditions are clean? The deadly parvovirus is doing the rounds the now but how will you check if the pup is healthy on camera? Lack of socialisation- Secondly, even if you get home a puppy, how to give him 100 new experiences and 100 new people to interact with every month? The best you can do is dress up in different get-ups yourself. Wear a hat, shawl, lungi, hoodies, crawl on the floor, stand on a chair… even if your smell is the same, at least you are looking different to your dog. While exposing him to these new experiences, do not force him to go near it. Allow him time and distance and he will explore and overcome the fear himself. Separation anxiety- Dogs are getting used to their pet parents being around all the time now but what will happen when the pandemic is finally over? You will go to work, movies, wedding ceremonies and your dog will be miserable home alone. The solution is to not to allow him to be around you all the time. Encourage him to relish some me-time. In fact, right from the day he comes, don’t spend the first 48 hours glued to him. He’ll cry for a bit but then quieten up. Otherwise he’s training you to be at his beck and call. You can keep your dog home alone for six to seven hours safely as that’s how long he can hold his bladder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Many flavours of festivity||Spicy Mexican Papdi Chaat Ingredients • 1 tspn garlic chopped • 1 onion (finely chopped) • 1 tbsp tomato puree • 1 tbsp red chilli paste • 1 cup red, yellow and green bell peppers (chopped) • 2 tbsp oil • 2 cups chopped tomatoes • 1 cup sweet corn kernels • 1 cup red kidney beans, boiled • 1 cup black eyed cowpea beans, boiled • 1 small bunch fresh coriander, chopped • Chilli flakes, salt, pepper to taste • 2 tbsp liquid cheese spread • Fresh parsley/ coriander to garnish • 2 tbsp sliced jalapenos to garnish • A dash of tobasco sauce to garnish • 200g ready-made papdi Instructions • Heat the oil in a large frying pan over medium heat. Fry the garlic and onion until soft. Mix in the tomato puree and red chilli paste. Add the chopped bell peppers and cover with a lid. Cook for 10 minutes (stir from time to time). • Add the chopped tomatoes and cook for another 10 minutes. Add the corn and beans and cook for another 5-10 minutes, until everything is heated through and bubbling. • Remove from heat and stir in the fresh coriander, chilli flakes, salt and pepper. Let it cool a bit. Now place the papdi in a serving platter and top with the Mexican mixture. Pour liquid cheese spread on top and serve garnished with sliced jalapenos and parsley, with a dash of tobasco sauce. Ingredients • Full fat milk 4 cups • Cardamom powder 1/2 tsp • Basmati rice ¼ cup • Sugar 6 tbsp • Gulkand 2 tsp • Rose water 1 tsp • Chopped pistachios 2 tbsp • Fresh rose petals/ buds, a few slices of kiwi/ strawberry to garnish Instructions • Wash the basmati rice in water a couple of times and soak in water for half an hour. This will make the grinding easier. Using a blender, grind rice to a fairly smooth paste, adding a few tablespoons of milk. Set aside. • In a large, thick-bottomed saucepan, start heating the milk on medium-high heat. When the milk boils, add the rice paste and reduce heat to medium. Cook the rice, stirring often to avoid any lumps. In about 10-15 minutes, the rice will be cooked. Cook the pudding further till it reduces and thickens, for around 10 more minutes. • Add sugar and gulkand. Stir well to dissolve. Taste and add more sugar or gulkand, if needed. • Remove from heat and add a few drops of rosewater. Rest for five minutes, but not more than that as the phirni will begin to set, as it cools. • Transfer phirni to a big serving bowl or individual dessert bowls and cool to room temperature. Refrigerate for a couple of hours so that the phirni sets properly. • Serve cold phirni garnished with chopped pistachios, fruit slices and fresh rose petals. Ingredients For Thandai Powder • Almonds 1/4 cup • Cashew nut 1/4 cup • Pistachios 1/4 cup • Poppy seeds 1 tbsp • Saunf 1.5 tbsp • Watermelon seeds/ Magaj seeds 1 tbsp • Pepper 1 tbsp • Cardamom seeds 1.5 tbsp For the Cheesecake • Crushed cream crackers biscuits- 200g • Unsalted butter 2 tbsp • Tighly hung and drained curd 1 cup • Cream cheese 1 cup • Powdered sugar 1/2 cup • Thandai masala 2-3 tbsp • A few fennel seeds and gulkand to garnish • Multicolour sprinklers and edible flowers/ rose petals to garnish • White chocolate squares to garnish Instructions • Mix together all the ingredients of Thandai Powder and blend to a smooth powder. Store in an airtight container and use as rquired. • Now take a nine inch springform pan and grease it. Take the cream crackers and add melted butter to it. Mix well. Once blended to a crumbly mixture, spread it evenly at the bottom of the pan. Press with a spoon and set it evenly. Keep the pan in the freezer for about 20 minutes, till you mix the cheesecake batter. • Using a hand blender, cream together the hung curd and cream cheese. Now add the powdered sugar in it and mix again. You can adjust the sugar as per your taste. Next, add 2-3 tablespoons of Thandai Powder. Again beat well. • Take out the pan from the refrigerator and spread the cheese cake batter on it. To get a sharp even edge at the top, use a spoon dipped in hot water and level the top. Transfer the pan back to the refrigerator and chill for about five to six hours. For best results chill overnight. • Once set, run a wet knife around the edges and then remove the cake from the pan. Cut into slices. Garnish with scattered fennel seeds, multicoloured sprinklers, gulkand, white chocolate squares and edible flowers/ rose petals to make the cheesecake look like a colourful blast. • Enjoy this Thandai Cheesecake with your family and friends! Ingredients For the samosas • Plain flour 2 cups • Heaped tablespoons butter 2 • Water as needed • Oil for frying For coconut filling • Dessicated coconut 1/2 cup • Grated khoya 1/2cup • Coarsely powdered sugar 1/2 cup • Cardamom powder 1/2 tsp • Chocolate sauce to serve • Mixed chopped nuts 4 tbsp (Cashews, raisins, almonds and pistachios) Instructions • Begin with making the pastry. In a bowl, add the butter and use your fingertips to mix the butter into the flour, until it resembles breadcrumbs • Add water, a few tablespoons at a time. Use your hands to knead the dough until it forms a firm dough. Be careful not to add too much water. If the dough becomes too wet it will be too difficult to work with. • Allow the dough to rest, while you make the filling. Now mix well all the ingredients for the filling in a bowl. • Take small lemon-sized balls out of the dough and begin rolling them out into circles, much like making a small chapatti. Cut the circles into four quarters. • Now press the edges of each quarter together to form a small conical shape of a samosa. Now fill each of the samosas with the coconut khoya mixture and seal the open edge, pressing, by taking a little water on your fingers. • Heat oil in a deep wok or pan on medium heat. Fry the samosas on medium heat, till golden and crisp. • Drizzle with some chocolate sauce. Serve immediately. Ingredients • Butter 1 tsp + 1 tbsp • Sweet corn 1 cup (I used frozen) • All purpose flour / maida 3 tbsp • Milk 1 cup • Cheese 1/2 cup grated • Red chilli flakes – 1 tsp • Coriander leaves – 2 tbsp finely chopped • Salt to taste • Oil for deep frying • Breadcrumbs 1/2 cup Method • Heat 1 tsp butter in a pan, add in corn and saute till cooked for around two minutes. Remove this to a mixer and puree coarsely. • Now in the same pan, add one tablespoon of butter and flour and saute for two minutes or so. Add in milk and keep mixing till it comes together. • Add in corn and fold well. Add in cheese and mix well. Add in salt, chilli flakes, coriander leaves and mix well. • Now remove this to a bowl and let it cool. Take lemon-sized small portions from the corn mix and shape into balls. Now roll in breadcrumbs and arrange in a plate. Chill this in the freezer for 30 minutes. • Now heat oil for deep frying. Slide the Corn Croquettes in the hot oil and fry till golden. Serve hot with green chutney.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Holi: to play or not to play||Most blocks, complexes and cultural groups are skipping Holi celebrations this year. A handful are tweaking plans to replace colours with cultural programmes or holding just the Holika Dahan and puja. Very few are throwing caution to the wind and celebrating the festival of colours no holds barred. “This will be the first time in 24 years that we won’t have probhat pheri on Dol,” says Sujit Gupta of the EE Block association. “We usually have about 250 residents taking part  in the march and they rehearse for songs and dances from a month in advance. We’ll sorely miss the event this year but then our cultural programmes got called off during the Pujas too. Safety first!” Soumen Goswami, secretary of CB Block, blames the second strain of coronavirus for the cancellation of their probhat pheri. “Every year we march together, play with colours and eat breakfast in the park. But all this is too risky this year, especially since the event is very popular among senior citizens,” he says. Holi was the last event Salt Lake Lok Sanskriti held before the lockdown last year and if not for recent rise in Covid cases, they would have held a low-key Holi this year too. “But how can we enforce social distancing in a festival where colours are to be applied to one another? We also considered holding just a cultural programme in a banquet hall but after making all arrangements, what if no one turned up in fear of Covid?” asks Kamlesh Kejriwal, secretary of the group. Compromised celebration Residents of Uniworld City, in association with Iskcon New Town, on Tuesday held a version of Holi where distancing could somewhat be maintained. It was called “phoolon ki Holi”. “We got 25kg of flowers and offered the petals to Radha-Krishna. These petals were then showered on dancers as they performed. There were bhajans, chhapan bhog cooked by devotees….” said Annu Bengani, a resident of the complex and one of the organisers. “To maintain Covid protocol we capped the guest list at 150. Many got offended at not being invited but what could we do?” Salt Lake Sanskritik Sansad has called off its Holi gathering but is going ahead with its Holika Dahan on Sunday night at CB Park. “We shall also have a phulon ki holi at Mewar banquet above Big Bazaar with puja and bhajans. Due to Covid, we don’t expect a large crowd,” says Suresh Gupta of the cultural committee of the group. AE (Part II) is holding Neda Pora on Satuday, Holika Dahan on Sunday and instead of playing with colours, laying out thandai and snacks for an adda. “This will be strictly minus colours and plus masks,” says secretary Tapas Sengupta. “Residents are stressed because of the pandemic and a festival — held safely — can uplift their mood. ” BK Block has called off its probhat pheri in the morning and in the evening cut short the duration of its cultral programme and promised dinner only in food packets. “Many residents said they wanted to play, citing how lakhs of people are gathering for political rallies these days. While this is not something the block association endorses, individuals are free to play on their own,” says Chandra Sekhar Bag of the association. Going all the way The Mallika Malancha complex in New Town is going ahead with a two-day action-packed festival, like in other years. After Holika Dahan on Saturday night, there will be probhat pheri with songs and dances of the spring and some abir-playing. Next will be a cultural programme, breakfast of thandai, malpoa etc and full-on colour-playing. In the evening will be a Bollywood Dhamaka dance programme. Community lunch and dinner are part of the package, all though food packets will also be available. “We are going ahead with these plans as almost everyone in the complex agreed to them,” says Kakoli Saha of Mallika Malancha. “But some, like myself, have opted out of the play with colours and sit-and-eat segments due to Covid fears.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Turncoat ex-councillor back to TMC||Swati Banerjee, who won from Ward 5 in Rajarhat on a Trinamul Congress (TMC) ticket but had switched to BJP on March 14, is back again with TMC. The two-time councillor, who is known to be close to Sabyasachi Dutta, had joined BJP at a programme in Dum Dum Park with the former mayor announcing her induction as she was handed the saffron flag by Arjun Singh, another TMC turncoat. Dutta had joined BJP in October 2019. Her stint in the new party lasted all of seven days as she rejoined TMC on March 21 at Sujit Bose’s election office in AE Block in his presence. Bose is seeking re-election on a Trinamul ticket from Bidhannagar. Dutta is his main rival in the fray. The same day in the evening the AE Block resident was spotted sitting with other TMC councillors at Bose’s Holi programme in BF Park, wearing a “Vote for Sujit Bose” badge. “It (quitting Trinamul) was a hasty decision taken in a moment of rage,” Banerjee told The Telegraph Salt Lake on Tuesday, but refused to clarify who or what her rage was against. “I asked him (Dutta) if I could join BJP and joined the very next day. But then I realised I could not be with a communal party. I had simply stayed home and did not take part in any campaign for the BJP in that one week.” She said she had texted her resignation to Dutta, who did not respond to her message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Arch-rivals submit poll nomination on same day||Sujit Bose, the Trinamul Congress candidate, and his former party colleague and current rival Sabyasachi Dutta, who defected to the BJP, submitted their nomination paper to contest from the Bidhannagar seat of the state legislature on Wednesday. Both made their way to the administrative building in DJ Block at the head of rallies of supporters. Bose, a resident of Sreebhumi, arrived around 10.30am. His supporters were seen carrying balloons and posters of state government welfare schemes like Kanyasree, Khadyasree and Rupasree among others. Clad in white punjabi kurta teamed with a light blue Nehru jacket, Bose, like previous years, took a small detour and placed a garland on the statue of Bidhan Chandra Roy, the founder of Salt Lake. Many in the crowd tried to take selfies with him and cries of “Sujit Bose zindabad” rang out regularly. Near the administrative building, a song composed on Bose played from a small stage erected outside the Udayachal Tourist Lodge. Bose got into an open jeep and went up to the administrative building’s first floor and submitted his nomination papers to returning officer Biswajit Panda at around 11am. Most of his supporters waited near the small stage and many said that they had come from Duttabad, Sukantanagar, Chingrighata, Dum Dum Park, Sreebhumi, Nayapatty and Golaghata among others. At noon, Bose got out of the building and headed towards the small stage where his supporters cheered him on and slogans were raised. Bose also gave a small speech where he thanked everyone who had come and asked them to disperse in an orderly fashion. “I am quite confident that I will be able to retain this seat. I have been focussing on development and worked with people. They will not turn their backs on me. Many people are bad-mouthing me and my party but even then the BJP does not stand a chance here,” said Bose. Soon after Bose’s supporters cleared out, former mayor of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Sabyasachi Dutta arrived at the head of a rally that had started from CF Block near the swimming pool. Apart from his wife Indrani, Dutta had with him former South Dum Dum Municipality councillor Mriganka Bhattacharya who has also joined the BJP recently. Participants in the rally chanted the BJP’s rallying cry Jai Shree Ram and Sabyasachi zindabad while walking to the administrative building. Many supporters garlanded Dutta and some threw petals on him. Many rallyists carried balloons. Dutta entered the administrative building at around 12.45pm and walked up to the first floor where he first headed to the conference hall opposite the returning officer’s office. “I want to take rest for a few minutes before submitting the nomination,” said Dutta. He was in campaign mode even inside the building, greeting officials with the promise that his party would revise their salary scale as per the Seventh Pay Commission if voted to power. Dutta submitted his nomination papers to the returning officer at 1.15pm. “I had cleaned Salt Lake, freed its pavements of hawkers while I was the mayor. Sujit and the Trinamul Congress have not only let the hawkers back but they have created permanent settlements of dwellers near Rabindra Okakura Bhavan. People will not forget this and we are confident of winning,” said Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
26-03-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2020: A water tank at CC Block’s Post and Telegraph (P&T) quarters comes crashing on March 12. No one is hurt but residents are faced by water shortage. They claim to have been complaining about the dilapidated tank to the authorities (department of post and BSNL) for years but no repairs were carried out. 1887: Savitribai Phule, social reformer, educationalist and poet dies on March 10, while trying to save victims of bubonic plague. Although illiterate at the time of her marriage to Jyotirao Phule, Savitribai received an education thereafter and completed a teachers’ training programme. Along with her husband, she started one of India’s first schools for girls in Pune in 1848 and became one of the first female teachers in the country. At the time of her death, the couple ran 18 schools. 1946: Sailors at Bombay harbour go on strike on February 18, demanding better working conditions. The Royal Indian Navy mutiny spreads across British India, to ships at other locations, the air force, army, police and even the general masses who hold widespread riots from Karachi to Calcutta. Historians later study the episode as a struggle for freedom. 1977: The Emergency is withdrawn on March 21 after a period of 21 months. Declared by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi after she felt the state was threatened by internal disturbances, the Emergency was highly controversial, with elections suspended, civil liberties curbed and the Prime Minister bestowed the power to rule by decree. 1781: Astronomer William Herschel observes from his garden in England a celestial body on March 13. He reports it as a comet but further studies reveal it to be a planet, later named Uranus after the Greek god of the sky. It is the seventh planet from the sun, has 27 satellites and orbits the sun once in 84 years. 1914: Norman Borlaug is born on March 25. The American grows up to become an agronomist whose high-yield wheat varieties lead to massive increase in agricultural output in India, Pakistan and Mexico. Called the father of the Green Revolution, Borlaug’s methods are said to have saved over a billion people from starvation and he is later awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. 2017: Whanganui River of New Zealand is granted legal status as a person, on March 20. The river, sacred to the native Maori people, is recognised by the government as having all the rights, duties, liabilities and powers of a legal person. Environmentalists hail the move as henceforth, if anyone pollutes the water or conducts unauthorised activities in it, the river can sue them. 1678: Italian composer Antonio Vivaldi is born on March 4. Considered one of the greatest Baroque composers, Vivaldi creates many instrumental concertos, choral works and operas. While he dies in neglect and penury, his works are rediscovered in the 20th century and his compositions like Four Seasons, become popular around the world. 1943: Robert “Bobby” Fischer is born in Chicago on March 9. A chess prodigy, he wins a match dubbed “The Game of the Century” by experts, at the age of 13. At 14, he becomes the youngest ever American Chess Champion and at 15, the youngest Grandmaster. He wins the World Chess Championship in 1972 but soon after becomes reclusive, disappearing from the public eye for decades. He dies in 2008 but his contributions and books on the game remain priceless. 1998: Titanic becomes the first film to have two actors nominated for the Oscars for playing the same role. Kate Winslet, who plays the young Rose, is nominated for best actress and Gloria Stuart, who plays the older Rose, is nominated for Best Supporting Actress. At the March 23 ceremony, however, neither wins the award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||A year like no other||Abhijit Pandit Age: 48 Profession: Medical technologist, Bidhannagar Subdivisional Hospital A year ago: I was involved in doing routine pathological tests — blood sugar, urea, creatinine etc. I would handle 50-60 patients in course of my duty hours from 9am to 3pm. The lockdown and beyond: Our training to do the Covid sample collection and screening test took place over video conference from the district chief medical officer of health’s office. Later a colleague went to Chittanranjan National Cancer Institute in New Town to watch the test in person and taught us. We collect the swab ourselves and do the Rapid Antigen Test here (RAT). The RT-PCR samples have to be sent to Niced, SSKM, Calcutta Medical College or RG Kar Medical College, as instructed. The first Covid positive case in my hand came in mid-April. It was a doctor at our hospital. I was very tense, thinking whether I would get it too as I had collected the sample myself. Since the start, I was staying separately at home. But once my wife, who is a technician in a private hospital, caught Covid in August, my fear subsided. Despite taking so much precaution, the virus had entered our home. I collected her sample myself and took it for the test to the hospital in an icebox. My sons, aged 15 and 12, had a tough time then as despite testing negative, I continued to stay separately from them. As the number of tests piled up, from June till September I was collecting swabs of 150 to 200 people per day. While the steady supply of PPE right from the start gave us protection, the humidity made it impossible to work in them at a stretch. The swab may take a few seconds to collect but we have to complete the documentation beforehand which often takes time to register on the ICMR portal. So we would complete the filing of the entire queue together and then go down in PPE for the collection. On crowded days, collection would be done in three batches. We tried collecting from inside kiosks for some days for greater protection but gave up as our gloves would get torn if patients moved during collection. The maximum positive cases happened in August — about 40 per cent in RAT. More challenges came with the commencement of testing of international flight passengers. There was an order to track and test 220-odd passengers who had landed in December from London. The job was divided and 60 names came to us. Through December 31 till midnight and again early on January 1, I was running about in Salt Lake, New Town and the airport area collecting samples from homes. We also had to go for home collections in case of VIPs, Sukanya Home in Sector V and Child Care Home in Sukantanagar. Thankfully, till September we got picked up and could avoid public transport. Thoughts for tomorrow: We are testing 60-70 people per day now and positive findings are still low. But the new strains are a cause for worry. Masks are much less in use now. Half the people in the bus when I come don’t wear masks. When the maskless are coughing, I am reminded of the long hours and the fear and the inconvenience we went through when the infection had peaked. But what do they care! Age: 48 Profession: Police constable, Nabadiganta Traffic Guard Resident of: Baisakhi Abasan A year ago: We are used to doing eight-hour shifts on the road, manning the busy crossings of Sector V like College More, Loha Pool or Technopolis. When this virus was announced, we wondered how long it would be around. Lockdown and beyond: When the lockdown was declared, many young people staying alone in the city were stranded as their companies shut and they wanted to go home. We gave them lifts in our vehicles till the end of our jurisdiction, forming chains with other traffic guards so that their vehicles picked them up from where we dropped them off. Many locals, who were hard hit by the economic stalemate, asked for help. We raised money and helped many with rice, pulses and sugar. We came across such terrible situations! When we were posted at Haj House in New Town — it was being used as a Covid safe house — there was this man in his 40s who begged us from the third floor window of his isolation room to let him go home as his mother had died. But there was no way that a Covid positive person could be let out. Then there was this colleague of mine who broke down one day. His wife was refusing to let him into their bedroom as he was doing duty outdoors. Night after night, after toiling all day, he was having to sleep on the drawing room floor. Colleagues who have families in far-away places could not go home for months as they would not be allowed into the house. In the initial phase of the lockdown, we were mostly out on the streets, asking loiterers to go back home. We could make out that they were getting fed up staying indoors couped in their one or two-room accommodations. But still people mostly listened. During our Haj House duty, we had social workers or even local residents come to serve us tea and snacks. That made us feel special. We were put up in a nearby school but I was lucky as I stayed close by and my family or neighbours did not mind me coming home. Two in our traffic guard did get Covid around that time but that was among those on traffic duty in Sector V. So I was not exposed. During Puja, I was posted at Sreebhumi. The court order (declaring all pandals as containment zones) came as a relief. I asked my family if they wanted to go see the pandal one day since I was on duty there. But they refused to step out. Like them, people mostly abided by the order. Thoughts for tomorrow: I got my second dose of the vaccine three days ago at Seba and am now at the stadium, waiting to board a bus to West Midnapore. I will be on poll duty but am not sure where. Age: 38 years Profession: Phuchka seller at Kwality More, AE Block A year ago: I had left for my village in Uttar Pradesh days before the lockdown was announced. People had started talking about coronavirus and my customers had stopped coming in fear. I figured it would be best to lie low at home till the scare died down. Little did I know I’d have to spend four months there. Lockdown and beyond: I had started farming in the village. Meanwhile I would hear of other migrant labourers walking to their villages from the cities and thanked my lucky stars that I was home. No doubt I was apprehensive returning to Salt Lake after four months. I didn’t know if customers would come. But I got a huge moral boost when, on the very first day, Bablooda of the medicine shop that I sell phuchkas in front of, came and ordered a parcel of Rs 151 for his family. It was an auspicious reopening. Post Covid, the behaviour of customers has altered somewhat. While previously it was usual for crowds of six to hover around me eating, now no more than three want to gather. Some stay in their cars waiting for the crowd to thin out. Others ask for car-delivery or bring utensils to pack the phuchkas home. Some customers are careful about wearing masks now, but others laugh at me for wearing mine, saying the Covid scare is exaggerated. Nonetheless I still wear it and a use sanitiser too. Thoughts for tomorrow: I’m praying for an end to the pandemic even as I read about cases multiplying in Mahashtra. Another lockdown would be terrible. I won’t be voting as my permanent address is in UP and won’t be playing Holi either as my neighbours here in Golaghata play among themselves. I’ll come to work on Holi as usual, from 4pm. Age: 32 Profession: Scrap dealer of Sabitri Old Paper Purchase shop, BF Block A year ago: I was hearing about this virus but never bothered much. I thought it was China’s problem. Initially I was shocked at news of the lockdown but then I came to enjoy, even relish it. I lived the time of my life last year. Never before and never again will I get a two month long holiday. Yes, my savings got drained out but I got to spend time with my family and eat lots of fruits that were available at cheap rates as their export had been hampered due to movement restrictions. In fact I put on weight! My elderly colleague says all the sitting home idle has made him lose the stamina required in our line of work. Back to work: Old newspapers are the mainstay of our business but many people are still scared to let us into their houses to sell them. Some are bring out scraps to the street and ask us to weigh them. As for old books and copies, we can’t expect much as schools are in a limbo. Demand for old paper is high but since supply has fallen, the rate we pay to residents for paper has risen from about Rs 12 a kilo to almost Rs 19. Thoughts now: I’m looking forward to Holi and nothing can come between my favourite festival and me. I shall play in Ultadanga with at least 40 friends and family members. We even build human pyramids to break pots filled with things like curd, cowdung, colour. I shall go to vote too without any worries. Age: 52 Profession: Businessman Resident of: AD Block A year ago: On March 22 - the day of the junta curfew last year - I got a fever that later to be Covid, making me the first Covid patient of Salt Lake. Back then there was almost no medical infrastructure in place and I had a harrowing experience in the hospital. Doctors and nurses were scared to enter my room, I had no access to a toilet… The only saving grace is that I made a full recovery. Back to work: Even before the lockdown my routine was simply home to office and back and I still don’t know who I got Covid from. Nonetheless when we returned to office, we started providing pick-up and drop facility to our staff. Thoughts for tomorrow: I am busy with office work as the financial year-end is approaching but shall take the vaccine thereafter, in April. I’ll go to vote and partake in Holika dahan and a puja at home, without playing with colours. Age: 42 Profession: Cook Lockdown and beyond: I left for my district home in Duttaphulia, on Nadia-North 24 Parganas border, immediately on hearing of the lockdown announcement. My son is studying in college there. There was fear about the unknown disease that was being talked of and we wanted to stay together. The next seven-eight months were very tough as we had little to survive on except the rice and atta we got from the ration shop. Many of us got beaten up for venturing out of home by the police. Those of us who had stayed back in Salt Lake got sacked but some were given salaries though they were told not to come to work. Since I left, none of the houses I worked for offered me anything. Then Cyclone Amphan came and destroyed the tent we have here as home. We came back two months ago and found the tent torn and our bed soaking wet. We still have not managed to repair it. I got one cooking job back of the four I had and joined two new ones. My husband pulls rickshaw at Baisakhi. He has not been getting as many passengers to ferry as he used to as schools and offices have not reopened. We just make ends meet. In one house, I have to change from sari into nightie which I wash before leaving. The boudis have excused me from wearing a mask as it gets so hot in the kitchen. Thoughts for tomorrow: We are hearing rumours of another lockdown after the election. We won’t survive if it happens. Our savings are wiped out. Additional reporting by Debasmita Bhattacharjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 to felicitate best of the best in business||The best of the best in business will be felicitated in the city on Friday evening. The CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 Powered by International Institute of Hotel Management in association with Kutchina and The Telegraph will recognise veteran business leaders as well as emerging leaders who have steered their organisations during the Covid-19 crisis. There will be awards in the following categories — business Leadership, corporate leadership, emerging leader, innovation excellence, institutional excellence, public service and lifetime achievement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Over 150 indigenous parakeets rescued from a house in Narkeldanga||More than 150 indigenous parakeets were rescued from a house near the Narkeldanga intersection by officials of the forest department and the wildlife unit of Calcutta police’s detective department on Thursday. Mohammed Faiyaz, alias Barka, who had allegedly been operating an illegal trade in birds for several years, was arrested from his house during the raid. An official of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) said they had received information that a consignment of birds had landed at Faiyaz’s house. These birds were meant to be sold in different markets of the city and its fringes, including Galiff Street in north Calcutta, where birds are sold every Sunday, a forest official said. Trading in indigenous parakeets is prohibited under the Wildlife Protection Act. Agni Mitra, the regional deputy director, WCCB, said they found the birds crammed inside small cages. The rescued birds have been sent to the Wild Animal Rescue and Transit Facility Centre in Salt Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court lifts curbs on schoolteacher’s salary||The high court on Thursday said teachers who had already enrolled in postgraduate courses when they got the job need not have prior permission from the state government to pursue the programmes. The court also rejected the school education department’s contention that such teachers were not eligible for a higher pay scale because they did not seek the permission of the district inspector (DI) of schools — a wing of the department — to pursue the courses. On Thursday, Justice Sekhar Bobby Saraf directed the education department to pay salary according to a higher scale to a teacher of a higher secondary school who had joined the service while studying master’s. The school education department had denied the teacher the scale on the ground that he had not obtained permission from the DI before enrolling for the postgraduate course. An official of the department said the order would benefit hundreds of teachers who have been denied a higher pay scale on the ground that they did not have the DI’s permission when they began postgraduate courses before joining the service. After the enactment of the School Control Expenditure Act in 2005, the state government had issued a notice announcing that the schoolteachers who did not obtain permission from the DIs before enrolling for postgraduate courses would not be paid at a higher scale. The act was introduced as part of austerity measures undertaken by the then Left Front government. But when Animesh Chowdhury, a mathematics teacher at a higher secondary school, and other teachers who had joined the service while they were studying postgraduate courses were declined higher pay scales, they decided to move court separately. Their contention was that the act could not be binding on them. While hearing the case filed by Chowdhury, the judge observed that since the teacher had joined the service while studying MSc, the question of obtaining permission from the DI did not arise. “Chowdhury had joined the school in 2011, when he was a student of Part II MSc in mathematics and obtained the degree the next year,” said advocate Ekramul Bari, who appeared on behalf of Chowdhury. The lawyer said other petitioners, too, would benefit from the order because the verdict would be used as a precedent. More than 100 such teachers were waiting for the outcome of the case, he said.. Advocate Supriyo Chattopadhyay appeared for the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Pollution test must for govt buses||Government buses can ply only after they have cleared pollution tests, the transport department has decided. Machines to test tail-pipe emissions are being set up across 11 bus depots. “Only a vehicle that clears the pollution test will be allowed to roll out of the depot,” an official of the transport department said. The buses are likely to be tested at the depots from mid-April, officials said. “Once the environment department certifies that the machines installed for testing tail-pipe emissions are in order, we will start testing,” said an official of the West Bengal Transport Corporation. “Each bus will have to undergo the test regularly and the depot managers will have to submit reports.” Tail-pipe emissions from buses and other diesel vehicles are among the greatest contributors to air pollution in Calcutta, several studies have revealed. A recent source apportionment study commissioned by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board and conducted by the National Environmental and Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) suggests that tail-pipe emissions could account for nearly a third of the PM2.5 in the air. PM2.5 are the most potent air pollutants that can enter deep into the lungs and trigger a host of critical ailments, including cancer. Transport department officials said each of the buses would undergo the same pollution test that all vehicles undergo and those found unfit will be immediately handed over to the maintenance team in the depot. “Around two years back I had moved the National Green Tribunal seeking to know why government buses in Bengal did not undergo the mandatory pollution check like other vehicles,” environment activist Subhas Datta said. “It will be a good move if the state government actually subjects its buses to pollution checks.” Transport department officials said that initially 1,200 buses, which ply within the city and its adjoining areas, would be made to undergo the test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Three killed after oil tanker collides with bike ||Three young men on a motorcycle died after the driver of an oil tanker lost control of the vehicle while taking a sharp turn and hit the two-wheeler early on Thursday. The accident took place at the crossing of Mayurbhanj Road and Diamond Harbour Road near Ekbalpore. The tanker, containing palm oil, was moving at a high speed and apparently could not negotiate the sharp turn it took at the Mayurbhanj Road crossing, police said. “It seems that the tanker tried to take a right turn at the same speed at which it was moving and could not negotiate the speed and the turn. It toppled and at that moment, a motorcycle plying along Mayurbhanj Road was coming from the opposite direction,” said an officer of Ekbalpore police station. The motorcycle, too, was moving at a high speed and was next to the tanker when it overturned, the officer said. The three men, aged between 20 and 23 years, were trapped under the tanker and had to be dragged out with the help of the disaster management group personnel. They had multiple injuries and were declared dead in hospital. The police identified them as Samir Ahmed, 23, of Mayurbhanj Road, Mohammad Rashidur Rahman, 20, a resident of Shah Aman Lane in Ekbalpore, and Mohammad Akil, 20, of Bhukailash Road. The driver of the tanker had fled but was later caught and booked under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code, which deals with the offence of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “When the driver knew that he was transporting palm oil, which has high density, and that it would not be possible to suddenly brake a heavy vehicle, he should not have been driving at a high speed in the first place. Also, he didn’t follow the basic rule that all vehicles should slow down while taking a turn,” a senior police officer in Lalbazar said. The crossing of Diamond Harbour Road and Mayurbhanj Road and the interiors of Ekbalpore are usually busy with vehicular traffic. Palm oil from the tanker had spread across the road making it slippery and prone to accidents. “Our men used detergent powder and gallons of water to scrub the road and get it ready before the volume of traffic increased to the usual daytime levels,” another officer of the traffic department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Cycling groups demand permission for pedalling on interlinked roads||Several cycling groups on Thursday demanded that the authorities allow cycling in a network of interconnected roads so people can commute from one end of the city to another using the environment-friendly mode of transport. Allowing cycling on one road and not allowing it on the next will not help a cyclist, said the groups, which sent letters to several political parties on Tuesday and Wednesday stating their demands. They also demanded that all roads connecting the fringes to the city — such as BT Road, EM Bypass and VIP Road — have separate cycling lanes. A similar demand for roads within the city has also been put forward. “We want the authorities to create a network of roads across the city where cycling will be allowed. If someone wants to go to Shyambazar from Gariahat, he or she should be able to go. There is no point in allowing cycling on one road and restricting it on others,” said Satanjib Gupta, the bicycle mayor of Calcutta, an honorary title given by BYCS, a Netherlands-based organisation that promotes cycling across the globe. One cannot pedal from one end of the city to another because cycling, though allowed in lanes and bylanes, is banned on arterial roads. Gupta said Calcutta police had in 2008 banned cycling on several arterial roads. Those spotted cycling on the thoroughfares are liable to be fined. The police had temporarily stopped imposing fine on cyclists during the lockdown last year because many people had no option but to pedal to work and back home in the absence of public transport. The cops have since resumed slapping fines on cyclists spotted on arterial roads. “We want the police to lift the ban and allow cycling on (arterial) roads. To do this, they must create infrastructure safe for cyclists,” said Gupta. Bhargab Maitra, a transportation specialist, echoed the idea of a network of roads where cycling can be allowed. “There should be a city-wide network of bicycle tracks so that a person is able to reach any place within the city. This should be similar to the kind of road network that is available for motorised transport,” said Maitra, a professor of civil engineering at IIT Kharagpur. The cycling groups have together sent a letter listing their demands to various political parties. The demands include setting up of cycle stands near all railway stations in the state and near all Metro railway stations in Calcutta. “We have to promote the use of public transport and cut down the use of cars. Calcutta has very little road space and it is also a city with very poor air quality. We have to promote sustainable transport,” said a cyclist. Since a lot of people from the fringes come to the city on cycles, the groups demanded that dedicated cycle lanes be set up on roads like EM Bypass, BT Road and VIP Road. “A lot of poor people come to work in the city from the fringes. They prefer cycling and there should be separate lanes for them on roads like EM Bypass and BT Road,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Weather cock atop St Andrew’s Kirk will be back soon||The black weather cock atop the white steeple of St Andrew’s Kirk (Scottish Church) that stands right in the middle of Dalhousie Square will be back again crowing over the nearby St John’s Church. It was blown to bits during Cyclone Amphan. Thanks to the efforts of Intach, Calcutta, the black cock — a conspicuous item in the Dalhousie skyline missing from the spire since May last year — will once again tell us which way the wind is blowing over the nearby Writers Buildings. Restorers from Intach are working to put back the brass weather vane which was mounted on the spire when the church was built in 1818 by M/s Burn, Currie & Co. “We found the original drawing of the weather cock from London with measurements,” said G.M. Kapur of Intach, Calcutta, which is paying for the restoration of the bird, estimated at around Rs 10 lakh. “The expenses are being paid from Intach’s fund for repairing heritage structures damaged by natural disasters.” The weather cock had needed no repairs probably since it was mounted when the church was built. “So long I have been with St Andrews Church I don’t recall any instance when the vane was repaired,” said Michael Pook, session’s clerk of the church, who is currently in London. “It was a very old thing made of brass and copper sheets brazed together. It was mounted on a steel frame with a shaft at the bottom and a bronze bearing on which it turned when the wind blew. The whole thing was mounted on the spire,” said Pook. He couldn’t remember if the vane was operational before it fell. “Its a pretty aggressive environment there with pollution and other things. Perhaps it had stopped and caught the full force of the wind and was destroyed,” said Pook. “We could retrieve only bits and pieces of it,” said Reverend Swarup Bar, the priest-in-charge at St Andrew’s. The pieces of the weather cock are being cleaned and repaired by Subrata Sen, senior conservator, Intach Delhi, who is working from a makeshift workshop on the church premises. “The head has totally crashed, the body parts and the tail are there. Almost all the parts of the weather cock have been retrieved,” said Sen, who pieced them together. “I am using the retrieved pieces to reconstruct the bird.”  After reconstruction, installing it atop the spire will be another challenge. St Andrew’s Church was the first Scottish Church of Calcutta built in 1818. At the time Calcutta was the seat of power of the East India Company. In its early days, the company had no ecclesiastical establishment of its own. Apparently, every ship that anchored here had its own chaplain and some ministers from the Episcopal Church of England. As the number of Presbyterians grew, so did the demand for Presbyterian ministers. Though the company was under no obligation to appoint chaplains, they were a god fearing people. And so a chaplain was appointed in 1607, according to the earliest records and the number of churches gradually grew with the growth of the establishment. The Anglo-Indian Presbytery was created by the Charter of 1813 along with the Anglo India Episcopate. James Bryce was appointed as a chaplain of the Bengal Ecclesiastical Establishment. “The first Presbyter and the first Bishop (Middleton) came out together to India. On the ship, there were debates and discussions. They didn’t agree and weren’t the best of friends. The Bishop had said only Aglicans can have a spire on their church. Bryce not only disagreed but promised to build a steeple taller than that of St John’s Church and put a weather cock on top of it to crow over St John’s,” said Pook. When asked if this was indeed true, Pook said: “The story has been told a number of times and no one has disputed it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
26-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials to issue certificates in absence of ward coordinators||Various officials of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) have been empowered to issue resident proof, income and other certificates in the absence of ward coordinators. The certificates — which were issued by councillors, and then by ward coordinators after the last civic board’s tenure lapsed in May 2020 — are required to get benefits under various social welfare schemes of the government. The executive engineer, assistant engineer and sub-assistant engineer of the civil department of the CMC can issue income certificates and income resident proof certificates. Any gazetted government officer can also issue a residency proof certificate. The chief manager, manager, deputy manager and assistant manager of the CMC’s social welfare department can also issue residency proof certificates and income certificates, besides certificates required to receive old-age pension, said an official of the civic body. The borough executive health officer and ward medical officer can issue a pauper certificate that allows a family from the below poverty line (BPL) category to complete cremation at a crematorium without any cost. Another CMC official said income certificates were required for scholarships, waiver or reduction in tuition fees and benefits under various government schemes. The residency proof certificate, too, is needed to get benefits under government schemes. “Issuing these certificates was one of the primary roles of a councillor,” said an official. The post of ward coordinators ceased after the Central Election Commission had on March 20 said political appointees holding the post of administrators would be temporarily restrained from exercising their powers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-102
