27-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta event to build business bonds||Travel operators to interior designers and wedding planners to nutritionists, a gamut of entrepreneurs will meet at a city auditorium on Saturday to build an alliance to develop their businesses with the support of each other. Rang Meet, in association with The Telegraph, is being organised by the Calcutta chapter of the International Dynamic Entrepreneurs Alliance (IDEA). “IDEA trains budding entrepreneurs on the value of public relations for business success. It creates a network of entrepreneurs, encouraging them to develop their businesses with the mutual support of each other,” an organiser said. Leaders who have surpassed odds to steer their organisations were recognised on Friday at the CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 Powered by International Institute of Hotel Management in association with Kutchina and The Telegraph||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government issues advisory on celebrating Holi||The state health department has issued an advisory requesting people to avoid crowding during Dol and Holi. The advisory, issued on Friday, asked people to celebrate the festivals, which fall on Sunday and Monday, respectively, preferably within one’s family. It said the Covid-19 pandemic was not yet over. Since the virus has undergone mutations, the number of infections could rapidly rise any time. Some states in India are already reporting a very high number of cases, the advisory stated. An official of the state health department said the advisory was issued to prevent a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases after the festivals. The advisory said: The bulletin published by the state health department showed that 646 new cases were reported from the city on Thursday, 239 of them from Calcutta. About a month back, the numbers were far less. The number of cases reported from across the state on February 28 was 198, The city’s tally that day was 62. Several doctors said the number would certainly rise as people were walking close to one another in election rallies and talking without wearing a mask. If people celebrate Dol and Holi like other years, the situation could go beyond control, they said. Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health expert, said it was best if people celebrated the festival of colours in their mind this year. “Remember that the cases did not rise after Durga Puja last year as we behaved responsibly,” he said. Even if one goes out wearing a mask, there is always a possibility of the mask getting wet. “During Dol and Holi, we splash colour on each other. There is always a threat that the mask will get wet. A mask loses its efficiency when it gets wet...,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Teen spin bowler balances paper and pitch||A 13-year-old student finished writing an exam, emailed the answer script to his teacher, stepped out of the car, went to a cricket field and took three wickets. S. Shree Ganesan’s Class VIII final exams were clashing with a three-day T20 tournament, organised by the Cricket Association of Bengal. But the left arm spinner, who has been playing second division cricket for the last two years, did not want to miss either. So, he wrote the exams from his father’s car from 8am. The match started an hour later. “The timing was convenient. So, I could complete the paper and rush to the ground,” said Ganesan. The student of Indus Valley World School wrote his Bengali and artificial intelligence papers from the car. During his Hindi exam, also written from the car, he excused himself for 20 minutes because he had to report to the Eden Gardens for a Covid-19 test. “The rule was that they would get the players tested and the matches would be held within the next three days. He has been training hard and he performs well so we wanted him to play. During the lockdown, he had been taking online fitness sessions,” his father, C. T. Selvakumar, said. Since September 2020, Ganesan has been going to the ground for training conducted by his club, the Howrah Union Club. “This was the first tournament since the pandemic and, as parents, we have to support his growth,” said Selvakumar. The online exams made it possible for him to appear for the papers before the match. He would set out from his New Garia home with his father at 7am with an exercise book and pen in one bag and cricket gear in another. They would reach the Maidan area, park the car and he would start writing his exam. “I was more tense about the exams. I am comfortable playing matches,” said Ganesan, who just got promoted to Class IX. His mother Pankajam Selvakumar initiated him into cricket when he was five. His father said it had been possible for Ganesan to pursue cricket along with academics because of support from the school. Before the pandemic, the school would excuse Ganesan for matches or practice sessions. “The boy has been balancing studies and cricket very well and he is a bright student. As a school, we say that we encourage co-curricular activities and sports and if we do not make these adjustments then it would remain empty words,” said Amita Prasad, the school’s director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals in Calcutta told to be ready with Covid beds  ||The state government on Friday asked private hospitals to plan an increase in Covid beds as the number of people suffering from the disease is rising again, officials said. The hospitals were told to monitor the situation and increase the number of beds whenever they feel occupancy was nearing the optimum level. Senior officials of the state health department told hospitals at an online meeting on Friday that a situation must not arise where Covid patients needing hospitalisation was not getting a bed. “Many private hospitals reduced the number of Covid beds after the number of cases started falling rapidly late last year. We asked them to once again review the situation and increase the number of beds. There are about 1,000 beds in private hospitals in Calcutta and half of them are vacant, but we need to be careful as the infections are increasing,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the health department. Officials of several private hospitals in the city said they would not have any problem in increasing the bed count. “Currently we have 40 Covid beds, 24 in the ward and 16 in the critical care unit, at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. As of today we have 12 Covid patients and all are in the ward. We will constantly monitor the numbers. If the numbers increase sharply, we will add more Covid beds so as to ensure that all patients coming to the hospital are accommodated,” said R. Venkatesh, the regional head of Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a part. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said 23 of the hospital’s 40 Covid beds were occupied on Friday. “We can increase the count by about 150 in a short time. The number of beds was reduced but we have not removed any infrastructure,” Mitra said. Belle Vue Clinic had 32 of its 34 Covid beds occupied on Friday. The hospital will add 13 beds each in two phases. “We will keep increasing the number of beds if the number of patients increases,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of the hospital. The AMRI Hospitals group has decided to add 10 critical beds at their Dhakuria unit next week. “We have 55 Covid beds at our Salt Lake and Dhakuria units together. We will set up 10 more critical beds at the Dhakuria unit next week,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. The Salt Lake unit had withdrawn all Covid beds but reintroduced 10 last week. Woodlands Hospital has 45 Covid beds and will add another 35 soon. The private hospitals were also told to regularly update their Covid bed count and the number of vacant beds on the health department’s website, wbhealth.gov.in. The department also held a meeting with senior officials of government hospitals from Calcutta, Howrah, and North and South 24-Parganas on Friday and asked them to stay prepared. “These are the four districts where the numbers are rising mostly,” said Nigam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
27-03-2021||Calcutta||Covid jab calls flood hospitals in Calcutta||Private hospitals who were looking for Covid-19 vaccine recipients till the other day to avoid wastage are now flooded with calls from people above 45 who are interested in taking the shots. The Centre’s announcement that all those who are above 45 will be eligible for Covid shots from April 1 has changed the vaccination scene, officials of several hospitals said. Now, people aged 60 and above and those between 45 and 59 with comorbidities are eligible for Covid vaccination. One private hospital got around 250 calls on Friday, compared with barely 40 before. An official of another hospital said many people accompanying patients to the outpatient department are enquiring when they could book a slot for a Covid-19 jab. A third hospital has received requests from corporate houses and banks that are keen on getting their employees vaccinated. Public health experts have repeatedly called for vaccination of all adults to prevent a surge in Covid cases. An official of a private hospital said the keenness and desperation among people between 45 and 59 to get vaccinated were not seen among others. “Many people above 60 have medical conditions and are on medicines. We found many of them to be apprehensive about possible adverse reactions of vaccines. But once it was announced that anyone above 45 could get a Covid shot, the situation changed and we are flooded with requests for bookings,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. “There is a lot of enthusiasm, along with desperation. Many people above 45 who are coming to OPDs are asking hospital staff about vaccination timings and price. Most of them don’t have any serious medical conditions. They go out for work regularly and are keen to take the shot,” Mitra said. Ripon Street resident Md Nadeem, 52, had called up the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences to inquire about vaccination. “I work for a private company and have to go out every day. I am exposed to Covid infection much more than those staying indoors. So, I called up the hospital to know about the formalities and will take the vaccine in the first week of April,” said Nadeem. “All senior citizens in our family have taken their first dose of a Covid vaccine. Now I want to take it,” said Garia resident Mukta Nandy, who was among those who have called up the RN Tagore hospital. Officials at the hospital said they received around 250 calls on Friday from people asking about vaccination. “When vaccination for the elderly had started, we were getting maximum 40 calls a day. But over the past two days, we have been getting around 250 calls and the number is increasing,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. AMRI Hospitals have been getting 450 calls every day on their helpline from people above 45. At the Dhakuria unit, a PSU oil company and several banks have sent lists of employees for vaccination. “We are fixing the schedule for these people,” said an official of the hospital. A health department official said around 3 crore people would have to be given doses post-April 1. This figure is nearly double the number of those who are now eligible for doses, including health-care personnel and frontline workers. The health department has decided to increase the number of vaccination centres across Bengal. At a recent meeting, officials decided to put in place the cold chain mechanism at all new centres and deploy additional personnel in the next few days. “We now have a little over 4,000 vaccination centres. This number will be increased significantly,” said a health department official. “Over the next few weeks we will closely observe how many recipients are turning up to receive their jabs. Accordingly, we will decide on further scaling up the vaccination centres. If required we can set up around 12,000 vaccination centres.” Additional reporting by Kinsuk Basu||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-101
