28-03-2021||Calcutta||CMA Management Excellence Awards 2021 ||Aniruddha Lahiri Over three decades at the top of the corporate echelons in India and Europe Lifetime achievement award It is very important to keep learning throughout your life. It is also imperative to have the passion to impart the learning to the future generations. Our objective should be to ensure that the next generation managers are better than us. Director, Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta Award for leadership in institutional excellence The Covid-19 crisis reinforced the importance of science. Scientists all over the world put their minds together. The result was the development of vaccines within a year. Director, Institute of Child Health, Calcutta Award for public service We do not have the liberty of working from home. The only time I did not step out last year was when I was down with Covid-19 myself. We, doctors, should not consider ourselves to be gods but service providers. Chairman, Rupa and Co Ltd Business leadership award I started five decades ago. It has been a fulfilling journey. The journey has also taught me to do my bit in supporting the cause of the society at large. Managing director, Skipper Ltd Business leadership award My father started the company 40 years ago. His dream has been fulfilled today. The Covid crisis forced me to spend more time with my family. I re-learnt many things forgotten because of my busy schedule. Managing director, Tata Metaliks Corporate leadership award One of my most memorable moments as a leader has been navigating through the Covid-19 crisis, which would not have been possible without the support of my team. Managing director, Phillips Carbon Black Limited Corporate leadership award During the past year, it was a challenge to keep employees motivated. They were worried about their career, future and weighed down by personal losses. We tend to take communication casually. The Covid-19 crisis showed how important 
communication is. Director of Sreeleathers, has launched the retail brand House of SL Emerging leader award My father has always been very supportive and encouraged me to take my ambitions further. Even though it (House of SL) is my dream, it is his support that has brought me to this stage. Founders of SastaSundar Innovation excellence award
Selling is one part. We are not here only to sell. We are here to serve the community. We would like to thank our 1000-plus employees and 450 stores operating in nine states. It is because of their hard work that everybody who ordered from us got the medicines within 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Alokananda Roy's 'In Search of a Valmiki' launched in Calcutta ||A book launched in the city on Thursday traces the journey of a danseuse in changing the lives of hundreds of prisoners. In Search of a Valmiki is the story of Alokananda Roy, who had started a dance and music workshop in Presidency Jail in 2007. What started as a therapy evolved into a movement, giving new direction to close to 200 prisoners, some of them once branded as “hardcore criminals”. “This is a tale of the condition of Indian prisons and how Roy brought about a change through art and the instrument of love,” said Sujit Bhar, journalist and the author of the book. “If you’ve wronged you have to be punished but everybody deserves a second chance. We shouldn’t treat them like animals,” Roy had told this newspaper at a programme in 2015. Bhar met Roy on the sidelines of a programme in the city several years ago. “Her work is fascinating, nothing short of extraordinary,” he said. Musician Tejendra Narayan Majumder and cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar were present at the launch. A two-day congregation where the teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth Guru of the Sikhs, were relayed was held at the Bhowanipore Gurdwara to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Guru Tegh Bahadur’s birth anniversary falls on May 1 but the celebrations have already begun. Many attended the programme where kirtans (devotional songs) were rendered; there were readings from the Guru Granth Sahib, the sacred text of the Sikhs. “Teachings of Guru Tegh Bahadur, stories from his life and the story of his martyrdom were also told,” said a member of the Sikh Sangat. Celebrations will be held across most gurdwaras on May 1. On May 8, there will be celebrations at Bagmari Gurdwara and on May 9 there will be celebrations at Burrabazar Gurdwara. “Sri Guru Teg Bahadur ji’s unparalleled and supreme sacrifice to uphold the value of righteousness, truth and freedom of faith and humanity should be remembered by not only Sikhs, but by every citizen of India. He fought for human rights and sacrificed himself that is why he is referred to as Hind Di Chadar,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia of the charitable organisation, IHA Foundation, which organised the programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Govt appeal on Holi celebrations: Follow Covid rules||The state government has made an appeal to the people to avoid celebrating Holi in large gatherings and follow the Covid-19 protocol to remain safe during the festivities on Sunday and Monday. The Telegraph reports on things that people should know before they step out to celebrate Holi. ⚫To avoid gatherings and processions, to avoid smearing colours by coming in direct physical contact ⚫To celebrate Holi within family and to maintain social distancing in shops, restaurants and market places ⚫Extra caution should be maintained for elderly persons, children, expecting women and ailing people ⚫Mandatory use of masks and frequent use of handwash and hand sanitisers. Public health experts have said that it would be better if people celebrated Holi home indoors with their families. Going close to someone to smear abir or colour would be risky. Hugging and embracing each other should be avoided. Gatherings and processions should be avoided. A public health expert said since people splash colour on each other during Holi, there is a possibility that the mask might get wet. “A mask loses its efficiency to protect from viruses if it gets wet,” said the expert. A large number of police personnel would be present on the roads on Sunday and Monday to prevent disorderly conduct and prosecute rash drivers. “We will make announcements to maintain social distancing and celebrate the festival in their homes,” said an officer in the south division. If you want to report any violation related to Holi, dial: ⚫Calcutta police control room: 033-22143230/033-22141310 ⚫Bidhannagar police control room: 033-23358788/033-23410465 Liquor shops will be closed on Sunday morning and resume service from 2pm. They will be open as normal on Monday. ⚫South City will open from 3pm onwards both on Sunday and Monday ⚫Acropolis Mall and City Centre will remain closed till 4pm on Sunday ⚫Forum Courtyard will be open from 11am to 11pm on Sunday. Metro Railway will run 60 trains instead of 104 on Sunday. The service will start at 2.30pm and end at 10.43pm.. On Monday, 176 trains will run instead of 252. The service will start and end at 6.50am and 10.43pm, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Youngsters grab the chance to hone skills||A group of girls and boys from economically disadvantaged families completed a programme that helped them acquire English, computer and critical thinking skills. The two-year programme that started much before the pandemic by the US Consulate General helped to boost the self esteem of the students between 13 and 20 years. It also helped them realise what they are capable of at a time when their lives have been largely impacted because either their parents have lost their livelihood or are earning less than what they would usually do. During the pandemic, the classes shifted to the online mode when the students were trained in theatre, dance while working on their English-speaking and communication skills through “after school instructions and intensive sessions”. The English Access microscholarship program, funded by the Regional English Language Office of the US Embassy New Delhi and the US Consulate General Calcutta, was started in November 2018 for 30 students of Jungle Crows Foundation that has its roots in rugby as a tool for empowerment. The programme culminated with a graduation ceremony on Monday where US Consul General in Calcutta Patti Hoffman handed out certificates to the students. Hoffman told the students that they would be joining the global Access family of more than one lakh students across 85 countries. “...you have chosen to challenge limitations, challenge stereotypes, and challenge yourselves. Each of you has shown indomitable strength and resilience through the pandemic to step into leadership roles in your communities, and to commit for a better future for yourselves and your families,” said Hoffman. During the pandemic, while fighting economic challenges at home, 20-year-old Najma Sheikh would try not to miss a single class. Najma’s brother has a small electronic shop, which was shut down for three months during the lockdown, and it was a “tough time”. “Since I got this opportunity I did not want to lose it. It gave me the chance to improve my skills,” said the student of hotel management. Najma was not the only one. The programme had other students who were impacted by the double blow of the pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. “It has become incredibly tough for young people now to find jobs and easier for children to drop out of education to support families. Something that is not confined to one group but across the board,” said Paul Walsh, the founder of Jungle Crows. “These skills would give them an edge over others and we have seen a positive impact on them which takes them out of their situation and instills confidence in them. It is not alone English that they picked up but organisation and leadership skills too,” said Walsh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Two killed in bus accidents||A 39-year-old man was run over by the rear wheels of a bus and a 50-year-old woman died after being hit by a private bus. The two fatal accidents took place within four hours in the city on Friday. At 7.05pm, Srinath Roy, who had taken a bus from central Calcutta, was getting off the vehicle in front of a garment store on Rabindra Sarani. Eyewitnesses have told officers of Posta police station that the bus driver was apparently in a hurry and started moving before the man could step down. Roy lost his balance and fell and one of the rear wheels of the bus ran over him, police said. The driver fled. “He was rescued from underneath a rear wheel with multiple injuries,” cops said. Roy was taken to RG Kar hospital where he was declared dead. Around 2.50pm, a bus of the Karunamoyee Salt Lake-Howrah Station route knocked down Devi Shaw at the intersection of Pagaya Patty Road and MG Road, the police said. Shaw was taken to Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. She died at 6.30pm, the police said. The driver was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
28-03-2021||Calcutta||Jab centre worry about recipients without masks||A number of people coming to vaccination centres to get the jabs or enquire about it are not wearing masks or not wearing them properly, civic officials and officials of government hospitals have said. The officials have to repeatedly insist that the recipients wear masks before they go into the centres to get the vaccine. Sometimes the officials have to be stern and say that vaccines would not be given if someone is not wearing a mask. While some people have their masks hanging from their chins, others keep it in their pockets and take them out when civic officials say no one would be allowed inside the centre without a mask. In a handful of cases, there were people who did not have a mask with them. “We cannot turn anyone away from the vaccination centre because administering vaccines is an important part in the fight against Covid. At the same time, we cannot allow people to come into a vaccination centre without wearing masks. As doctors of the city’s municipal corporation, it is also our duty to tell people that they have to wear masks,” said a senior doctor, who is in charge of a borough of the CMC. “In one of the clinics, there were a handful of people who did not have a mask with them. Finally we had to give them masks from the clinic before we allowed them to enter and take the vaccine. But we do not want to make it a norm, then many more people could start arriving without masks,” said the doctor. The CMC is administering vaccines against Covid-19 in 69 of its 144 ward health clinics. They have planned to administer vaccines in 80 clinics from April, when everyone above 45 would become eligible to get the vaccine. CMC officials said they were worried that there would be an increase in the number of people coming to vaccination centres from April, and many of them could come without wearing a mask. A state health department official said the state-run hospitals were also facing similar problems. “Many people are coming to take vaccines without wearing masks, but the hospitals are not allowing them to enter inside the vaccination centre till they wear the masks. Most people have the mask in their shirt or trousers pocket. Some of them have it hanging from their chins,” said the official. Public health expert Abhijit Chowdhury said that wearing masks is a behavioural change that people need to adopt to stay safe. “If people do not wear masks before taking the vaccine, what will they do after they receive the two doses of the vaccine? Some people are thinking that they can get back the old normal way of living after taking the vaccine shots but that is not right. I think there should be sustained campaign urging people to wear masks,” said Chowdhury. Public health experts and doctors are repeatedly saying that wearing masks, sanitising hands, maintaining six-feet distance and taking the vaccines are the only ways to stay safe from the novel corononavirus. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a public health specialist and a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital, said that one should not stop wearing a  mask even after taking a vaccine. “There have been instances of people getting infected with Covid even after taking the vaccine against it. There is no alternative to wearing a mask. A mask will stop the droplets with the virus from spreading when one talks or coughs or sneezes. Wearing a mask reduces the chances of getting infected to a great extent,” said Bandyopadhyay. Since maintaining the six-feet distance may not always be possible, the best protection is covering the face and nose with a mask, Bandyopadhyay said. He added that there were still debates on whether the vaccines work against some of the mutated variants of the coronavirus. “There are examples of people getting infected even after taking the two doses of vaccine. No vaccine can give 100 per cent protection. We must continue wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
