29-03-2021||Calcutta||40 shanties gutted in Salt Lake blaze||At least 40 shanties in Salt Lake City's Central Park area were completely gutted in a fire that broke out on Monday morning, a senior police officer said. Nobody was injured in the blaze which broke out at a temporary roadside shanty in the Central Park area at around 8.16 am, the officer said. At least 12 fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire, he said. "The fire is under control. The cooling process is on. There is no casualty as we had evacuated the entire area," the officer said. State Fire minister Sujit Bose rushed to the spot to supervise the rescue process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
29-03-2021||Calcutta||Calcuttans indulge in Holi festivities minus precautions||The number of Holi revellers on Calcutta’s roads was fewer on Sunday compared with previous years, but almost all of those who stepped out were without masks. Many of them said they did not wear a mask because they would have to take it off while playing Holi. Some others said it was safe to take off masks. They hung around very close, hugged and smeared each other with colour and stood in gatherings outside eateries —everything doctors had warned against. Officers of Calcutta police identified five places — Maniktala, Beleghata, Behala, Rajabazar and Garia — as the areas where most number of violations were spotted. Till Sunday noon, the police slapped fines of Rs 100 on 110 people for not wearing masks. “The crowd was far less this year, but only a handful of those who came out wore masks,” said a police officer. Holi celebrations were muted across blocks of Salt Lake and New Town, but there too most of those who did step out to join revelry were without masks. The state health department had on Friday issued an advisory asking people to celebrate Holi in a restricted manner this year. The advisory said people should consider celebrating Holi with their families and reiterated that the Covid-19 pandemic was still not over. The advisory warned that since the virus has undergone mutations, the number of infections could rapidly rise any time. Some states in India are already reporting a very high number of cases, the advisory stated. It also added that people should not go close to another person while smearing him or her with colour and advised them to stay away from crowded places. Several youths told Metro that wearing a mask would have been an impediment in the way of celebrating Holi, a reason why they didn’t wear it. “We have to take off the mask while smearing each other with colour. The masks will get dirty. Also, it is a lot of trouble taking off and putting on masks repeatedly,” said a youth, standing in a group near the Vivekananda Road-Bidhan Sarani crossing. A group of young women near Tridhara Club in south Calcutta echoed a similar reason for not wearing masks. A tour of the city on Sunday morning and afternoon showed that most people out on the streets did not bother to wear a mask. Around 1.30pm on Sunday, Metro saw about 100 people had assembled outside a soft drink parlour at Golpark and a few neighbouring eateries. Almost no one had a mask on. People were chatting, shouting and celebrating. Earlier, around 11.15am, about 10 kids were seen playing Holi on a road in Lake Town without masks. This newspaper came across similar scenes on Raja Dinendra Street, CR Avenue, Sudder Street and Camac Street, to name a few. Youths smeared with colour were spotted in all parts of the city riding two-wheelers. Many two-wheelers had three persons and none of them was with a mask. The number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise in the state since late last month. The state on Sunday reported 827 new cases, 292 in Calcutta. On February 28, Bengal had reported 198 new cases and 62 of them were from Calcutta. Public health experts had warned that the number of cases could see a sharp rise after Holi if people did not adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “We behaved responsibly during Durga Puja and other festivals last year, which is why there was no sharp jump in cases after the festivals. Let us wait for a week or 10 days. We will get to understand if there is a jump after Holi or not,” said one public health expert. In Bidhannagar, norm violation was observed in CF, BF, DL, FD, BB, DB, BC and other blocks. Samir Ganguly, a BC Block resident, who was out with his friends for a round of playing with colours, chose to leave the mask inside a car. So were his friends. “We had made plans to play colours and used only herbal abir. We kept the masks in the cars as we could not play while wearing them,” said Ganguly. In New Town, too, most gated communities had arranged for a string of activities for the day. While some arranged for morning matches, others had organised community breakfast and lunch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-99
29-03-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs 827 fresh Covid cases on Sunday||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 68, to 4,976, on Sunday. This was the 17th consecutive day of rise in the active case count after a 136-day stint of fall, since Vijaya Dashami last year, ended on March 11. The state on Sunday reported 457 Covid-19 recoveries, but 827 new infections were detected. There were two deaths, both in the city. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for a possible onset of the second wave of Covid, 292 and 193 new infections, respectively, were detected. Bengal now has 1.01 per cent of the national total of active cases and is 14th on the list of states with most active cases in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
29-03-2021||Calcutta||Holi: Events streamed online for safety ||Residents of a few Salt Lake blocks and the New Town authorities shifted their Holi cultural programmes online so that fewer people assembled at the venues. Residents of several other blocks in Salt Lake had placed chairs in such a manner that people in the audience could maintain a safe distance from each other. “No Mask No Entry” signs were put up on the gates of the community halls or parks where such programmes took place. Tapas Sengupta, the secretary of AE Block Samaj Kalyan Sangha, said they had earmarked an area for Holika Dahan on Sunday evening. “We had placed ‘No Mask No Entry’ signs at the entry to the park. We also asked residents to ensure that they wear masks and refrain from playing with colours in big groups,” said Sengupta. In EE Block, chairs were spaced out in the community centre to ensure physical distancing. Partha Chakraborty, a resident of the block, said they had cut down on the number of chairs to ensure some sort of physical distancing.  “We placed the chairs well apart so people were at a safe distance from one another. This was mandatory as most residents of our block are elderly.” The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) streamed it's Basanta Utsav programme online so that fewer people gathered at Rabindra Tirtha, near the Kolkata Gate, where the cultural programme had been arranged. Hidco chairman and managing director Debashis Sen said they had tweaked their programmes according to the guidelines sent by the health department, which prohibited big gatherings during Holi. “We shifted the time and also streamed the cultural programme held at Rabindra Tirtha live as we were not for allowing many people inside the auditorium," said Sen. According to him, the authorities had also discouraged residents from playing with colours, including dry abir, after the cultural programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-100
